SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_construction_law_section_60
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GCN/60 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Construction Law Section 60

Newspapers

a.
In any case in which notice of any fact is required by law to be published or advertised in a newspaper, the term “newspaper” shall mean a paper of general circulation which is printed and distributed ordinarily not less frequently than once a week, and has been so for at least one year immediately preceding such publication or advertisement, and which contains news, articles of opinion (as editorials), features, advertising, or other matter regarded as of current interest, has a paid circulation and (except for such a paper which has been printed and distributed not less frequently than once a week for a period of ten years prior to January one, nineteen hundred seventy-five) has been entered at United States post-office as second-class matter. A publication which is distributed or made available primarily for advertising purposes to the public generally without consideration being paid therefor shall not be deemed to be a “newspaper” for the purpose of publication or advertisement of such notice required by law. Notwithstanding any provision of this subdivision to the contrary, a publication which was designated and publishing notice as an official newspaper prior to the year nineteen hundred forty and continued to be so designated and publishing for at least thirty years after such year shall be deemed to be a newspaper within the meaning of this subdivision.

b.
The terms “daily newspaper” and “newspaper published each business day” in a statute, contract, or any public or private instrument, mean, respectively, a newspaper customarily published on each business day of the year, whether or not such newspaper is published on any other day. The term “business day” when used herein does not include Saturdays, Sundays or legal holidays.

c.
The term “newspaper of a county, city, town or village” when used in a statute shall mean a newspaper published, circulated, printed or distributed in the county, city, town or village.

Source:
Section 60 — Newspapers, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GCN/60 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
