SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_1208
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/1208 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 1208

Settlement procedure

papers

representation

Rule 1208. Settlement procedure; papers; representation.

(a)
Affidavit of infant’s or incompetent’s representative. An affidavit of the infant’s or incompetent’s representative shall be included in the supporting papers and shall state:

1.
his name, residence and relationship to the infant or incompetent;

2.
the name, age and residence of the infant or incompetent;

3.
the circumstances giving rise to the action or claim;

4.
the nature and extent of the damages sustained by the infant or incompetent, and if the action or claim is for damages for personal injuries to the infant or incompetent, the name of each physician who attended or treated the infant or incompetent or who was consulted, the medical expenses, the period of disability, the amount of wages lost, and the present physical condition of the infant or incompetent;

5.
the terms and proposed distribution of the settlement and his approval of both;

6.
the facts surrounding any other motion or petition for settlement of the same claim, of an action to recover on the same claim or of the same action;

7.
whether reimbursement for medical or other expenses has been received from any source; and

8.
whether the infant’s or incompetent’s representative or any member of the infant’s or incompetent’s family has made a claim for damages alleged to have been suffered as a result of the same occurrence giving rise to the infant’s or incompetent’s claim and, if so, the amount paid or to be paid in settlement of such claim or if such claim has not been settled the reasons therefor.

(b)
Affidavit of attorney. If the infant or incompetent or his representative is represented by an attorney, an affidavit of the attorney shall be included in the supporting papers and shall state:

1.
his reasons for recommending the settlement;

2.
that directly or indirectly he has neither become concerned in the settlement at the instance of a party or person opposing, or with interests adverse to, the infant or incompetent nor received nor will receive any compensation from such party, and whether or not he has represented or now represents any other person asserting a claim arising from the same occurrence; and

3.
the services rendered by him.

(c)
Medical or hospital report. If the action or claim is for damages for personal injuries to the infant or incompetent, one or more medical or hospital reports, which need not be verified, shall be included in the supporting papers.

(d)
Appearance before court. On the hearing, the moving party or petitioner, the infant or incompetent, and his attorney shall attend before the court unless attendance is excused for good cause.

(e)
Representation. No attorney having or representing any interest conflicting with that of an infant or incompetent may represent the infant or incompetent.

(f)
Preparation of papers by attorney for adverse party. If the infant or incompetent is not represented by an attorney the papers may be prepared by the attorney for an adverse party or person and shall state that fact.

Source:
Section 1208 — Settlement procedure; papers; representation, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/1208 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
