SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_1210
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/1210 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 1210

Guardian of infant

(a)
Petition for appointment; by whom presented; contents. An infant, if of the age of fourteen years or more, or a relative or friend of an infant, may present a petition to the court for appointment of a guardian. The petition shall state the age and residence of the infant, the name and residence of any living parent and of the person proposed as guardian, the relationship if any which such person bears to the infant, and the nature, status and value of the infant’s estate.

(b)
Hearing. The court shall ascertain the age of the infant, the amount of his personal property, the gross amount or value of the rents and profits of his real estate during his minority, and the sufficiency of the security offered by the proposed guardian. If the infant is of the age of fourteen years or more, the court shall examine him as to his voluntary nomination of or preference for a suitable guardian; if he is under the age of fourteen, the court shall select and appoint a suitable guardian.

(c)
Undertaking. The court shall make an order requiring or dispensing wholly or partly with an undertaking, in an amount and according to the conditions set forth in section seventeen hundred eight of the surrogate’s court procedure act.

(d)
Direction as to management of estate. The court in its discretion may direct that the principal of the estate or any part of it be invested in bonds of the state of New York or of the United States, or invested in bonds or other obligations of any county, city, town, village or school district of the state of New York, or deposited with any bank, trust company, insured savings and loan association or insured savings bank or insured state or federal credit union which has been designated as a depository for such fund; or invested in a bond and mortgage on unincumbered and improved property within the state, having a value, to be shown to the satisfaction of the court, of at least double the amount of principal invested, for the benefit of the infant, and may direct that only the interest or income be received by the guardian.

(e)
Filing of certified copy of order of appointment. Upon the appointment of a guardian of the person or property, or both, of an infant, the guardian shall file a certified copy of the order of his appointment with the clerk of the surrogate’s court of the county in which he has been appointed.

Source:
Section 1210 — Guardian of infant, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/1210 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
