SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_2103-a
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/2103-A (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 2103-A

Confidentiality of addresses in civil proceedings

(a)
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in any civil proceeding, whether or not an order of protection or temporary order of protection is sought or has been sought in the past, the court may, upon its own motion or upon the motion of any party, authorize any party to keep his or her residential and business addresses and telephone numbers confidential from any party in any pleadings or other papers submitted to the court, where the court makes specific findings on the record supporting a conclusion that disclosure of such addresses or telephone numbers would pose an unreasonable risk to the health or safety of a party. Pending such a finding, any such addresses or telephone numbers of the party seeking confidentiality shall be safeguarded and sealed in order to prevent its inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure.

(b)
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if a party has resided or resides in a residential program for victims of domestic violence as defined in section four hundred fifty-nine-a of the social services law, the present address of such party and the address of the residential program for victims of domestic violence shall not be revealed by the court or any court personnel who may have access to such information.

(c)
Upon such authorization, the court shall designate the clerk of the court or such other disinterested person as it deems appropriate, with consent of such disinterested person, as the agent for service of process for the party whose residential and business addresses or telephone numbers are to remain confidential and shall notify the parties of such designation and the address of the agent in writing. The clerk or disinterested person designated by the court shall, when served with process on behalf of the party whose information is to remain confidential, promptly notify such party whose information is to remain confidential and forward such process to him or her in a manner calculated to be timely received.

(d)
In any case in which such confidentiality authorization is made, the party whose information is to remain confidential shall inform the clerk of the court or disinterested person designated by the court of any change in address for purposes of receipt of service of process or any papers.

Source:
Section 2103-A — Confidentiality of addresses in civil proceedings, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/2103-A (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
