SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_217
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/217 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 217

Proceeding against body or officer

actions complaining about conduct that would constitute a union’s breach of its duty of fair represen...

§ 217. Proceeding against body or officer; actions complaining about conduct that would constitute a union’s breach of its duty of fair representation; four months.

1.
Unless a shorter time is provided in the law authorizing the proceeding, a proceeding against a body or officer must be commenced within four months after the determination to be reviewed becomes final and binding upon the petitioner or the person whom he represents in law or in fact, or after the respondent’s refusal, upon the demand of the petitioner or the person whom he represents, to perform its duty; or with leave of the court where the petitioner or the person whom he represents, at the time such determination became final and binding upon him or at the time of such refusal, was under a disability specified in section 208, within two years after such time.

2.
(a) Any action or proceeding against an employee organization subject to article fourteen of the civil service law or article twenty of the labor law which complains that such employee organization has breached its duty of fair representation regarding someone to whom such employee organization has a duty shall be commenced within four months of the date the employee or former employee knew or should have known that the breach has occurred, or within four months of the date the employee or former employee suffers actual harm, whichever is later.

(b)
Any action or proceeding by an employee or former employee against an employer subject to article fourteen of the civil service law or article twenty of the labor law, an essential element of which is that an employee organization breached its duty of fair representation to the person making the complaint, shall be commenced within four months of the date the employee or former employee knew or should have known that the breach has occurred, or within four months of the date the employee or former employee suffers actual harm, whichever is later.

Source:
Section 217 — Proceeding against body or officer; actions complaining about conduct that would constitute a union's breach of its duty of fair represen..., https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/217 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
