SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_3012-b
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/3012-B (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 3012-B

Certificate of merit in certain residential foreclosure actions

(a)
In any residential foreclosure action involving a home loan, as such term is defined in section thirteen hundred four of the real property actions and proceedings law, in which the defendant is a resident of the property which is subject to foreclosure, the complaint shall be accompanied by a certificate, signed by the attorney for the plaintiff, certifying that the attorney has reviewed the facts of the case and that, based on consultation with representatives of the plaintiff identified in the certificate and the attorney’s review of pertinent documents, including the mortgage, security agreement and note or bond underlying the mortgage executed by defendant and all instruments of assignment, if any, and any other instrument of indebtedness including any modification, extension, and consolidation, to the best of such attorney’s knowledge, information and belief there is a reasonable basis for the commencement of such action and that the plaintiff is currently the creditor entitled to enforce rights under such documents. If not attached to the summons and complaint in the action, a copy of the mortgage, security agreement and note or bond underlying the mortgage executed by defendant and all instruments of assignment, if any, and any other instrument of indebtedness including any modification, extension, and consolidation shall be attached to the certificate.

(b)
Where a certificate is required pursuant to this section, a single certificate shall be filed for each action even if more than one defendant has been named in the complaint or is subsequently named.

(c)
Where the documents required under subdivision (a) are not attached to the summons and complaint or to the certificate, the attorney for the plaintiff shall attach to the certificate supplemental affidavits by such attorney or representative of plaintiff attesting that such documents are lost whether by destruction, theft or otherwise. Nothing herein shall replace or abrogate plaintiff’s obligations as set forth in the New York uniform commercial code.

(d)
The provisions of subdivision (d) of rule 3015 of this article shall not be applicable to a defendant who is not represented by an attorney.

(e)
If a plaintiff willfully fails to provide copies of the papers and documents as required by subdivision (a) of this section and the court finds, upon the motion of any party or on its own motion on notice to the parties, that such papers and documents ought to have been provided, the court may dismiss the complaint or make such final or conditional order with regard to such failure as is just including but not limited to denial of the accrual of any interest, costs, attorneys’ fees and other fees, relating to the underlying mortgage debt. Any such dismissal shall be without prejudice and shall not be on the merits.

Source:
Section 3012-B — Certificate of merit in certain residential foreclosure actions, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/3012-B (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
