SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_3043
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/3043 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 3043

Bill of particulars in personal injury actions

(a)
Specified particulars. In actions to recover for personal injuries the following particulars may be required:

(1)
The date and approximate time of day of the occurrence;

(2)
Its approximate location;

(3)
General statement of the acts or omissions constituting the negligence claimed;

(4)
Where notice of a condition is a prerequisite, whether actual or constructive notice is claimed;

(5)
If actual notice is claimed, a statement of when and to whom it was given;

(6)
Statement of the injuries and description of those claimed to be permanent, and in an action designated in subsection (a) of section five thousand one hundred four of the insurance law, for personal injuries arising out of negligence in the use or operation of a motor vehicle in this state, in what respect plaintiff has sustained a serious injury, as defined in subsection (d) of section five thousand one hundred two of the insurance law, or economic loss greater than basic economic loss, as defined in subsection (a) of section five thousand one hundred two of the insurance law;

(7)
Length of time confined to bed and to house;

(8)
Length of time incapacitated from employment; and

(9)
Total amounts claimed as special damages for physicians’ services and medical supplies; loss of earnings, with name and address of the employer; hospital expenses; nurses’ services.

(b)
Supplemental bill of particulars without leave. A party may serve a supplemental bill of particulars with respect to claims of continuing special damages and disabilities without leave of court at any time, but not less than thirty days prior to trial. Provided however that no new cause of action may be alleged or new injury claimed and that the other party shall upon seven days notice, be entitled to newly exercise any and all rights of discovery but only with respect to such continuing special damages and disabilities.

(c)
Discretion of court. Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be deemed to limit the court in denying in a proper case, any one or more of the foregoing particulars, or in a proper case, in granting other, further or different particulars.

Source:
Section 3043 — Bill of particulars in personal injury actions, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/3043 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
