SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_5018
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/5018 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 5018

Docketing of judgment

(a)
Docketing by clerk; docketing elsewhere by transcript. Immediately after filing the judgment-roll the clerk shall docket a money judgment, and at the request of any party specifying the particular adverse party or parties against whom docketing shall be made, the clerk shall so docket a judgment affecting the title to real property, provided, however, that where the clerk maintains a section and block index, a judgment affecting the title to, or the possession, use or enjoyment of, real property may be entered in such index in lieu thereof. If the judgment is upon a joint liability of two or more persons the words “not summoned” shall be written next to the name of each defendant who was not summoned. Upon the filing of a transcript of the docket of a judgment of a court other than the supreme, county or a family court, the clerk of the county in which the judgment was entered shall docket the judgment. Upon the filing of a transcript of the docket of a judgment which has been docketed in the office of the clerk of the county in which it was entered, the clerk of any other county in the state shall docket the judgment. Whenever a county clerk dockets a judgment by transcript under this subdivision, he shall notify the clerk who issued it, who, upon receiving such notification, shall make an entry on the docket of the judgment in his office indicating where the transcript has been filed. A judgment docketed by transcript under this subdivision shall have the same effect as a docketed judgment entered in the supreme court within the county where it is docketed.

(b)
Docketing of judgment of court of United States. A transcript of the judgment of a court of the United States rendered or filed within the state may be filed in the office of the clerk of any county and upon such filing the clerk shall docket the judgment in the same manner and with the same effect as a judgment entered in the supreme court within the county.

(c)
Form of docketing. A judgment is docketed by making an entry in the proper docket book as follows:

1.
under the surname of the judgment debtor first named in the judgment, the entry shall consist of:

(i)
the name and last known address of each judgment debtor and his trade or profession if stated in the judgment;

(ii)
the name and last known address of the judgment creditor;

(iii)
the sum recovered or directed to be paid in figures;

(iv)
the date and time the judgment-roll was filed;

(v)
the date and time of docketing;

(vi)
the court and county in which judgment was entered; and

(vii)
the name and office address of the attorney for the judgment creditor;

2.
under the surname of every other judgment debtor, if any, the entry shall consist of his name and last known address and an appropriate cross-reference to the first entry. If no address is known for the judgment debtor or judgment creditor, an affidavit executed by the party at whose instance the judgment is docketed or his attorney shall be filed stating that the affiant has no knowledge of an address.

(d)
A county clerk may adopt a new docketing system utilizing electro-mechanical, electronic or any other method he deems suitable for maintaining the dockets.

Source:
Section 5018 — Docketing of judgment, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/5018 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
