SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_5221
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/5221 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 5221

Where enforcement proceeding commenced

(a)
Court and county in which proceeding commenced.

1.
If the judgment sought to be enforced was entered in the city court of any city outside the city of New York, and the respondent resides or is regularly employed or has a place for the regular transaction of business in person within the county in which the court is or was located, a special proceeding authorized by this article shall be commenced in that court or in the county court of that county.

2.
If the judgment sought to be enforced was entered in a district court, or by a justice of the peace whose office has been or is by law to be abolished and whose jurisdiction has been or is by law to be superseded by a district court, and the respondent resides or is regularly employed or has a place for the regular transaction of business in person within the county in which such district court is established, a special proceeding authorized by this article shall be commenced in such district court.

3.
If the judgment sought to be enforced was entered in the municipal court of the city of New York, the city court of the city of New York or the civil court of the city of New York, and the respondent resides or is regularly employed or has a place for the regular transaction of business in person within that city, a special proceeding authorized by this article shall be commenced in the civil court of the city of New York.

4.
In any other case, if the judgment sought to be enforced was entered in any court of this state, a special proceeding authorized by this article shall be commenced, either in the supreme court or a county court, in a county in which the respondent resides or is regularly employed or has a place for the regular transaction of business in person or, if there is no such county, in any county in which he may be served or the county in which the judgment was entered.

5.
If no court in which a special proceeding authorized by this article could be commenced is in session, the special proceeding may be commenced in the supreme court or a county court in any county within the judicial district in which the proceeding could otherwise be commenced or in any county adjoining the county in which the proceeding could otherwise be commenced.

(b)
Notices, subpoenas and motions. A notice or subpoena authorized by this article may be issued from, and a motion authorized by this article may be made before, any court in which a special proceeding authorized by this article could be commenced if the person served with the notice, subpoena or notice of motion were respondent.

Source:
Section 5221 — Where enforcement proceeding commenced, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/5221 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
