SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_6212
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/6212 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 6212

Motion papers

undertaking

filing

demand

damages

(a)
Affidavit; other papers. On a motion for an order of attachment, or for an order to confirm an order of attachment, the plaintiff shall show, by affidavit and such other written evidence as may be submitted, that there is a cause of action, that it is probable that the plaintiff will succeed on the merits, that one or more grounds for attachment provided in section 6201 exist, and that the amount demanded from the defendant exceeds all counterclaims known to the plaintiff.

(b)
Undertaking. On a motion for an order of attachment, the plaintiff shall give an undertaking, in a total amount fixed by the court, but not less than five hundred dollars, a specified part thereof conditioned that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all costs and damages, including reasonable attorney’s fees, which may be sustained by reason of the attachment if the defendant recovers judgment or if it is finally decided that the plaintiff was not entitled to an attachment of the defendant’s property, and the balance conditioned that the plaintiff shall pay to the sheriff all of his allowable fees. The attorney for the plaintiff shall not be liable to the sheriff for such fees. The surety on the undertaking shall not be discharged except upon notice to the sheriff.

(c)
Filing. Within ten days after the granting of an order of attachment, the plaintiff shall file it and the affidavit and other papers upon which it was based and the summons and complaint in the action. Unless the time for filing has been extended, the order shall be invalid if not so filed, except that a person upon whom it is served shall not be liable for acting upon it as if it were valid without knowledge of the invalidity.

(d)
Demand for papers. At any time after property has been levied upon, the defendant may serve upon the plaintiff a written demand that the papers upon which the order of attachment was granted and the levy made be served upon him. Not more than one day after service of the demand, the plaintiff shall cause the papers demanded to be served at the address specified in the demand. A demand under this subdivision shall not of itself constitute an appearance in the action.

(e)
Damages. The plaintiff shall be liable to the defendant for all costs and damages, including reasonable attorney’s fees, which may be sustained by reason of the attachment if the defendant recovers judgment, or if it is finally decided that the plaintiff was not entitled to an attachment of the defendant’s property. Plaintiff’s liability shall not be limited by the amount of the undertaking.

Source:
Section 6212 — Motion papers; undertaking; filing; demand; damages, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/6212 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
