SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_8007
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/8007 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 8007

Printers

Except where otherwise prescribed by law, the proprietor of a newspaper is entitled for publishing a summons, notice, order or other advertisement, required to be published by law or by the order of any court, or of the clerk of a court, to twenty-nine cents per line of a column width not less than ten pica ems, provided that in computing such charge per line the line shall average at least five words for each insertion in newspapers having a circulation of less than two thousand five hundred; twenty-nine and one-half cents per line for newspapers having two thousand five hundred or more circulation and less than five thousand; thirty and one-half cents per line for newspapers having five thousand or more circulation and less than seven thousand five hundred; thirty-one and one-half cents per line for newspapers having seven thousand five hundred or more circulation and less than ten thousand; thirty-two and one-half cents per line for newspapers having ten thousand or more circulation and less than fifteen thousand; and three and one-half cents per line, in addition to the thirty-two and one-half cents for the initial fifteen thousand circulation, for each additional five thousand circulation up to thirty-five thousand circulation and one and one-half cents per line for each additional five thousand possessed by a newspaper. To all of the above rates nine cents per line shall be added to the initial insertion charge of each separate advertisement. To all of the above rates for the initial insertion eight cents per line shall also be added for tabular matter or intricate composition. In reckoning line charges allowance shall be made for date lines, paragraph endings, titles, signatures and similar short lines as full lines where the same are set to conform to the usual rules of composition. Display advertising shall be charged agate measurement (fourteen lines to each inch), ten to thirteen pica ems wide, depending on the makeup of the newspaper publishing such copy. This rate shall not apply to any newspaper printed, principally circulated or having its principal office in the counties of New York or Bronx within the first judicial district or in the county of Kings within the second judicial district or in the county of Richmond within the thirteenth judicial district or in the county of Nassau within the tenth judicial district or in the county of Queens within the eleventh judicial district or in the county of Westchester within the ninth judicial district or in any city having a population of over one hundred seventy-five thousand inhabitants within the eighth judicial district, where the rate for such publication may be equal to but shall not exceed the regularly established classified advertising rate of such newspapers. Every newspaper making claim for compensation under the provisions of this section must be established at least one year and entered in the post office as second class matter.

Source:
Section 8007 — Printers, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/8007 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
