SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_8012
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/8012 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 8012

Mileage fees, poundage fees, additional compensation, and limitation on compensation of sheriffs

(a)
Mileage fees. A sheriff is entitled to the current federal internal revenue service mileage reimbursement rate for each mile necessarily travelled in performing the following services, payable in advance:

1.
in serving or executing a mandate upon or against one person, or upon or against two or more persons in the course of one journey, computed from the nearest office of the sheriff in the county to the place of service or execution, and return;

2.
in serving or executing two or more mandates in one action upon or against one person at one time, computed from the nearest office of the sheriff in the county to the place of service or execution, and return; and

3.
in attending a view, computed from the nearest office of the sheriff in the county to the place of attendance, and return.

(b)
Poundage fees.

1.
A sheriff is entitled, for collecting money by virtue of an execution, an order of attachment, or an attachment for the payment of money in an action, or a warrant for the collection of money issued by the comptroller or by a county treasurer or by any agency of the state or a political subdivision thereof, or for collecting a fine by virtue of a commitment for civil contempt, to poundage of, in the counties within the city of New York, five per cent of the sum collected and in all other counties, five per cent upon the first two hundred fifty thousand dollars collected, and three per cent upon the residue of the sum collected.

2.
Where a settlement is made after a levy by virtue of service of an execution, the sheriff is entitled to poundage upon the judgment or settlement amount, whichever is less. Where an execution is vacated or set aside after levy, the sheriff is entitled to poundage upon the value of the property levied upon, not exceeding the amount specified in the execution, and the court may order the party liable therefor to pay the same to the sheriff.

3.
Where a settlement is made, either before or after judgment, after a levy by virtue of service of an order of attachment, the sheriff is entitled to poundage upon the judgment or settlement amount, whichever is less. Where an order of attachment is vacated or set aside after levy, the sheriff is entitled to poundage upon the value of the property levied upon, not exceeding the amount specified in the order of attachment, and the court may order the party at whose instance the order of attachment was granted to pay the same to the sheriff. Where an order of attachment is otherwise discharged by order of the court, the sheriff is entitled to the same poundage, to be paid by the party at whose instance the order of attachment is discharged, and the sheriff is entitled to retain the property levied upon until the poundage is paid. The maximum amount upon which poundage shall be computed, if such a settlement is made or the order of attachment is vacated or set aside, is one million dollars.

4.
Where a settlement is made (i) after service of an income execution upon the debtor pursuant to subdivision (d) of section fifty-two hundred thirty-one of this chapter or upon the garnishee pursuant to subdivision (e) of section fifty-two hundred thirty-one of this chapter, or

(ii)
after issuance of a property execution pursuant to section fifty-two hundred thirty of this chapter and levy against personal or real property pursuant to section fifty-two hundred thirty-two or fifty-two hundred thirty-five of this chapter, the sheriff is entitled to poundage upon the judgment amount or settlement amount, whichever is less. Where an income or property execution is vacated or set aside after levy, the sheriff is entitled to poundage upon the value of the property levied upon, not exceeding the amount specified in the execution, and the court may order the party liable therefor to pay the same to the sheriff.

5.
A sheriff who brings an action in a court of competent jurisdiction to collect such amount provided for in this subdivision may also be awarded reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs.

(c)
Additional compensation. A sheriff is entitled in any case, including an instance in which a mandate has been stayed, vacated or set aside, or a settlement has been made after a levy, to such additional compensation for his trouble and expenses in taking possession of and preserving property under any mandate or in removing a person in possession of real property and the said person’s property, as the court allows, and the court may make an order requiring the party liable therefor to pay the same to the sheriff.

(d)
Mileage fees in the city of New York. For mileage travelled wholly within the city of New York the sheriff of the city of New York shall be entitled to thirty dollars payable in advance, as provided in section eight thousand eleven of this chapter, and commencing one year after the effective date of the chapter of the laws of two thousand thirteen which amended this subdivision, such fee shall be thirty-five dollars.

Source:
Section 8012 — Mileage fees, poundage fees, additional compensation, and limitation on compensation of sheriffs, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/8012 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
