SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_8019
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/8019 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 8019

County clerks generally

(a)
Application. The fees of a county clerk specified in this article shall supersede the fees allowed by any other statute for the same services, except in so far as the administrative code of the city of New York sets forth different fees for the city register of the city of New York and the county clerk of Richmond, and except that such fees do not include the block fees as set out in the Nassau county administrative code or the tax map number verification fees on instruments presented for recording or filing as set out in the Suffolk county administrative code, which are to be charged in addition to the fees specified in this article. This subdivision does not apply to the fees specified in subdivision (f) of section 8021.

(b)
Legible copies. Whenever a paper or document, presented to a county clerk for filing or recording, is not legible or otherwise suitable for copying or recording by the photocopying process, the county clerk may require a legible or suitable copy thereof along with such paper or document, and the same fees shall be payable for the copy as are payable for the paper or document.

(c)
Notice to county clerk. A county clerk need not make an entry which is required by a court order unless proper notice is given to the clerk by a party to the action or a person legally interested therein.

(d)
Exemptions for state or city of New York. A clerk of a county within the city of New York shall not charge or receive any fee from the city of New York or the state of New York or from any agency or officer of either acting in official capacity.

(e)
Size of page and type. For purposes of this article, the size of each page accepted by a county clerk for recording and indexing shall not exceed nine inches by fourteen inches, except that in the counties of Cattaraugus, Columbia, Delaware, Herkimer, Monroe and Otsego, the size of the page shall not exceed eight and a half inches by fourteen inches, and every printed portion thereof shall be plainly printed in not smaller than eight point type. The county clerk acting as recording officer may in special circumstances accept a page exceeding the size or with smaller print than that prescribed herein, on such terms and at such fee, subject to review by the supreme court, as he may deem appropriate, but the fee for such recording and indexing shall not be less than double the fees otherwise chargeable by law therefor.

(f)
Copies of records. The following fees, up to a maximum of forty dollars per record shall be payable to a county clerk or register for copies of the records of the office except records filed under the uniform commercial code:

1.
to prepare a copy of any paper or record on file in the office, except as otherwise provided, sixty-five cents per page with a minimum fee of one dollar thirty cents;

2.
to certify a prepared copy of any record or paper on file, sixty-five cents per page with a minimum fee of five dollars twenty cents;

3.
to prepare and certify a copy of any record or paper on file, one dollar twenty-five cents per page with a minimum fee of five dollars;

4.
to prepare and certify a copy of a certificate of honorable discharge, except as provided for in the military law, two dollars fifty cents; and

5.
to prepare a copy of any paper or record on file in the office in a medium other than paper, the actual cost of reproducing the record in accordance with paragraph (c) of subdivision one of section eighty-seven of the public officers law.

Source:
Section 8019 — County clerks generally, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/8019 (updated Apr. 19, 2019; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
