SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_8020
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/8020 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 8020

County clerks as clerks of court

Whenever a county clerk renders a service in his capacity as clerk of the supreme or a county court, in an action pending in such court, he is entitled to the fees specified in this section, payable in advance.

(a)
Placing cause on calendar. For placing a cause on a calendar for trial or inquest, one hundred twenty-five dollars in the supreme court and county court; except that where rules of the chief administrator of the courts require that a request for judicial intervention be made in an action pending in supreme court or county court, the county clerk shall be entitled to a fee of ninety-five dollars, payable before a judge may be assigned pursuant to such request, and thereafter, for placing such a cause on a calendar for trial or inquest, the county clerk shall be entitled to an additional fee of thirty dollars, and no other fee may be charged thereafter pursuant to this subdivision; except that the county clerk shall be entitled to a fee of forty-five dollars upon the filing of each motion or cross motion in such action. However, no fee shall be imposed for a motion which seeks leave to proceed as a poor person pursuant to subdivision (a) of section eleven hundred one of this chapter.

(b)
Calendar fee for transferred cause, joint trial, retrial, or separate trial. Where a cause which has been placed upon a calendar is transferred before trial to a court for which a larger calendar fee is prescribed, the difference in calendar fee shall be paid at the time the cause is placed upon the calendar of the latter court, except that no additional fee shall be required when the action is transferred for the purpose of consolidation or trial jointly with another action. No separate calendar fee shall be imposed for a retrial of a cause or for the trial of a separate issue in a cause.

(c)
Filing demand for jury trial. For filing a demand for a jury trial in the following counties, where the right to a jury trial is duly demanded:

1.
in the counties within the city of New York, sixty-five dollars in the supreme court;

2.
in all other counties, sixty-five dollars in the supreme court and county court.

(d)
Filing a stipulation of settlement or a voluntary discontinuance. For filing a stipulation of settlement pursuant to rule twenty-one hundred four of this chapter or a notice, stipulation, or certificate pursuant to subdivision (d) of rule thirty-two hundred seventeen of this chapter, the defendant shall file and pay:

1.
in the counties within the city of New York, thirty-five dollars in the supreme court.

2.
in all other counties, thirty-five dollars in the supreme court and county court. Provided, however, that only one such fee shall be charged for each notice, stipulation or certificate filed pursuant to this subdivision.

(e)
Jury fee for transferred cause, joint trial, retrial or separate trial. Where a cause in which a jury has been demanded is transferred before trial to a court for which a larger jury fee is prescribed, the difference in the jury fee shall be paid at the time the cause is placed upon the calendar of the latter court, except that no additional fee shall be required when the action is transferred for the purpose of consolidation or trial jointly with another action in which a jury fee has previously been paid. No separate jury fee shall be imposed for a retrial of a cause or for the trial of a separate issue in a cause.

(f)
Certification, exemplification, and copies of papers.

1.
For issuing any certificate, in counties within the city of New York, eight dollars, and in all other counties, four dollars, except as otherwise expressly provided in this article.

2.
For a certificate of exemplification, exclusive of certification, in counties within the city of New York, twenty-five dollars, and in all other counties, ten dollars.

(g)
Searches. For certifying to a search of any court records for a consecutive two-year period or fraction thereof, for each name so searched, five dollars.

(h)
Production of court records. For each day or part thereof in attendance in any action pursuant to a subpoena duces tecum, twenty dollars, and in addition thereto, mileage fees of twelve cents per mile each way and the necessary expenses of the messenger, except that if the subpoena duces tecum be served within the city of New York, and the place of attendance is within the city of New York, then actual transportation costs shall be charged instead of the mileage fees.

Source:
Section 8020 — County clerks as clerks of court, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CVP/8020 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
