SOURCE: https://sbnk.senate.ca.gov/sites/sbnk.senate.ca.gov/files/End%20of%20Session%20Report%202021-22%20Final.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
------------------------------------------------------------------------
    SENATE COMMITTEE
ON BANKING AND FINANCIAL
       INSTITUTIONS
2021 - 2022 LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY


 SENATOR MONIQUE LIMÓN, CHAIR


                     MEMBERS

  SENATOR ROSILICIE OCHOA BOGH, Vice Chair
        SENATOR STEVEN BRADFORD
        SENATOR ANNA CABALLERO
          SENATOR BRIAN DAHLE
      SENATOR MARIA ELENA DURAZO
           SENATOR BEN HUESO
            SENATOR DAVE MIN
      SENATOR ANTHONY PORTANTINO



                   STAFF DIRECTOR
                    Michael Burdick

               COMMITTEE ASSISTANT
                    Rae Flores

     Legislative Office Building Room 522, Sacramento
                       (916) 651-4102
                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS
Table of Contents
UNSECURED LENDING AND SERVICING ...............................................................................3
SECURED LENDING AND SERVICING, REAL ESTATE ........................................................6
SECURITIES LAW AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ..........................................................7
FINANCIAL SERVICES LAW ADMINISTRATION, MISCELLANEOUS .............................10
2021-2022 INFORMATIONAL AND OVERSIGHT HEARINGS .............................................15




                                                  Page 2 of 15
              UNSECURED LENDING AND SERVICING
                                 BILLS SIGNED INTO LAW

AB 424 (Stone), Chapter 559, Statutes of 2021
Private Student Loan Collections Reform Act: collection actions.

Sponsored by Student Borrower Protection Center. Establishes the Private Student Loan Collections
Reform Act which prohibits lenders or collectors from making any written statement to a debtor in
an attempt to collect a private education loan unless that person has specified documentation related
to the alleged debt. Prohibits a court from entering a judgment for an amount owed related to a
private student loan unless specified documentation is provided by the plaintiff. Provides a cause of
action for a violation of the act.

AB 430 (Grayson), Chapter 265, Statutes of 2021
Debt collection: identity theft.

Sponsored by California Low Income Consumer Coalition. Allows the use of a Federal Trade
Commission identity theft report, in lieu of a police report, when a victim of identity theft seeks
civil protections pursuant to the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Identity Theft
Law, and the Penal Code, as specified

AB 2001 (Grayson), Chapter 181, Statutes of 2022
California Financing Law: remote work.

Author-sponsored. Authorizes a finance lender, broker, or program administrator licensed pursuant
to the California Financing Law to allow employees to work from a remote location if specified
criteria are satisfied. Such criteria include prohibiting employees from in-person interactions with a
consumer at a remote location, prohibiting the transmission or storage of certain sensitive
information at remote locations unless such information is stored on encrypted hardware, and
adopting and implementing policies and procedures to oversee the work of employees related to
data security.

AB 2380 (Maienschein), Chapter 548, Statutes of 2022
Online pet retailers: retail financing options.

Sponsored by Animal Legal Defense Fund. Prohibits an online pet retailer from offering, brokering,
making a referral for, or otherwise facilitating a loan or other financing for the adoption or sale of a
dog, cat, or rabbit. While in the possession of the Senate Banking Committee, the author amended
the bill to better achieve his intent based on suggestions from committee staff; the amendments
triggered a re-referral to a different committee and, thus, was not acted upon by the Senate Banking
Committee.




                                             Page 3 of 15
SB 531 (Wieckowski), Chapter 455, Statutes of 2021
Consumer debt.

Author-sponsored. Requires a debt collector to whom a delinquent debt has been assigned to
provide the debtor, upon request and within 30 days, a statement including specified information
about the delinquent debt, such as the balance and reason for all interest and fees, and a copy of the
contract evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt. Prohibits a debt collector to which
delinquent debt has been assigned from making a written statement to a debtor in an attempt to
collect a delinquent consumer debt unless the debt collector has access to specified information,
such as a copy of the contract or other document evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt.

                       BILLS NOT SENT TO THE GOVERNOR

AB 2540 (Berman), 2022
Qualifying accounts for direct deposit of publicly administered funds.

Author-sponsored. For specified programs administered by the state, would have allowed funds to
be deposited in a qualifying account with a credit or overdraft feature if specified requirements were
met, including that any voluntary fee, charge, or cost paid could be refunded at the request of the
consumer.

Died in Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee without a hearing.

SB 373 (Min), 2021
Consumer debt: economic abuse.

Sponsored by California Partnership to End Domestic Violence, Public Law Center, and Law
Foundation of Silicon Valley. Would have prohibited a debt collector from collecting or attempting
to collect a consumer debt if the consumer provided documentation to the collector that the debt is
the result of economic abuse. Specified sufficient documentation of economic abuse. Deemed
information regarding a consumer debt documented to result from economic abuse as incomplete or
inaccurate for the purposes of a consumer credit report.

Died in Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee without a hearing.

SB 754 (Hertzberg), 2021
Economic development: low- to moderate-income communities: Equity in Lending and Fair
Recovery Act.

Sponsored by Fiona Ma, State Treasurer. Would have established a loan guarantee fund for the
purpose of supporting, facilitating, and encouraging lenders to increase the volume of responsible
installment loans to low- and moderate-income individuals. The fund would have been
administered by the California Pollution Control Financing Authority, which is chaired by the
Treasurer.

Died in Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee without a hearing.

                                             Page 4 of 15
SB 1324 (Durazo), 2022
Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act: rental debt.

Sponsored by California Low Income Consumer Coalition. Would have added rental debt to the
types of debts covered by the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.

Held on the Senate Appropriations Committee Suspense File.




                                         Page 5 of 15
  SECURED LENDING AND SERVICING, REAL ESTATE
                                 BILLS SIGNED INTO LAW

SB 360 (Wilk), Chapter 105, Statutes of 2021
Consumer Credit Reporting Agencies Act: escrow agent rating services and escrow agents.

Sponsored by the California Escrow Association. Extends the sunset date on the provision of law
applicable to escrow agent rating services from January 1, 2022, to January 1, 2027.

SB 1348 (Bradford), Chapter 846, Statutes of 2022
Escrow agents: controlled substances.

Author-sponsored. Removes an offense involving controlled substances from the list of offenses
that disqualify a person from serving in any capacity as an officer, director, stockholder, trustee,
agent, or employee of an escrow agent, or in any position involving any duties with an escrow
agent.

                        BILLS NOT SENT TO THE GOVERNOR

AB 1172 (O’Donnell), 2021
Escrow agents: asset and accounting requirements.

Sponsored by the Escrow Institute of California. Would have allowed a licensed escrow agent to
submit financial statements pursuant to the Escrow Law that did not comply with a specified
accounting standard related to leases.

Died in Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee without a hearing.

SB 476 (Min), 2021
California Financing Law: program administrators.

Sponsored by California Low Income Consumer Coalition and National Consumer Law Center.
Would have prohibited a Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) program administrator from
executing an assessment contract unless the associated property had undergone an energy audit, as
specified, and prohibited a PACE program administrator from disbursing funds to a PACE solicitor
or PACE solicitor agent without specified proof of project completion.

Failed passage in Assembly Local Government Committee.




                                             Page 6 of 15
  SECURITIES LAW AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
                                BILLS SIGNED INTO LAW

AB 283 (Chen), Chapter 512, Statutes of 2021
Corporate securities: exemption from requirements.

Sponsored by Nonprofit Organizations Committee, Business Law Section, California Lawyers
Association. Exempts from qualification requirements any shares, memberships, or credits to a
member’s capital as all, or part of, any patronage distributions. In effect, the exemption allows co-
ops to issue patronage distributions in the form of equity shares without first paying for a permit
from the Department of Financial Protection and Innovation (DFPI).

AB 511 (Muratsuchi), Chapter 617, Statutes of 2021
Securities transactions: qualification requirements, exemptions, and liability.

Sponsored by Small Business California. Establishes a new exemption from the qualification
requirements of the Corporate Securities Law of 1968 for the offer or sale of a security that meets
the requirements of federal Regulation CF, except the offering could include accounting statements
certified by management of the corporation to be accurate, rather than – as required by Regulation
CF – accounting statements reviewed by an independent public accountant, for offerings of less
than $300,000. For offerings that rely on the new exemption, issuers are prohibited from requiring a
purchaser to waive the right of a jury trial, and judges are required to award reasonable attorney’s
fees to a prevailing investor for specified violations.

AB 663 (Chen), Chapter 523, Statutes of 2021
Corporations: electronic transmissions: bylaws: emergency powers.

Sponsored by Corporations Committee and Nonprofit Organizations Committee, Business Law
Section, California Lawyers Association. Permits a corporation, in anticipation or during an
emergency, to take any action that it determines to be necessary or appropriate to respond to the
emergency, mitigate the effects of the emergency, or comply with lawful federal and state
government orders, unless the action requires a vote of the shareholders. Expands and clarifies the
definition of a qualifying emergency to include epidemic, pandemic, disease outbreak, an attack on
or within the state or on the public security of its residents, or any state of emergency proclaimed by
the Governor. Permits a corporation to hold annual meetings entirely via teleconference or other
remote means when either (a) all shareholders consent, or (b) the board determines it is necessary to
do so because of an emergency, as defined.

AB 676 (Holden), Chapter 728, Statutes of 2022
Franchises.

Sponsored by American Association of Franchisees and Dealers and Franchisee Advocacy
Consulting. Makes a series of revisions to the laws governing the business relationship between
franchisors and franchisees. Key provisions include: (1) prohibiting franchisors from demanding
that franchisees waive contractual rights in exchange for assistance during states of emergency; (2)

                                             Page 7 of 15
stating that franchisors may not discriminate when considering applications from franchisees; (3)
providing for additional transparency about the approval process when franchises change hands; (4)
clarifying the accounting and payment processes when a franchise relationship ends; and (5)
preventing franchisors from attempting to evade accountability for representations made to
prospective franchisees.

AB 769 (Grayson), Chapter 12, Statutes of 2022
Corporations: meetings: state of emergency.

Author-sponsored. Allows corporations to hold annual meetings of shareholders or members solely
by remote communication if the meeting is conducted on or before June 30, 2022.

AB 1780 (Chen), Chapter 951, Statutes of 2022
Corporations: shareholders’ meetings: remote communication.

Author-sponsored. Authorizes the board of directors of a corporation, in its sole discretion and
irrespective of whether any shareholder has opted out of electronic transmission by the corporation,
to determine that a meeting of shareholders may be conducted by electronic transmission by and to
the corporation or by electronic video screen communication, conference telephone, or other means
of remote communication, if the meeting is conducted on or before December 31, 2025, and
includes a live audiovisual feed for the duration of the meeting, as specified.

SB 218 (Jones), Chapter 217, Statutes of 2021
Corporations: ratification or validation of noncompliant corporate actions.

Sponsored by Corporations Committee of the Business Law Section of the California Lawyers
Association. Authorizes otherwise lawful corporate actions not in compliance with the General
Corporation Law or the articles, bylaws, or a plan or agreement to which the corporation is a party
in effect at the time of a corporate action, to be ratified, or validated by the superior court, in
conformity with certain procedures. Requires that the ratification of a corporate action pursuant to
the bill’s provisions be approved by the board and, as applicable, approved by the shareholders or
approved by the outstanding shares in accordance with the General Corporation Law and the
articles, bylaws, and any plan or agreement to which the corporation is a party in effect at the time
of ratification, except as specified.

SB 1202 (Limón), Chapter 617, Statutes of 2022
Business entities: Secretary of State: document filings.

Sponsored by Shirley Weber, Secretary of State. Harmonizes various provisions of the Corporations
Code in order to facilitate the Secretary of State's ongoing implementation of the California
Business Connect electronic filing system. Corrects an error that granted overly broad standing to
sue a limited liability company on behalf of a limited liability company (LLC) member. Removes
an overly broad protection from California Public Records Act disclosure in the Commercial and
Industrial Common Interest Development Act. Makes numerous technical and clarifying
amendments, largely to the Corporations Code



                                             Page 8 of 15
                        BILLS NOT SENT TO THE GOVERNOR

SB 288 (Jones)
Corporations: conversions: foreign corporation or foreign other business entity.

Sponsored by Corporations Committee of the Business Law Section of the California Lawyers
Association. Would have established procedures for use by domestic corporations wishing to
convert into business entities organized under the laws of another state.

Failed passage in the Assembly Judiciary Committee.

SB 449 (Stern)
Climate-related financial risk.

Author-sponsored. Would have required certain companies with legal ties to California and annual
revenues of at least $500 million to publish an annual report of the company’s climate-related
financial risk.

Held on the Senate Appropriations Committee Suspense File.

SB 638 (Hertzberg)
Corporate records: articles of incorporation: blockchain technology.

Author-sponsored. Would have extended the sunset date for a provision that authorized
corporations to include a provision in their articles of incorporation authorizing the use of
blockchain technology to record and track the issuance and transfer of stock certificate.

Passed the Senate Floor but was not presented by the author in the Assembly. The bill was later gut-
and-amended to address a different subject, but the bill was not taken up on the Assembly Floor.

SB 1318 (Melendez)
Secretary of State: new businesses: filing fees.

Author-sponsored. Would have waived the filing fees for the formation of a new business entity in
California, as specified, during calendar year 2023.

Died in Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee without a hearing.

SJR 16 (Hertzberg)
Financial services: investor certification examination process.

Author-sponsored. Would have urged the United States Congress to enact legislation to institute a
free online investor certification examination, renewable every four years.

Died in Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee without a hearing.


                                             Page 9 of 15
      FINANCIAL SERVICES LAW ADMINISTRATION,
                  MISCELLANEOUS

                                BILLS SIGNED INTO LAW

AB 1177 (Santiago), Chapter 451, Statutes of 2021
California Public Banking Option Act.

Sponsored by California Public Banking Alliance, California Reinvestment Coalition, and SEIU
California. Requires the State Treasurer to convene, on or before September 1, 2022, the
CalAccount Blue Ribbon Commission (“the commission”), chaired by the Treasurer and comprised
of eight other members, as specified. Requires the commission to conduct and deliver, on or before
July 1, 2024, a market analysis to determine if it is feasible to implement a CalAccount Program
(“program”), which would offer Californians access to a voluntary, zero-fee, zero-penalty, federally
insured transaction account and related payment services at no cost to accountholders.

Specifies requirements of the market analysis and requires the commission to contract with one or
more independent entities with the appropriate expertise to conduct the market analysis. Requires
the commission to hold at least one public hearing within 12 months of entering into a contract for
the market analysis in order to solicit input from members of the public, and requires the
commission to hold a public hearing to review the market analysis. Requires the commission to
deliver, and upon request present, the market analysis and any report issued by the commission that
accompanies the market analysis to the Chair of the Senate Committee on Banking and Financial
Institutions and the Chair of the Assembly Committee on Banking and Finance.

AB 1320 (Bauer-Kahan), Chapter 453, Statutes of 2021
Money transmission: customer service.

Author-sponsored. Requires, as of July 1, 2022, a money transmitter to prominently display on its
internet website a toll-free telephone number through which a customer may contact the licensee for
customer service issues and receive live customer assistance. Requires that the telephone line to be
operative at least 10 hours per day, Monday through Friday, excluding federal holidays. Requires a
money transmitter to include on receipts to customers issued on or after July 1, 2022, a telephone
number through which the customer can contact the money transmitter.

AB 1405 (Wicks), Chapter 454, Statutes of 2021
Debt settlement practices.

Sponsored by California Low-Income Consumer Coalition. Establishes the Fair Debt Settlement
Practices Act which regulates the activity of providing debt settlement services and related payment
processing services. Prohibits a debt settlement provider from engaging in false, deceptive, or
misleading acts or practices when providing debt settlement services.



                                           Page 10 of 15
Requires a debt settlement provider to provide a disclosure to a consumer at least three days prior to
execution of a debt settlement contract. The disclosure contains warnings about the risks related to
debt settlement services, including that there is no guarantee the consumer’s debts will be reduced
or settled, that the consumer’s credit score may be negatively impacted, and other specified
disclosures. Requires that a debt settlement contract include specified information, including a list
of debts covered by the contract, an estimate of the time it will take to settle all debts, a transparent
explanation of charges and fees, and contact information of the debt settlement provider. Prohibits
various other practices.

AB 2433 (Grayson), Chapter 188, Statutes of 2022
Department of Financial Protection and Innovation: unlawful practices.

Author-sponsored. Clarifies that administrative orders for a person to discontinue a violation of law
may be issued by the Department of Financial Protection and Innovation whether the violation is
ongoing or has ceased.

SB 239 (Committee on Banking and Financial Institutions), Chapter 635, Statutes of 2021
Government finance: surplus investments: savings and loan associations or credit unions.

Sponsored by Fiona Ma, State Treasurer. Reduces – from 110% of the amount deposited to 100%
of the amount deposited – the required value of a Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) letter of credit
that a credit union or a savings and loan association may use as security for a deposit of state funds
by the State Treasurer into the credit union or savings and loan association and authorizes the State
Treasurer to invest surplus state funds in money market mutual funds, as specified.

SB 269 (Portantino), Chapter 762, Statutes of 2021
Credit unions.

Sponsored by California Credit Union League. Updates provisions of the California Credit Union
Law and increases parity between state law applicable to state-chartered credit unions and federal
law applicable to federally-chartered credit unions.

SB 497 (Limón), Chapter 546, Statutes of 2021
Qualifying accounts for direct deposit of publicly administered funds.

Sponsored by National Consumer Law Center. Revises the definition of qualifying accounts that
can receive direct deposits related to unemployment compensation, child support, and other public
assistance payments and requires the Employment Development Department to additionally provide
direct deposit options for recipients of disability or family temporary disability insurance benefits,
as specified. For accounts provided by nonbank entities, requires the accounts to be protected by
deposit insurance and prohibits the account to have a credit or overdraft feature that has a fee,
charge, or cost, whether direct, required, voluntary, or involuntary.
SB 577 (Limón), Chapter 16, Statutes of 2022
Financial institutions: money transmission: escrow agents: lenders and brokers: banking.




                                             Page 11 of 15
Author-sponsored. Reinstates a provision that sunset on January 1, 2022, which provides an
exemption to the requirements of the California Financing Law for a person that makes only one
commercial loan in a 12-month period, as specified. Repeals the requirement that DFPI submit a
brief annual summary regarding the activities of the Bank on California Program to the
chairpersons of the Senate Committee on Banking and Financial Institutions and the Assembly
Committee on Banking and Finance. Replaces references to the Department of Business Oversight
with references to the DFPI and updates the department’s address. Corrects obsolete references in
the Escrow Law by replacing a reference to the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
with a reference to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and replacing a reference to the
former Chapter 18 of Division 1 of the Financial Code with a reference to Chapter 10 of Division
1.1 of the Financial Code.

SB 1415 (Limón), Chapter 847, Statutes of 2022
Financial Institutions Law: annual report: overdraft.

Author-sponsored. Requires banks and credit unions subject to the examination authority of DFPI
to report annually the revenue earned from overdraft fees, as specified, and requires DFPI to publish
that information in a publicly available report.

SB 1498 (Committee on Banking and Financial Institutions), Chapter 452, Statutes of 2022
Financial institutions: Department of Financial Protection and Innovation: money
transmissions.

Author-sponsored. Replaces outdated references to “Department of Business Oversight” and
“Commissioner of Business Oversight” with references to “Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation” and “Commissioner of Financial Protection and Innovation,” respectively. Specifies
that the activities considered “money transmission” pursuant to the Money Transmission Act must
be in relation to a person located in California.

                                        BILLS VETOED

AB 2269 (Grayson)
Digital financial asset businesses: regulation.

Sponsored by Consumer Federation of California. Would have established the Digital Financial
Assets Law, providing a licensing and regulatory framework administered by DFPI for businesses
that exchange, transfer, or store a digital financial asset or issue a digital financial asset with the
authority to redeem the asset. Would have defined “digital financial asset” to mean a digital
representation of value that is used as a medium of exchange, unit of account, or store of value, and
that is not legal tender, whether or not denominated in legal tender, except as specified. Would have
required a licensee, before engaging in digital financial asset business activity with a resident, to
make certain disclosures to the resident, including a schedule of fees and charges the licensee may
assess, the manner by which fees and charges will be calculated if they are not set in advance and
disclosed, and the timing of the fees and charges. Would have provided DFPI with the
responsibility and authority to examine licensees for compliance with the law and to take
enforcement actions for violations of the law.

                                            Page 12 of 15
The veto message included the following comments from the Governor:

“On May 4, 2022, I issued Executive Order N-9-22 to position California as the first state to
establish a transparent regulatory environment that both fosters responsible innovation, and protects
consumers who use digital asset financial services and products - all within the context of a rapidly
evolving federal regulatory picture. Over the last several months, my Administration has conducted
extensive research and outreach to gather input on approaches that balance the benefits and risk to
consumers, harmonize with federal rules, and incorporate California values such as equity,
inclusivity, and environmental protection.

It is premature to lock a licensing structure in statute without considering both this work and
forthcoming federal actions. A more flexible approach is needed to ensure regulatory oversight can
keep up with rapidly evolving technology and use cases, and is tailored with the proper tools to
address trends and mitigate consumer harm. Additionally, standing up a new regulatory program is
a costly undertaking, and this bill would require a loan from the general fund in the tens of millions
of dollars for the first several years. Such a significant commitment of general fund resources
should be considered and accounted for in the annual budget process.

I am committed to working collaboratively with the Legislature to achieve the appropriate
regulatory clarity once federal regulations come into sharper focus for digital financial assets, while
ensuring California remains a competitive place for companies to invest and innovate.”

                        BILLS NOT SENT TO THE GOVERNOR

AB 561 (Ting)
Help Homeowners Add New Housing Program: accessory dwelling unit financing.

Author-sponsored. Would have required the State Treasurer to establish and administer a new
program intended to incentivize lending by financial institutions for the construction of assessor
dwelling units. The proposed program was modeled after the Small Business Loan Guarantee Fund,
administered by the California Pollution Control Financing Authority, which is chaired by the State
Treasurer.

Died in Senate Banking and Financial Institutions without a hearing.

AB 2314 (Petrie-Norris)
State-guaranteed commercial financial products for small businesses: Small Business
Expansion Fund and Capital Access Loan Program.

Sponsored by California Association of Micro Enterprise Organizations (CAMEO). Would have
required all loans that receive a loan guarantee issued under the state's Small Business Loan
Guarantee Program or are enrolled in the California Capital Access Program (CalCAP) to meet
specified fair lending practices, if the funding used to back those credit enhancements are moneys
received by the state from the federal State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI).


                                            Page 13 of 15
While in the possession of the Senate Banking Committee, the author amended the bill to create a
study requirement, and the bill was re-referred out of the committee’s jurisdiction. The amended
version was held on the Senate Appropriation Committee Suspense File.

SB 1176 (Limón)
Department of Financial Protection and Innovation: loan-related activities: data analysis and
practices.

Sponsored by California Reinvestment Coalition. Would have required DFPI to conduct an analysis
of whether nonbank lenders licensed by the department are meeting the credit needs of underserved
communities, as compared to depository institutions currently subject to the Community
Reinvestment Act (CRA). Would have required DFPI to seek information from regulators in other
states that have enacted laws modeled after the CRA and analyze whether those laws have resulted
in an increase in lending to underserved communities, compared to states that have not enacted
similar state laws. Would have required DFPI to review its statutory authority, regulations, and
processes related to the examination of a licensee and determine whether the department has
adequate authority to examine a licensee for how well the licensee meets the financial services
needs of underserved communities.

Passed the Senate but was not taken up in the Assembly Banking and Finance Committee.




                                          Page 14 of 15
   2021-2022 INFORMATIONAL AND OVERSIGHT HEARINGS

The agendas and background papers for the hearings summarized below are available on the
Committee’s Internet Web site. Videos of the hearings are available on the hearing archive portion
of the Senate’s Internet Web site.

February 8, 2022 JOINT INFORMATIONAL HEARING WITH SENATE BUDGET
SUBCOMMITTEE NO. 5 AND THE SENATE LABOR, PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT, AND
RETIREMENT COMMITTEE REGARDING THE PERFORMANCE OF THE
EMPLOYMENT DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT AND BANK OF AMERICA
RELATED TO CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE BENEFIT DELIVERY

California State Auditor Elaine Howle published two audits in 2020 related to the performance of
the Employment Development Department (EDD) in administering unemployment benefits in the
immediate aftermath of the COVID-19 shutdowns. Given that EDD contracted with Bank of
America to distribute benefits on prepaid debit cards, the Senate Banking Committee was asked to
participate jointly with Senate Budget Subcommittee No. 5 and Senate Labor, Public Employment,
and Retirement Committee to hold a hearing to review the findings of the audit, to hear comments
and responses to the audit from EDD, and to hear testimony from Bank of America.

May 4, 2022 THE DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL PROTECTION AND
INNOVATATION: A REVIEW OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF NEW CONSUMER
PROTECTION AUTHORITY

In 2020 the Legislature passed and the Governor signed AB 1864 (Limón, Chapter 157) which
enacted the California Consumer Financial Protection Law (CCFPL). Along with an accompanying
appropriation in the budget, the new law renamed the state financial regulator to the Department of
Financial Protection and Innovation, significantly expanded the department’s responsibilities and
authorities related to consumer financial products and services that had not previously been under
the department’s purview, and provided additional resources to fund the additional activities. The
Legislature included in AB 1864 a provision requiring the department to publish an annual report of
the department’s activities in implementing the CCFPL and a provision requiring the department to
present annually to the Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee and the Assembly
Banking and Finance Committee. The hearing was held jointly by the two committees, who heard
from senior management at the department about the department’s progress in hiring new staff,
initiating rulemaking packages required by AB 1864, and enforcement actions related to unfair or
deceptive acts or practices perpetrated against California consumers.




                                          Page 15 of 15
