SOURCE: https://www.azleg.gov/ars/32/01051.htm
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
------------------------------------------------------------------------
32-1051
.
Duties of licensees

An individual, firm, partnership, association or corporation to whom a license is to be issued under this chapter shall:

1. Meet the financial responsibility and bonding requirements of this chapter.

2. Not have been a former licensee under this chapter whose license was suspended or revoked and not subsequently reinstated.

3. Except for attorneys licensed to practice law, not attempt to collect any collection fee, attorney fee, court cost or expenses unless the fees, charges or expenses are justly due from and legally chargeable against the debtor or have been judicially determined. A licensee may not engage in any unfair or misleading practices or resort to any oppressive, vindictive or illegal means or methods of collection.

4. Except for attorneys licensed to practice law, not give or send to any debtor, or cause to be given or sent to any debtor, any notice, letter, message or form that:

(a) Simulates any legal process.

(b) Is ambiguous as to or misrepresents the character, extent or amount of the obligation of the debtor.

(c) Represents or implies that the existing obligation of the debtor may be increased by the addition of attorney fees, investigation fees, service fees or any other fees or charges when in fact these fees or charges may not legally be added to the existing obligation of the debtor.

(d) Threatens to sell the obligation of the debtor to any person, firm or group.

(e) Uses or sets forth the name of or purports to be from any attorney at law or legal firm.

5. Except for attorneys licensed to practice law, not use any letterhead or literature bearing any heading, slogan or statement representing or implying that the licensee practices law, renders legal services or advice or maintains a legal department.

6. Not use any letterhead, advertisement, agreement, form, circular or other printed matter, or otherwise, to convey the impression that the individual, firm, partnership, association or corporation is vouched for or is an instrumentality of this state, a political subdivision of this state or the department.
