SOURCE: https://www.azleg.gov/ars/33/01381.htm
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
------------------------------------------------------------------------
33-1381
.
Retaliatory conduct prohibited

A. Except as provided in this section, a landlord may not retaliate by increasing rent or decreasing services or by bringing or threatening to bring an action for possession after any of the following:

1. The tenant has complained to a governmental agency charged with responsibility for enforcement of a building or housing code of a violation applicable to the premises materially affecting health and safety.

2. The tenant has complained to the landlord of a violation under section 33-1324.

3. The tenant has organized or become a member of a tenants' union or similar organization.

4. The tenant has complained to a governmental agency charged with the responsibility for enforcement of the wage-price stabilization act.

B. If the landlord acts in violation of subsection A of this section, the tenant is entitled to the remedies provided in section 33-1367 and has a defense in action against him for possession. In an action by or against the tenant, evidence of a complaint within six months prior to the alleged act of retaliation creates a presumption that the landlord's conduct was in retaliation. The presumption does not arise if the tenant made the complaint after notice of termination of the rental agreement. "Presumption", in this subsection, means that the trier of fact must find the existence of the fact presumed unless and until evidence is introduced which would support a finding of its nonexistence.

C. Notwithstanding subsections A and B of this section, a landlord may bring an action for possession if either of the following occurs:

1. The violation of the applicable building or housing code was caused primarily by lack of reasonable care by the tenant or other person in his household or upon the premises with his consent.

2. The tenant is in default in rent. The maintenance of the action does not release the landlord from liability under section 33-1361, subsection B.
