SOURCE: https://bellevue.municipal.codes/BCC/9.20
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: Bellevue City Code (General Code municipal.codes), text of the rendered page in Chrome
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chapter 9.20
FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES

Sections:

9.20.010
Declaration of policy.
9.20.020
Definitions.
9.20.030
Unfair housing practices prohibited – Generally.
9.20.040
Unfair housing practices designated.
9.20.041
Religious organization or private club exemption.
9.20.042
Housing for older persons – Exemption.
9.20.043
Reasonable accommodation.1.
9.20.045
Dwelling units – Refusal to rent based solely on Section 8 voucher or certificate request prohibited.
9.20.050
Enforcement procedures.
9.20.060
Violation – Penalty.
9.20.010
Declaration of policy.

Recognizing that discrimination in housing adversely and seriously affects the public health, safety and welfare, and in the belief that all persons regardless of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, familial status, marital status, veteran/military status, or Section 8 status (see BCC 9.20.045) should be assured an equal opportunity to acquire, use and possess housing facilities within the city, the ordinance codified in this chapter is enacted, and certain practices described as unfair housing practices are prohibited as an exercise of the city’s police power and in furtherance and for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 6195 § 1, 2014; Ord. 4148 § 1, 1990; Ord. 4061 § 1, 1989; Ord. 3550 § 5, 1985; Ord. 3516 § 28, 1985; Ord. 2398 § 2, 1977; 1961 code § 7.60.010.)

9.20.020
Definitions.

Definitions as used in this chapter, unless additional meaning clearly appears from the context, shall have the meanings subscribed:

A. “Commission” means the Washington State Human Rights Commission.

B. “Disability” means:

1. A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of a person’s major life activities, either temporarily or permanently;

2. A person has a record of having such an impairment;

3. A person is regarded as having such an impairment; or

4. A person has any other condition that is a disability under the Washington State Law Against Discrimination, Chapter 49.60 RCW, as it pertains to real estate and housing.

“Disability” does not include current illegal use of a controlled substance as defined in Section 102 or 21 USC Section 802 now or as hereafter amended.

C. “Dwelling” includes any building containing one or more dwelling units.

D. “Dwelling unit” includes a suite of rooms for occupancy by one family containing space for living, sleeping and preparation of food, and containing toilet and bathing facilities.

E. “Familial status” means one or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years) being domiciled with:

1. A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual or individuals; or

2. The designee of such parent or other person having such custody, with the written permission of such parent or other person.

The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.

F. “Housing accommodations” includes any dwelling, or dwelling unit, rooming unit, roominghouse, lot or parcel of land in the city which is used, intended to be used or arranged or designed to be used as, or improved with, a residential structure for one or more human beings.

G. “Lender” includes any bank, insurance company, savings or building and loan association, credit union, trust company, mortgage company or other person engaged wholly or partly in the business of lending money for the financing or acquisition, construction, repair or maintenance of a housing accommodation.

H. “Owners” include persons who own, lease, sublease, rent, operate, manage, have charge of, control or have the right of ownership, possession, management, charge or control of the housing accommodation, on their own behalf or on behalf of another.

I. “Occupant” includes any person who has established residence or has the right to occupancy in a housing accommodation.

J. “Person” includes one or more individuals, partnerships, organizations, trade or professional associations, corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy and receivers; it includes any owner, lessee, proprietor, manager, agent or employee, whether one or more natural persons, and further includes any political subdivision or agency or instrumentality of or in the city.

K. “Person aggrieved” means any person against whom any alleged unfair housing practice has been committed.

L. “Prospective borrower” includes any person who seeks to borrow money to finance the acquisition, construction, repair or maintenance of a housing accommodation.

M. “Prospective occupant” includes any person who seeks to purchase, lease, sublease or rent a housing accommodation.

N. “Real estate broker” includes any person who, for a fee, commission or other valuable consideration, lists for sale, sells, purchases, exchanges, leases or subleases, rents, or negotiates or offers or attempts to negotiate the sale, purchase, exchange, lease, sublease or rental of a housing accommodation of another, or holds himself out as engaged in the business of selling, purchasing, exchanging, listing, leasing, subleasing or renting a housing accommodation of another, or collects the rental for the use of a housing accommodation of another.

O. “Real estate agent, salesperson or employee” includes any person employed by or associated with a real estate broker to perform or assist in the performance of any or all of the functions of a real estate broker.

P. “Respondent” means any person who is alleged to have committed an unfair housing practice.

Q. “Rooming unit” includes one or more rooms within a dwelling unit or roominghouse containing space for living and sleeping.

R. “Section 8 status” means the act of possessing a Section 8 voucher or certificate issued under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, and the intent of a rental applicant to rent a dwelling unit pursuant to such voucher or certificate, subject to the provisions of BCC 9.20.045.

S. “Unfair housing practice” means any act prohibited by this chapter. (Ord. 6195 § 2, 2014; Ord. 4148 § 2, 1990; Ord. 4061 § 2, 1989; Ord. 3550 § 5, 1985; Ord. 3516 § 28, 1985; Ord. 2398 § 3, 1977; 1961 code § 7.60.020.)

9.20.030
Unfair housing practices prohibited – Generally.

Unfair housing practices, as defined in this chapter regarding housing accommodations are contrary to the public peace, health, safety and general welfare and are prohibited by the city in the exercise of its police power. (Ord. 3550 § 5, 1985; Ord. 3516 § 28, 1985; Ord. 2398 § 4, 1977; 1961 code § 7.60.030.)

9.20.040
Unfair housing practices designated.

A. No owner, lessee, sublessee, assignee, real estate broker, real estate salesperson, managing agent of a housing accommodation or other person having the right to sell, rent, lease, sublease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of a housing accommodation shall refuse to sell, rent, lease, sublease, assign, transfer or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of persons such housing accommodations, or segregate the use thereof, or represent that such housing accommodations are not available for inspection, when in fact they are so available, or expel or evict an occupant from a housing accommodation because of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, familial status, marital status, veteran/military status, or Section 8 status of such person or persons or discriminate against or segregate any person because of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, familial status, or marital status of such person, in the terms, conditions or privileges of the sale, rental, lease, sublease, assignment, transfer or other disposition of any such housing accommodations or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith.

B. A real estate broker, agent, salesperson or employee shall not, because of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, familial status, marital status, veteran/military status, or Section 8 status of an occupant, purchaser, prospective occupant or prospective purchaser:

1. Refuse, or intentionally fail to list, or discriminate in listing a housing accommodation for sale, rent, lease or sublease;

2. Refuse or intentionally fail to show to a prospective occupant the housing accommodation listed for sale, rental, lease or sublease;

3. Refuse or intentionally fail to accept and/or transmit to an owner any reasonable offer to purchase, lease, rent or sublease a housing accommodation;

4. Otherwise discriminate against an occupant, prospective occupant, purchaser or prospective purchaser of a housing accommodation.

C. No person, bank, banking organization, mortgage company, insurance company or other financial institution or lender, or any agent or employee thereof, to whom application is made for financial assistance for the purchase, lease, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of any housing accommodation shall:

1. Discriminate against any person or group of persons because of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, familial status, marital status, veteran/military status, or Section 8 status, or such person or group of persons or of the prospective occupants or tenants of such real property in the granting, withholding, extending, modifying or renewing, or in the rates, terms, conditions or privileges of, any such financial assistance or in the extension of services in connection therewith; or

2. Use any form of application for such financial assistance, or make any record of inquiry in connection with applications for such financial assistance which expresses, directly or indirectly, any limitation, specification or discrimination on the ground of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, familial status, marital status, veteran/military status, or Section 8 status.

D. An owner, person, real estate broker, agent, salesperson, employee or lender shall not:

1. Require any information, make, or keep any record, or use any form of application containing questions or entries concerning race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, familial status, marital status, veteran/military status, or Section 8 status in connection with the sale, rental, lease or sublease of any housing accommodation;

2. Publish, circulate, issue or display, or cause to be published, circulated, issued or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement or sign of any kind relating to the sale, rental, lease, sublease, assignment, transfer or listing of a housing accommodation or accommodations which indicates any preference, limitation, specification or discrimination based on race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, familial status, marital status, veteran/military status, or Section 8 status;

3. Aid, abet, compel or coerce the doing of any act defined in this chapter as an unfair housing practice; or obstruct or discriminate against a person in any manner because they have complied or proposed to comply with the provisions of this chapter or has filed a complaint, testified or assisted in any proceeding under this chapter, or any order issued thereunder, or attempt, either directly or indirectly, to commit any act defined in this chapter to be an unfair housing practice or apply any economic sanctions or deny any membership privileges because of compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

E. For purposes of discrimination based on handicap, discrimination includes:

1. A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person, reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental the landlord may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;

2. A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies, practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or

Nothing in this subsection requires that a dwelling be made available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the property of others. (Ord. 6195 § 3, 2014; Ord. 4148 § 3, 1990; Ord. 4061 § 3, 1989; Ord. 3550 § 5, 1985; Ord. 3516 § 28, 1985; Ord. 2398 § 5, 1977; 1961 code § 7.60.040.)

9.20.041
Religious organization or private club exemption.

Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members. (Ord. 4061 § 4, 1989.)

9.20.042
Housing for older persons – Exemption.

A. No provision in this chapter regarding familial status applies with respect to housing for older persons.

B. As used in this section, “housing for older persons” means housing:

1. Provided under any state or federal program that the compliance officer determines is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program); or

2. Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or older; or

3. Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years of age or older per unit. In determining whether housing qualifies as housing for older persons under this subsection, the compliance officer shall consider the following factors:

a. The existence of significant facilities and services specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons, or if the provision of such facilities and services is not practicable, that such housing is necessary to provide important housing opportunities for older persons; and

b. That at least 80 percent of the units are occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older per unit; and

c. The publication of, and adherence to, policies and procedures which demonstrate an intent by the owner or manager to provide housing for persons 55 years of age or older.

C. Housing shall not fail to meet the requirements for housing for older persons by reason of:

1. Persons residing in such housing as of the date of enactment of the ordinance codified in this chapter who do not meet the age requirements of subsections (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section; provided, that new occupants of such housing meet the age requirements of subsection B of this section; or

2. Unoccupied units; provided, that such units are reserved for occupancy by persons who meet the age requirements of subsections (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section.

D. Nothing in this chapter prohibits conduct against a person because such person has been convicted by any court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance as defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 USC 802). (Ord. 4061 § 5, 1989.)

9.20.043
Reasonable accommodation.1.

Requests for reasonable accommodation by any person claiming to have a handicap, or someone acting on their behalf, shall be processed at no cost under Part 20.30T of Title 21 (Land Use Code) of the Bellevue City Code, as now exists or is hereafter amended. (Ord. 6195 § 4, 2014.)

9.20.045
Dwelling units – Refusal to rent based solely on Section 8 voucher or certificate request prohibited.

No person shall refuse to rent a dwelling unit to any rental applicant solely on the basis that the applicant proposes to rent such unit pursuant to a Section 8 voucher or certificate issued under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 USC 1437(F)); provided this section shall only apply with respect to a Section 8 certificate if the monthly rent on such residential unit is within the limits of fair market rent as established by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. “Dwelling unit” shall have the meaning set forth in BCC 20.50.016. (Ord. 4118 § 1, 1990.)

9.20.050
Enforcement procedures.

A. A complaint alleging an unfair housing practice shall be in writing and signed by the charging party, describing the unfair housing practice complained of, and must be filed within six months of the occurrence of the alleged unfair housing practice by:

1. Any person, or the person’s attorney, when the person claims to be aggrieved by an unfair housing practice;

2. The compliance officer or city attorney, whenever the compliance officer or city attorney has reason to believe an unfair housing practice has been or is being committed;

3. A state or federal agency concerned with discrimination in housing, whenever it has reason to believe an unfair housing practice has been or is being committed.

B. Complaints shall be filed with the compliance officer, who shall be appointed by the city manager. A complaint shall not be rejected as insufficient because of failure to include all required information so long as it substantially satisfies the information requirements necessary for processing.

C. Notice of the complaint, including date, place and circumstances of the alleged unlawful practice, shall be served upon the respondent and a copy thereof shall be filed with the city attorney.

D. An investigation into the allegations contained in the complaint shall be made by the compliance officer, and the results thereof reduced to written findings of fact. A finding shall be made, based upon a preponderance of the evidence obtained in the investigation, that there is or is not reasonable cause to believe that an unfair housing practice has been or is being committed.

E. If a finding is made that there is no reasonable cause, the findings shall be furnished to the charging party and to the respondent. Within 30 days after the receipt of the finding, the charging party shall have the right to appeal such finding to the Washington State Human Rights Commission by filing a written statement of appeal with it. In the event that no appeal is taken or such appeal is unsuccessful, the complaint shall be dismissed.

F. If the finding is made initially or on appeal that reasonable cause exists to believe that an unfair housing practice has occurred, the compliance officer shall endeavor to eliminate the unfair practice by conference, conciliation and persuasion which may include as a condition of settlement the elimination of the unfair housing practice, rent refunds or credits, reinstatement to tenancy, affirmative recruiting or advertising measures or such other requirements as may lawfully be agreed upon by the parties and the compliance officer. Any settlement agreement shall be reduced to writing and signed by the respondent and the compliance officer. Copies of such agreements shall be delivered to all affected parties and the city attorney and the original thereof filed with the city clerk. If no agreement can be reached, a finding to that effect shall be made and reduced to writing, with a copy thereof furnished to the charging party, the respondent, and the city attorney.

G. In case of failure to reach agreement for the elimination of such unfair practice, and upon the entry of a finding to that effect, the complaint and any and all findings shall be certified by the compliance officer to the city attorney.

H. The city attorney may institute legal proceedings on the basis of a complaint filed under this chapter. (Ord. 4061 § 6, 1989; Ord. 3550 § 5, 1985; Ord. 3516 § 28, 1985; Ord. 2398 § 7, 1977.)

9.20.060
Violation – Penalty.

A. Civil Remedies. The violation or failure to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter is declared to be unlawful.

B. Civil Penalty. Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty not exceeding $500.00 for each day or portion thereof that the unlawful act or omission has continued.

C. Criminal Penalty. Any person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day or portion thereof upon which the unlawful act or omission occurs constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 4061 § 7, 1989; Ord. 3550 § 5, 1985; Ord. 3516 § 28, 1985; Ord. 2398 § 8, 1977; 1961 code § 7.60.060.)

Code reviser’s note: Ord. 6195 adds this section as 9.20.042. It has been editorially renumbered to avoid duplication of numbering.