SOURCE: https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/lawsstatutes/2026orLaw0108.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
------------------------------------------------------------------------
OREGON LAWS 2026
CHAPTER 108
AN ACT

Chap. 108

(1) “Agency loan” means a loan made by the
Housing and Community Services Department pursuant to a program adopted under ORS 307.221.
(2) “Assessor,” “tax collector” and “treasurer”
mean the individual filling that county office so
named or any county officer performing the functions of the office under another name.
(3) “County tax officers” and “tax officers” mean
the assessor, tax collector and treasurer of a county.
(4) “Eligible costs” means the following costs
associated with an eligible housing project:
(a) Infrastructure costs, including, but not limited to, system development charges;
(b) Predevelopment costs;
(c) Construction costs; and
(d) Land write-downs.
(5) “Eligible housing project” has the meaning
given that term in section 2 of this 2026 Act.
[means a project to construct housing, or to convert a
building from a nonresidential use to housing, that
is:]
[(a) Affordable to households with low income or
moderate income as those terms are defined in ORS
458.610;]
[(b) If for-sale property, a single-family dwelling,
middle housing as defined in ORS 197A.420 or a
multifamily dwelling that is affordable as described
in paragraph (a) of this subsection continuously from
initial sale for a period, to be established by the
Housing and Community Services Department and
the sponsoring jurisdiction, of not less than the term
of the agency loan related to the for-sale property; or]
[(c) If rental property:]
[(A)(i) Middle housing as defined in ORS
197A.420;]
[(ii) A multifamily dwelling;]
[(iii) An accessory dwelling unit as defined in
ORS 215.501; or]
[(iv) Any other form of affordable housing or
moderate income housing; and]
[(B) Rented at a monthly rate that is affordable
to households with an annual income not greater than
120 percent of the area median income, such
affordability to be maintained for a period, to be established by the department and the sponsoring jurisdiction, of not less than the term of the agency loan
related to the rental property.]
(6) “Eligible housing project property” means the
taxable real and personal property constituting the
improvements of an eligible housing project.
(7) “Fee payer” means, for any property tax year,
the person responsible for paying ad valorem property taxes on eligible housing project property to
which [a project grant awarded] project funding
under ORS 307.225 relates.
(8) “Fire district taxes” means property taxes
levied by fire districts within whose territory all or
a portion of eligible housing project property is located.
(9) “Nonexempt property” means property other
than eligible housing project property in the tax account that includes eligible housing project property.

HB 4037

Relating to housing; creating new provisions;
amending ORS 92.031, 197.320, 197A.140,
197A.400, 197A.445, 270.010, 270.030, 270.100,
307.213, 307.214, 307.216, 307.221, 307.225, 307.227,
307.229, 307.231, 307.233, 455.628 and 458.352 and
section 22, chapter 476, Oregon Laws 2025; and
prescribing an effective date.
Be It Enacted by the People of the State of Oregon:
CITY AND COUNTY HOUSING PROJECT
FUNDING PROGRAMS
SECTION 1. Section 2 of this 2026 Act is
added to and made a part of ORS 307.213 to
307.237.
SECTION 2. (1) As used in ORS 307.213 to
307.237, “eligible housing project” means a project to construct housing, or to convert a building from a nonresidential use to housing, that
is:
(a) Affordable to households with low income
or moderate income as those terms are defined
in ORS 458.610;
(b) If for-sale property, a single-family
dwelling, middle housing as defined in ORS
197A.420 or a multifamily dwelling that is affordable as described in paragraph (a) of this
subsection for a period determined in accordance with subsection (2) of this section; or
(c) If rental property:
(A)(i) Middle housing as defined in ORS
197A.420;
(ii) A multifamily dwelling;
(iii) An accessory dwelling unit as defined in
ORS 215.501; or
(iv) Any other form of affordable housing or
moderate income housing; and
(B) Rented at a monthly rate that is affordable to households with an annual income not
greater than 120 percent of the area median income, such affordability to be maintained for a
period determined in accordance with subsection
(2) of this section.
(2)(a) The affordability of eligible housing
project property shall be maintained for at least
as long as the agency loan related to the property remains outstanding.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this
subsection, the Housing and Community Services Department may establish terms and conditions by which the affordability restrictions
may be terminated upon foreclosure of the
property by a permitted mortgage lender.
SECTION 3. ORS 307.213 is amended to read:
307.213. As used in ORS 307.213 to 307.237:
1

Chap. 108

OREGON LAWS 2026

(10) “Nonexempt taxes” means the ad valorem
property taxes assessed on nonexempt property.
(11) “Project funding” means a project grant or
a project loan.
(12) “Project funding agreement” means an
agreement entered into between a sponsoring jurisdiction and a developer under ORS 307.225 for a
project grant or a project loan.
(13) “Project grant” means a grant awarded by
a sponsoring jurisdiction under a project funding
program adopted pursuant to ORS 307.214.
(14) “Project loan” means a loan made by a
sponsoring jurisdiction under a project funding program adopted pursuant to ORS 307.214.
(15) “Sponsoring jurisdiction” means:
(a)(A) A city with respect to eligible housing
projects located within the city boundaries; or
(B) A county with respect to eligible housing
projects located in urban unincorporated areas of
the county; or
(b) The governing body of a city or county described in paragraph (a) of this subsection.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(C)(i) of
this subsection, if the sponsoring jurisdiction
has pledged in repayment of the agency loan its
full faith and credit and taxing authority and an
alternative source of revenue acceptable to the
department under ORS 307.223, the department
may establish terms and conditions by which
the affordable housing covenant may be made
subordinate to a primary deed of trust, mortgage or other security instrument securing financing for the eligible housing project
property.
(4)(a) Eligible housing project property [for
which a developer receives a project grant for eligible
costs] that is granted exemption under ORS
307.227 may not be granted any other exemption,
partial exemption or special assessment of ad
valorem property taxes [other than the exemption
granted under ORS 307.227].
(b) [A sponsoring jurisdiction may not award a
project grant to a developer under ORS 307.216 for
an] Eligible housing project property that is located
in an urban renewal area may not be granted exemption under ORS 307.227.
(5) A sponsoring jurisdiction may amend an ordinance or resolution adopted pursuant to this section at any time. The amendments shall apply only
to applications submitted under ORS 307.216 on or
after the effective date of the ordinance or resolution.

SECTION 4. ORS 307.214 is amended to read:
307.214. (1)(a) A sponsoring jurisdiction may
adopt by ordinance or resolution a project funding
program under which the sponsoring jurisdiction
awards project grants and makes project loans to
developers for eligible costs.
(b) Before adopting the project funding program,
the sponsoring jurisdiction shall consult with the
governing body of any city or county with territory
inside the boundaries of the sponsoring jurisdiction.
(2) The ordinance or resolution shall set forth:
(a) The kinds of eligible housing projects for
which a developer may seek project funding under
the program; and
(b) Any eligibility requirements to be imposed on
projects and developers in addition to those required
under ORS 307.213 to 307.237.
(3)(a) A project grant and a project loan:
[(a)] (A) [Shall be in] May not exceed the
amount determined under ORS 307.216 (3); [and]
[(b)] (B) May include reimbursement for eligible
costs incurred for up to 12 months preceding the
date on which the eligible housing project received
local site approval[.];
(C) Shall be secured by an affordable housing
covenant, as defined in ORS 456.270, that:
(i) Is recorded in first position in the real
property records of the county in which the eligible housing project is located; and
(ii) Requires the project to remain affordable
in accordance with section 2 of this 2026 Act;
and
(D) May be transferred and assumed, in
whole or in part, on terms and conditions established by the Housing and Community Services Department or the sponsoring jurisdiction,
by any subsequent purchaser of the eligible
housing project property or a portion of the
property.

SECTION 5. ORS 307.216 is amended to read:
307.216. (1)(a) A sponsoring jurisdiction that
adopts a project funding program pursuant to ORS
307.214 shall prescribe an application process, including forms and deadlines, by which a developer
may apply for project funding with respect to an eligible housing project.
(b) An application for project funding must include, at a minimum:
(A) A description of the eligible housing project;
(B) A detailed explanation of the affordability of
the eligible housing project;
(C) An itemized description of the eligible costs
for which the project funding is sought;
(D) The proposed schedule for completion of the
eligible housing project;
(E) A project pro forma demonstrating that the
project would not be economically feasible but for
receipt of the project funding moneys; and
(F) Any other information, documentation or
attestation that the sponsoring jurisdiction considers
necessary or convenient for the application review
process.
(c)(A) The project pro forma under paragraph
(b)(E) of this subsection shall be on a form provided
to the sponsoring jurisdiction by the Housing and
Community Services Department and made available
to [grant] project funding applicants.
(B) The department may enter into an agreement
with a third party to develop the project pro forma
template.
2

OREGON LAWS 2026
(2)(a) The review of an application under this
section shall be completed within 90 days following
the receipt of the application by the sponsoring jurisdiction.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this subsection:
(A) The sponsoring jurisdiction may in its sole
discretion extend the review process beyond 90 days
if the volume of applications would make timely
completion of the review process unlikely.
(B) The sponsoring jurisdiction may consult with
a developer about the developer’s application, and
the developer, after the consultation, may amend the
application on or before a deadline set by the sponsoring jurisdiction.
(3) The sponsoring jurisdiction shall:
(a) Review each application;
(b) Provide the tax officers of the county in
which the eligible housing project property is located with the estimated real market value and tax
lot information of the property;
(c) Request that the county tax officers provide
to the sponsoring jurisdiction the increment determined under ORS 307.218;
(d) Set the term of the agency loan that will fund
the project funding award for a period not to exceed
the greater of:
(A) Ten years following July 1 of the first property tax year for which the completed eligible housing project property is estimated to be taken into
account; or
(B) If agreed upon by the sponsoring jurisdiction
and the department, the period required for the
agency loan principal, and fees, if any, to be repaid
in full;
(e) Set the amount of the project funding that
may be awarded to the developer under ORS 307.225
(2) by multiplying the increment determined under
ORS 307.218 by the term of the agency loan; and
(f)(A) Provisionally approve the application as
submitted;
(B) Provisionally approve the application on
terms other than those requested in the application;
or
(C) Reject the application.
(4)(a) The sponsoring jurisdiction shall forward
provisionally approved applications to the [Housing
and Community Services] department.
(b) The department shall review the provisionally
approved applications for completeness, including,
but not limited to, the completeness of the project
pro forma submitted with the application under subsection (1)(b)(E) of this section and the increment
computed under ORS 307.218, and notify the sponsoring jurisdiction of its determination.
(5)(a) If the department has determined that a
provisionally approved application is incomplete, the
sponsoring jurisdiction may:
(A) Consult with the applicant developer and reconsider the provisionally approved application after
the applicant revises it; or
(B) Reject the provisionally approved application.

Chap. 108

(b) If the department has determined that a provisionally approved application is complete, the approval shall be final.
(c) The sponsoring jurisdiction shall notify each
applicant and the department of the final approval
or rejection of an application and the amount of the
project funding award.
(d) The rejection of an application and the
amount of a project grant award or project loan
may not be appealed, but a developer may reapply
for project funding at any time within the applicable
deadlines of the project funding program for the
same or another eligible housing project.
(6) Upon request by a sponsoring jurisdiction,
the department may assist the sponsoring jurisdiction with, or perform on behalf of the sponsoring
jurisdiction, any duty required under this section.
SECTION 6. ORS 307.221 is amended to read:
307.221. (1)(a) The Housing and Community Services Department shall develop a program to make
agency loans to sponsoring jurisdictions to fund
project grants and project loans awarded under the
sponsoring jurisdiction’s project funding program
adopted pursuant to ORS 307.214.
(b) The agency loans shall be interest free for
the term set by the sponsoring jurisdiction under
ORS 307.216.
(2) For each application approved under ORS
307.216 (5)(b), the Housing and Community Services
Department shall:
(a) Enter into an agency loan agreement with
the sponsoring jurisdiction for a payment in an
amount equal to the total of:
(A) The agency loan proceeds in an amount
equal to the project funding award for the application set under ORS 307.216 (3); and
(B) The administrative costs set forth in subsection (3) of this section; and
(b) Pay to the sponsoring jurisdiction the total
amount set forth in paragraph (a) of this subsection
out of the Housing Project Revolving Loan Fund established under ORS 307.237.
(3) The administrative costs referred to in subsection (2)(a)(B) of this section are:
(a) An amount not greater than five percent of
the agency loan proceeds to reimburse the sponsoring jurisdiction for the costs of administering the
project funding program, other than the costs of tax
administration; and
(b) An amount equal to one percent of the
agency loan proceeds to be transferred to the county
in which the sponsoring jurisdiction is situated to
reimburse the county for the costs of the tax administration of the project funding program by the
county tax officers.
(4) The Housing and Community Services Department may:
(a) In order to maximize repayment and
compliance with affordability requirements:
(A) Compromise, adjust or modify agency
loans; and
3

Chap. 108

OREGON LAWS 2026

(B) Adjust, modify, subordinate or release
the terms of contracts, agreements or restrictions entered into in connection with
agency loans.
(b) Assign any and all agency loan amounts
made under this section to the Department of Revenue for collection as provided in ORS 293.250.
(5) The Housing and Community Services Department may:
(a) Consult with the Oregon Business Development Department about any of the powers and duties
conferred on the Housing and Community Services
Department by ORS 307.213 to 307.237; and
(b) Adopt any rule it considers necessary or
convenient for the administration of ORS 307.213 to
307.237 by the Housing and Community Services
Department.

(A) A description of the eligible housing
project;
(B) A statement indicating whether the eligible housing project property is exempt from
property taxation under ORS 307.227;
(C) An itemized description of the eligible
costs;
(D) The amount and terms of the grant
project award or project loan principal; and
(E) A statement declaring that the project
funding has been awarded in response to the
housing needs of communities within the sponsoring jurisdiction.
(b) A sponsoring jurisdiction is not required
to adopt an ordinance or resolution under paragraph (a) of this subsection if:
(A) The ordinance or resolution adopted under ORS 307.214 delegates authority to review
developer applications under ORS 307.216 to a
designated authority;
(B) The sponsoring jurisdiction has agreed
to repay the agency loan in accordance with
ORS 307.223; and
(C) The eligible housing project property will
not be exempt from property taxation under
ORS 307.227.
(4) Unless otherwise specified in the project
funding agreement, as soon as practicable after the
ordinance or resolution required under subsection
(3) of this section becomes effective, the sponsoring
jurisdiction shall distribute the agency loan proceeds
received from the department under ORS 307.221
(2)(a)(A) to the developer as the project grant moneys or project loan principal awarded under this
section.
(5) The sponsoring jurisdiction shall forward to
the tax officers of the county in which the eligible
housing project is located a copy of the project
funding agreement, the ordinance or resolution and
any other material the sponsoring jurisdiction considers necessary for the tax officers to perform their
duties under ORS 307.213 to 307.237 or the ordinance
or resolution.
(6)(a)(A) Upon request, the department may assist [the] a sponsoring jurisdiction with, or perform
on behalf of the sponsoring jurisdiction, any duty
required under this section.
(B) Upon request, any city or county may
assist a sponsoring jurisdiction with, or perform
on behalf of the sponsoring jurisdiction, any
duty required under this section or ORS 307.216.
(b) The department may take any action
with respect to a city or county assisting a
sponsoring jurisdiction under this subsection
that it may take with respect to the sponsoring
jurisdiction itself.

SECTION 7. ORS 307.225 is amended to read:
307.225. (1) Upon entering into an agency loan
agreement with the Housing and Community Services Department under ORS 307.221, a sponsoring
jurisdiction shall offer a project funding agreement
to each developer whose application for project
funding was approved under ORS 307.216 (5)(b).
(2) The project funding agreement shall:
(a) Include a project grant award or project loan
in the amount set under ORS 307.216 (3); and
(b) Contain terms that:
(A) Are required under ORS 307.213 to 307.237
or the ordinance or resolution adopted by the sponsoring jurisdiction pursuant to ORS 307.214.
(B) Do not conflict with ORS 307.213 to 307.237
or the ordinance or resolution adopted by the sponsoring jurisdiction pursuant to ORS 307.214.
[(3) Upon entering into a project funding agreement with a developer, a sponsoring jurisdiction shall
adopt an ordinance or resolution setting forth the details of the eligible housing project that is the subject
of the project funding agreement, including but not
limited to:]
[(a) With respect to a project grant or a project
loan:]
[(A) A description of the eligible housing
project;]
[(B) An itemized description of the eligible costs;]
[(C) The amount and terms of the grant project
award or project loan principal; and]
[(D) A statement declaring that the project funding has been awarded in response to the housing
needs of communities within the sponsoring jurisdiction; and]
[(b) With respect to a project grant, written notice
that the eligible housing project property is exempt
from property taxation in accordance with ORS
307.227.]
(3)(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of
this subsection, upon entering into a project
funding agreement with a developer, a sponsoring jurisdiction shall adopt an ordinance or resolution setting forth the details of the eligible
housing project that is the subject of the project
funding agreement, including but not limited to:

SECTION 8. ORS 307.227 is amended to read:
307.227. (1) Upon receipt of the copy of a project
[grant] funding agreement and ordinance or resolution from the sponsoring jurisdiction under ORS
307.225 (5) that grants exemption under this section to eligible housing project property, the as4

OREGON LAWS 2026
sessor of the county in which eligible housing
project property is located shall:
(a) Exempt the eligible housing project property
in accordance with this section;
(b) Assess and tax the nonexempt property in the
tax account as other similar property is assessed and
taxed; and
(c) Submit a written report to the sponsoring jurisdiction setting forth the assessor’s estimate of the
amount of:
(A) The real market value of the exempt eligible
housing project property; and
(B) The property taxes on the exempt eligible
housing project property that would have been collected if the property were not exempt.
(2)(a) The exemption shall first apply to the first
property tax year that begins after completion of the
eligible housing project to which the [grant] project
funding relates.
(b) The eligible housing project property shall be
disqualified from the exemption on the earliest of:
(A) July 1 of the property tax year immediately
succeeding the date on which the fee payment obligation under ORS 307.231 that relates to the eligible
housing project, if any, is repaid in full;
(B) The date on which the annual fee imposed
on the fee payer under ORS 307.231, if any, becomes
delinquent;
(C) The date on which foreclosure proceedings
are commenced as provided by law for delinquent
nonexempt taxes assessed with respect to the tax
account that includes the eligible housing project;
or
(D) The date on which a condition specified in
ORS 307.233 (1) occurs.
(c) After the eligible housing project property
has been disqualified from the exemption under this
subsection, the property shall be assessed and taxed
as other similar property is assessed and taxed.
(3) For each tax year that the eligible housing
project property is exempt from taxation, the assessor shall enter a notation on the assessment roll
stating:
(a) That the property is exempt under this section; and
(b) The presumptive number of property tax
years for which the exemption is granted, which
shall be the term of the agency loan agreement relating to the eligible housing project set under ORS
307.216.

Chap. 108

shall begin with the property tax year that begins
on July 1 of the assessment year.
(B) If an eligible housing project is completed on
or after July 1 of the assessment year, repayment
shall begin with the property tax year that begins
on July 1 of the succeeding assessment year.
(c) After determining the date of completion under paragraph (a) of this subsection, the sponsoring
jurisdiction shall notify the Housing and Community
Services Department and the county tax officers of
the determination.
(3)(a) [A] An agency loan shall remain outstanding until repaid in full.
(b) An agency loan may be repaid at any
time.
(4) Upon payment in full of an agency loan,
the sponsoring jurisdiction may release or modify any affordability restrictions applicable to
the eligible housing project property to which
the agency loan relates.
SECTION 10. ORS 307.231 is amended to read:
307.231. (1) Unless repayment of the agency loan
made under ORS 307.221 has been otherwise provided for under ORS 307.223, the fee payer for eligible housing project property that has been granted
exemption under ORS 307.227 shall pay an annual
fee for the term that shall be the presumptive number of property tax years for which the property is
granted exemption under ORS 307.227 (3)(b).
(2)(a) The amount of the fee for the first property
tax year in which repayment of the agency loan is
due under ORS 307.229 (1) shall equal the total of:
(A) The portion of the increment determined under ORS 307.218 that is attributable to the eligible
housing project property to which the fee relates;
and
(B) The administrative costs described in ORS
307.221 (3) divided by the term in years of the project [grant] funding agreement entered into under
ORS 307.225.
(b) For each subsequent property tax year, the
amount of the fee shall be 103 percent of the amount
of the fee for the preceding property tax year.
(3)(a) Not later than July 15 of each property tax
year during the term of the fee obligation, the sponsoring jurisdiction shall certify to the assessor each
fee amount that became due under this section on
or after July 16 of the previous property tax year
from fee payers with respect to eligible housing
projects located in the sponsoring jurisdiction.
(b) The assessor shall place each fee amount on
the assessment and tax rolls of the county and notify:
(A) The sponsoring jurisdiction of each fee
amount and the aggregate of all fee amounts imposed with respect to eligible housing project property located in the sponsoring jurisdiction.
(B) The Housing and Community Services Department of each fee amount and the aggregate of
all fee amounts with respect to all eligible housing
project property located in the county.

SECTION 9. ORS 307.229 is amended to read:
307.229. (1) Repayment of agency loans made under ORS 307.221 shall begin, in accordance with
ORS 307.231, after completion of the eligible housing
project funded by the project grant or project loan
to which the agency loan relates, or after another
date or other circumstances agreed to by the parties
to a project funding agreement under ORS 307.223.
(2)(a) The sponsoring jurisdiction shall determine
the date of completion of an eligible housing project.
(b)(A) If an eligible housing project is completed
before July 1 of the assessment year, repayment
5

Chap. 108

OREGON LAWS 2026
(b) The sponsoring jurisdiction may, in its sole
discretion, extend the date on which the eligible
housing project must be completed.
[(2) If the sponsoring jurisdiction discovers that
a developer willfully made a false statement or misrepresentation or willfully failed to report a material
fact to obtain a project grant with respect to an eligible housing project, the sponsoring jurisdiction may
impose on the developer a penalty not to exceed 20
percent of the amount of the project grant so obtained,
plus any applicable interest and fees associated with
the costs of collection.]
(2) A sponsoring jurisdiction may impose on
a developer, homeowner or other project representative a penalty not to exceed 20 percent of
the amount of the project funding obtained with
respect to an eligible housing project, plus any
applicable interest and fees associated with the
costs of collection, upon discovery that the developer, homeowner or other project representative willfully made a false statement or
misrepresentation or willfully failed to report a
material fact:
(a) To obtain the project funding; or
(b) Relating to the compliance requirements
associated with the eligible housing project.
(3) Any amounts imposed under subsection (1) or
(2) of this section shall be a lien on the eligible
housing project property and the nonexempt property in the tax account.
(4) The sponsoring jurisdiction shall provide
written notice of any amounts that become due under subsections (1) and (2) of this section to the
county tax officers and the Housing and Community
Services Department.
(5)(a) Any and all amounts required to be paid
under this section shall be considered to be liquidated and delinquent, and the Housing and Community Services Department shall assign such amounts
to the Department of Revenue for collection as provided in ORS 293.250.
(b) Amounts collected under this subsection shall
be deposited, net of any collection charges, in the
Housing Project Revolving Loan Fund established
under ORS 307.237.

(4)(a) The assessor shall include on the tax
statement of each tax account that includes exempt
eligible housing project property the amount of the
fee imposed on the fee payer with respect to the eligible housing project property.
(b) The fee shall be collected and enforced in the
same manner as ad valorem property taxes, including nonexempt taxes, are collected and enforced.
(5)(a) For each property tax year in which a fee
is payable under this section, the treasurer shall:
(A) Estimate the amount of operating taxes as
defined in ORS 310.055 and local option taxes as defined in ORS 310.202 levied by fire districts that
would have been collected on eligible housing project property if the property were not exempt;
(B) Distribute out of the fee moneys the estimated amounts determined under subparagraph (A)
of this paragraph to the respective fire districts
when other ad valorem property taxes are distributed under ORS 311.395; and
(C) Transfer the net fee moneys to the [Housing
and Community Services] department for deposit in
the Housing Project Revolving Loan Fund established under ORS 307.237 in repayment of the loans
to which the fees relate.
(b) Nonexempt taxes shall be distributed in the
same manner as other ad valorem property taxes are
distributed.
(6) Any person with an interest in the eligible
housing project property on the date on which any
fee amount becomes due shall be jointly and severally liable for payment of the fee amount.
(7) Any agency loan amounts that have not been
repaid when the fee payer has discharged its obligations in full under this section remain the obligation of the sponsoring jurisdiction that obtained
the agency loan from the department under ORS
307.221.
(8) Any fee amounts collected in excess of the
agency loan amount shall be distributed in the same
manner as other ad valorem property taxes are distributed.
SECTION 11. ORS 307.233 is amended to read:
307.233. (1)(a) A developer that received a project
[grant] funding award under ORS 307.225 shall become liable for immediate payment of outstanding
annual fee payments, if any, imposed under ORS
307.231 for the entire term of the fee if:
(A) The developer has not completed the eligible
housing project within three years following the
date on which the project [grant] funding moneys
were distributed to the developer;
(B) The eligible housing project changes substantially from the project for which the developer’s
application was approved such that the project
would not have been eligible for the project [grant]
funding; or
(C) The developer has not complied with a requirement specified in the project [grant] funding
agreement or with associated affordability requirements and restrictions.

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
SECTION 12. ORS 458.352 is amended to read:
458.352. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Average income” means an income that
complies with income restrictions determined at the
advice and consent of the Oregon Housing Stability
Council, but not to exceed the greater of 100 percent
of the statewide or local area median income adjusted for household size as determined annually by
the Housing and Community Services Department
using United States Department of Housing and Urban Development information.
(b) “Manufactured dwelling park” has the meaning given that term in ORS 446.003.
6

OREGON LAWS 2026
(c) “Nonprofit corporation” means a corporation
that is exempt from income taxes under section
501(c)(3) or (4) of the Internal Revenue Code as
amended and in effect on December 31, 2016.
(2) The Housing and Community Services Department shall provide one or more loans to nonprofit corporations to create manufactured dwelling
park preservation and development programs that
invest in, and provide loans for, the preservation,
development and expansion of affordable manufactured dwelling parks in this state, including through:
(a) The repair or reconstruction of parks destroyed by natural disasters; or
(b) The acquisition and development of land for
parks or for the expansion of parks in areas that
have been affected by a natural disaster.
(3) To be eligible for a loan under this section,
a nonprofit corporation shall demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the department that the nonprofit
corporation:
(a) Is a community development financial institution, or was certified on October 1, 2025, as a
community development financial institution by
the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund at the United States Department
of the Treasury;
(b) Is operating statewide to support investment
in, and acquisition, renovation and construction of,
affordable housing;
[(b)] (c) Has the ability and capacity to provide
the services and reporting required of the program
described in subsections (4) and (6) of this section;
and
[(c)] (d) Meets other requirements established by
the department regarding financial risk and availability or accessibility of additional resources.
(4) An eligible nonprofit corporation, with input
from the department, shall develop a manufactured
dwelling park development and preservation program
that:
(a) Invests in, and loans funds to, other nonprofit
corporations, housing authorities, manufactured
dwelling park nonprofit cooperatives as defined in
ORS 62.803, local units of government as defined in
ORS 466.706, agencies as defined in ORS 183.310, or
any entity in which a nonprofit corporation has a
controlling share, to:
(A) Purchase or refinance manufactured dwelling
parks that will maintain the parks as parks long
term; or
(B) Construct, develop, expand, repair or reconstruct parks, including parks destroyed by natural
disasters;
(b) Emphasizes, when providing loans under paragraph (a) of this subsection, the financing of parks
whose residents are predominantly members of
households with income less than average income;
and
(c) Preserves the affordability of the park space
rent to park tenants who are members of households
with income less than average income.
(5) An eligible nonprofit corporation shall create
a park development and preservation account to be

Chap. 108

used by the nonprofit corporation for the manufactured dwelling park preservation program and shall
deposit the moneys loaned by the department into
the account.
(6) An eligible nonprofit corporation shall ensure
that all financial activities of the program are paid
from and into the park development and preservation account created under subsection (5) of this
section. Each nonprofit corporation shall report to
the department no less than semiannually, showing
the expenses and incomes of the park development
and preservation account and the results of the
manufactured dwelling park development and preservation program.
(7) A loan made by the department under this
section:
(a) May require the nonprofit corporation to pay
interest.
(b) May not require the nonprofit corporation to
make any loan payments before the maturity date of
the loan.
(c) Must have a maturity date of no later than
September 15, 2036.
(d) May have its maturity date extended by the
department.
(e) Shall have all or part of the unpaid balance
forgiven by the department in an amount not to exceed the losses incurred on investments or loans
made by the nonprofit corporation under subsection
(4)(a) of this section.
(f) May include such agreements by the nonprofit
corporation practical to secure the loan made by the
department and to accomplish the purposes of the
program described in subsection (4) of this section.
(8) The department or the State Treasurer shall
deposit moneys received in servicing the loan into
the General Housing Account of the Oregon Housing Fund created under ORS 458.620.
SECTION 13. The Housing and Community
Services Department, Oregon Department of
Administrative Services or Department of Justice shall amend the grant agreement with Network for Oregon Affordable Housing (NOAH)
made under section 51, chapter 13, Oregon Laws
2023, to allow the grant and proceeds from the
grant to be used for financing:
(1) Housing projects that will:
(a) Have an affordability term of no less
than five years, notwithstanding section 51
(2)(a), chapter 13, Oregon Laws 2023.
(b) Be sold or rented as the primary residence for a household with an income less than
or equal to 120 percent and greater than 60 percent of the area median income, as defined in
ORS 456.270, notwithstanding section 51 (2)(b),
chapter 13, Oregon Laws 2023.
(2) Not to exceed $1,000,000 per eligible project, notwithstanding section 51 (3)(a), chapter
13, Oregon Laws 2023.
NOTE: Section 14 was deleted by amendment.
Subsequent sections were not renumbered.
7

Chap. 108

OREGON LAWS 2026
changes to the comprehensive plan or land use regulations to comply with the regional framework plan
of the district or has engaged in a pattern or practice of decision-making that violates a requirement
of the regional framework plan.
(13) A city [with a population of 10,000 or greater,
as defined in ORS 197A.015,] that:
(a) Has a pattern or practice of violating
housing-related statutes or implementing policies
that create unreasonable cost or delay to the production of housing [as described in ORS 197A.400
(1)];
(b) Has a pattern or practice of creating adverse
disparate impacts to state or federal protected
classes or inhibiting equitable access to housing
choice[, as described in ORS 197A.100 (2)(b) to (d)];
(c) Has failed to enter into a housing acceleration agreement as required under ORS 197A.130 (6);
or
(d) Has materially breached a term of a housing
acceleration agreement under ORS 197A.130 (8), including a failure to meet the timeline for performance under ORS 197A.130 (8)(a)(A).

LAND CONSERVATION AND
DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
ORDERS
SECTION 15. ORS 197.320 is amended to read:
197.320. The Land Conservation and Development Commission shall issue an order requiring a
local government, state agency or special district to
take action necessary to bring its comprehensive
plan, land use regulation, limited land use decisions
or other land use decisions or actions into compliance with the goals, acknowledged comprehensive
plan provisions, land use regulations, housing production strategy or housing acceleration agreements
if the commission has good cause to believe:
(1) A comprehensive plan or land use regulation
adopted by a local government not on a compliance
schedule is not in compliance with the goals by the
date set in ORS 197.245 or 197.250 for such compliance.
(2) A plan, program, rule or regulation affecting
land use adopted by a state agency or special district
is not in compliance with the goals by the date set
in ORS 197.245 or 197.250 for such compliance.
(3) A local government is not making satisfactory progress toward performance of its compliance
schedule.
(4) A state agency is not making satisfactory
progress in carrying out its coordination agreement
or the requirements of ORS 197.180.
(5) A local government has no comprehensive
plan or land use regulation and is not on a compliance schedule directed to developing the plan or
regulation.
(6) A local government has engaged in a pattern
or practice of decision-making that violates an acknowledged comprehensive plan or land use regulation. In making its determination under this
subsection, the commission shall determine whether
there is evidence in the record to support the decisions made. The commission shall not judge the issue solely upon adequacy of the findings in support
of the decisions.
(7) A local government has failed to comply with
a commission order entered under ORS 197.644.
(8) A special district has engaged in a pattern or
practice of decision-making that violates an acknowledged comprehensive plan or cooperative
agreement adopted pursuant to ORS 197.020.
(9) A special district is not making satisfactory
progress toward performance of its obligations under
ORS chapters 195, 197 and 197A.
(10) A local government’s approval standards,
special conditions on approval of specific development proposals or procedures for approval do not
comply with ORS 197A.400 [(1) or (3)].
(11) A local government is not making satisfactory progress toward meeting its obligations under
ORS 195.065.
(12) A local government within the jurisdiction
of a metropolitan service district has failed to make

BUILDING PLAN REVIEW
SECTION 16. ORS 455.628 is amended to read:
455.628. (1) The Department of Consumer and
Business Services or a municipality administering
and enforcing a building inspection program under
ORS 455.148 or 455.150 may not require a plan review for one and two family dwellings [that are of
conventional light frame construction, as defined by
the department by rule], if:
(a) The plans for the dwelling are designed and
stamped by a professional engineer registered under
ORS 672.002 to 672.325 or an architect registered
under ORS 671.010 to 671.220; and
(b) The engineer or architect is certified by the
Director of the Department of Consumer and Business Services under ORS 455.720 as being qualified
to examine one and two family dwelling plans.
(2) The department or municipality is exempt
from liability for any damages arising from the nonperformance of a plan review pursuant to this section.
REVIEW OF HOUSING APPLICATIONS
SECTION 17. ORS 197A.400 is amended to read:
197A.400. (1)(a) Except as provided in subsection
(3) of this section, a local government may adopt and
apply only clear and objective standards, conditions
and procedures regulating:
(A) The development of housing; and
(B) Tree removal [codes] related to the development of housing.
(b) The standards, conditions and procedures:
(A) May include, but are not limited to, one or
more provisions regulating the density or height of
a development.
8

OREGON LAWS 2026
(B) May not have the effect, either in themselves
or cumulatively, of discouraging needed housing
through unreasonable cost or delay.
(C) May be contained in a comprehensive plan,
land use regulation or an ordinance relating to
housing adopted by a city that adopts, including by
reference, a model ordinance adopted by the Land
Conservation and Development Commission that
comports with any qualifications, conditions or applicability of the model ordinance.
(c) This subsection applies only within:
(A) An urban growth boundary;
(B) An unincorporated community designated in
a county’s acknowledged comprehensive plan after
December 5, 1994;
(C) Nonresource land; or
(D) An area zoned for rural residential use as
defined in ORS 215.501.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) of this section do not apply to:
(a) An application or permit for residential development in an area identified in a formally adopted
central city plan, or a regional center as defined by
Metro, in a city with a population of 500,000 or
greater.
(b) An application or permit for residential development in historic areas designated for protection
under a land use planning goal protecting historic
areas.
(3) In addition to an approval process for needed
housing based on clear and objective standards,
conditions and procedures as provided in subsection
(1) of this section, a local government may adopt and
apply an alternative approval process for applications and permits for residential development based
on approval criteria that are not clear and objective
if:
(a) The applicant retains the option of proceeding under the approval process that meets the requirements of subsection (1) of this section;
(b) The approval criteria for the alternative approval process comply with applicable statewide land
use planning goals and rules; and
(c) The approval criteria for the alternative approval process authorize a density at or above the
density level authorized in the zone under the approval process provided in subsection (1) of this section.
(4) Subject to [subsection (1)] subsections (1)
and (5) of this section, this section does not infringe
on a local government’s prerogative to:
(a) Set approval standards under which a particular housing type is permitted outright;
(b) Impose special conditions upon approval of a
specific development proposal; or
(c) Establish approval procedures.
(5) For applications subject to subsection (1)
of this section, the local government:
(a) May provide notice of the application
only to owners of record of property on the
most recent property tax assessment roll where

Chap. 108

such property is located within 100 feet, or
within 500 feet for developments of 20 units or
more, of the property that is the subject of the
notice;
(b) May not require a public hearing prior to
making a decision on the application; and
(c) May provide an opportunity for a local
appeal only to the applicant.
(6) Notwithstanding ORS 197.825, only the
applicant may appeal a decision made under
subsection (5) of this section to the Land Use
Board of Appeals.
SECTION 18. The amendments to ORS
197A.400 by section 17 of this 2026 Act become
operative on July 1, 2026.
NOTE: Section 19 was deleted by amendment.
Subsequent sections were not renumbered.
RESIDENTIAL TENANCIES
IMPACTED BY DISASTERS
SECTION 20. Section 21 of this 2026 Act is
added to and made a part of ORS 90.100 to
90.465.
SECTION 21. If a tenancy is affected by a
natural disaster, as defined in ORS 197A.440,
unless the parties agree otherwise following the
natural disaster:
(1) For a dwelling unit that is destroyed, the
tenancy is immediately terminated and the parties are not further obligated under the rental
agreement or this chapter, except that:
(a) The landlord shall, pursuant to ORS
90.300, return to the tenant any deposit and
prepaid rent, including prorated rent from the
date of the natural disaster.
(b) Unless a tenant is responsible for the
natural disaster, the tenant is not responsible
for cleanup of the premises.
(c) After the abatement of the emergency,
the landlord shall notify the tenant and provide
the tenant an opportunity to return to the
premises to search for valuables. The landlord
may require the tenant to sign a release of liability related to the tenant’s presence at the
premises.
(2) If an occupant or tenant remains in the
dwelling unit following termination of the
tenancy under subsection (1) of this section, the
landlord may issue a termination notice in the
manner provided by ORS 90.380 (5)(b).
(3) A tenant does not owe rent while the
dwelling unit is inaccessible due to the natural
disaster or the destruction of the dwelling unit.
A dwelling unit is considered inaccessible while
a governmental agency has posted the dwelling
unit as unsafe or unlawful to occupy.
(4) This section does not apply to rental
agreements subject to ORS 90.505 to 90.850.
9

Chap. 108

OREGON LAWS 2026

USE OF STATE PROPERTY FOR HOUSING

[(ii)] (B) Political subdivisions, as defined in ORS
271.005.
(C) Nonprofit organizations or housing authorities as defined in ORS 456.005.
(D) Any person.
(d) The adjacent property owner, where the
intended activity or use is similar to that of adjacent properties within the region.
(e) Political subdivisions, as defined in ORS
271.005.
[(B) The state agency responsible for selling or
transferring the property or the equitable interest may
require at the time of] Upon the sale or transfer, the
department may require that a political subdivision [must]:
(A) Use [state real property or an equitable interest in real property sold or transferred to the political
subdivision] the real property for a public purpose
or benefit[, and that the political subdivision].
(B) May not resell the real property or the equitable interest to a private purchaser.
(f) The entities listed under paragraph (c) of
this subsection, in order of priority, on the condition that the entities will develop housing on
the real property without regard to the
affordability of the housing.
[(c)] (3) If a state agency that intends to sell or
transfer real property or an equitable interest in real
property has not disposed of the real property or the
equitable interest under [paragraph (a) or (b) of
this] subsection (2)(a) or (b) of this section, the
state agency shall cause the real property to be appraised by one or more competent and experienced
appraisers in accordance with rules the department
adopts. Except as provided in ORS 273.825, if the
property has an appraised value exceeding $5,000,
the property or an equitable interest in the property
may not be sold to any private person except after
notice calling for such proposals as set forth in ORS
270.130.
[(d)] (4) The department shall adopt rules to
carry out the provisions of this section.
[(2)] (5) Before a state agency acquires any real
property or interest in real property, except for
highway right of way that the Department of Transportation acquires, park properties that the State
Parks and Recreation Department acquires and
property within the approved projected campus
boundaries for public universities listed in ORS
352.002, the state agency shall report to the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services that the state
agency intends to acquire the real property or the
interest in real property. The department shall notify
other state agencies that own land that the state
agency intends to acquire real property or an interest in real property to determine whether another
state agency desires to sell or transfer property that
would meet the needs of the acquiring agency. In
accordance with rules the Oregon Department of
Administrative Services adopts, if no other state
agency desires to sell or transfer property that
would meet the needs of the agency that intends to
acquire real property or an interest in real property,

SECTION 22. ORS 270.010 is amended to read:
270.010. [(1) It shall be] It is the policy of the
State of Oregon to hold in state ownership no more
state-owned real property than is necessary to conduct official business, with allowance for reasonably
foreseeable demands of the future. The acquisition,
sale, exchange, lease, retention and management of
state-owned real property shall be subject to a
statewide plan that will encourage the transfer
through sale or lease of state-owned real property
already in state ownership to private ownership and
use so as to minimize state investment in such land
and place such land on the tax rolls.
[(2) In transferring state-owned real property
through sale or lease, to the extent consistent with
applicable trust responsibilities, the state policy shall
be to give right of first refusal to purchase in the following order:]
[(a) To the lessee of the land.]
[(b) Where the intended activity or use is similar
to that of adjacent properties within the region:]
[(A) To adjacent landowners.]
[(B) To residents within the region.]
[(C) To persons outside the region.]
SECTION 23. ORS 270.100 is amended to read:
270.100. (1)[(a)] Before offering for sale any real
property or equitable interest in real property that
the state owns, the state agency acting for the state
in the sales transaction shall report to the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services that the state
agency intends to sell or transfer the real property
or the equitable interest. The department, or an
agency the department specifically designates, shall
notify other state agencies authorized to own real
property of the intended sale or transfer to determine whether acquiring the real property or interest
in the real property would be advantageous to another state agency.
[(b)(A)] (2) To the extent consistent with applicable trust responsibilities, the department
shall give the [first opportunity after other state
agencies] opportunity to acquire, purchase, exchange or lease real property or an interest in real
property that the State of Oregon disposes of or sells
to the following, in order of priority:
(a) Other state agencies.
(b) Any lessee of the land.
[(i)] (c) The following entities, in order of priority, on the condition that the entities will develop
housing on the real property [that will be occupied
by families and individuals with an income no greater
than 80 percent of the median family income for the
county in which the real property is located] only for
households whose income is not greater than 120
percent of the area median income:
[(I) Nonprofit organizations; and]
[(II)] (A) Indian tribes, as defined in ORS
97.740[; and].
10

OREGON LAWS 2026
the agency may acquire the real property or interest
in real property, consistent with applicable provisions of law.
[(3)] (6) Before any terminal disposition of real
property or an interest in real property, the state
agency acting for the state in the transaction must
secure approval of the transaction from the Oregon
Department of Administrative Services.
[(4)] (7) Subsection [(3)] (6) of this section does
not apply to terminal disposition of the following
real property:
(a) Property that the State Department of Fish
and Wildlife controls;
(b) State forestlands that the State Forestry Department controls;
(c) Property that the Department of Transportation controls;
(d) Property that the Department of State Lands
controls;
(e) Property that public universities listed in
ORS 352.002 control;
(f) Property that the legislative branch of state
government controls;
(g) Property that the judicial branch of state
government controls; and
(h) Property that the State Parks and Recreation
Department controls.
[(5)] (8) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection [(4)] (7) of this section, prior approval by the
Oregon Department of Administrative Services is
required for the terminal disposition of public land
for less than the fair market value of the public
land.
[(6)] (9) The provisions of ORS 184.634, 270.005
to 270.015, 270.100 to 270.190, 273.416, 273.426 to
273.436, 273.551 and 308A.709 (1)(a) to (d) do not apply to:
(a) A home or farm that the Department of
Veterans’ Affairs acquires or sells under ORS 88.720,
406.050, 407.135, 407.145, 407.375 or 407.377.
(b) Real property that the Housing and Community Services Department acquires or sells under the
provisions of ORS 456.515 to 456.828 or ORS chapter
458.
(c) Real property that the Oregon Health Authority or the Department of Human Services acquires or sells under ORS 410.075 or 416.340.

Chap. 108
URBAN RESERVES

SECTION 25. (1) On or before January 1,
2027, the Land Conservation and Development
Commission shall amend its rules related to the
prioritization of lands being added to an urban
reserve in order to allow local governments to
assign lower priority to land for which the provision of future urban services, as defined in
ORS 195.065, is not reasonable or cost effective
due to existing topographical or other physical
constraints including built constraints.
(2) Notwithstanding any provision in ORS
183.325 to 183.410, rules adopted under this section shall be adopted without an advisory committee.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
ON COMMERCIAL LANDS
SECTION 26. ORS 197A.445 is amended to read:
197A.445. (1) As used in this section:
(a) “Affordable housing” means residential property:
(A) In which:
(i) Each unit on the property is made available
to own or rent to families with incomes of 80 percent or less of the area median income;
(ii) The average of all units on the property is
made available to families with incomes of 60 percent or less of the area median income; or
(iii) A manufactured dwelling park is operated
that serves only households with incomes of 120
percent or less of the area median income; and
(B) Whose affordability, including affordability
under a covenant as described in ORS 456.270 to
456.295, is enforceable for a duration of no less than
30 years.
(b) “Area median income” means the median income for the metropolitan statistical area in which
housing is located as determined by the Housing and
Community Services Department and adjusted for
household size based on information from the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(2) A local government shall allow affordable
housing if the proposed affordable housing is on
property that is:
(a) Owned by:
(A) A public body, as defined in ORS 174.109;
(B) A nonprofit corporation that is organized as
a religious corporation;
(C) A nonprofit corporation that is organized as
a public benefit corporation whose primary purpose
is the development of affordable housing;
(D) A housing authority, as defined in ORS
456.005; or
(E) A manufactured dwelling park nonprofit cooperative, as defined in ORS 62.803; or
(b) Zoned:
(A) For commercial uses;

SECTION 24. ORS 270.030 is amended to read:
270.030. (1) Notwithstanding ORS [270.010 (2) or]
270.100 to 270.190, a state agency may transfer, convey, donate, exchange or lease to an eligible Indian
tribe, as defined in ORS 307.181, any real property
or interest in real property owned by the agency at
such price and on such terms as the agency may
determine.
(2) Notwithstanding ORS 273.775 to 273.790, an
agency disposing of real property or interest in real
property under this section also may convey the
mineral and geothermal resource rights in the real
property to the Indian tribe.
11

Chap. 108

OREGON LAWS 2026

(B) To allow religious assembly; or
(C) As public lands.
(3) A local government shall allow the conversion of a building or a portion of a building from a
commercial use to a residential use.
(4) Subsections (2) and (3) of this section:
(a) Prohibit the local government from requiring
a zone change or conditional use permit before allowing the use.
(b) Do not trigger any requirement that a local
government consider or update an analysis as required by a statewide planning goal relating to economic development.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this
subsection, do not apply on lands where the local
government determines that:
(A) The development on the property cannot be
adequately served by water, sewer, storm water
drainage or streets, or will not be adequately served
at the time that development on the lot is complete;
(B) The property contains a slope of 25 percent
or greater;
(C) The property is within a 100-year floodplain;
or
(D) The development of the property is constrained by land use regulations based on statewide
land use planning goals relating to:
(i) Natural disasters and hazards; or
(ii) Natural resources, including air, water, land
or natural areas, but not including open spaces or
historic resources.
(d) Do apply to property described in paragraph
(c)(C) and (D)(i) of this subsection if more than 60
percent of the lands within the urban growth
boundary that the property is within are located
within a tsunami inundation zone or if more than 30
percent of the lands within the urban growth
boundary that the property is within are located
within a 100-year floodplain.
(5) The development of housing under subsection
(2) of this section may occur only:
(a) Within an urban growth boundary; and
(b) On lands zoned to allow for industrial uses
only if the property is:
(A) Publicly owned;
(B) Adjacent to lands zoned for residential uses
or schools; and
(C) Not specifically designated for heavy industrial uses.
(6) The development of housing under subsection
(3) of this section:
(a) Applies only within an urban growth boundary of a city with a population of 10,000 or greater;
(b) May not occur on lands zoned to allow industrial uses;
(c) May require the payment of a system development charge as defined in ORS 223.299 only if:
(A) The charge is calculated pursuant to a specific adopted policy for commercial to residential
conversions adopted on or before December 31, 2023;
or
(B) The charge is for water or wastewater and
includes an offset for at least 100 percent of the

water or wastewater system development charges
paid when the building was originally constructed;
and
(d) May not be subject to enforcement of any
land use regulation that establishes a minimum
number of parking spaces that is greater than the
lesser of:
(A) The amount that may be required for the
existing commercial use; or
(B) The amount that may be required in lands
zoned for residential uses that would allow the converted development.
(7) The development of housing allowed under
subsection (4)(d) of this section may only occur:
(a) Within an urban growth boundary located no
more than 10 miles from the Pacific Ocean;
(b) In areas that require compliance with minimum federal regulations under the National Flood
Insurance Program or with local floodplain development regulations adopted by the applicable local
government, provided that the local regulations are
equal to or more stringent than the minimum federal
regulations;
(c) In locations that do not include floodways or
other areas with higher risks of greater water velocity and debris flow;
(d) In communities with emergency response,
evacuation and post-disaster plans that have been
updated for the housing development; and
(e) In areas that are not public parks.
(8) A local government may prohibit affordable
housing or require a zone change or conditional use
permit to develop affordable housing in areas described in subsection (4)(d) of this section.
(9)(a) An applicant who applies to develop
affordable housing under this section within a
planned mixed-use development shall, if the development would cause the amount of lands
available for commercial uses within the
planned mixed-use development to be reduced to
less than 80 percent of the amount in the
adopted planned mixed-use development, amend
the planned mixed-use development to allow an
additional area not smaller than the proposed
housing development.
(b) As used in this subsection, “planned
mixed-use development” means an area of land:
(A) Larger than 10 acres; and
(B) Subject to a land use approval or binding
development agreement adopted by the local
government that establishes areas or minimum
acreages for commercial uses and includes residential or other uses.
[(9)] (10) A local government shall approve an
application at an authorized density level and authorized height level, as defined in ORS 227.175 (4),
for the development of affordable housing, at the
greater of:
(a) Any local density bonus for affordable housing; or
(b) Without consideration of any local density
bonus for affordable housing:
12

OREGON LAWS 2026

Chap. 108

(A) Lots, parcels or tracts used as common areas;

(A) For property with existing maximum density
of 16 or fewer units per acre, 200 percent of the existing density and 12 additional feet;
(B) For property with existing maximum density
of 17 or more units per acre and 45 or fewer units
per acre, 150 percent of the existing density and 24
additional feet; or
(C) For property with existing maximum density
of 46 or more units per acre, 125 percent of the existing density and 36 additional feet.
[(10)(a)] (11)(a) Subsection [(9)] (10) of this section does not apply to housing allowed under subsection (2) of this section in areas that are not zoned
for residential uses.
(b) A local government may reduce the density
or height of the density bonus allowed under subsection [(9)] (10) of this section as necessary to address a health, safety or habitability issue, including
fire safety, or to comply with a protective measure
adopted pursuant to a statewide land use planning
goal. Notwithstanding ORS 197.350, the local government must adopt findings supported by substantial evidence demonstrating the necessity of this
reduction.

or
(B) Lots or parcels with a detached single-unit
dwelling and accessory dwelling unit or a duplex as
allowed under ORS 197A.420 (4); and
(e) Evidence demonstrating how buildings or
structures on a resulting lot or parcel will comply
with applicable building codes provisions relating to
new property lines and, notwithstanding the creation
of new lots or parcels, how structures or buildings
located on the newly created lots or parcels will
comply with the Oregon residential specialty code.
(3) A city or county may add conditions to the
approval of a tentative plan for a middle housing
land division to:
(a) Subject to subsection (6) of this section, prohibit the further division of the resulting lots or
parcels.
(b) Require that a notation appear on the final
plat indicating that the approval was given under
this section.
(4) In reviewing an application for a middle
housing land division, a city or county:
(a) Shall apply the procedures applicable to an
expedited land division under ORS 197A.140, if requested by the applicant and without regard to the
criteria in ORS 197A.142 (1).
(b) May require street frontage improvements
where a resulting lot or parcel abuts the street consistent with land use regulations implementing ORS
197A.420.
(c) May not subject an application to approval
criteria except as provided in this section, including
that a lot or parcel require driveways, vehicle access, parking or minimum or maximum street
frontage.
(d) May not subject the application to procedures, ordinances or regulations adopted under ORS
92.044 or 92.046 that are inconsistent with this section or, only if requested by the applicant, ORS
197A.140.
(e) Shall allow the submission of an application
for a tentative plan for a middle housing land division before, after or at the same time as the submission of an application for building permits for the
middle housing.
(f) May require the dedication of right of way if
the original parcel did not previously provide a dedication.
(g) May require separate water and wastewater
utilities for each dwelling unit.
(h) Shall allow any existing units allowed under
ORS 197A.420 (4) to be considered a single middle
housing unit and allow for the unit to be allocated
its own lot or parcel by the division.
(5) The type of middle housing developed on the
original parcel is not altered by a middle housing
land division.
(6) Notwithstanding ORS 197A.425 (1) and subsection (4)(d) and (e) of this section, a city or county
may prohibit or add approval criteria to the allowance of a new accessory dwelling unit on, or a sub-

TECHNICAL FIXES
SECTION 27. ORS 92.031 is amended to read:
92.031. (1) As used in this section, “middle housing land division” means a partition or subdivision
of a lot or parcel on which the development of middle housing is allowed under ORS 197A.420 (2) or (3)
or 197A.421.
(2) A city or county shall approve a tentative
plan for a middle housing land division if the application includes:
(a) Separate utilities, other than water or
wastewater, for each dwelling unit;
(b) A proposal for development of middle housing
that is in compliance or must comply with the Oregon residential specialty code and land use regulations under ORS 197A.420 (5) that are applicable
to the original lot or parcel and which may consist
of:
(A) A single duplex, triplex, quadplex, cottage
cluster or structure containing townhouses;
(B) Additional units as allowed by ORS 197A.421
(3); and
(C) Retained or rehabilitated existing units allowed under ORS 197A.420 (4), if any;
(c) Proposed easements necessary for each
dwelling unit on the plan for:
(A) Locating, accessing, replacing and servicing
all utilities;
(B) Pedestrian access from each dwelling unit to
a private or public road;
(C) Any common use areas or shared building
elements;
(D) Any dedicated driveways or parking; and
(E) Any dedicated common area;
(d) Exactly one dwelling unit on each resulting
lot or parcel, except for:
13

Chap. 108

OREGON LAWS 2026
such applications. Within one year of establishing a
fee under this section, the city or county shall review and revise the fee, if necessary, to reflect actual experience in processing expedited land
decisions.
(3) Only the applicant may appeal an expedited
land division made under this section.

sequent middle housing land division of, a lot or
parcel resulting from a middle housing land division:
(a) To the extent allowed under this section and
ORS 197A.420; and
(b) Provided that the middle housing land division lots or parcels may be used to create housing
that is at or above the minimum density for the
zoning of the land.
(7) Notwithstanding any other provision of ORS
92.010 to 92.192, within the same calendar year as
an original partition that was not a middle housing
land division, a city or county may allow one or
more of the resulting vacant parcels to be further
partitioned into not more than three parcels through
a middle housing land division.
(8) The tentative approval of a middle housing
land division is void if and only if a final subdivision
or partition plat is not approved within:
(a) Three years [of] following the tentative approval; or
(b) A period equal to that allowed by the city
or county for the plat or plan that is submitted
concurrently with the division as described in
ORS 92.044.
(9) Nothing in this section prohibits a city or
county from requiring a final plat before issuing
building permits.

SECTION 29. Section 22, chapter 476, Oregon
Laws 2025, is amended to read:
Sec. 22. (1) On or before January 1, 2028, the
Land Conservation and Development Commission
shall adopt rules that must include:
(a) Prohibiting or restricting siting and design
standards that prevent or discourage, or have the
effect of preventing or discouraging, the siting of
middle housing that is manufactured, site-built or
prefabricated;
(b) Establishing parameters on unreasonable cost
or delay for siting and design standards for accessory dwelling units and single room occupancies under standards allowed under ORS 197A.425 and
197A.430;
(c) Regulating cottage clusters for the purposes
of incentivizing the provision of smaller, less expensive housing, shared community amenities and other
public benefits and including regulations that implement the term “small footprint or floor area” as used
within the definition of cottage clusters in ORS
197A.420;
(d) Amending siting and design parameters for
middle housing types;
(e) Amending permissible discretionary criteria
applied by local government in evaluating housing
under ORS 197A.400 (3);
(f) Developing model system development charges
for residential development types for optional
adoption or incorporation by local governments; and
(g) Establishing procedures to estimate the reasonable zoned housing capacity of an area as part
of an inventory of buildable lands or housing capacity under ORS 197A.270, 197A.280 and 197A.350.
(2) In adopting rules under this section, the
commission shall:
(a) Emphasize improving the efficiency of the
development process with a focus on increasing
housing production, availability and affordability,
especially that of middle housing, accessory dwelling
units and single room occupancies.
(b) To the extent practicable, implement recommendations in the reports produced under section 5
(1) to (3), chapter 110, Oregon Laws 2024.
(c) Implement the principles in ORS 197A.025.
(d) Adopt operative and applicable dates for the
rules, subject to section 3, chapter 639, Oregon Laws
2019.
[(e)] (3) The Department of Land Conservation and Development shall provide a report on or
before July 1, 2028, to the interim committees of the
Legislative Assembly relating to land use, in the
manner provided in ORS 192.245, on the feasibility
and advisability of providing safe harbor protections
for cities that use the commission’s model system

SECTION 28. ORS 197A.140 is amended to read:
197A.140. Notwithstanding any other requirement applicable to a land use decision under ORS
chapter 197 or 197A, for an application that is reviewed as an expedited land division based on the
request of the applicant:
(1) A decision is not subject to the requirements
of ORS 197.797.
(2) A local government:
(a) Shall make a decision to approve or deny the
application within 63 days of receiving a completed
application as described in ORS [215.246] 215.427 or
227.178, based on whether the application satisfies
the substantive requirements of the applicable land
use regulations. An approval may include conditions
to ensure that the application meets the applicable
land use regulations.
(b) May not hold a hearing on the application or
allow any third party to intervene to oppose the application.
(c) Shall issue a written determination of compliance or noncompliance with applicable land use
regulations that includes a summary statement explaining the determination. The summary statement
may be in any form reasonably intended to communicate the local government’s basis for the determination. The determination must include an
explanation of the applicant’s right to appeal the
determination under ORS 197.830 to 197.855.
(d) Shall provide notice of the decision to the
applicant but may not require that notice be given
to any other person.
(e) May assess an application fee calculated to
recover the estimated full cost of processing an application based on the estimated average cost of
14

OREGON LAWS 2026

Chap. 108

development charges under subsection (1)(f) of this
section or otherwise incentivizing the use of the
models.

EFFECTIVE DATE

CAPTIONS

SECTION 31. This 2026 Act takes effect on
the 91st day after the date on which the 2026
regular session of the Eighty-third Legislative
Assembly adjourns sine die.

SECTION 30. The unit captions used in this
2026 Act are provided only for the convenience
of the reader and do not become part of the
statutory law of this state or express any legislative intent in the enactment of this 2026 Act.

Approved by the Governor April 7, 2026
Filed in the office of Secretary of State April 7, 2026
Effective date June 5, 2026

15

