SOURCE: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=202320240AB1418
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
METHOD: web tool official enacted bill text, relevant extract. Current codes_displaySection direct curl returned no usable text; web open inaccessible. Historical enactment is not represented as a current codification fetch. AG February7,2024 guidance independently confirms January1,2024 effective date.

AB-1418 Tenancy: local regulations: contact with law enforcement or criminal convictions.(2023-2024)
CHAPTER 476
Approved by Governor October 08, 2023. Filed with Secretary of State October 08, 2023.
SEC. 2. Section 53165.1 is added to the Government Code, to read:
53165.1.
(b) A local government shall not promulgate, enforce, or implement an ordinance, rule, policy, program, or regulation effecting a tenancy that does any of the following:
(1) Imposes or threatens to impose a penalty against a resident, owner, tenant, landlord, or other person solely as a consequence of contact with a law enforcement agency.
(2) Requires or encourages a landlord to do, or imposes a penalty on a landlord for the failure to do, any of the following:
(A) Evict or penalize a tenant because of the tenant’s association with another tenant or household member who has had contact with a law enforcement agency or has a criminal conviction.
(B) Evict or penalize a tenant because of the tenant’s alleged unlawful conduct or arrest.
(C) Include a provision in a lease or rental agreement that provides a ground for eviction not provided by, or that is in conflict with, state or federal law.
(D) Perform a criminal background check of a tenant or a prospective tenant.
(c) (1) This section preempts a local ordinance, rule, policy, program, or regulation, or any provision thereof, that is inconsistent with this section, irrespective of the effective date of the ordinance, rule, policy, program, or regulation. A local ordinance, rule, policy, program, or regulation that is inconsistent with this section is void as a matter of public policy and shall not serve as a basis of eviction.
(2) This section does not prohibit a local government from promulgating, enforcing, or implementing an ordinance, rule, policy, program, or regulation that is otherwise consistent with state law.
