SOURCE: https://oag.ca.gov/system/files/attachments/press-docs/2.7.2024%20Crime%20Free%20Housing.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
METHOD: pdftotext -layout

                                          February 7, 2024

Submitted via E-Mail

TO:    All Cities and Counties in California

RE:    Updated Guidance on Crime-Free Housing Policies

Dear Colleagues:

        Equal access to housing without discrimination based on race, ethnicity, ancestry, source
of income, or other unlawful factors is fundamental to the achievement of equality and justice in
our Nation and our State. In keeping with these fundamental principles, through the Racial
Justice Bureau in the Civil Rights Enforcement Section of the California Department of Justice,
and its participation in the California Department of Justice’s Housing Justice Team, I write to
emphasize local jurisdictions’ obligations under federal and state law to ensure equal access to
housing with regard to so-called “crime-free housing” ordinances or programs (collectively
referred to herein as “Crime-Free Housing Policies”).

        I recognize that leaders at the local level are on the front lines of ensuring public safety
for their residents, and, separately, that California law provides discretion to local jurisdictions to
enact and enforce nuisance laws that are non-discriminatory and otherwise consistent with
California law. Among other things, local jurisdictions have exercised that discretion to maintain
Crime-Free Housing Policies, in some cases, for decades. Regardless of when these Policies
were adopted, local jurisdictions have the responsibility to ensure that they comport with state
and federal law, and not to implement or enforce them in a discriminatory manner. Given the
significant risk that Crime-Free Housing Policies may violate civil rights laws on their face
and/or in implementation, as discussed in detail below, I urge you to review and potentially
reconsider aspects of your own policies to ensure compliance with civil rights laws and
regulations, including recently enacted Assembly Bill 1418 (AB 1418) (Gov. Code, § 53165.1).
All Cities and Counties in California
February 7, 2024
Page 2


I.    Background

      A.    Crime-Free Housing Policies

        Crime-Free Housing Policies vary by jurisdiction, but generally, they encourage or
require landlords to take actions to abate “nuisances”; some include civil or criminal penalties for
landlords who fail to do so. Crime-Free Housing Policies define such “nuisances” as certain
conduct (which may be criminal or non-criminal in nature) committed by tenants or their guests.
Alternatively, if the unit or property has been the subject of a defined number of law
enforcement requests for service, it could be classified as a nuisance. Some Crime-Free Housing
Policies direct landlords to initiate eviction proceedings against tenants who have allegedly
engaged in, or allowed guests on their property to engage in, certain activities—often in the
absence of a conviction or arrest—or authorize the local jurisdiction itself to initiate eviction
proceedings if the landlord fails to take the requested action. Other local jurisdictions encourage
or require landlords to participate in crime-free housing programs, which consist of local law
enforcement trainings on crime prevention, tenant screening, property management, and eviction
procedures.

      B.    Crime-Free Housing Policies and Anti-Discrimination Law

        The experience of communities across the country, as well as studies and reporting about
the racial disparities endemic to the criminal justice system, demonstrate that even facially
neutral Crime-Free Housing Policies have the potential to result in disparate impacts on
protected classes covered by the federal Fair Housing Act (FHA) 1 and the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA). 2 Crime-Free Housing Policies can contribute to the
segregation of our communities and the exclusion of people of color from certain areas in
violation of federal and state law. In light of this, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) has stated that Crime-Free Housing Policies, even if facially neutral, can
violate the FHA if they have a “discriminatory effect” on the basis of race, color, disability,
familial status, or national origin and are “not supported by a legally sufficient justification.” 3
Regulations promulgated under the FEHA confirm that the same analysis would apply under
California law. 4



       1
           42 U.S.C. § 3601 et seq.
       2
           Gov. Code, §§ 12955-12957; 12980, subd. (b). Note that FEHA expressly authorizes the
Attorney General to enforce its protections. Id., § 12989.3.
         3
           HUD, Office of General Counsel Guidance on Application of Fair Housing Act Standards to the
Enforcement of Local Nuisance and Crime-Free Housing Ordinances Against Victims of Domestic
Violence, Other Crime Victims, and Others Who Require Police or Emergency Services (Sept. 13, 2016),
p. 7 <https://www.hud.gov/sites/documents/FINALNUISANCEORDGDNCE.PDF> (as of Feb. 5, 2024)
(HUD Crime-Free Housing Guidance).
         4
           See Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, §§ 12005-12271; see also Walker v. City of Lakewood (9th Cir.
2001) 272 F.3d 1114, 1131 fn. 8 (stating that generally the standards for FHA claims apply to FEHA
claims).
All Cities and Counties in California
February 7, 2024
Page 3


      C.     Racial Disparities in the Criminal Legal System and Implications for
             Access to Housing

        Data overwhelmingly reveals that racial and ethnic disparities are entrenched in the
criminal justice system. 5 Because they can deny housing opportunities on the basis of a person’s
interaction with the criminal justice system, Crime-Free Housing Policies risk compounding the
impact of these racial and ethnic disparities. 6 Among other outcomes, these Policies could cause
tenants to lose their homes based on mere allegations of nuisance conduct—without a criminal
conviction, charge, or arrest—sometimes with minimal notice or opportunity for the tenant to
contest the nuisance determination. Although California law authorizes landlords to conduct
certain “just cause” evictions for tenants who engage in criminal activity on the property (or
criminal activity or criminal threats to property owners or agents on or off the property), 7 some
Crime-Free Housing Policies go well beyond that by authorizing evictions for alleged criminal
conduct that has no connection to the property. In addition, as explained below, some Crime-
Free Housing Policies are inconsistent with the newly enacted AB 1418, and are therefore
preempted by state law and void as a matter of public policy. 8

        The Crime-Free Housing Policies could also induce landlords to create screening
protocols that make housing opportunities less available for those with a criminal history. HUD
has advised that although “having a criminal record is not a protected characteristic under the
Fair Housing Act, criminal history-based restrictions on housing opportunities violate the Act if,
without justification, their burden falls more often on renters or other housing market participants
of one race or national origin over another.” 9 As described below, FEHA’s implementing
regulations go further than federal law and expressly provide that certain criminal history-based

        5
           See, e.g., Racial & Identity Profiling Advisory Board, Annual Report (2024), pp. 7-8 <2024 -
RIPA Board - Annual Report - AB 953 - Racial and Identity and Profiling Advisory Board (ca.gov) > (as
of Feb. 5, 2024) (finding disparities in police stops and searches in California between individuals
perceived to be White and individuals perceived to be non-White); Sawyer, Visualizing the racial
disparities in mass incarceration, Prison Pol’y Initiative (2020) (Prison Policy Initiative Report),
<https://www.prisonpolicy.org/blog/2020/07/27/disparities/> (as of Mar. 20, 2023) (finding, according to
U.S. Census and Bureau of Justice Statistics data, that Black people are disproportionately stopped on the
street by police and arrested, and non-White people are disproportionately incarcerated compared to
White people).
         6
           Tenants Together, Snapshot of Tenants in California 2022,
<https://www.tenantstogether.org/sites/tenantstogether.org/files/TT%20Tenant%20snapshot%202022.pdf
> (as of Mar. 20, 2023) (64% of Black Americans and 56% of Latino Americans are tenants as opposed to
41% of White Americans); see also Jones v. City of Faribault (D. Minn. Feb. 18, 2021) 2021 U.S. Dist.
LEXIS 36531, at p. 55 (“[I]f the City’s [Crime-Free Housing Policy] intersects with a pre-existing,
known racial disparity in a way that creates a similar racial disparity in housing, then it is possible that the
City’s policy creates a housing disparity and violates the FHA”).
         7
           Civ. Code, § 1946.2, subd. (b)(1)(F).
         8
           Gov. Code, § 53165.1, subd. (c)(1).
         9
           HUD, Office of General Counsel Guidance on Application of Fair Housing Act Standards to the
Use of Criminal Records by Providers of Housing and Real Estate-Related Transactions (Apr. 4, 2016),
p. 2 <Office of the General Counsel (hud.gov)> (as of Mar. 20, 2023) (HUD Criminal History Guidance).
All Cities and Counties in California
February 7, 2024
Page 4


restrictions violate the FEHA. Moreover, AB 1418 makes clear that local governments cannot
enforce or implement any rule, policy, program, ordinance, or regulation that requires or
encourages a landlord to perform a criminal background check of a tenant or prospective tenant,
or impose a penalty on a landlord for failing to do so. 10 Yet at least one Crime-Free Housing
training manual previously utilized in California suggests that landlords could broadly deny
applicants based on criminal convictions; “immediately” consider refusing applications from
prospective tenants upon disclosure of a criminal history; and adopt tenant-screening tactics that
will cause applicants to “screen themselves out of the process.” 11 This manual also used
dehumanizing, derogatory, and racially charged language by labeling “criminal” tenants as
“weeds” and “two-legged urban predators”; discouraging landlords from allowing “drug dealers
and other undesirables . . . to take over the area”; and equating crime prevention to “killing a
dinosaur,” saying “[t]he easiest way to kill a dinosaur is while it is still in the egg.” 12

        In light of these concerns, local jurisdictions should assess their ordinances, programs,
and training materials, as well as their implementation and enforcement of Crime-Free Housing
Policies. Local jurisdictions should review their Crime-Free Housing Policies to ensure that they
comply with federal and state law and do not result in disparate impacts, and modify or repeal
their Crime-Free Housing Policies if necessary. To assist local jurisdictions in conducting this
assessment, this guidance summarizes local jurisdictions’ obligations under the FEHA and its
implementing regulations and newly-enacted AB 1418. 13 The letter also identifies specific issues
for local jurisdictions to address as part of the assessment of their Crime-Free Housing Policies.


        10
             Gov. Code, § 53165.1, subd. (b)(2)(D).
        11
             While it is generally not unlawful to advertise screening practices, Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, §
12268, subd. (b), it is unlawful for a local jurisdiction to encourage property owners to “[i]mplement a
blanket ban or categorical exclusion practice” of persons with a criminal history, including criminal
convictions. Id., § 12269, subd. (a)(5). Moreover, a local jurisdiction may violate the FHA and FEHA if it
encourages landlords to implement screening tactics that effectively operate as a ban on tenants with
criminal history. See Pac. Shores Props., LLC v. City of Newport Beach (9th Cir. 2013) 730 F.3d 1142,
1163 (ordinance that was primarily designed to effectively bar group homes in the city may violate the
FHA, even if the ordinance is “facially neutral”).
          12
             Vallejo Police Dep’t, Crime Free Vallejo Housing Project (Oct. 2020)
<https://media.nbcbayarea.com/2020/10/CrimeFreeVallejoHousingBooklet.pdf> (as of Mar. 20, 2023).
Note that while Vallejo has withdrawn this publication; see City of Vallejo, The Crime-Free Housing
Program to Receive a Much-Needed Update that Puts Vallejoans and Their Safety First! (Oct. 5, 2020)
<https://myemail.constantcontact.com/The-Crime-Free-Housing-Program-to-receive-a-much-needed-
update.html?soid=1107787334147&aid=lUMl2-NLaSI> (as of Mar. 20, 2023), other jurisdictions may
still be providing training materials with this language, which may suggest a discriminatory intent behind
the Crime-Free Housing Policy in violation of the FHA and the FEHA. See Ave. 6E Invs., LLC v. City of
Yuma, Ariz. (9th Cir. 2016) 818 F.3d 493, 505-06 (stating that “code words” such as “drug dealer” may
demonstrate discriminatory intent); Smith v. Town of Clarkton (4th Cir. 1982) 682 F.2d 1055, 1066
(interpreting the term “undesirables” as a racially charged code word); see also Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, §
12161, subd. (c) (Stating that a public land use practice, which “reflects acquiescence to the [public’s]
bias, prejudices or stereotypes” may show intentional discrimination).
          13
             Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, §§ 12005-12271.
All Cities and Counties in California
February 7, 2024
Page 5


II.     Summary of Assembly Bill 1418

      In 2023, Governor Newsom signed AB 1418 into law. 14 Under the new law, which became
effective on January 1, 2024, local governments are prohibited from promulgating, enforcing, or
implementing any ordinance, rule, policy, program or regulation that imposes or threatens to
impose a penalty15 against a resident, owner, tenant, landlord, or other person as a consequence
of contact with a law enforcement agency. 16 In particular, local governments are prohibited from
adopting or enforcing Crime-Free Housing Policies which require or encourage a housing
provider to engage in, or impose a penalty on a housing provider for failure to engage in, any of
the following:

      1. Evicting or penalizing a tenant because of the tenant’s association with another tenant or
         household member who has had contact with a law enforcement agency or has a criminal
         conviction;

      2. Evicting or penalizing a tenant because of the tenant’s alleged unlawful conduct or arrest
         on or near the property;

      3. Including a provision in a lease or rental agreement that provides a ground for eviction
         not provided by, or in conflict with the law; and

      4. Performing a criminal background check of a tenant or prospective tenant. 17

       Local governments are also prohibited from defining as a nuisance any contact with a law
enforcement agency or request for emergency assistance, or requiring that a tenant obtain a
certificate of occupancy as a condition of tenancy. 18 Lastly, under AB 1418, local governments
are prohibited from establishing, maintaining, or promoting a registry of tenants for the purposes
of discouraging a landlord from renting to a tenant on the registry or excluding a tenant on the
registry from rental housing within the local government’s jurisdiction. 19




         14
            Assem. Bill No. 1418 (2023-2024 Reg. Sess.).
         15
            See Gov. Code, § 53165.1, subd. (a)(3): “ ‘Penalty’ means the following: “(A) An actual or
threatened assessment of fees, fines, or penalties. (B) An actual or threatened eviction, termination of a
tenancy, or the actual or threatened failure to renew a tenancy. (C) An actual or threatened denial of a
housing subsidy. (D) An actual or threatened revocation, suspension, or nonrenewal of a certificate of
occupancy or a rental certificate, license, or permit. (E) A designation or threatened closure of a property
or designation as a nuisance property or as a perpetrator of criminal activity under local law, or imposition
or threatened imposition of a similar designation. (F) An actual or threatened nuisance action.”
         16
            Gov. Code, § 53165.1, subd. (b).
         17
            Id.
         18
            Id.
         19
            Id.
All Cities and Counties in California
February 7, 2024
Page 6


III. Summary of FEHA and Its Implementing Regulations

        Among other requirements, the FEHA prohibits any person, including local
jurisdictions, 20 from making discriminatory notices, statements, or advertisements related to
housing, making unavailable or denying housing, or engaging in discriminatory land use
practices 21 on the basis of a person’s membership in a protected class. 22 The FEHA also
prohibits any person from “aid[ing], abet[ting], incit[ing], compel[ling], or coerc[ing] the doing
of any of the acts or practices declared unlawful” by the FEHA. 23 As with the FHA, a local
jurisdiction violates the FEHA if its policy or practice intentionally discriminates or causes a
disparate impact on the basis of a protected class in the absence of a legally sufficient
justification, even if the policy or practice is facially neutral. 24 Generally, the same standards
apply for analyzing FHA and FEHA claims, except to the extent that a California law or
regulation provides greater rights for aggrieved individuals. 25

      A.     Intentional Discrimination

        Intentional discrimination, i.e., disparate treatment, may be proven based on evidence that
race, sex, national origin, disability, or another protected category was a motivating factor for a
local jurisdiction’s action or decision, even though other factors may have also motivated the
jurisdiction. 26




        20
            Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 12005, subd. (w)(6).
        21
            “Public land use practices” include “all practices by governmental entities . . . in connection
with development and land use that are related to or have an effect on existing or proposed dwellings or
housing opportunities.” Id., § 12005, subd. (bb).
         22
            Gov. Code, § 12955, subds. (c), (k), (l). FEHA’s protected classes are: race, color, religion, sex,
gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry,
familial status, source of income, disability, veteran or military status, and genetic information. See ibid.
         23
            Id., subd. (g). For that reason, a local jurisdiction may separately violate the FEHA by
“aid[ing], abet[ting], incit[ing], compel[ling], or coerc[ing]” landlords into violating the Unruh Civil
Rights Act, which prohibits the denial of “full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities,
privileges or services in all business establishments” on the basis of a person’s membership in a protected
class, defined under Unruh as sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, disability, medical
condition, genetic information, marital status, sexual orientation, citizenship, primary language, or
immigration status. Id., § 12955, subd. (d); see also Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (b).
         24
            Tex. Dep’t of Hous. & Cmty. Affairs v. Inclusive Cmtys. Project, Inc. (2015) 135 S.Ct. 2507,
2525 (recognizing disparate impact claims under the FHA); Sisemore v. Master Financial, Inc. (2007)
151 Cal.App.4th 1386, 1420 (same as applied to the FEHA); Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 12161, subd. (d).
         25
            Lakewood, supra, 272 F.3d at p. 1131 fn. 8; see also Gov. Code, § 12955.6 (FEHA “may be
construed to afford greater rights and remedies to an aggrieved person than those afforded by federal
law”); Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11001, subd. (b) (federal law not necessarily “determinative of the
construction” of FEHA and implementing regulations).
         26
            Gov. Code, § 12955.8, subd. (a). An intent to discriminate may be established by direct or
circumstantial evidence. Ibid.
All Cities and Counties in California
February 7, 2024
Page 7


        In the context of Crime-Free Housing Policies, a local jurisdiction may be liable for
intentional discrimination under the FHA and FEHA if the jurisdiction either: (1) adopts a policy
or practice for discriminatory reasons; or (2) selectively enforces a policy or practice in a
discriminatory manner. 27 Under the first scenario, if no direct “smoking gun” evidence of
discriminatory intent exists, a plaintiff may prove that a facially neutral policy or practice was
adopted for discriminatory reasons based on circumstantial evidence. 28 Similarly, under the
second scenario, if no direct evidence of discriminatory intent exists, a plaintiff may rely on
circumstantial evidence to prove that a local government is selectively enforcing a facially
neutral policy or practice in a discriminatory manner. 29 For example, evidence that a female
resident was evicted as a result of a Crime-Free Housing Policy shortly after a domestic violence
incident may support an inference of intentional discrimination. 30 In addition, a plaintiff may, but
is not required to, establish intentional discrimination by demonstrating that similarly-situated
individuals who are not members of a protected class are treated more favorably under a local
jurisdiction’s policy or practice than members of a protected class. 31


        27
            See HUD Crime-Free Housing Guidance at pp. 10-11.
        28
            In such cases, courts examine several non-exhaustive factors to determine whether
discriminatory intent was a motivating factor, including: (1) whether the policy or practice creates a
disparate impact on a protected class; (2) the historical background of the decision; (3) the specific
sequence of events leading up to the challenged decision; (4) the defendant’s departure from normal
procedures or substantive conclusions; and (5) the relevant legislative or administrative history. Arlington
Heights v. Metropolitan Hous. Corp. (1977) 429 U.S. 252, 266-68; Ave. 6E Invs., supra, 818 F.3d at p.
504; HUD Crime-Free Housing Guidance at p. 10.
         29
            Gov. Code, § 12955.8, subd. (a); HUD Crime-Free Housing Guidance at pp. 10-11.
         30
            See, e.g., Bouley v. Young-Sabourin (D. Vt. 2005) 394 F.Supp.2d 675, 678 (landlord’s attempt
to evict victim 72 hours after domestic violence incident could give rise to inference of discrimination on
the basis of gender); HUD, Assessing Claims of Housing Discrimination against Victims of Domestic
Violence under the Fair Housing Act (FHA) and the Violence against Women Act (VAWA) (Feb. 9, 2011),
<https://www.hud.gov/sites/documents/FHEODOMESTICVIOLGUIDENG.PDF> (as of Mar. 20, 2023).
Local jurisdictions are further prohibited under California law from promulgating, enforcing, or
implementing any ordinance that penalizes residents, tenants, owners, or landlords for seeking law
enforcement or emergency assistance on behalf of victims of abuse, victims of crime, or individuals in
emergency circumstances. Gov. Code, § 53165, subd. (b); see also Code Civ. Proc., § 1161.3 (prohibiting
landlords from terminating the tenancy of a household member who was the victim of domestic violence,
stalking, human trafficking, or elder abuse); Civ. Code, § 1946.8 (voiding lease provisions purporting to
limit good-faith summoning of law enforcement and emergency assistance); see also Violence Against
Women Act of 2022, 34 U.S.C. § 12495 (protecting tenants’ right to report crimes and emergencies;
prohibiting entities receiving federal grants from imposing penalties based on requests for assistance or
based on criminal activity of which they are a victim or not at fault); U.S. Dept. of J., Nov. 7, 2023 letter
to Anoka, Minnesota <https://www.justice.gov/d9/2023-
11/final_anoka_letter_of_findings_for_11.07.23.pdf> (finding that city’s Crime Free ordinance
penalizing landlords for emergency assistance calls discriminated against individuals with mental health
disabilities in violation of FHA).
         31
            See McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792, 802-03 (setting three-step burden
method of proving disparate treatment in the employment context); Pac. Shores Props., supra, 730 F.3d
at p. 1158 (recognizing that satisfying McDonnell Douglas test is one way to prove intentional
All Cities and Counties in California
February 7, 2024
Page 8


      B.     Discriminatory Effect

         A local jurisdiction may also violate the FEHA where the policy or practice “actually or
predictably results in a disparate impact” on a protected class, regardless of the jurisdiction’s
intent, absent a legally sufficient justification. 32 If a plaintiff satisfies the burden of showing that
a policy or practice causes or will cause a discriminatory effect, it is the local jurisdiction’s
burden to demonstrate that the “practice is justified despite the discriminatory effect.” 33 To
support a permissible justification, jurisdictions must establish, with evidence, that: (1) “[t]he
practice is necessary to achieve one or more substantial, legitimate, nondiscriminatory
purposes”; (2) the practice is effective in carrying out its intended purpose; (3) that purpose is
“sufficiently compelling to override the discriminatory effect”; and (4) “[t]here is no feasible
alternative practice that would equally or better accomplish the identified purpose with a less
discriminatory effect.” 34

      C.     Unlawful Housing-Related Practices

      Article 15 of FEHA’s implementing regulations expressly identifies certain housing-
related practices that are unlawful under the FEHA, many of which are also unlawful under AB
1418, including the following: 35

    1. Requiring housing providers to take adverse actions (including initiating eviction
       proceedings) against individuals based on broad definitions of nuisance activities,
       unlawful conduct, or criminal activities (such as classifying phone calls to law
       enforcement or emergency services as a nuisance);

    2. Mandating housing providers to consider criminal history in assessing housing
       opportunities;

    3. Prohibiting housing providers from renting to tenants with specified criminal convictions;
       and

    4. Requiring the initiation of eviction proceedings against tenants or occupants arrested,
       suspected, or convicted of crimes. 36


discrimination under the FHA); Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354 (applying McDonnell
Douglas test to employment discrimination claims under the FEHA).
          32
             Gov. Code, § 12955.8, subd. (b). A local jurisdiction’s policy can also have a discriminatory
effect if it “creates, increases, reinforces, or perpetuates segregated housing patterns, based on
membership in a protected class.” Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 12060, subd. (b).
          33
             Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 12061, subd. (b).
          34
             Id., § 12062, subd. (b).
          35
             Id., §§ 12161-12162.
          36
             Id., § 12162, subds. (a)-(b); see also Gov. Code, § 53165.1, subd. (b). Further, a Policy that
requires the initiation of eviction proceedings with minimal notice or opportunity for a tenant to contest
the local jurisdiction’s nuisance determination raises “serious” due process concerns, see, e.g., Cook v.
All Cities and Counties in California
February 7, 2024
Page 9


         Under Article 24 of FEHA’s implementing regulations, certain criminal history practices
are unlawful. Specifically, it is unlawful for a person to seek, consider, or use information about
the following when making housing-related decisions: (1) an arrest or other law enforcement
contact that did not result in conviction; (2) referral to or participation in a pre-trial or post-trial
diversion program or a deferred entry of judgment program; (3) an infraction or conviction that
is no longer operative by a judicial action or statute; or (4) an adjudication in the juvenile
system. 37 It is also unlawful to take an adverse housing action based on such information, 38 and
it is generally unlawful to “[i]mplement a blanket ban or categorical exclusion practice” from
housing of persons with a criminal history. 39

      Article 24 also provides that practices that consider or use criminal history information for
housing transactions violate the FEHA if they cause a discriminatory effect without a legally
sufficient justification, constitute intentional discrimination, constitute a discriminatory
statement, or relate to specific prohibited practices. 40 As with all disparate impact cases, local
jurisdictions must show, among other things, that there is “no feasible alternative practice that
would equally or better accomplish the identified purpose with a less discriminatory effect.” 41
Determination of whether there is a feasible alternative to a local jurisdiction’s criminal history
practice includes consideration of whether the practice provides individuals an opportunity to
present mitigating information and requires consideration of such mitigating information prior to
taking adverse actions. 42

IV.   Issues for Local Jurisdictions to Review

        In summary, as part of its assessment of its Crime-Free Housing Policy, a local
jurisdiction should repeal any provisions that would constitute a prohibited practice related to

City of Buena Park (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1, 9 (ordinance that required landlord to initiate eviction or
appeal within 10 days of receipt of a notice of violation from the city was in violation of the Due Process
Clause), and suggests that the local jurisdiction may not be using a feasible alternative that has a less
discriminatory effect, in violation of the FEHA. See Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 12266, subd. (d)(1).
         37
            Id., § 12269, subd. (a)(1)-(4).
         38
            Ibid.
         39
            Id., § 12269, subd. (a)(5). The implementing regulations, however, permit compliance with
those federal or state laws that require public housing providers to consider an individual’s criminal
history information for certain offenses. Id., § 12270, subd. (a) (identifying as examples consideration of
sex offender status for admission to public housing (42 U.S.C., § 13663, subd. (g)), and
methamphetamine offenses for federally assisted housing (24 C.F.R. § 982.553)).
         40
            Id., §§ 12265-12269.
         41
            Id., § 12266, subd. (c)(4).
         42
            Id., § 12266, subd. (d)(1), (3). “[M]itigating information” is information “that suggests that the
individual is not likely to pose a demonstrable risk to the achievement of the identified interest,” which
includes consideration of whether the person was a minor or young adult at the time of a conviction; the
amount of time that has elapsed since the conviction; the person’s history of being a good tenant;
rehabilitation efforts; whether the conduct arose as a result of the person’s status as a survivor of domestic
violence, sexual assault, dating violence, stalking, or comparable offenses; or whether the conduct arose
from the individual’s disability. Id., § 12266, subd. (e).
All Cities and Counties in California
February 7, 2024
Page 10


criminal history under Article 24, and consider whether its Policy requires or prohibits conduct
by landlords that is unlawful under Article 15. In addition, the local jurisdiction should assess
whether any of policies, ordinances, rules, programs, or regulations are inconsistent with AB
1418, and if they are, cease enforcing them immediately. The local jurisdiction should then
assess whether its Crime-Free Housing Policy results in a discriminatory effect, and, if so,
whether such a policy is warranted. If the jurisdiction decides to pursue such a policy despite its
discriminatory impact, the jurisdiction would need to meet the demanding standard set forth
above; in short, that the Crime-Free Housing Policy is the only means of furthering a purpose
that is so compelling that it overrides the discriminatory impact.

       Local jurisdictions should be particularly mindful of the following ways in which Crime-
Free Housing Policies may run afoul of state and federal law:

   •   Using dehumanizing, derogatory, or racially charged or coded language in any local
       policies and ordinances, including but not limited to any training materials, manuals, and
       workbooks on Crime-Free Housing Policies;

   •   Requiring or encouraging housing providers to perform a criminal background check of a
       tenant or prospective tenant, or imposing a penalty on a housing provider for failure to do
       so;

   •   Instructing or encouraging housing providers to adopt screening practices or rental
       policies under which landlords broadly deny tenancy to applicants with a criminal history
       or encourage tenants to “screen themselves”;

   •   Requiring, encouraging, or imposing a penalty on a housing provider for failing to evict
       or penalize a tenant because of the tenant’s unlawful conduct or arrest, or contact with a
       law enforcement agency;

   •   Initiating evictions, or directing or inducing housing providers to evict tenants based
       solely on arrests or other interactions with law enforcement;

   •   Defining as a nuisance, contact with a law enforcement agency or request for emergency
       assistance;

   •   Establishing, maintaining, or promising a registry of tenants for the purposes of
       discouraging a housing provider from renting to a tenant on the registry or excluding a
       tenant on the registry from rental housing with the local government’s jurisdiction;

   •   Requiring a tenant to obtain a certificate of occupancy as a condition of tenancy;

   •   Taking adverse actions against tenants who seek law enforcement assistance, or
       discouraging tenants from seeking such assistance; and
All Cities and Counties in California
February 7, 2024
Page 11


    •   Limiting the number of parolees in single-room-occupancy facilities. 43

        I am prepared to exercise my authority under the FEHA and California law generally to
protect the rights of the State’s residents to obtain housing free of discrimination. I urge
jurisdictions with Crime-Free Housing Policies to promptly review their Policies in consultation
with their attorneys and consistent with the guidance provided in this letter. In addition, and in
line with their duty to affirmatively further fair housing, 44 local jurisdictions are encouraged to
make this review process inclusive by ensuring the participation of a broad cross-section of their
local communities. Local jurisdictions also may choose to adopt policies that are more protective
of tenants’ rights than provided under California law. 45

        I hope this guidance will support you in ensuring that your local ordinances comply with
federal and state fair housing laws and that all people feel welcome to live in your city or county
free of discrimination.

                                                  Sincerely,




                                               ROB BONTA
                                               Attorney General




        43
           Such limits may violate the FEHA by effectively denying housing opportunities on the basis of
an adjudication in the juvenile justice system or a prior criminal conviction, as discussed above. There are
also “serious questions” as to whether such ordinances serve a “legitimate purpose” as required under the
Equal Protection Clauses of the U.S. and California Constitutions. See Victor Valley Family Res. Ctr. v.
City of Hesperia (C.D. Cal. July 1, 2016) 2016 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 92609, at pp. 14-15.
        44
           Gov. Code, § 8899.50, subd. (b); see also 42 U.S.C. §§ 5304(b)(2), 5306(d)(7)(B),
12705(b)(15), 1437c-1(d)(16) (all requiring grant recipients to affirmatively further fair housing as a
condition for receiving HUD funding); 86 Fed. Reg. 30,779-93 (June 10, 2021) (HUD restoring
affirmatively furthering fair housing requirements).
        45
           Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 12271.
