SOURCE: https://library.municode.com/co/denver/codes/code_of_ordinances?nodeId=TITIIREMUCO_CH27HO_ARTXIREDI
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: municode API job 495354 (Supplement 147 Update 3), product 10257; 2 sections
------------------------------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE XI. - REQUIRED DISCLOSURES


Sec. 27-240. - Eviction and foreclosure resource.
(a)

Executed written lease.
No landlord or its agent shall allow any person to initiate a new occupancy of a
rental property for a period in excess of thirty (30) days for valuable consideration
unless and until such landlord or agent has provided a copy of an executed written
lease, in the timeframes and manner set forth in C.R.S. § 38-12-801.

(b)

Written notice of tenant rights and resources.
The landlord or agent shall provide written notice of tenants' rights and resources
on a form provided or approved by the city. Such notice shall contain information
concerning minimum housing standards required under article II of
chapter 27
; resources and information on how to make a complaint related to minimum housing
standards; a statement regarding tenants' legal rights when receiving a notice to
vacate their premises, in any court proceeding related to their rental housing, and
the right to utilize or seek legal representation; and how to locate rental assistance
and legal service providers. The landlord or its agent must provide such notice to
tenants at each of the following times:

(1)

At the time of executing a lease;

(2)

At any time the owner or operator makes any rent demand posted pursuant to C.R.S.
§ 13-40-104;

(3)

At the time that the Denver Housing Authority or any other affordable housing provider
sends a notice to terminate a tenant's subsidy or tenancy.

(c)

Foreclosure resources.
Any association, or assignee of the association's debt, seeking to foreclose a lien
on and after August 30, 2022 shall provide written notice of owners' rights and resources
on a form provided or approved by the city at least thirty (30) days prior to instituting
such action. Such notice shall contain a listing of legal and housing resources for
homeowners facing foreclosure. An association shall maintain a record of such notice,
including the date and time that the notice was provided. As used in this subsection,
"association" has the meaning set forth in the Colorado Common Interest Ownership
Act, Article 33.3 of Title 38, C.R.S., as amended.

(d)

Enforcement.
Any person who violates the provisions of this section is subject to the penalties
and procedures set forth in article XII,
chapter 2
, Administrative Citations, of this Code. In addition to such penalties, any residential
rental licensee failing to comply with this section may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or sanctions in
section 27-200
, in addition to the grounds set forth in
chapter 32
of this Code.

(Ord. No. 617-22, § 3, 6-20-22)

