SOURCE: https://library.municode.com/ca/duarte/codes/code_of_ordinances?nodeId=TIT9PUPESA_CH9.71PEREULJUCADESUREEV
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: municode API job 473654 (Supplement 24), product 16321; 7 sections
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chapter 9.71 - PERMIT REQUIRED FOR NO-FAULT JUST CAUSE DEMOLITION AND/OR SUBSTANTIAL REMODELING EVICTIONS


9.71.010 - Permit disclosure required for remodeling and/or demolition.
(a)

PURPOSE. This chapter protects tenants from pretextual evictions in which landlords
invoke substantial renovation or demolition of a unit as "just cause" under Civil
Code §§ 1946.2, 1947.12, and 1947.13 as adopted by Assembly Bill 1482 (the Tenant
Protection Act of 2019, the "Act"), and as may be subsequently amended, by requiring
an evicting landlord show a government-approved demolition and/or remodeling permit
to the tenant prior to initiating an eviction for demolition or substantial remodel
of a residential real property.

(
Ord. No. 898
, § 3, 6-9-2020)

9.71.020 - Definitions.
(a)

"Just Cause" shall have the same meeting as in Civil Code § 1946.2, as may be amended.

(b)

"Owner" shall have the same meeting as in Civil Code § 1946.2, as may be amended.

(c)

"Residential real property" shall have the same meeting as in Civil Code § 1946.2,
as may be amended.

(d)

"Tenancy" shall have the same meaning as in Civil Code § 1946.2, as may be amended.

(
Ord. No. 898
, § 3, 6-9-2020)

9.71.030 - Tenancies subject to permit disclosure requirement.
This permit disclosure requirement applies only if a tenant has met the criteria of
Civil Code § 1946.2(a), as may be hereafter amended, which presently requires the
tenant to have continuously and lawfully occupied a residential real property for
at least twelve months, and if any additional adult tenants are added to a lease before
an existing tenant has continuously and lawfully occupied the residential real property
for twenty-four months, then this temporary prohibition shall only apply if either
of the following are satisfied:

1.

All of the tenants have continuously and lawfully occupied the residential real property
for twelve months or more; or

2.

One or more tenants have continuously and lawfully occupied the residential real property
for twenty-four months or more.

(
Ord. No. 898
, § 3, 6-9-2020)

9.71.040 - Government-issued permit required for no-fault just cause eviction based on intent to demolish or substantially remodel a residential real property.
"No-fault just cause" shall be as defined in Civil Code § 1946.2(b)(2), as may be
amended, which presently includes an intent to demolish or to "substantially remodel"
a residential real property.

For purposes of this chapter, "substantially remodel" means the replacement or substantial
modification of any structural, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical system that requires
a permit from a governmental agency, or the abatement of hazardous materials, including
lead-based paint, mold, or asbestos, in accordance with applicable federal, state,
and local laws, that cannot be reasonably accomplished in a safe manner with the tenant
in place and that requires the tenant to vacate the residential real property for
at least thirty days. Cosmetic improvements alone, including painting, decorating,
and minor repairs, or other work that can be performed safely without having the residential
real property vacated, do not qualify as substantial modification.

(
Ord. No. 898
, § 3, 6-9-2020)

9.71.050 - Notice and opportunity to cure lease violation.
Before an owner of residential real property issues a notice to terminate a tenancy
for a no-fault just cause eviction based on demolition or a substantial remodel of
a residential unit, the owner shall have obtained all necessary permits for the substantial
remodel and/or demolition from all applicable government agencies. All termination
notices for no-fault just cause eviction described in this chapter shall include a
copy of all issued permits, which permits must then be in effect, and not be expired
or revoked. To the extent not otherwise reflected on the face of the permit or permits,
the owner shall include information regarding each of (i) the scope of the substantial
remodeling work, (ii) why it cannot be reasonably accomplished in a safe manner with
the tenant in place, and (iii) why it requires the tenant to vacate for at least thirty
days.

(
Ord. No. 898
, § 3, 6-9-2020)

9.71.060 - Exclusions.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following types of residential
real properties or residential circumstances:

1.

Transient and tourist hotel occupancy as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1940
of the Civil Code.

2.

Housing accommodations in a nonprofit hospital, religious facility, extended care
facility, licensed residential care facility for the elderly, as defined in Section
1569.2 of the Health and Safety Code, or an adult residential facility, as defined
in Chapter 6 of Division 6 of Title 22 of the Manual of Policies and Procedures published
by the State Department of Social Services.

3.

Dormitories owned and operated by an institution of higher education or a kindergarten
and grades 1 to 12, inclusive, school.

4.

Housing accommodations in which the tenant shares bathroom or kitchen facilities with
the owner who maintains their principal residence at the residential real property.

5.

Single-family owner-occupied residences, including a residence in which the owner-occupant
rents or leases no more than two units or bedrooms, including, but not limited to,
an accessory dwelling unit or a junior accessory dwelling unit.

6.

A duplex in which the owner occupied one of the units as the owner's principal place
of residence at the beginning of the tenancy, so long as the owner continues in occupancy.

7.

Housing that has been issued a certificate of occupancy within the previous fifteen
years.

8.

Residential real property that is alienable separate from the title to any other dwelling
unit, provided that both of the following apply:

a.

The owner is not any of the following:

(i)

A real estate investment trust, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue
Code.

(ii)

A corporation.

(iii)

A limited liability company in which at least one member is a corporation.

b.

(i)

The tenants have been provided written notice that the residential property is exempt
from this section using the following statement:

"This property is not subject to the rent limits imposed by Section 1947.12 of the
Civil Code and is not subject to the just cause requirements of Section 1946.2 of
the Civil Code. This property meets the requirements of Sections 1947.12(d)(5) and
1946.2(e)(8) of the Civil Code and the owner is not any of the following: (1) a real
estate investment trust, as defined by Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code; (2)
a corporation; or (3) a limited liability company in which at least one member is
a corporation."

The notice required under clause (i) may, but is not required to, be provided in the
rental agreement.

(ii)

Addition of a provision containing the notice required under clause (i) to any new
or renewed rental agreement or fixed-term lease constitutes a similar provision for
the purposes of subparagraph 8.b.(i), above.

9.

Housing restricted by deed, regulatory restriction contained in an agreement with
a government agency, or other recorded document as affordable housing for persons
and families of very low, low, or moderate income, as defined in Section 50093 of
the Health and Safety Code, or subject to an agreement that provides housing subsidies
for affordable housing for persons and families of very low, low, or moderate income,
as defined in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code or comparable federal statutes.

(
Ord. No. 898
, § 3, 6-9-2020)

