SOURCE: https://bellevuewaprod.blob.core.windows.net/documentcenter/Ordinances/4354.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: Official City Document Center original ordinance, found through its public search API; historical enacted text, not standalone proof of current section.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
2026C                             ORl6)NAl.
04/3/92

                           CITY OF BELLEVUE, HASHINGTON

                               ORDINANCE NO.



              AN ORDINANCE   relating to relocation assistance for
              low-income tenants; and adding a new Chapter 9.21 to
              the Bellevue City Code.
     WHEREAS, the State Legislature adopted, as part of the Growth Act of
1990, a provision for relocation assistance for low-income tenants; and
        WHEREAS,   the State provision, codified as RCW 59. 18.440, authorizes
cities to require property owners to provide their portion of reasonable
relocation assistance to low-income tenants in certain circumstances; and
     WHEREAS, the City of Bellevue is experiencing the physical
deterioration of rental housing available to low income tenants and, in
addition, a reduction in the supply of rental housing affordable to such
tenants; and
     HHEREAS, in accordance with RCW 59.18.440(1) and (3), a public
hearing, upon public notice, was held before the City Council on April 13,
1992, to receive public testimony on this ordinance; and
     WHEREAS, this ordinance incorporates the provisions of relocation
assistance statutes which pertain to the displacement of low-income
tenants as a result of code enforcement actions into the Bellevue City
Code; and

     WHEREAS, the City of Bellevue has complied with the State
Environmental Policy Act and the City's Environmental Procedure Code; now,
therefore,
THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BELLEVUE, WASHINGTON, DOES ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

     Section 1. Bellevue City Code is amended by the addition of a new
Chapter 9.21 (Relocation Assistance) as follows:
                                   Chapter 9.21
                               Relocation Assistance
Sections:
        9.21.010 Purpose
        9.21.020 Definitions
                               OHiG)NAL
2026C
04/3/92

        9.21.030 App1 i cab i l i ty
        9.21.040 Relocation Assistance Payment Amounts
        9.21.050 Permit Issuance
        9.21.060 Notification to Tenants
        9.21.070 Tenant Eligibility for Relocation Assistance
        9.21.080 Owner's Contribution to Relocation Assistance
        9.21.090 Payment of Relocation Assistance
        9.21.100 Public Hearing - Unlawful Detainer
        9.21.110 Appeal of Hearing Examiner Decision
        9.21.120 Eviction Protection
        9.21.130 Violations - Penalty
     9.21.010 Purpose. Pursuant to RCW 59.18.440 cities may require
property owners to provide their portion of reasonable relocation
assistance to low-income tenants upon the demolition, substantial
rehabilitation or change of use of residential property, or upon the
removal of use restrictions in an assisted housing development. This
Chapter establishes the requirements and procedures for providing
relocation assistance only to low-income tenants who are displaced as a
result of building or land use code enforcement actions initiated by the
City of Bellevue.
     9.21.020 Definitions. The following words and phrases when used in
this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, shall have the
following meanings:
        A. "Change or elimination in residential use" means the conversion
of a residential unit to a non-residential use or the elimination of a
residential unit.
        B.    "City Codes" means the Land Use Code, Uniform Building Code and
related standards, Uniform Housing Code, Washington State Energy Code,
Uniform Code For the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, Uniform Fire Code,
Uniform I4echanical Code, Uniform Plumbing Code, and National Electrical
Code, as adopted and amended by the Bellevue City Code.

        C. "Demolition" means the destruction of any dwelling unit or the
relocation of an existing dwelling unit or units to another site.
        D. "Director" means the Director of the Department of Design
Development or the Director's designee.
        E. "Displacement" means that existing tenants must vacate the
dwelling unit because of the demolition, substantial rehabilitation, or
change or elimination of residential use. For purposes of this chapter,
"displacement" shall not include the permanent relocation of a tenant from
one dwelling unit to another dwelling unit in the same building with the



                                     -2-
2026C
04/3/92

tenant's consent or the temporary relocation of a tenant for less than
seventy-two hours.
        F.    "Low-income tenants" means tenants whose combined total
household income per dwelling is at or below fifty percent of the median
income, as adjusted for family size, as determined by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development for King County or the Seattle
Metropolitan Statistical Area.
        G.    "Owner" means one or more persons, jointly or severally, in
whom    is vested:
              (1)    All or any part of the legal title to the property; or

              (2)     all or part of the beneficial ownership and a right to
present use and enjoyment of the property.
     H.    "Substantial rehabilitation" means extensive structural repair
or extensive remodeling which requires a building, electrical, plumbing or
mechanical permit, and which cannot be done with the tenant in occupancy.
     I.    "Tenant" means any person who is entitled to occupy a dwelling
unit primarily for living or dwelling purposes under a rental agreement
and includes those persons who are considered to be tenants under the
State Residential Landlord-Tenant Act, RCW Chapter 59.18, and those
tenants whose living arrangements are exempted from the State Residential
Landlord Tenant Act under RCW 59. 18.040(3) if their living arrangement is
considered to be a rental or lease pursuant to RCW 67.28.180(1). For
purposes of this chapter, "tenant" shall not include the owner of a
dwelling unit or members of the owner's immediate family.
        9.21.030 Applicability.     The provision of relocation assistance to
low-income tenants applies if the displacement is the result of the
following:
     A.    Demolition of dwelling units or structures if the demolition is
ordered by the Director due to City code violations or deficiencies; or
        B.    Substantial rehabilitation ordered by the Director due to City
code violations or deficiencies; or
     C.    Change or elimination of a residential use if the change or
elimination is ordered by the Director due to City code violations or
deficiencies.
        9.21.040 Relocation Assistance Payment Amounts.
2026C
04/3/92

     A.     Low-income tenants who are displaced by demolition, substantial
rehabilitation, or change or elimination of a residential use and who
comply with the requirements of this chapter, shall be paid a relocation
assistance payment in the amount of $ 2,000 per dwelling unit. The amount
of relocation assistance shall be adjusted annually by the percentage
amount of change in the housing component of the Consumer Price Index as
published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics.
     B.    The Owner is responsible for payment in cash of one-half of the
required relocation assistance per dwelling unit. The portion of the
relocation assistance not payable by the Owner shall be paid by the City
of Bellevue up to a maximum of one-half the total payment amount in
Section 9.21.040.
    9.21.050 Permit Issuance. The requirements of this Chapter must be
complied with prior to the issuance of a residential demolition permit or
permits relating to substantial rehabilitation if the demolition or
substantial rehabilitation has been ordered by the Director due to City
code violations or deficiencies, or prior to the eviction of tenants for a
change or elimination of residential use if the change or elimination of
use is ordered by the Director due to City code violations or
deficiencies.
     9.21.060 Notification to Tenants. If the Director has initiated
enforcement action to resolve City code violations or deficiencies and is
reasonably certain that the required corrective action will result in
demolition, substantial rehabilitation, or change or elimination of
residential use which will displace tenants, the Director shall require
that the Owner provide mailing labels with the name and address of each
tenant whose dwelling unit will be potentially displaced. The Director
shall mail notice by certified mail to each tenant informing them of their
rights under this Chapter. The notice shall include a tenant income
verification form and instructions that tenants must complete and return
the form to the Director within thirty (30) days from the date that the
Director's notice was mailed.
        9.21.070 Tenant Eligibility for Relocation Assistance.
        A.    The completed information on the tenant income verification
form shall    include the names of all occupants of the dwelling unit, the
total combined annual income of the occupants of the dwelling unit, and
the total combined income of the occupants for the current calendar year.
Any tenant who fails to return a completed tenant income verification form
to the Director within thirty days from the notification date shall not be
eligible for relocation assistance, unless the tenant has requested and
received a written extension from the Director.



                                     -4-
2026C
04/3/92

        B.   Based on the information contained in the tenant income
verification form, the Director shall determine which tenants qualify as
low-income tenants and are therefore eligible to receive relocation
assistance upon displacement.
      C.   Within 15 days of the Director's receipt of the signed
relocation assistance forms from all tenants or within 15 days of the
expiration of the tenants'0-day period for submitting signed relocation
assistance forms to the Director, whichever occurs first, the Director
shall send to each tenant household who submitted a signed form and to the
owner, by both regular United States mail and certified mail, a notice
stating whether the tenant qualifies as a low-income tenant and is
eligible for relocation assistance. The Director shall send notice to the
owner indicating all tenants deemed eligible for relocation assistance.
        D.    Both the tenant and the owner may file an appeal with the
Hearing Examiner, pursuant to Land Use Code Section 20.35.600 (Process
VI), of the Director's determination of the tenant's eligibility for
relocation assistance. The Hearing Examiner must issue a decision within
thirty days from the date the appeal was filed.
        9.21.080 Owner's Contribution to Relocation Assistance
        Within ten (10) days after receipt by the Owner of the notice of
tenant eligibility, the owner shall pay to the Director one-half of the
total relocation assistance cost. If an appeal is filed pursuant to
Section 9.21.070.0, the owner's contribution is due within ten (10) days
of the Hearing Examiner's decision. The total relocation assistance shall
be calculated based on the number of units occupied by tenant households
who are determined by the Director to be eligible for relocation
assistance, as modified by any decisions by the Hearing Examiner
concerning eligibility for relocation assistance, multiplied by the
payment amount established in Section 9.21.040.
        9.21.090 Payment of Relocation Assistance.
     Upon receipt of the owner's share of relocation assistance costs, the
Director shall send total relocation assistance payments to eligible
tenants. The Director may request verification that the tenant wi 11 be
displaced by the demolition, substantial rehabilitation, or change in or
elimination of residential use.
     9.21. 100 Public Hearing - Unlawful Detainer. Owner or tenants may
request a public hearing before the Hearing Examiner to resolve disputes
between displaced tenants and the Owner relating to unlawful detainer
actions during relocation. The hearing will be pursuant to Land Use Code
Section 20.35.600 (Process VI) and the Hearing Examiner must issue a



                                     -5-
2026C
04/3/92

decision within thirty days from the date the request for a hearing was
filed.
     9.21. 110 Appeal of Hearing Examiner Decision. A decision of the
Hearing Examiner under Section 9.21.070.D or 9.21. 100 is the final City
decision. The decision of the Hearing Examiner may be appealed to
Superior Court by filing a petition within ten (10) calendar days
following the date of the decision. Appeals to Superior Court are by
application for a writ of certioriari, writ of prohibition or writ of
mandamus.

        9.21.120 Eviction Protection.
        A. During a period from the date that the Director first notifies
the Owner of building code violations or deficiencies, to the time that
relocation assistance payments are paid to eligible tenants, the owner
shall not:
        (I)evict, or harass or intimidate tenants into vacating their
units for the purpose of avoiding or diminishing application of this
chapter including an unreasonable rent increase; or
        (2)   reduce the services to any tenant; or
        (3)   materially increase or change the obligations of any tenant.
        B.    Low-income tenants who are evicted or vacate as a result of
conditions (I) - (3) prior to receiving relocation assistance payments,
may be eligsble for relocation assistance payments, as determined by the
Director.
        9.21. 130 Violation - Penalty.
        A.    The violation of or failure to comply with any provision of
this chapter is declared to be unlawful.
        B.               of any provision of this chapter is a civil
              Any violation
violation as provided for in Bellevue City Code Chapter 1.18, for which a
monetary penalty may be assessed and abatement may be required as provided
therein.
         C.In addition to or as an alternative to any other penalty
provided by this chapter or by law, any person who violates any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.




                                         -6-
2026C
04/3/92

                 This ordinance shall be in force
        Section 2.
days after final passage by the City Council.
                        Council this       day of
                       hentication of its passage
                       ,   1992.

(SEAL




                                             Cary Bozeman, Mayor

Approved as to form:
Richard L. Andrews, City Attorney




Attest:




                                    -7-
