SOURCE: https://issaquah.civicweb.net/document/163375/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: Original adopted ordinance, historical 2022 text; current code sections separately retained. PDF text extraction may contain OCR errors.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     ORDINANCE NO. 2986

               AN ORDINANCE     OF THE CITY OF ISSAQUAH,
               WASHINGTON, CREATING A NEW CHAPTER 5.52 OF THE
               ISSAQUAH MUNICIPAL CODE THAT ADOPT TENANT
               PROTECTIONS   INCREASING    NOTICE FOR   RENT
               INCREASES, PROVIDING    FOR SEVERABILITY  AND
               ESTABLISHING AN EFFECTIVE DATE.



        WHEREAS, over the past several years rents in East King County have increased, and

Vacancies for affordable rental housing are at low levels, making it difficult for tenants,

especially those with low incomes, to ?nd affordable rental housing; and

       WHEREAS, the King County Regional Affordable Housing Task Force issued its Final

Report and Recommendationsfor King County, December 2018 (rev. March 2019) (“A?brdable

Housing Task Force Final Report”), which identi?es that renting rather than owning a home

increases the chances of being severely cost burdened,‘and recognizes an existing affordable

housing crisis in King County;2and

       WHEREAS, the A?ordable Housing Task Force Final Report includes a regional plan

with goals, strategies and a five-year action plan to address the affordable housing crisis, and

Goal 4 of the action plan is to “[p]reserVe access to affordable homes for renters by supporting

                                                                                 and
tenant protections to increase housing stability and reduce risk of homelessness”;3

       WHEREAS, Washington’s Residential Landlord Tenant Act (RLTA) requires a

minimum of sixty (60) days’ prior written notice for rent increases for non-subsidized housing;
       WHEREAS, A Regional Coalition for Housing (ARCH) was created by interlocal

agreement to help coordinate the efforts of Eastside cities to provide affordable housing; and

       WHEREAS, the ARCH lnterlocal Agreement (ILA) establishes a common purpose

among ARCH members of acting cooperatively to formulate affordable housing goals and

policies; and

       WHEREAS, recent Census data estimated that 25,870 renter households in ARCH

member jurisdictions are cost—burdened,paying more than 30 percent of income toward housing

costs, and 12,550 renter households are severely cost-burdened, paying more than 50 percent of

income toward housing costs; and

                                                                    units located in
       WHEREAS, renters occupy approximately 41 percent of the housing

Issaquah and 43.5 percent of those renters are cost burdened or severely cost burdened;4

       WHEREAS, local rental assistance programs are ?nite and have exhausted or nearly

exhausted available resources for renters, and such programs are often limited to tenants who

have received eviction notices; and

       WHEREAS, residents of affordable rental housing created by ARCH member

jurisdictions’ policies and programs are subject to annual rent increases, based on changes in the

area median income (AMI) as published by the Department of Housing and Urban Development

(HUD); and

       WHEREAS, residents of naturally occurring affordable housing that exists in Issaquah
       WHEREAS, the residents of ARCH monitored housing and naturally occurring

affordable housing in Issaquah will be subject to signi?cant expected rent increases in 2022,

which are anticipated to exacerbate cost burdens, and create economic displacement and other

negative impacts; and

       WHEREAS, the ARCH ILA establishes an Executive Board with responsibility for

providing recommendations to ARCH member jurisdictions regarding local and regional

affordable housing policies; and

       WHEREAS, at its April 14, 2022, meeting, the ARCH Executive Board adopted

Resolution 2022-01 providing recommendationsto ARCH members to adopt several tenant

protections, including a requirement for a lengthier notice period for rent increases than provided

in state law for non-subsidized housing; and

       WHEREAS, on July 19, 2022, the Issaquah City Council Services, Safety, and Parks

Committee (Committee) met to discuss the ARCH Executive Board’s recommendations for

tenant protections; and

       WHEREAS, at the conclusion of their July 19, 2022, meeting the Committee directed

staff to prepare an ordinance requiring not less than one hundred twenty (120) days’ written

notice for rent increases greater than three percent (3%); and

       WHEREAS, after reviewing the draft ordinance prepared at the direction of the

Committee, the City Council desires to create a new Chapter 5.52 of the Issaquah Municipal
       WHEREAS, this Ordinance is adopted pursuant to the City’s police powers and

regulatory authority derived ?‘om Wash. Const. art. XI, Section 11; NOW, THEREFORE,

       THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ISSAQUAH, WASHINGTON DOES

ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

       SECTION 1. Findings. The City Council adopts the recitals set forth above as ?ndings in

support of this Ordinance, which are incorporated by reference as if set forth in full.

       SECTION 2. New Chapter 5.52 of the Issaquah Municipal Code. The City Council hereby

creates Chapter 5.52 of the Issaquah Municipal Code, Tenant Protections, as set forth below.

                                        Chapter 5.52
                                   TENANT PROTECTIONS

       Sections:
       5.52.010 Definitions.
       5.52.020 Applicability.
       5.52.030 Notice of Rent Increase.
       5.52.040 Provisions in violation of restrictions null and void; exemption.
                                                                                          —
       5.52.050 Rental agreement that waives tenant’s remedies prohibited
       Exception.
       5.52.060 Effect on Existing Lease Provisions

       5.52.010 De?nitions.
       The de?nitions of this section apply throughout this chapter unless the context
       clearly requires otherwise. The de?nitions of RCW 59. 18.030 under the Residential
       Landlord-Tenant Act (RLTA) also apply to this chapter unless otherwise de?ned
       in this section.

       A. "Dwelling” or “dwelling unit" has the same meaning as RCW 59. l 8.030(l 0), as
       may be amended. At the time of passage of the ordinance codi?ed in this chapter,
       the RLTA de?ned “dwelling unit” to mean a structure or that part of a structure
       which is used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by one person or by two or
and included any person designated as representative of the landlord, including, but
not limited to, an agent, a resident manager, or a designated property manager.

C. “Rental agreement” or “lease” has the same meaning as RCW 59.l8.030(3 0), as
may be amended. At the time of the passage of the ordinance codi?ed in this
chapter, the RLTA de?ned “rental agreement” as all agreements which establish or
modify the terms, conditions, rules, regulations, or any other provisions concerning
the use and occupancy of a dwelling unit.

D. “Subsidized housing” has the same meaning as RCW 59.l8.030(33), as may be
amended. At the time of the passage of the ordinance codi?ed in this chapter, the
RLTA de?ned “subsidized housing” as rental housing for very low—incomeor low-
income households that is a dwelling unit operated directly by a public housing
authority or its af?liate, or that is insured, ?nanced, or assisted in whole or in part
through one of the following sources: (a) A federal program or state housing
program administered by the department of commerce or the Washington state
housing ?nance commission; (b) A federal housing program administered by a city
or county government; (c) An affordable housing levy authorized under
RCW 84.52.105;           or      (d)      The       surcharges       authorized      in
RCW 36.22.178 and 36.22.179 and any of              the   surcharges    authorized   in
chapter 43.185C RCW.

E. “Tenant” has the same meaning as RCW 59.18.030(34), as may be amended,
and excluding the living arrangements identi?ed in RCW 59.18.040, and RCW
59.20.03 0(24), as may be amended. At the time of passage of the ordinance codi?ed
in this chapter, the RLTA de?ned “tenant” as any person who is entitled to occupy
a dwelling unit primarily for living or dwelling purposes under a rental agreement,
and RCW 59.20.030 de?ned “tenant” as any person, except a transient, who rents
a mobile home lot.

5.52.020 Applicability.
Sections 5.52.030 through 5.52.050 apply to tenancies governed by Chapter 59.18
RCW (RLTA) and Chapter 59.20 RCW (Manufactured/Mobile Home Landlord-
Tenant Act) and are in addition to the provisions provided in said chapters.

5.52.030 Notice of rent increase.
A. Any rental agreement or renewal of a rental agreement shall state the dollar
amount of the rent or rent increase and include, or shall be deemed to include, a
                                                                          -
       5.52.040 Provisions in violation of restrictions null and void Exemption.
       A. Any provisions in violation of 5.52.030 in a rental agreement are null and void
       and of no lawful force and effect.

       B. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or applied so as to create any conflict
       with federal law. In the event of any con?ict, federal requirements shall supersede
       the requirements of this chapter.

                                                                    remedies                 -
       5.52.050 Rental     agreement     that   waives   tenant’s              prohibited
       Exception.
       A. No rental agreement, whether oral or written, may provide that the tenant waives
       or foregoes rights or remedies under this chapter, except as provided by subsection
       B of this section.

       B. A landlord and tenant may agree, in writing, to waive specific requirements of
       this chapter if all of the following conditions have been met:
              1. The agreement to waive speci?c provisions is in writing and identi?es the
             specific provisions to be waived; and
             2. The agreement may not appear in a standard form written lease or rental
             agreement; and
             3. The attorney for the tenant has approved in writing the agreement as
             complying with subsections B.l and B.2 of this section.

       5.52.060 Effect on Existing Lease Provisions.
       Any notice of rent increases lawfully given to an existing tenant prior to the
       effective date of this ordinance shall be deemed valid. Otherwise, the notice
       provisions of IMC 5.52.030 apply to all rental agreements as of the effective date
       of the ordinance enacting these code provisions.


       SECTION 3. Severability.        If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance

should be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity

or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of any other section, sentence, clause, or phrase

of this ordinance.
              Passed by the City Council of the City of Issaquah, the 6th day of September, 2022.

              Approved by the Mayor of the City of Issaquah, the 6th day of September, 2022.



                                                                MARY LOU PA         Y, MAYOR




ATTEST/AUTHENTICATED:



 r/mam
TISHA GIESER, CITY CLERK


APPROVED AS TO FORM:




RACHEL BENDER
                    TURPIN,%%ITY    ATTORNEY


PUBLISHED: Sept. 9, 2022
EFFECTIVE DATE: Oct. 6, 2022
ORDINANCE NO.: 2986 / AB 8451
