SOURCE: https://web.archive.org/web/20240517162133id_/https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/los_angeles/latest/lamc/0-0-0-361750
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: Wayback snapshot 2024-05-17 of the official American Legal page https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/los_angeles/latest/lamc/0-0-0-361750
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Skip to main content
Search
Login
Login
English
Select Language
*There may be discrepancies in the code when translating to other languages. Please note that the English language version is the official version of the code. American Legal Publishing and the jurisdiction whose laws are being translated do not vouch for the accuracy of any translated versions of such laws. PDF documents are not translated.
Resources
Sitemap
Accessibility
Help Center
Back to Library
Search
Login
Login
English
Select Language
English
Afrikaans
Albanian
Amharic
Arabic
Armenian
Azerbaijani
Basque
Belarusian
Bengali
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Catalan
Cebuano
Chichewa
Chinese (Simplified)
Chinese (Traditional)
Corsican
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Esperanto
Estonian
Filipino
Finnish
French
Frisian
Galician
Georgian
German
Greek
Gujarati
Haitian Creole
Hausa
Hawaiian
Hebrew
Hindi
Hmong
Hungarian
Icelandic
Igbo
Indonesian
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Javanese
Kannada
Kazakh
Khmer
Kinyarwanda
Korean
Kurdish (Kurmanji)
Kyrgyz
Lao
Latin
Latvian
Lithuanian
Luxembourgish
Macedonian
Malagasy
Malay
Malayalam
Maltese
Maori
Marathi
Mongolian
Myanmar (Burmese)
Nepali
Norwegian
Pashto
Persian
Polish
Portuguese
Punjabi
Romanian
Russian
Samoan
Scots Gaelic
Serbian
Sesotho
Shona
Sindhi
Sinhala
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
Spanish
Sundanese
Swahili
Swedish
Tajik
Tamil
Tatar
Telugu
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Urdu
Uyghur
Uzbek
Vietnamese
Welsh
Xhosa
Yiddish
Yoruba
Zulu
*There may be discrepancies in the code when translating to other languages. Please note that the English language version is the official version of the code. American Legal Publishing and the jurisdiction whose laws are being translated do not vouch for the accuracy of any translated versions of such laws. PDF documents are not translated.
Resources
Sitemap
Accessibility
Help Center
Skip to code content (skip section selection)

Created with Sketch.
2024 S-86
(current)
2024 S-86
(current)
Archived LAMC Chapter I
Old Charter, Election Code, Council Rules
Compare to:
- No Earlier Versions -
Archived LAMC Chapter I
Old Charter, Election Code, Council Rules
Los Angeles
Overview
Los Angeles Charter and Administrative Code
CHARTER
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
Los Angeles Municipal Code
MUNICIPAL CODE
Los Angeles Planning and Zoning
MUNICIPAL CODE, PLANNING AND ZONING
Chapter 1A City of Los Angeles Zoning Code
Chapter 1A_PDF
CA
Los Angeles
Los Angeles Municipal Code
SEC. 165.06. RELOCATION ASSISTANCE.
Annotations
Off
Follow
Changes
Share
Download
Bookmark
Print
Share
Download
Bookmark
Print
SEC. 165.06. RELOCATION ASSISTANCE.

A. If the termination of tenancy is based on any of the grounds set forth in Sections
165.03
H. through
165.03
N., then the landlord shall pay relocation assistance to the tenant as follows:

(1) For tenants who resided at the residential real property for fewer than three years: $19,400 to qualified tenants and $9,200 to all other tenants;

(2) For tenants who resided at the residential real property for three years or longer: $22,950 to qualified tenants and $12,050 to all other tenants;

(3) For tenants whose household income is 80% or below Area Median Income (AMI), as adjusted for household size, as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, regardless of length of tenancy: $22,950 to qualified tenants and $12,050 to all other tenants.

(4) The amounts of relocation in Sections
165.06
A.(1) through
165.06
A.(3) do not apply if lower relocation assistance is applicable under Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
151.30
E.

(5) Relocation fees owed to terminate tenancies under Section
165.03
K. or
165.03
M. shall be based on the applicable provisions of the Uniform Relocation Act, California Relocation Assistance Act, or the amounts set forth in this section, whichever is greater.

(6) When the residential real property is a single-family dwelling and the owner is a natural person, including natural persons who hold properties in a trust or registered legal entity controlled by that natural person, who owns no more than four dwelling units and a single-family home on a separate lot in the City of Los Angeles: one month's rent that was in effect when the landlord served the written notice to terminate the tenancy, as either a monetary payment or credit. Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
151.30
E. shall not apply.

(7) If more than one relocation assistance payment applies, the landlord shall pay the highest of the applicable payment. Nothing relieves the landlord from the obligation to provide relocation assistance pursuant to City administrative agency action or any other provision of local, state or federal law. If a tenant is entitled to monetary relocation benefits pursuant to City administrative agency action or any provision of local, state or federal law, then those benefits shall operate as a credit against any fee required to be paid to the tenant under this section.

B. Tenants who claim eligibility based on their income shall file a statement with the Department verifying their income on a form prescribed by the Department.

C. Requests for a hearing to appeal a decision regarding a tenant's relocation assistance eligibility, including disputes about eligibility for higher relocation assistance based on a tenant's income, age, length of tenancy, family status or disability status, must be filed in writing on the form prescribed by the Department and received by the Department within 15 calendar days of the date of the Department's notification of its decision regarding tenant relocation assistance. The Department shall charge a fee of $300 for any hearing request to pay for the cost of the appeal hearing.

D. The payment amounts shall be adjusted on an annual basis pursuant to the formula set forth in Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
151.06
D. The adjusted amount shall be rounded to the nearest $50 increment.

E. Relocation assistance payments to the tenant shall be made as follows:

(1) The entire fee shall be paid to a tenant who is the only tenant in the residential real property.

(2) If the residential real property is occupied by two or more tenants, then each tenant shall be paid an equal, pro-rata share of the fee.

F. If the termination of tenancy is based on the grounds set forth in Section
165.03
H.,
165.03
I.,
165.03
J.,
165.03
K., or
165.03
N., then the landlord shall also pay the City a fee for the purpose of providing relocation assistance by the City's Relocation Assistance Service Provider, as defined in Los Angeles Municipal Code Sections
47.06
B. and
47.07
B. The fee shall be $840 for each unit occupied by a qualified tenant and $522 for each unit occupied by other tenants, and an additional $72 per unit to pay for the administrative costs associated with this service. The fees may be increased in an amount based on the Consumer Price Index – All Urban Consumers averaged for the first 12-month period ending September 30 of each year, as determined and published by the Los Angeles Housing Department on or before May 30, of each year, pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
151.07
A.6. The Relocation Assistance Service Provider will provide the relocation assistance services listed in Los Angeles Municipal Code Sections
47.06
D and
47.07
D. These fees shall not be charged when Section
165.06
A.(6) applies.

G. The landlord shall perform the acts described in this section within 15 days of service of a written notice of termination described in California Civil Code Section 1946. The landlord may in its sole discretion elect to pay the monetary relocation benefits pursuant to this section to an escrow account to be disbursed to the tenant upon certification of vacation of the unit. The escrow account shall provide for the payment prior to vacation of all or a portion of the monetary relocation benefits for actual relocation expenses incurred or to be incurred by the tenant prior to vacation, including but not limited to security deposits, moving expense deposits and utility connection charges. Rent Adjustment Commission Regulations governing Relocation Assistance Escrow Accounts, Section 960.00, et seq., shall govern the establishment of escrow accounts, disbursements, disputes, and closure.

H. Any tenant subject to displacement because of a notice to vacate or other order requiring the vacation of an unpermitted dwelling unit in violation of the municipal code or any other provision of law, when the landlord has had a reasonable opportunity to correct the violation, shall be entitled to relocation payable by the landlord to the tenant within 15 days of service of the written notice of termination of the tenancy in accordance with this section.

I. No relocation assistance payment shall be required in the following circumstances:

(1) The landlord seeks in good faith to recover possession of the residential real property for use and occupancy by a resident manager, provided that the resident manager is replacing the existing resident manager in the same unit.

(2) The Department determines that the unit or structure became unsafe or hazardous as the result of a fire, flood, earthquake, or other event beyond the control of the owner or the designated agent and the owner or designated agent did not cause or contribute to the condition.

J. A landlord may offset the tenant's accumulated rent against any relocation assistance due under this section, unless the relocation assistance is owed because a termination of tenancy is required by a governmental agency order to vacate or comply issued for an unpermitted dwelling.

Disclaimer:

The information published on this website is updated periodically. Consequently, there may be delays of up to three (3) months between the passage of legislation and its posting. Please visit the City of Los Angeles website at www.lacity.org to see more recently-enacted legislation.
Hosted by:
American Legal Publishing
Back to Code Library
Previous Doc
Next Doc
0 items available
