SOURCE: https://web.archive.org/web/20250226023545id_/https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/los_angeles/latest/lamc/0-0-0-195527
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: Wayback snapshot 2025-02-26 of the official American Legal page https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/los_angeles/latest/lamc/0-0-0-195527
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Skip to main content
Search
Login
Login
English
Select Language
*There may be discrepancies in the code when translating to other languages. Please note that the English language version is the official version of the code. American Legal Publishing and the jurisdiction whose laws are being translated do not vouch for the accuracy of any translated versions of such laws. PDF documents are not translated.
Resources
Sitemap
Accessibility
Help Center
Back to Library
Search
Login
Login
English
Select Language
English
Afrikaans
Albanian
Amharic
Arabic
Armenian
Azerbaijani
Basque
Belarusian
Bengali
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Catalan
Cebuano
Chichewa
Chinese (Simplified)
Chinese (Traditional)
Corsican
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Esperanto
Estonian
Filipino
Finnish
French
Frisian
Galician
Georgian
German
Greek
Gujarati
Haitian Creole
Hausa
Hawaiian
Hebrew
Hindi
Hmong
Hungarian
Icelandic
Igbo
Indonesian
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Javanese
Kannada
Kazakh
Khmer
Kinyarwanda
Korean
Kurdish (Kurmanji)
Kyrgyz
Lao
Latin
Latvian
Lithuanian
Luxembourgish
Macedonian
Malagasy
Malay
Malayalam
Maltese
Maori
Marathi
Mongolian
Myanmar (Burmese)
Nepali
Norwegian
Pashto
Persian
Polish
Portuguese
Punjabi
Romanian
Russian
Samoan
Scots Gaelic
Serbian
Sesotho
Shona
Sindhi
Sinhala
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
Spanish
Sundanese
Swahili
Swedish
Tajik
Tamil
Tatar
Telugu
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Urdu
Uyghur
Uzbek
Vietnamese
Welsh
Xhosa
Yiddish
Yoruba
Zulu
*There may be discrepancies in the code when translating to other languages. Please note that the English language version is the official version of the code. American Legal Publishing and the jurisdiction whose laws are being translated do not vouch for the accuracy of any translated versions of such laws. PDF documents are not translated.
Resources
Sitemap
Accessibility
Help Center
Skip to code content (skip section selection)

Created with Sketch.
2024 Rev. 2
(current)
2024 Rev. 2
(current)
Archived LAMC Chapter I (January 21, 2024)
Old Charter, Election Code, Council Rules
Compare to:
- No Earlier Versions -
Archived LAMC Chapter I (January 21, 2024)
Old Charter, Election Code, Council Rules
Los Angeles
Overview
Los Angeles Charter and Administrative Code
CHARTER
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
Los Angeles Municipal Code
MUNICIPAL CODE
Los Angeles Planning and Zoning
MUNICIPAL CODE, PLANNING AND ZONING
Chapter 1A City of Los Angeles Zoning Code
Zoning
Table of Amending Legislation for Chapter 1A
MUNICIPAL CODE
CA
Los Angeles
Los Angeles Municipal Code
SEC. 151.06.02. PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON SECURITY DEPOSITS.
Annotations
Off
Follow
Changes
Share
Download
Bookmark
Print
Share
Download
Bookmark
Print
SEC. 151.06.02. PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON SECURITY DEPOSITS.

(Added by Ord. No. 166,368, Eff. 12/6/90.)

A. Security deposit is defined in Section 1950.5 of the California Civil Code.

B.
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,017, Eff. 7/16/01.)
A landlord who is subject to the provisions of Section 1950.5 of the California Civil Code shall pay annually interest on all security deposits held for at least one year for their tenants as follows:

1.
(Amended by Ord. No. 175,020, Eff. 2/1/03.)
Beginning January 1, 2003, the landlord may determine the annual rate of interest by either of the following methods:

(a) Using the annual rate of interest established by the Rent Adjustment Commission (RAC). That rate shall be based on the average of the interest rates on savings accounts paid on September 1 of the previous year, by at least five Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insured banks with branches in Los Angeles. RAC shall adopt the rate by November 30 of each year and shall publish that rate in a newspaper of general circulation within one week after it is established each year. The interest rate established by the RAC shall be the rate in effect from January 1 through December 31 of the subsequent year.

(b) Using the actual interest earned on each security deposit account each year. If the landlord chooses this method of determining the amount of interest due at the time of payment of the security deposit interest, the landlord shall provide the tenant with bank statements indicating the amount of interest earned on the security deposit for that year. In the event the landlord fails to provide that information to the tenant at the time it transmits payment of the interest to the tenant, the interest rate required to be paid, shall be the rate set by RAC.

(c) No interest shall accrue on security deposits for the period of January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002.

2. The annual interest rate shall be 2% simple interest per annum for tenants’ security deposits held during the period of January 1, 2001, through December 31, 2001.

3. The annual interest rate shall be 5% simple interest per annum for tenants’ security deposits held during the period of November 1, 1990, through December 31, 2000.

4. The Los Angeles Housing Department (“LAHD”) shall identify the established interest rate in the annual rental unit registration billings mailed to landlords. LAHD shall publish the established interest rate in a newspaper of general circulation.
(Amended by Ord. No. 187,122, Eff. 8/8/21.)

C.
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,017, Eff. 7/16/01.)
Interest shall begin accruing on November 1, 1990, on a monthly basis. A tenant shall be given the unpaid accrued interest in the form of either a direct payment or a credit against the tenant’s rent. The landlord shall choose between these two methods of payment and notify the tenant in writing of the landlord’s choice. The landlord may elect to pay the accrued interest on a monthly or yearly basis.

D. Upon termination of tenancy, only the tenant whose security deposit has been held for one year or more shall be entitled to payment of any unpaid accumulated interest on the security deposit. Such payment shall be made at the same time and in the same manner as required for return of security deposits in California Civil Code Section 1950.5(f).

E. Upon termination of a landlord’s interest in a property, all accumulated interest on security deposits shall be disposed of in the same manner as required for security deposits by California Civil Code Sections 1950.5(g) and (h).

F. Nothing herein shall preclude a landlord from exercising their discretion in investing security deposits.

G. In the event the landlord fails to pay interest on the security deposit as provided in this section, the tenant may bring an action for recovery of the amount owed in a court of the appropriate jurisdiction including, but not limited to, small claims court.

H. The provisions of this section shall not govern mobile home parks.

Disclaimer:

The information published on this website is updated periodically. Consequently, there may be delays of up to three (3) months between the passage of legislation and its posting. Please visit the City of Los Angeles website at www.lacity.org to see more recently-enacted legislation.
Hosted by:
American Legal Publishing
Back to Code Library
Previous Doc
Next Doc
0 items available
