SOURCE: https://web.archive.org/web/20250805233217id_/https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/los_angeles/latest/lamc/0-0-0-195445
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: Wayback snapshot 2025-08-05 of the official American Legal page https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/los_angeles/latest/lamc/0-0-0-195445
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Skip to main content
Search
Login
Login
English
Select Language
*There may be discrepancies in the code when translating to other languages. Please note that the English language version is the official version of the code. American Legal Publishing and the jurisdiction whose laws are being translated do not vouch for the accuracy of any translated versions of such laws. PDF documents are not translated.
Resources
Sitemap
Accessibility
Help Center
Back to Library
Search
Login
Login
English
Select Language
English
Afrikaans
Albanian
Amharic
Arabic
Armenian
Azerbaijani
Basque
Belarusian
Bengali
Bosnian
Bulgarian
Catalan
Cebuano
Chichewa
Chinese (Simplified)
Chinese (Traditional)
Corsican
Croatian
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Esperanto
Estonian
Filipino
Finnish
French
Frisian
Galician
Georgian
German
Greek
Gujarati
Haitian Creole
Hausa
Hawaiian
Hebrew
Hindi
Hmong
Hungarian
Icelandic
Igbo
Indonesian
Irish
Italian
Japanese
Javanese
Kannada
Kazakh
Khmer
Kinyarwanda
Korean
Kurdish (Kurmanji)
Kyrgyz
Lao
Latin
Latvian
Lithuanian
Luxembourgish
Macedonian
Malagasy
Malay
Malayalam
Maltese
Maori
Marathi
Mongolian
Myanmar (Burmese)
Nepali
Norwegian
Pashto
Persian
Polish
Portuguese
Punjabi
Romanian
Russian
Samoan
Scots Gaelic
Serbian
Sesotho
Shona
Sindhi
Sinhala
Slovak
Slovenian
Somali
Spanish
Sundanese
Swahili
Swedish
Tajik
Tamil
Tatar
Telugu
Thai
Turkish
Ukrainian
Urdu
Uyghur
Uzbek
Vietnamese
Welsh
Xhosa
Yiddish
Yoruba
Zulu
*There may be discrepancies in the code when translating to other languages. Please note that the English language version is the official version of the code. American Legal Publishing and the jurisdiction whose laws are being translated do not vouch for the accuracy of any translated versions of such laws. PDF documents are not translated.
Resources
Sitemap
Accessibility
Help Center
Skip to code content (skip section selection)

Created with Sketch.
2025 Rev. 5
(current)
2025 Rev. 5
(current)
Archived LAMC Chapter I (January 21, 2024)
Old Charter, Election Code, Council Rules
Compare to:
- No Earlier Versions -
Archived LAMC Chapter I (January 21, 2024)
Old Charter, Election Code, Council Rules
Los Angeles
Overview
Los Angeles Charter and Administrative Code
CHARTER
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
Los Angeles Municipal Code
MUNICIPAL CODE
Los Angeles Planning and Zoning
MUNICIPAL CODE, PLANNING AND ZONING
Chapter 1A City of Los Angeles Zoning Code
Zoning
Table of Amending Legislation for Chapter 1A
MUNICIPAL CODE
CA
Los Angeles
Los Angeles Municipal Code
SEC. 151.06. AUTOMATIC ADJUSTMENTS.
Annotations
Off
Follow
Changes
Share
Download
Bookmark
Print
Share
Download
Bookmark
Print
SEC. 151.06. AUTOMATIC ADJUSTMENTS.

(Title Amended by Ord. No. 153,552, Eff. 5/1/80; Section Amended by Ord. No. 154,237, Eff. 8/30/80, Oper. 9/1/80.)

The maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent for a rental unit may be increased without permission of the Rent Adjustment Commission or the Department, as follows:

A. For a rental unit which has not had a rent increase since May 31, 1976 (other than one imposed pursuant to Section 3B(5) or (6) of Ordinance No. 151,415, as amended and/or Section
151.07
of this chapter:

Prior to any increase pursuant to Subsection D. of the section, a landlord may increase the maximum rent by an amount not to exceed 19%, but if the landlord pays all the costs of electricity and/or gas services for a rental unit, then the maximum or maximum adjusted rent may be increased an additional 1% for each such service paid by the landlord. Thereafter, the rent may be adjusted automatically only in accordance with Subsections C. and D.

B. For a rental unit which has not had a rent increase since May 31, 1977 (other than one imposed pursuant to Section 3B(5) or (6) of Ordinance No. 151,415, as amended, and/or Section
151.07
of this chapter) but which did have a rent increase within one year prior to that date:

Prior to an increase pursuant to Subsection D. of this section, a landlord may increase the maximum rent by an amount not to exceed 13%, but if the landlord pays all the costs of electricity and/or gas services for a rental unit, then the maximum or maximum adjusted rent may be increased an additional 1% for each such service paid by the landlord. Thereafter, the rent may be adjusted automatically only in accordance with Subsections C. and D. below.

C.
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)
Where all of the tenants have vacated a rental unit subject to the provisions of this Article, the following provisions apply:

1. The landlord may increase the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent to any amount upon re-rental of the unit in any of the following circumstances:

(a) the rental unit was vacated voluntarily.

(b) the rental unit was vacated as a result of the landlord’s termination of tenancy pursuant to Subdivisions 1., 2., 9. or 13. of Subsection A. of Section
151.09
of this Code.

(c) the rental unit was vacated as a result of the landlord’s termination of tenancy pursuant to Subdivisions 3. or 4. of Subsection A. of Section
151.09
of this Code, and

i. The landlord served a written notice required to terminate tenancy on the tenant prior to the City Attorney commencing a court action against the tenant pursuant to Section
47.50
of this Code; and

ii. The eviction or termination of tenancy is based upon information provided by a law enforcement or prosecution agency that the tenant is committing or permitting to exist any gang-related crime, violent crime, unlawful weapon or ammunition crime, threat of violent crime, illegal drug activity or drug-related nuisance as those terms are defined in Section
47.50
of this Code. Thereafter, so long as the rental unit continues to be rented to one or more of the same persons, no other rent increase shall be imposed pursuant to this Subsection.

2. The landlord may only offer and rent the rental unit at the lawful rent in effect at the time of the most recent termination of tenancy plus annual adjustments available under Section
151.06
of this Article in any of the following circumstances:

(a) The rental unit is vacated as a result of the termination of the Housing Assistance Payment Contract between the landlord and the Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles because of the landlord’s failure to comply with the contractual obligations required by law.

(b) The rental unit was vacated as a result of the landlord’s termination of tenancy pursuant to Subdivision 5., 6., 7., 8., 10., 11. or 12. of Subsection A. of Section
151.09
of this Code, or pursuant to Subdivisions 3. or 4. of Subsection A. of Section
151.09
of this Code except as otherwise provided under Subparagraph c. of Subdivision 1. of Subsection C. of this Section;

(c) The rental unit was vacated as a result of the landlord creating an unreason- able interference with the tenant’s comfort, safety or enjoyment of the rental unit;

(d) The rental unit is vacated voluntarily by a tenant who was the next tenant after an eviction pursuant to Subdivision 8. of Subsection A. of Section
151.09
of this Code;

(e) The rental unit is vacated as a result of the termination of the regulation of the rental unit under any local, state or federal program;

(f) The rental unit is the subject of a notice of noncompliance sent to the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to Section 17274 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and the violations that were the subject of the notice have not been corrected;

(g) If the rental unit is the subject of a notice of acceptance into the Rent Escrow Account Program issued pursuant to Section
162.00
, et seq., of this Code, until the unit is removed from the Rent Escrow Account Program and for one year thereafter, or until expiration of the period called for under Section
161.807
, if applicable, whichever is later, the property owner/ landlord or any subsequent property owner/ landlord shall not increase the rent for any current or any subsequent tenant except as provided by the Costa Hawkins Rental Housing Act, Civil Code Section 1954.50, et seq., and/or any other applicable law.
(Amended by Ord. No. 184,446, Eff. 9/28/16.)

(h) The rental unit is the subject of a criminal conviction related to the landlord’s failure to comply with a citation or order issued by the Los Angeles Housing Department, Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety, Los Angeles Fire Department, or Department of Health with
respect to the subject rental unit, and the conditions that caused the conviction have not been corrected.
(Amended by Ord. No. 187,122, Eff. 8/8/21.)

3. If the rental unit is vacated as a result of a removal of the rental unit from rental housing use pursuant to Subdivision 10. of Subsection A. of Section
151.09
of this Code, the landlord must comply with the requirements of Sections
151.22
through
151.28
of this Code, including applicable limitations on the amount of rent.

D. For a rental unit which at any time on or after the operative date of this chapter has not had a rent increase for a period of 12 consecutive months or more (other than one lawfully imposed pursuant to Section 3.B.(5) or (6) of Ordinance No. 151,415, as amended), and/or pursuant to Subsection E. of this section and/or pursuant to Section
151.07
of this chapter:
(Amended by Ord. No. 184,822, Eff. 4/30/17.)

The maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent may be increased in an amount based on the Consumer Price Index – All Urban Consumers averaged for the twelve (12) month period ending September 30, of each year, as determined and published by the Department on or before May 30, of each year, pursuant to Section
151.07
A.6. of this chapter. This annual adjustment may be applied to any annual rent increase which first becomes effective on or before July 1, through June 30, of each year. If the landlord pays all the costs of electricity and/or gas services for a rental unit then the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent may be increased an additional one percent (1%) for each such service paid by the landlord, not to exceed a total of two percent (2%). If a rent increase had been imposed pursuant to Subsection A., B., C. or F.1., of this section, then no rent increase may be imposed pursuant to this subsection until twelve (12) consecutive months or more have elapsed since such rent increase.
(Amended by Ord. No. 159,908, Eff. 6/30/85 Oper. 7/1/85.)

EXCEPTION: (Amended by Ord. No. 170,445, Eff. 5/6/95, Oper. 7/5/95.)

This subsection shall not apply in the following circumstances:

If the rental unit is the subject of a notice of noncompliance sent to the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to Section 17274 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and the violations that were the subject of the Notice have not been corrected; or

If the rental unit is the subject of a notice of rent reduction or a Notice of Acceptance issued pursuant to this chapter, and the conditions that caused the placement have not been corrected; or

If the rental unit is the subject of a criminal conviction related to the landlord’s failure to comply with a citation or order issued by the Department of Building and Safety, Fire Department, or Department of Health with respect to the subject rental unit, and the conditions that caused the conviction have not been corrected.

E.
(Amended by Ord. No. 154,808, Eff. 2/13/81.)
For a rental unit which had an automatic rent adjustment between May 1, 1980 and August 31, 1980, inclusive, and for which the landlord pays all the costs of electricity and/or gas services for a rental unit:

The maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent may be increased 1% for each such service paid by the landlord. A landlord may not increase rent pursuant to this subsection on or after May 1, 1981.

F.
(Added by Ord. No. 158,891, Eff. 6/4/84.)
For a rental unit, which is the site within a mobilehome park (hereafter “
site
”) on which a mobilehome is located and is vacated by all the tenants after the operative date of this subsection;

1. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, if the mobilehome on the site is vacated voluntarily or as a result of an eviction or termination of tenancy based on one or more of the grounds described in Section
151.09
A.1., A.2. or A.9., and the mobilehome is permanently removed from the site, then the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent may be increased to any amount upon the re-rental of the site. Thereafter, as long as the site continues to be rented to one or more of the same persons, no other rent increase shall be imposed pursuant to this subdivision.

However, this subdivision shall not apply in the following circumstances:

a. If the mobilehome has been temporarily removed for repairs; or

b. If the mobilehome has been replaced with a new mobilehome that one or more of the same tenants will occupy.

2. If the site is voluntarily vacated by all the tenants as a result of a sale of the mobile- home, and the mobilehome is not removed from the site, then the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent may be increased by an amount not to exceed the rent on any existing comparable site in the park, or ten percent (10%), whichever is the lower. A comparable site for the purposes of this subdivision shall be a site within the same park which has a mobilehome located on it which is substantially the same size (single, double or triple wide) as the mobilehome that was sold.

Thereafter, as long as the site continues to be rented to one or more of the same persons, no other rent increase shall be imposed pursuant to this subdivision. The rent may only be increased pursuant to this subdivision once in any twelve consecutive month period.

G.
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)
For a rental unit which has an additional tenant joining the occupants of the rental unit thereby resulting in an increase in the number of tenants existing at the inception of the tenancy:

(a) The landlord may increase the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent by an amount not to exceed 10% for each additional tenant that joins the occupants of the rental unit, except as follows:

(i) This Subsection shall not apply if the landlord had actual or constructive knowledge of the additional tenant’s occupancy of the rental unit for more than 60 days and has failed to notify the tenant of the increase pursuant to this Subsection;

(ii) If the additional tenant joined the occupants of the rental unit prior to the effective date of this amendment and the landlord had actual or constructive knowledge of the additional tenant’s occupancy of the rental unit prior to the effective date of this amendment, the landlord shall not be able to increase the rent pursuant to this Subsection unless the landlord had notified the tenant of the increase within 60 days of the effective date of this amendment;

(iii) This Subsection shall not apply for the first minor dependent child (or first minor dependent children of a multiple birth) added to an existing tenancy.

(b) The rental unit shall not be eligible for a rent increase until the additional tenant has maintained residence in the rental unit for a minimum of thirty consecutive days.

Disclaimer:

The information published on this website is updated periodically. Consequently, there may be delays of up to three (3) months between the passage of legislation and its posting. Please visit the City of Los Angeles website at www.lacity.org to see more recently-enacted legislation.
Hosted by:
American Legal Publishing
Back to Code Library
Previous Doc
Next Doc
0 items available
