SOURCE: https://library.municode.com/ca/long_beach/codes/municipal_code?nodeId=TIT8HESA_CH8.101TEHA
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: municode API job 499063 (Supplement 52 Update 2), product 16115; 7 sections
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHAPTER 8.101 - TENANT HARASSMENT


8.101.010 - Purpose.
The purpose of this Chapter is to deter harassing behavior by residential real property
owners, to encourage such owners to follow the law and uphold their responsibility
to provide habitable rental properties, and to give tenants legal recourse when they
are subjected to harassment by owners.

(
ORD-20-0044(Emerg.)
§ 1, 2020)

8.101.020 - Definitions.
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Chapter, shall be construed
as defined in this Section:

A.

Owner. The term "owner" is any person, acting as principal or agent, offering a rental
housing unit for rent, or any contractor or subcontractor performing work for the
benefit of such person, or any representative of the foregoing.

B.

Rental agreement. The term "rental agreement" means an agreement, oral, written, or
implied, between an owner and a tenant for the use and/or occupancy of a rental housing
unit.

C.

Rental housing unit. The term "rental housing unit" is any dwelling or unit that is
intended or used for human habitation.

D.

Tenant. The term "tenant" shall mean any renter, tenant, subtenant, lessee, or sublessee
of a rental housing unit.

(
ORD-20-0044(Emerg.)
§ 1, 2020)

8.101.030 - Prohibition of tenant harassment.
No owner shall:

A.

Interrupt, terminate, or fail to provide housing services required by a rental agreement
or by Federal, State, County, or local housing, health, or safety laws, or threaten
to do so, or violate or threaten to violate California Civil Code Section 789.3.

B.

Acting in bad faith, (i) fail to timely perform repairs and maintenance required by
a rental agreement or by Federal, State, County or local housing, health or safety
laws; (ii) fail to exercise due diligence in completing such repairs once undertaken;
(iii) fail to follow appropriate industry repair, containment, or remediation protocols
designed to minimize exposure to noise, dust, lead, paint, mold, asbestos, or other
building materials with potentially harmful health impacts; or (iv) conduct elective
renovation or construction of a rental housing unit for the purpose of harassing a
tenant.

C.

Abuse the right of access into a rental housing unit as established by California
Civil Code Section 1954 or other applicable law. Such abuse includes, without limitation,
entries for inspections that are not related to necessary repairs or services; entries
excessive in number; entries or demands for entry at times outside normal business
hours; entries contrary to a tenant's reasonable request to change the date or time
of entry; photographing or otherwise recording portions of a rental housing unit that
are beyond the scope of a lawful entry or inspection; and misrepresenting the reasons
for accessing a rental housing unit.

D.

Influence or attempt to influence a tenant to vacate a rental housing unit through
fraud, misrepresentation, intimidation or coercion, which shall include threatening
to report a tenant to the United States Department of Homeland Security.

E.

Threaten a tenant, by word or gesture, with physical harm, or abuse tenant with words,
either orally or in writing, which are inherently likely to provoke an immediate violent
reaction.

F.

Violate any law which prohibits discrimination based on race, gender, sexual preference,
sexual orientation, ethnic background, nationality, religion, age, parenthood, marriage,
pregnancy, disability, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (AIDS), occupancy by a minor child, or source of income.

G.

Take action to terminate any tenancy, including service of any notice to quit or other
eviction notice, or bring any action to recover possession of a rental housing unit,
based upon facts which owner has no reasonable cause to believe to be true or upon
a legal theory which is untenable under the facts known to owner.

H.

Provide false written or verbal information regarding any Federal, State, County or
local tenant protections, including mischaracterizing the nature or effect of a notice
to quit or other eviction notice. False information includes, without limitation,
requesting or demanding a tenant: (i) sign a new lease not in the tenant's primary
language if (a) lease negotiations were conducted in the tenant's primary language,
(b) the existing lease is in the tenant's primary language, or (c) owner is otherwise
aware that the new lease is not in tenant's primary language; or (ii) enter into a
rent repayment plan to take advantage of tenant protection laws that do not require
such plans.

I.

Acting in bad faith, (i) refuse to acknowledge or accept receipt of a tenant's lawful
rent payment as set forth in a rental agreement, by usual practice of the parties,
or in a notice to pay rent or quit; (ii) refuse to cash or process a rent check or
other form of acceptable rent payment for over thirty (30) days after it is tendered;
or (iii) fail to maintain a current address for delivery of rent payments.

J.

Acting in bad faith, (i) violate a tenant's right to privacy, including without limitation,
by requesting information regarding residence or citizenship status, protected class
status, or Social Security number, except for, in the case of Social Security number,
for purposes of obtaining information for the qualifications for a tenancy; (ii) release
such information except as required or authorized by law; or (iii) request or demand
an unreasonable amount of information from tenant in response to a request for reasonable
accommodation.

K.

Acting in bad faith, communicate with a tenant in a language other than the tenant's
primary language for the purpose of intimidating, confusing, deceiving or annoying
the tenant.

L.

Interfere with the right of tenants to organize as tenants and engage in concerted
activities with other tenants for the purpose of mutual aid and protection; deny property
access to tenant organizers, advocates, or representatives working with or on behalf
of tenants living at a property; prevent tenant or tenant organization meetings in
an appropriate space accessible to tenants under the terms of their rental agreement(s);
or discourage distribution or posting in common areas of literature informing tenants
of their rights.

M.

Commit other repeated acts or omissions of such significance as to substantially interfere
with or disturb the comfort, repose, peace or quiet of any person lawfully entitled
to occupancy of a rental housing unit and that cause, are likely to cause, or are
intended to cause any person lawfully entitled to occupancy of a rental housing unit
to vacate such rental housing unit or to surrender or waive any rights in relation
to such occupancy.

(
ORD-20-0049(Emerg.)
§ 1, 2020;
ORD-20-0044(Emerg.)
§ 1, 2020)

8.101.040 - Remedies and penalties.
A.

If an owner violates the terms of this Chapter, an aggrieved tenant may institute
a civil action for injunctive relief, direct money damages, and any other relief that
the court deems appropriate, which such relief shall include a civil penalty of no
less than Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000), and no more than Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000),
per violation, at the discretion of the court. If the aggrieved tenant is older than
sixty-five (65) or disabled, the court may award an additional civil penalty of up
to Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000) per violation, at the discretion of the court.

B.

The court may award reasonable attorneys' fees and costs to a tenant who prevails
in any such action. The court may award reasonable attorneys' fees and costs to an
owner who prevails in any such action if the court determines that the tenant's action
was frivolous.

C.

The above remedies are not exclusive and do not preclude any tenant from seeking other
remedies or penalties provided by applicable law.

(
ORD-20-0044(Emerg.)
§ 1, 2020)

8.101.050 - Severability.
If any provision of this Chapter is found to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid
by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity shall not affect the remaining
provisions of this Chapter which can be implemented without the invalid provisions,
and to this end, the provisions of this article are declared to be severable. The
City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this Chapter and each provision
thereof irrespective of whether any one or more provisions are found invalid, unconstitutional
or otherwise unenforceable.

(
ORD-20-0044(Emerg.)
§ 1, 2020)

8.101.060 - Lawful Evictions.
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as to prevent an owner from lawfully evicting
a tenant pursuant to applicable State or local law.

(
ORD-20-0044(Emerg.)
§ 1, 2020)

