SOURCE: https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/ors/ors084.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oregon Revised Statutes

Chapter
84 — Electronic Transactions

2025
EDITION

ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS

UNIFORM ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS ACT

84.001 Short title

84.004 Definitions for ORS
84.001 to 84.061

84.007 Scope

84.010 Prospective application

84.013 Use of electronic
records and electronic signatures; variation by agreement

84.014 Consent for conducting
transaction with governmental agency

84.016 Construction and
application

84.019 Legal recognition of
electronic records, electronic signatures and electronic contracts

84.022 Provision of
information in writing; presentation of records

84.025 Attribution and effect
of electronic record and electronic signature

84.028 Effect of change or
error

84.031 Notarization and
acknowledgment

84.034 Retention of
electronic records; originals

84.037 Admissibility in
evidence

84.040 Automated transaction

84.043 Time and place of
sending and receipt

84.046 Transferable records

84.049 Creation and retention
of electronic records by governmental agency; conversion of records into
electronic records

84.052 Acceptance and
distribution of electronic records by governmental agencies

84.055 Interoperability

84.058 Severability clause

84.061 Federal electronic signatures
law partially superseded

84.063 Rules

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

84.064 State Chief
Information Officer duties; rules

84.067 State Archivist duties

84.070 Consumer transactions;
treatment of oral communications; consent to use of electronic records

84.072 Conditions under which
public body may send notice by electronic mail

UNIFORM ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS ACT

84.001 Short
title.
ORS 84.001
to 84.061 may be cited as the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act. [2001 c.535 §1]

84.004
Definitions for ORS 84.001 to 84.061.

As used in ORS 84.001 to 84.061:

(1) “Agreement”
means the bargain of the parties in fact, as found in their language or
inferred from other circumstances and from rules, regulations and procedures
given the effect of agreements under laws otherwise applicable to a particular
transaction.

(2) “Automated
transaction” means a transaction conducted or performed, in whole or in part,
by electronic means or electronic records, in which the acts or records of one
or both parties are not reviewed by an individual in the ordinary course in
forming a contract, performing under an existing contract or fulfilling an
obligation required by the transaction.

(3) “Computer
program” means a set of statements or instructions to be used directly or
indirectly in an information processing system in order to bring about a
certain result.

(4) “Contract”
means the total legal obligation resulting from the parties’ agreement under
ORS 84.001 to 84.061 and other applicable law.

(5) “Electronic”
means relating to technology having electrical, digital, magnetic, wireless,
optical, electromagnetic or similar capabilities.

(6) “Electronic
agent” means a computer program or an electronic or other automated means used
independently to initiate an action or respond to electronic records or
performances in whole or in part, without review or action by an individual.

(7) “Electronic
record” means a record created, generated, sent, communicated, received or
stored by electronic means.

(8) “Electronic
signature” means an electronic sound, symbol or process attached to or
logically associated with a record and executed or adopted by a person with the
intent to sign the record.

(9) “Governmental
agency” means an executive, legislative or judicial agency, department, board,
commission, authority, institution or instrumentality of the federal government
or of a state or of a county, municipality or other political subdivision of a
state.

(10) “Information”
means data, text, images, sounds, codes, computer programs, software, databases
or the like.

(11) “Information
processing system” means an electronic system for creating, generating,
sending, receiving, storing, displaying or processing information.

(12) “Person”
means an individual, corporation, business trust, partnership, limited
liability company, association, joint venture, governmental agency, public
corporation or any other legal or commercial entity.

(13) “Record”
means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in
an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.

(14) “Security
procedure” means a procedure employed for the purpose of verifying that an
electronic signature, record or performance is that of a specific person or for
detecting changes or errors in the information in an electronic record. “Security
procedure” includes a procedure that requires the use of algorithms or other
codes, identifying words or numbers, encryption, or callback or other
acknowledgment procedures.

(15) “State”
means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the
United States Virgin Islands or any territory or insular possession subject to
the jurisdiction of the United States. “State” includes an Indian tribe or band
or an Alaska Native village that is recognized by federal law or formally
acknowledged by a state.

(16) “Transaction”
means an action or set of actions occurring between two or more persons
relating to the conduct of business, commercial or governmental affairs. [2001
c.535 §2; 2009 c.294 §10; 2021 c.97 §7]

84.007 Scope.
(1) Except as otherwise provided
in subsection (2) of this section, ORS 84.001 to 84.061 apply to electronic
records and electronic signatures relating to a transaction.

(2) ORS 84.001 to
84.061 do not apply to a transaction to the extent it is governed by:

(a) A law
governing the creation and execution of wills, codicils or testamentary trusts;
or

(b) The Uniform
Commercial Code other than ORS chapters 72 and 72A.

(3) ORS 84.001 to
84.061 apply to an electronic record or electronic signature otherwise excluded
from the application of ORS 84.001 to 84.061 under subsection (2) of this
section to the extent it is governed by a law other than those specified in
subsection (2) of this section.

(4) A transaction
subject to ORS 84.001 to 84.061 is also subject to other applicable substantive
law. [2001 c.535 §3; 2009 c.181 §103]

84.010
Prospective application.

ORS 84.001 to 84.061 apply to any electronic record or electronic signature
created, generated, sent, communicated, received or stored on or after June 22,
2001. [2001 c.535 §4]

84.013 Use of
electronic records and electronic signatures; variation by agreement.
(1) ORS 84.001 to 84.061 do not
require a record or signature to be created, generated, sent, communicated,
received, stored or otherwise processed or used by electronic means or in
electronic form.

(2) ORS 84.001 to
84.061 apply only to transactions between parties, each of which has agreed to
conduct transactions by electronic means. Whether the parties agree to conduct
a transaction by electronic means is determined from the context and surrounding
circumstances, including the parties’ conduct.

(3) A party that
agrees to conduct a transaction by electronic means may refuse to conduct other
transactions by electronic means. The right granted by this subsection may not
be waived by agreement.

(4) Except as
otherwise provided in ORS 84.001 to 84.061, the effect of any provision of ORS
84.001 to 84.061 may be varied by agreement. The presence in certain provisions
of ORS 84.001 to 84.061 of the words “unless otherwise agreed,” or words of
similar import, does not imply that the effect of other provisions of ORS
84.001 to 84.061 may not be varied by agreement.

(5) Whether an
electronic record or electronic signature has legal consequences is determined
by ORS 84.001 to 84.061 and other applicable law. [2001 c.535 §5]

84.014 Consent
for conducting transaction with governmental agency.
Notwithstanding the provisions of
ORS 84.013, a governmental agency does not require an individual’s agreement or
consent to conduct a transaction by electronic means or create or retain an
electronic record of a transaction if the governmental agency conducts
transactions by electronic means or creates, sends, accepts, generates,
communicates, stores, processes, uses or relies on electronic records of
transactions regularly and in the course of the governmental agency’s ordinary
business. [2011 c.39 §2]

84.016
Construction and application.

ORS 84.001 to 84.061 must be construed and applied:

(1) To facilitate
electronic transactions consistent with other applicable law;

(2) To be
consistent with reasonable practices concerning electronic transactions and
with the continued expansion of those practices; and

(3) To effectuate
the general purpose of ORS 84.001 to 84.061 to make uniform the law with
respect to the subject of ORS 84.001 to 84.061 among states enacting it. [2001
c.535 §6]

84.019 Legal
recognition of electronic records, electronic signatures and electronic
contracts.
(1) A
record or signature may not be denied legal effect or enforceability solely
because it is in electronic form.

(2) A contract
may not be denied legal effect or enforceability solely because an electronic
record was used in its formation.

(3) If a law
requires a record to be in writing, an electronic record satisfies the law.

(4) If a law
requires a signature, an electronic signature satisfies the law. [2001 c.535 §7]

84.022
Provision of information in writing; presentation of records.
(1) If parties have agreed to
conduct a transaction by electronic means and a law requires a person to
provide, send or deliver information in writing to another person, the
requirement is satisfied if the information is provided, sent or delivered, as the
case may be, in an electronic record capable of retention by the recipient at
the time of receipt. An electronic record is not capable of retention by the
recipient if the sender or its information processing system inhibits the
ability of the recipient to print or store the electronic record.

(2) If a law
other than ORS 84.001 to 84.061 requires a record (i) to be posted or displayed
in a certain manner, (ii) to be sent, communicated or transmitted by a
specified method, or (iii) to contain information that is formatted in a
certain manner, the following rules apply:

(a) The record
must be posted or displayed in the manner specified in the other law.

(b) Except as
otherwise provided in subsection (4)(b) of this section, the record must be
sent, communicated or transmitted by the method specified in the other law.

(c) The record
must contain the information formatted in the manner specified in the other
law.

(3) If a sender
inhibits the ability of a recipient to store or print an electronic record, the
electronic record is not enforceable against the recipient.

(4) The
requirements of this section may not be varied by agreement, but:

(a) To the extent
a law other than ORS 84.001 to 84.061 requires information to be provided, sent
or delivered in writing but permits that requirement to be varied by agreement,
the requirement under subsection (1) of this section that the information be in
the form of an electronic record capable of retention may also be varied by
agreement; and

(b) A requirement
under a law other than ORS 84.001 to 84.061 to send, communicate or transmit a
record by first-class mail, postage prepaid may be varied by agreement to the
extent permitted by the other law. [2001 c.535 §8]

84.025
Attribution and effect of electronic record and electronic signature.
(1) An electronic record or
electronic signature is attributable to a person if it was the act of the
person. The act of the person may be shown in any manner, including a showing
of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the person to
which the electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.

(2) The effect of
an electronic record or electronic signature attributed to a person under
subsection (1) of this section is determined from the context and surrounding
circumstances at the time of its creation, execution or adoption, including the
parties’ agreement, if any, and otherwise as provided by law. [2001 c.535 §9]

84.028 Effect
of change or error.

If a change or error in an electronic record occurs in a transmission between
parties to a transaction, the following rules apply:

(1) If the
parties have agreed to use a security procedure to detect changes or errors and
one party has conformed to the procedure, but the other party has not, and the
nonconforming party would have detected the change or error had that party also
conformed, the conforming party may avoid the effect of the changed or
erroneous electronic record.

(2) In an
automated transaction involving an individual, the individual may avoid the
effect of an electronic record that resulted from an error made by the
individual in dealing with the electronic agent of another person if the
electronic agent did not provide an opportunity for the prevention or
correction of the error and, at the time the individual learns of the error,
the individual:

(a) Promptly
notifies the other person of the error and that the individual did not intend
to be bound by the electronic record received by the other person;

(b) Takes
reasonable steps, including steps that conform to the other person’s reasonable
instructions, to return to the other person or, if instructed by the other
person, to destroy the consideration received, if any, as a result of the
erroneous electronic record; and

(c) Has not used
or received any benefit or value from the consideration, if any, received from
the other person.

(3) If neither
subsection (1) nor (2) of this section applies, the change or error has the
effect provided by other law, including the law of mistake, and the parties’
contract, if any.

(4) Subsections
(2) and (3) of this section may not be varied by agreement. [2001 c.535 §10]

84.031
Notarization and acknowledgment.

If a law requires a signature or record to be notarized, acknowledged, verified
or made under oath, the requirement is satisfied if the electronic signature of
the person authorized to perform those acts, together with all other
information required to be included by other applicable law, is attached to or
logically associated with the signature or record. [2001 c.535 §11]

84.034
Retention of electronic records; originals.
(1) If a law requires that a record be retained, the
requirement is satisfied by retaining an electronic record of the information
in the record that:

(a) Accurately
reflects the information set forth in the record after it was first generated
in its final form as an electronic record or otherwise; and

(b) Remains
accessible for later reference.

(2) A requirement
to retain a record in accordance with subsection (1) of this section does not
apply to any information the sole purpose of which is to enable the record to
be sent, communicated or received.

(3) A person may
satisfy subsection (1) of this section by using the services of another person
if the requirements of subsection (1) of this section are satisfied.

(4) If a law
requires a record to be presented or retained in its original form, or provides
consequences if the record is not presented or retained in its original form,
that law is satisfied by an electronic record retained in accordance with
subsection (1) of this section.

(5) If a law
requires retention of a check, that requirement is satisfied by retention of an
electronic record of the information on the front and back of the check in
accordance with subsection (1) of this section.

(6) A record
retained as an electronic record in accordance with subsection (1) of this
section satisfies a law requiring a person to retain a record for evidentiary,
audit or like purposes, unless a law enacted after June 22, 2001, specifically
prohibits the use of an electronic record for the specified purpose.

(7) This section
does not preclude a governmental agency of this state from specifying
additional requirements for the retention of a record subject to the agency’s
jurisdiction. [2001 c.535 §12]

84.037
Admissibility in evidence.

In a proceeding, evidence of a record or signature may not be excluded solely
because it is in electronic form. [2001 c.535 §13]

84.040
Automated transaction.

In an automated transaction, the following rules apply:

(1) A contract
may be formed by the interaction of electronic agents of the parties, even if
no individual was aware of or reviewed the electronic agents’ actions or the
resulting terms and agreements.

(2) A contract
may be formed by the interaction of an electronic agent and an individual,
acting on the individual’s own behalf or for another person, including by an
interaction in which the individual performs actions that the individual is
free to refuse to perform and that the individual knows or has reason to know
will cause the electronic agent to complete the transaction or performance.

(3) The terms of
a contract are determined by the substantive law applicable to it. [2001 c.535 §14]

84.043 Time
and place of sending and receipt.

(1) Unless otherwise agreed between the sender and the recipient, an electronic
record is sent when it:

(a) Is addressed
properly or otherwise directed properly to an information processing system
that the recipient has designated or uses for the purpose of receiving
electronic records or information of the type sent and from which the recipient
is able to retrieve the electronic record;

(b) Is in a form
capable of being processed by that system; and

(c) Enters an
information processing system outside the control of the sender or of a person
that sent the electronic record on behalf of the sender or enters a region of
the information processing system designated or used by the recipient and that
is under the control of the recipient.

(2) Unless
otherwise agreed between a sender and the recipient, an electronic record is
received when:

(a) It enters an
information processing system that the recipient has designated or uses for the
purpose of receiving electronic records or information of the type sent and
from which the recipient is able to retrieve the electronic record; and

(b) It is in a
form capable of being processed by that system.

(3) Subsection
(2) of this section applies even if the place the information processing system
is located is different from the place the electronic record is deemed to be
received under subsection (4) of this section.

(4) Unless
otherwise expressly provided in the electronic record or agreed between the
sender and the recipient, an electronic record is deemed to be sent from the
sender’s place of business and to be received at the recipient’s place of
business. For purposes of this subsection, the following rules apply:

(a) If the sender
or recipient has more than one place of business, the place of business of that
person is the place having the closest relationship to the underlying
transaction.

(b) If the sender
or the recipient does not have a place of business, the place of business is
the sender’s or recipient’s residence, as the case may be.

(5) An electronic
record is received under subsection (2) of this section even if no individual
is aware of its receipt.

(6) Receipt of an
electronic acknowledgment from an information processing system described in
subsection (2) of this section establishes that a record was received but, by
itself, does not establish that the content sent corresponds to the content
received.

(7) If a person
is aware that an electronic record purportedly sent under subsection (1) of
this section, or purportedly received under subsection (2) of this section, was
not actually sent or received, the legal effect of the sending or receipt is
determined by other applicable law. Except to the extent permitted by the other
law, the requirements of this subsection may not be varied by agreement. [2001
c.535 §15]

84.046
Transferable records.

(1) As used in this section, “transferable record” means an electronic record
that:

(a) Would be a
note under ORS chapter 73 or a document under ORS chapter 77 if the electronic
record were in writing; and

(b) The issuer of
the electronic record expressly has agreed is a transferable record.

(2) A person has
control of a transferable record if a system employed for evidencing the
transfer of interests in the transferable record reliably establishes that
person as the person to which the transferable record was issued or
transferred.

(3) A system
satisfies subsection (2) of this section, and a person is deemed to have
control of a transferable record, if the transferable record is created, stored
and assigned in such a manner that:

(a) A single
authoritative copy of the transferable record exists that is unique,
identifiable and, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f)
of this subsection, unalterable;

(b) The
authoritative copy identifies the person asserting control as:

(A) The person to
which the transferable record was issued; or

(B) If the
authoritative copy indicates that the transferable record has been transferred,
the person to which the transferable record was most recently transferred;

(c) The
authoritative copy is communicated to and maintained by the person asserting
control or its designated custodian;

(d) Copies or
revisions that add or change an identified assignee of the authoritative copy
can be made only with the consent of the person asserting control;

(e) Each copy of
the authoritative copy and any copy of a copy is readily identifiable as a copy
that is not the authoritative copy; and

(f) Any revision
of the authoritative copy is readily identifiable as authorized or
unauthorized.

(4) Except as
otherwise agreed, a person having control of a transferable record is the
holder, as defined in ORS 71.2010, of the transferable record and has the same
rights and defenses as a holder of an equivalent record or writing under the
Uniform Commercial Code, including, if the applicable statutory requirements
under ORS 73.0302 (1), 77.5010 or 79A.3300 are satisfied, the rights and
defenses of a holder in due course, a holder to which a negotiable document of
title has been duly negotiated or a purchaser, respectively. Delivery,
possession and indorsement are not required to obtain or exercise any of the
rights under this subsection.

(5) Except as
otherwise agreed, an obligor under a transferable record has the same rights
and defenses as an equivalent obligor under equivalent records or writings
under the Uniform Commercial Code.

(6) If requested
by a person against which enforcement is sought, the person seeking to enforce
the transferable record shall provide reasonable proof that the person is in
control of the transferable record. Proof may include access to the
authoritative copy of the transferable record and related business records
sufficient to review the terms of the transferable record and to establish the
identity of the person having control of the transferable record. [2001 c.535 §16;
2003 c.14 §32]

84.049
Creation and retention of electronic records by governmental agency; conversion
of records into electronic records.

(1) A governmental agency of this state shall determine whether, and the extent
to which, the governmental agency will create and retain electronic records or
convert written records or records that exist in other forms into electronic
records.

(2) A person with
authority to create or retain custody of a record on behalf of a governmental
agency may approve the conversion of the record into an electronic record in
accordance with policies the governmental agency adopts. [2001 c.535 §17; 2011
c.39 §3]

84.052
Acceptance and distribution of electronic records by governmental agencies.
(1) Except as otherwise provided
in ORS 84.034 (6), each governmental agency of this state shall determine
whether, and the extent to which, it will send and accept electronic records
and electronic signatures to and from other persons and otherwise create,
generate, communicate, store, process, use and rely upon electronic records and
electronic signatures.

(2) To the extent
that a governmental agency uses electronic records and electronic signatures
under subsection (1) of this section, the governmental agency, giving due
consideration to security, may specify:

(a) The manner
and format in which the electronic records must be created, generated, sent,
communicated, received and stored and the systems established for those
purposes;

(b) If electronic
records must be signed by electronic means, the type of electronic signature
required, the manner and format in which the electronic signature must be
affixed to the electronic record and the identity of, or criteria that must be
met by, any third party used by a person filing a document to facilitate the
process;

(c) Control
processes and procedures as appropriate to ensure adequate preservation,
disposition, integrity, security, confidentiality and auditability of
electronic records; and

(d) Any other
required attributes for electronic records that are specified for corresponding
nonelectronic records or reasonably necessary under the circumstances.

(3) Except as
otherwise provided in ORS 84.034 (6), ORS 84.001 to 84.061 do not require a
governmental agency of this state to use or permit the use of electronic
records or electronic signatures. [2001 c.535 §18]

84.055
Interoperability.

A governmental agency in this state that adopts standards pursuant to ORS
84.052 may encourage and promote consistency and interoperability with similar
requirements adopted by other governmental agencies of this state and other
states and the federal government and nongovernmental persons interacting with
governmental agencies of this state. If appropriate, those standards may
specify differing levels of standards from which governmental agencies of this
state may choose in implementing the most appropriate standard for a particular
application. [2001 c.535 §19]

84.058
Severability clause.

If any provision of ORS 84.001 to 84.061 or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions
of ORS 84.001 to 84.061 that can be given effect without the invalid provision
or application, and to this end the provisions of ORS 84.001 to 84.061 are
severable. [2001 c.535 §20]

84.061 Federal
electronic signatures law partially superseded.
ORS 84.001 to 84.061 constitute
the adoption of the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act as approved and
recommended for enactment by the National Conference of Commissioners on
Uniform State Laws in 1999 and supersede the provisions of section 101 of the
federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (P.L.
106-229) in accordance with section 102(a) of the federal Act. [2001 c.535 §21]

84.063 Rules.
A governmental agency may adopt
rules necessary to implement the provisions of ORS 84.014 and the amendments to
ORS 84.049 by section 3, chapter 39, Oregon Laws 2011. [2011 c.39 §4]

MISCELLANEOUS
PROVISIONS

84.064 State
Chief Information Officer duties; rules.
(1) For purposes of ORS 84.049, 84.052 and 84.055,
the State Chief Information Officer shall make determinations and adopt
standards for state agencies.

(2) The State
Chief Information Officer shall adopt rules to govern state agency use of
electronic signatures. The rules must include control processes and procedures
to ensure adequate integrity, security and confidentiality for business
transactions that state agencies conduct using electronic commerce and to
ensure that the transactions can be audited as is necessary for the normal
conduct of business.

(3) As used in
this section, “state agency” means every state officer and board, commission,
department, institution, branch and agency of the state government, the costs
of which are paid wholly or in part from funds held in the State Treasury,
except the Legislative Assembly, the courts, the district attorney for each
county and the officers and committees of the Legislative Assembly, the courts
and the district attorney. [2001 c.535 §22; 2003 c.449 §24; 2005 c.118 §2; 2015
c.807 §9; 2023 c.281 §§22,81]

84.067 State
Archivist duties.

Nothing in ORS 84.049 limits or modifies the powers and duties of the State
Archivist under ORS 192.005 to 192.170 and 357.805 to 357.895. [2001 c.535 §23]

84.070
Consumer transactions; treatment of oral communications; consent to use of
electronic records.

(1) As used in this section:

(a) “Consumer”
means:

(A) An individual
who obtains, through a transaction, products or services that are used
primarily for personal, family or household purposes; and

(B) The legal
representative of the individual.

(b) “Electronic
record,” “information” and “transaction” have the meanings given those terms in
ORS 84.004.

(2)
Notwithstanding ORS 84.001 to 84.061, if a statute, rule or other rule of law
requires that information relating to a transaction be provided or made
available to a consumer in writing, the use of an electronic record to provide
or make available, whichever is required, the information satisfies the
requirement that the information be in writing if:

(a) The consumer
has affirmatively consented to the use of the electronic record and has not
withdrawn the consent;

(b) The consumer,
before consenting, is provided with a clear and conspicuous statement:

(A) Informing the
consumer of:

(i) Any right or
option of the consumer to have the record provided or made available on paper
or in other nonelectronic form; and

(ii) The right of
the consumer to withdraw the consent to have the record provided or made
available in an electronic form and of any conditions, consequences, which may
include termination of the parties’ relationship, or fees in the event of the
withdrawal of the consent;

(B) Informing the
consumer of whether the consent applies:

(i) Only to the
particular transaction that gave rise to the obligation to provide or make
available the record; or

(ii) To
identified categories of records that may be provided or made available during
the course of the parties’ relationship;

(C) Describing
the procedures the consumer must use to withdraw consent as provided in
subparagraph (A) of this paragraph and to update information needed to contact
the consumer electronically; and

(D) Informing the
consumer:

(i) How, after
the consent, the consumer may, upon request, obtain a paper copy of an
electronic record; and

(ii) Whether any
fee will be charged for the paper copy of an electronic record;

(c) The consumer:

(A) Before
consenting, is provided with a statement of the hardware and software
requirements for access to and retention of the electronic records; and

(B) Consents
electronically, or confirms the consent electronically, in a manner that
reasonably demonstrates that the consumer can access information in the
electronic form that will be used to provide the information that is the
subject of the consent; and

(d) After the
consent of a consumer in accordance with paragraph (a) of this subsection, if a
change in the hardware or software requirements needed to access or retain
electronic records creates a material risk that the consumer will not be able
to access or retain a subsequent electronic record that was the subject of the
consent, the person providing the record:

(A) Provides the
consumer with a statement of:

(i) The revised
hardware and software requirements for access to and retention of the
electronic records; and

(ii) The consumer’s
right to withdraw consent without imposition of any fees for the withdrawal and
without the imposition of any condition or consequence that was not disclosed
under paragraph (b)(A) of this subsection; and

(B) Again
complies with paragraph (c) of this subsection.

(3)(a) Nothing in
ORS 84.001 to 84.061 affects the content or timing of any disclosure or other
record required to be provided or made available to any consumer under any
statute, rule or other rule of law.

(b) If a law
enacted before October 1, 2000, expressly requires a record to be provided or
made available by a specified method that requires verification or
acknowledgment of receipt, the record may be provided or made available
electronically only if the method used provides verification or acknowledgment
of receipt, whichever is required.

(4) The legal
effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any contract executed by a
consumer may not be denied solely because of the failure to obtain electronic
consent or confirmation of consent by that consumer in accordance with
subsection (2)(c)(B) of this section.

(5) Withdrawal of
consent by a consumer may not affect the legal effectiveness, validity or
enforceability of electronic records provided or made available to that
consumer in accordance with subsection (2) of this section before
implementation of the consumer’s withdrawal of consent. A consumer’s withdrawal
of consent is effective within a reasonable period of time after the provider
of the record receives the withdrawal. Failure to comply with subsection (2)(d)
of this section may, at the election of the consumer, be treated as a
withdrawal of consent for purposes of this subsection.

(6) Except as
otherwise provided by law, if an insurer can reliably store and reproduce an
oral communication or a recording of an oral communication, the oral
communication or the recording qualifies as a notice or document delivered by
electronic means for the purposes of this section.

(7) Subsections
(2) to (6) of this section do not apply to any records that are provided or
made available to a consumer who has consented before June 22, 2001, to receive
such records in electronic form as permitted by any statute, rule or other rule
of law.

(8)
Notwithstanding ORS 84.001 to 84.061, if a statute, rule or other rule of law
requires that a contract or other record relating to a transaction be provided
or made available to a consumer in writing, the legal effectiveness, validity
or enforceability of an electronic record of the contract or other record may
be denied if the electronic record is not in a form that is capable of being
retained and accurately reproduced for later reference by all parties or
persons who are entitled to retain the contract or other record.

(9) Subject to
the requirements of subsections (2) and (10)(c) of this section, an electronic
record that provides or delivers a notice, offer, disclosure, document, form,
correspondence, information or other communication required or permitted under
the insurance laws of this state, including but not limited to a notice of a
cancellation, termination or nonrenewal of insurance, satisfies the requirement
that the notice, offer, disclosure, document, form, correspondence, information
or other communication be provided or made available to a consumer in writing.
If proof of mailing is sufficient proof of notice, confirmation of electronic
delivery of a notice in any form is sufficient proof of notice.

(10) Nothing in
ORS 84.001 to 84.061 authorizes using an electronic record to provide or
deliver any notice of:

(a) The
cancellation or termination of utility services, including water, heat and
power;

(b) Default,
acceleration, repossession, foreclosure or eviction, or the right to cure,
under a credit agreement secured by, or a rental agreement for, a primary
residence of an individual;

(c) The
cancellation or termination of health insurance or benefits or life insurance
benefits, excluding annuities; or

(d) Recall of a
product, or material failure of a product, that risks endangering health or
safety.

(11) ORS 84.001
to 84.061 do not apply to any document required to accompany any transportation
or handling of hazardous materials, pesticides or other toxic or dangerous
materials. [2001 c.535 §24; 2005 c.106 §1; 2014 c.34 §1]

84.072
Conditions under which public body may send notice by electronic mail.
(1) As used in this section:

(a) “Agreement”
has the meaning given that term in ORS 84.004.

(b) “Public body”
has the meaning given that term in ORS 174.109.

(2) A public body
may send to a person by electronic mail a notice that a law of this state
requires the public body to send by regular mail if:

(a) The law does
not expressly prohibit or restrict the use of electronic mail as a means by
which to deliver the notice;

(b) The person
enters into an agreement with the public body in which the person provides the
public body with an electronic mail address and affirmatively indicates that
the public body may use the electronic mail address as a means for sending to
the person a notice required by a law of this state;

(c) The public
body, before entering into an agreement under paragraph (b) of this subsection,
provides the person with a statement that, in a clear and conspicuous manner,
informs the person that:

(A) The public
body will use the electronic mail address the person provides as the means by
which the public body sends to the person a notice required by a law of this
state; and

(B) The person
may withdraw the person’s agreement to receive the notice by electronic mail
and may instead elect to receive the notice by regular mail; and

(d) The person
has not withdrawn the agreement the person made under paragraph (b) of this
subsection.

(3) A public
body, in the statement described in subsection (2)(c) of this section and in
each notice the public body sends by electronic mail under this section, shall
describe a method by which a person who has agreed under subsection (2)(b) of
this section to receive a notice by electronic mail may withdraw the person’s
agreement.

(4) A notice sent
in accordance with ORS 84.043 (1) and this section to an electronic mail
address a person has provided under subsection (2) of this section is presumed
to have been received as provided in ORS 84.043 (2). A person may rebut this
presumption only by showing that the notice did not enter an information
processing system as provided in ORS 84.043 (2)(a) or that the notice was not
in the form described in ORS 84.043 (2)(b).

(5)(a) Except as
otherwise provided in this section, ORS 84.001 to 84.061 apply to a notice that
a public body sends under this section and to an agreement between a public
body and a person under this section.

(b) For purposes
of this section, a notice that a public body sends by electronic mail is an
electronic record as defined in ORS 84.004. [2011 c.242 §1]

_______________

CHAPTER
85

[Reserved
for expansion]
