SOURCE: https://www.seattle.gov/mayor/vision-and-values/rental-fees
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Close

Main Menu

Mayor

Vision and Values

Stand Together: Let's Make Seattle a Welcoming City

Public Safety

Neighbor by Neighbor: Accelerated Shelter Expansion

Police Chief Search

Rental Junk Fees Legislation FAQ

Senior Team

Transition Team and Committee

Contact the Mayor

About Mayor Katie B. Wilson

Service of Legal Documents on the City of Seattle

City Departments

Elected Officials

City Boards and Commissions

Media Contacts

News

Events Calendar

Office of the Mayor

Vision and Values

Senior Team

Transition Team and Committee

Contact

About the Mayor

Home

Vision and Values

Rental Junk Fees Legislation FAQ

This legislation prohibits fees in excess of rent — sometimes called “junk fees”, like pet fees, common area fees, valet garbage fees, and administrative fees. These fees can add 10-30% on top of rent contributing to the City’s affordability crisis and making it impossible for renters to know their true costs before entering into a lease. This common-sense regulation ensures that the price you see is the price you pay. This legislation is effective on July 1, 2027.

ALL fees that are not on the below list are prohibited

Move-in Fees (Screening Fees, Security + Pet Deposits). Move in fees are capped at the equivalent of one-month’s rent. Pet Deposits cannot exceed 25% of rent.

Utility Surcharge Fees (RUBS)

Late Fees (capped at $10 per month)

Parking

Damage from Tenants

Air Conditioner Rentals

Dishonored Checks (capped at the lesser of $31 or the actual cost)

Key Replacement Fees (capped at the lesser of $50 or actual cost)

Lock-out fees (capped at $50 during working hours and $150 on weekends and prohibited if the landlord is already present at the property)

Private Use of Common Area

Insurance, provided it meets minimum standards

Optional Fees

Frequently Asked Questions

Who proposed this legislation?

Mayor Wilson and her team developed this legislation by working with renters, housing providers and stakeholders over a six-month period. Mayor Wilson worked in strong partnership with Council Member Foster, who sponsored this legislation at City Council.

Which landlords are covered by this legislation?

This legislation applies to all landlords or housing providers in the City of Seattle. Short-term rentals, like Airbnb, are not covered by this legislation.

What about small landlords or affordable housing providers?

Small landlords and affordable housing providers are covered by this legislation.

Which tenants are covered by this legislation?

All tenants are protected by this legislation.

When does this legislation go into effect?

This legislation is effective on July 1, 2027.

What if I have a lease that includes prohibited fees when this law goes into effect?

A landlord may continue to charge fees prohibited by this legislation until the end of an existing lease term or July 1, 2027, whichever is later.

What are some examples of prohibited fees?

Any fee not on the above allowed fees list is prohibited. Below is a non-exhaustive list of prohibited fees.

Pet Fees

Pet Screening

Package/Mail fees

Common Area fee (except for private rentals of common areas)

Appliance Fees (except for air conditioner rentals)

Wifi/Technology fee

Month to Month fee

Lease Signing fee

Administrative fee

Repair Request fee

Benefits Package fee

Valet Garbage fee

Landscaping fee

Lease Violation fee

Lease renewal fee

Re-application fee

Deposit return fee

What are “Optional Fees”?

A landlord is permitted to charge for optional additional services provided they meet certain requirements: 1. The fee must be disclosed; 2. The tenant must affirmatively opt-in in writing; 3. The landlord must provide a method to opt-out without additional cost; 4. The fee may be no more than landlord cost for third-party provided services.

Can a landlord make any fee optional?

No, certain fees are prohibited from being charged as optional fees:

In-unit appliance fee

Common area fee

Fees for payment by check-equivalent or ACH

Mail & package fees

Fee for a landlord required duty under City or State law

Fee for change in tenants

Fee associated with pets

Does the legislation require landlords to tell tenants about fees before they enter a lease?

Yes. Landlords are required to disclose all mandatory and optional fees in advertisements, rental listings, and rental applications. This includes:

Monthly rent

Mandatory and optional fees

Utilities

Discounts or concessions

Average total monthly costs with estimates for any variable fees

Where can I find the legislation?

A copy of the ordinance can be viewed
here
and by clicking “click here for full text.”

Who will enforce this legislation?

The Seattle Department of Construction and Inspections will have enforcement authority for this law beginning July 1, 2027. Contact information is available
here
. The City Attorney and tenants may also file lawsuits to enforce the ordinance.

Where can learn more about landlord-tenant regulations?

Visit the Renting in Seattle website for more information:
seattle.gov/rentinginseattle

No right sidebar

About Seattle

Downtown Campus Map

City Jobs

Seattle Facts

Mayor Katie B. Wilson

Address:

600 4th Ave, Seattle, WA, 7th Floor, Seattle, WA, 98104

Mailing Address:

P.O. Box 94749, Seattle, WA, 98124-4749

Phone:

(206) 684-4000

Sign Up for Latest Updates

Subscribe

Citywide Information

Elected Officials

Open Data Portal

Public Records

City Holidays and Closures

City Event Calendar

City Newsletters

Departments & Offices

Boards & Commissions

Popular Pages

Power Outages

Pay My Ticket

Adopt a Pet

Online Crime Maps

Look Up Collection Day

Seattle's Mayor is the head of the Executive department. The Mayor directs and controls all City offices and departments except where that authority is granted to another office by the City Charter.

Policies

About Our Digital Properties

Privacy Policy

Title II: Americans with Disabilities Act

Title VI: Civil Rights Act

Sitemap
