SOURCE: https://library.municode.com/wa/seattle/codes/municipal_code?nodeId=TIT7COPR_CH7.25THPABIRE
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: municode API job 493366 (Supplement 44 Update 1), product 13857; 6 sections
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chapter 7.25 - THIRD PARTY BILLING REGULATION


7.25.010 - Short title and purpose.
A.

This chapter may be known and be cited as "Third Party Billing Regulation." The general
purpose of this chapter is to prevent landlords, either themselves or through a third
party billing agent, from billing tenants for master metered or other unmetered utility
services without proper notice and disclosure of billing practices to tenants, and
to protect tenants from deceptive or fraudulent billing practices, and to these ends
the provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed.

B.

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent a landlord from including a
tenant's cost of master metered or other unmetered utility services within the rent
set forth in a rental agreement, and the practice of including such cost within a
tenant's rent shall not be considered a billing practice or methodology affected by
the provisions of this chapter.

C.

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect the practices used by Seattle
Public Utilities or Seattle City Light to bill and collect residential multi-unit
building owners or landlords for master metered or other unmetered utility service.

(Ord.
121320
§ 1, 2003.)

7.25.020 - Definitions.
As used in this chapter:

A.

"Billing entity" means the landlord or third party billing agent, as the case may
be, responsible for billing residential multi-unit building tenants for master metered
or other unmetered utility service.

B.

"Disclosure" means providing tenants with complete and accurate written information
in a clear, concise, and understandable manner in all notices required under this
chapter and on each bill presented from the billing entity to tenants.

C.

"Landlord" means a "landlord" as defined in and within the scope of RCW 59.18.030
and RCW 59.18.040 of the Residential Landlord Tenant Act of 1973 ("RLTA") in effect
at the time the rental agreement is executed, and shall also mean the owner of a mobile
home park or boat moorage. At the time of passage of the ordinance codified in this
chapter, RLTA defined "landlord" as "the owner, lessor, or sublessor of the dwelling
unit or the property of which it is a part," and included "any person designated as
representative of the landlord."

D.

"Master metered utility service" means a utility service supplied to more than one
(1) unit in a multi-unit building and measured through a single inclusive metering
system.

E.

"Methodology" refers to any method, technique, or criterion used to apportion to tenants
charges billed to the landlord by the utility for master metered utility service or
unmetered utility service, including but not limited to Ratio Utility Billing Systems,
installation of submetering, and hot water metering.

F.

"Multi-unit building" refers to a residential building or group of buildings (which
may include a mobile home park or boat moorage) with 3 or more tenant units with a
master metered utility service or unmetered utility service, such as solid waste collection,
that is provided to the building or group of buildings as a whole.

G.

"Personally identifiable information" means specific information about a tenant, including
but not limited to the tenant's social security number, birth date, mother's maiden
name, banking data or information, or any other personal or private information.

H.

"Ratio Utility Billing System" or "RUBS" refers to any methodology by which the cost
of master metered or other unmetered utility service provided to tenants and common
areas of a multi-unit building is apportioned to tenants through the use of a formula
that estimates the utility usage of each rental unit in the building based on the
number of occupants in a unit, number of bedrooms in a unit, square footage of a unit,
or any similar criterion.

I.

"Rental agreement" means a "rental agreement" as defined in and within the scope of
RCW 59.18.030 and RCW 59.18.040 of the RLTA in effect at the time the rental agreement
is executed, and is deemed to include any month-to-month tenancy arrangement, whether
written or oral. At the time of the passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
the RLTA defined "rental agreement" as "all agreements which establish or modify the
terms, conditions, rules, regulations, or any other provisions concerning the use
and occupancy of a dwelling unit."

J.

"Service charge" refers to any charge or fee imposed by the billing entity to cover
the costs of providing or administering the billing practices, regardless of the label
applied to such charge or fee.

K.

"Tenant" means a "tenant" as defined in and within the scope of RCW 59.18.030 and
RCW 59.18.040 of the RLTA in effect at the time the rental agreement is executed,
and shall also mean a tenant of a mobile home park or boat moorage. At the time of
passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the RLTA defined "tenant" as "any
person who is entitled to occupy a dwelling unit primarily for living or dwelling
purposes under a rental agreement."

L.

"Billing practices" refers to the practices of a landlord or third party billing agent,
as defined herein, that bills residential multi-unit building tenants for the purpose
of apportioning master metered or other unmetered utility services provided to the
building(s) as a whole, either by directly submetering tenants' usage or by otherwise
apportioning such utility services among tenants, and also refers to any practices
related thereto, including but not limited to collecting, using or disclosing tenants'
personally identifiable information (other than name and address), attempting to collect
unpaid amounts from tenants, verifying tenants' credit, and reporting unpaid balances
to credit reporting agencies.

M.

"Third party billing agent" refers to any entity retained or authorized by a landlord
to bill tenants for master metered or other unmetered utility service on behalf of
and as the agent of a landlord.

N.

"Utilities" or "utility service(s)" refers to water, sewer, electric, and solid waste
services.

(Ord.
121320
§ 1, 2003.)

7.25.030 - Prohibited billing practices.
A.

It is a deceptive and fraudulent business practice for any landlord or third party
billing agent to bill tenants separately for utility services except as permitted
in this chapter.

B.

It is a deceptive and fraudulent business practice for a landlord to engage, retain,
or authorize, and a landlord shall be liable for the actions of, a third party billing
agent that does not comply with the requirements of this chapter.

C.

As of the effective date of this ordinance, no landlord may disclose to a third party
billing agent a tenant's personally identifiable information under any circumstances,
provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall prevent a landlord from disclosing
a tenant's name and address to a third party billing agent for the purpose of engaging
in permitted billing practices.

D.

A third party billing agent who prior to the effective date of this ordinance has
obtained any tenant's personally identifiable information (other than name and address)
shall not use, sell, convey, or otherwise disclose that personally identifiable information
to any other person, except as expressly permitted in this chapter, and must destroy
all such information upon a tenant's request, when the tenancy terminates and the
account is paid, or when the landlord terminates the third party billing agency relationship.

E.

No third party billing agent may inform a credit reporting agency of a claim against
a tenant except as expressly permitted in RCW Chapter 19.16, regardless of whether
the third party billing agent is licensed by the state pursuant to that chapter.

(Ord.
121320
§ 1, 2003.)

7.25.040 - Billing requirements—Submeter testing fee.
A.

Notwithstanding the prohibition against submetering electric service in SMC 21.49.100.G,
a landlord may, itself or through a third party billing agent, bill tenants for master
metered or other unmetered utility services, including electric service provided to
tenants of multi-unit buildings, provided that the following requirements are met:

1.

Notice. Billing practices may be adopted only upon advance written notice to a tenant
as part of a new or renewed rental agreement. Tenants must receive such written notice
at least 90 days before expiration of their rental agreements, or, in the case of
month-to-month tenancies, at least 90 days before any such billing practices may become
effective. Notwithstanding the foregoing two sentences, if billing practices are already
in place at the time the ordinance codified in this chapter becomes effective, written
notice must be given within 30 days of the effective date of the ordinance codified
in this chapter.

2.

Methodology. The notice required under section A.1 above must include a copy of this
chapter and a detailed written disclosure of the methodology used by the billing agent
to allocate the charges to each tenant, including the methodology used to allocate
utility services for common areas of the building, along with all other terms and
conditions of the billing arrangement. If submetering is used, the notice required
under section A.1 shall also include descriptions of the location of the submeter
and of the access requirements, if any, required by the landlord for access to tenant
units for submeter installation, reading, repair, maintenance, or inspections, including
removal of the submeter for testing, consistent with the provisions of RCW 59.18.150
of the RLTA. An additional written notice must also be given at least 30 days prior
to the due date of the next rental payment in order to implement a change in billing
agents, apportionment methodology, fees, or other terms and conditions of the billing
arrangement.

3.

Posting of Information.

a.

In addition to the written notification required by subsection A.2. above, any landlord
employing billing practices shall post in a conspicuous public space in the interior
of the building copies of the three most current utility bills for master metered
or other unmetered utility services provided to the building as a whole that are included
in the bill sent to the tenant, together with a written description of the methodology
used to allocate each such utility service and a copy of this chapter.

b.

Where such posting is physically impracticable due to the absence of a suitable conspicuous
public space, a landlord may satisfy this posting requirement by hand-delivering or
mailing to tenants a paper copy of the written notification required by subsection
A.2, together with a written description of the methodology used to allocate each
such utility service and a copy of this chapter. In lieu of posting the three most
current utility bills for master metered or other unmetered utility services provided
to the building as a whole that are included in the bill sent to the tenant, the landlord
must make such utility bills available upon request within five business days and
must inform tenants in the written notification required by subsection A.2 of the
method by which they may request such utility bills.

c.

Landlords shall keep bills for master metered or other unmetered utility services
on file in the building for at least two years and shall make such bills available
to tenants for inspection and copying upon request. Where it is physically impracticable
to keep such bills on file due to the absence of a suitable office or other storage
space, a landlord may store the bills in another location and must make such bills
available within 5 business days of receiving a request from a tenant.

4.

Limitations on Charges. The total of all charges for any utility service included
in the bills sent to all units cumulatively shall not exceed the amount of the bill
sent by the utility itself for the building as a whole, less any late charges, interest
or other penalties owed by the landlord, with the exception of the following, which
may be included in each bill covering an independent unit within the multi-unit building:

a.

A service charge of no more than $2 per utility per month, not to exceed a cumulative
service charge of $5 per month for all the utilities included in any bill.

b.

Late payment charges of no more than $5 per month plus interest at a rate not to exceed
one percent per month, which late payment charge shall not accrue until at least 30
days after the tenant receives the bill.

c.

Insufficient funds check charges for dishonored checks, not to exceed $31 per dishonored
check.

5.

Licensing of Third Party Billing Agents. Any third party billing agent must be properly
registered and licensed to do business in the State of Washington and City of Seattle
and must be in compliance with all applicable Washington state and Seattle laws and
regulations, and all applicable Washington and Seattle license identification numbers,
if any, must be disclosed upon request.

6.

Content of Bills. Each billing statement sent to a tenant by a billing entity must
disclose all required information in a clear and conspicuous manner and at minimum
must:

a.

Include the name, business address & telephone number of the billing entity;

b.

Identify and show the basis for each separate charge, including service charges and
late charges, if any, as a line item, and show the total amount of the bill;

c.

If the building units are submetered, include the current and previous meter readings,
the current read date, and the amount consumed (or estimated to have been consumed
if Seattle Public Utilities or Seattle City Light has provided the landlord with an
estimated bill);

d.

Specify the due date, the date upon which the bill becomes overdue, the amount of
any late charges or penalties that may apply, and the date upon which such late charges
or penalties may be imposed;

e.

Identify any past due dollar amounts;

f.

Identify a mailing address and telephone number for billing inquiries and disputes,
identify the entity responsible for resolving billing inquiries and disputes and its
business hours and days of availability, and describe the process used to resolve
disputes related to bills as set forth in this chapter; and

g.

Include a statement to the effect that "this bill is from [landlord name] and not
from Seattle Public Utilities or Seattle City Light."

7.

Protection of Personally Identifiable Information.

a.

A third party billing agent who prior to the effective date of this ordinance has
obtained a tenant's personally identifiable information shall take such actions as
are necessary to protect such personally identifiable information and to prevent its
use or disclosure except as expressly permitted in this chapter.

b.

A third party billing agent who prior to the effective date of this ordinance has
obtained a tenant's personally identifiable information may disclose such personally
identifiable information only to the extent necessary to render its billing services.

c.

To the extent required by federal, state, or local law, a billing entity may disclose
personally identifiable information in its possession (i) pursuant to a subpoena or
valid court order authorizing such disclosure, or (ii) to a governmental entity.

8.

Estimated Billing. If Seattle Public Utilities or Seattle City Light has billed the
landlord using an estimate of utility service consumed, the billing agent may estimate
the charges to be billed to tenants until billing based on actual consumption resumes.
Upon receipt of a corrected bill showing that the estimated bill overstated charges,
the landlord must refund the difference to tenants. Upon receipt of a corrected bill
showing that the estimated bill understated charges, the landlord may attempt to recover
the underpayment from the tenants that actually incurred the charges during the billing
period, but shall not attempt to recover an underpayment from a tenant who did not
reside in the unit during the billing period in which the charges were incurred.

9.

Submetering. Submetering is permitted as a way of allocating master metered utility
services to tenants provided the following conditions are met:

a.

The submeters must be read prior to each billing.

b.

A landlord may not enter a unit without, and a tenant may not unreasonably withhold,
consent to enter the unit in order to perform submeter installation, reading, repair,
maintenance, and inspection, including removal of the submeter for testing, provided,
however, that a landlord may enter a unit without a tenant's consent in the case of
a submeter leak or emergency related to that unit's submeter.

c.

(i)

The accuracy tolerance for the maximum flow rate shall be within 1.5-percent for all
submeter types. The accuracy tolerance for the minimum flow rate shall be within 3-percent
for Multi-jet submeter types, and within a 1.5-percent over-registration and a 5-percent
under-registration for other than Multi-jet submeter types.

(ii)

If a tenant contests the accuracy of the submeter, the tenant shall have the option
of demanding that the City of Seattle provide an independent test of the meter through
the Department of Finance and Administrative Services. If the meter reads within these
ranges of accuracy, the tenant requesting the test shall pay the meter test fee. If
the meter reads outside these ranges of accuracy, the landlord shall pay the meter
test fee and within 30 days refund any overpayments for the past three months based
on a recalculation of the past year's billings by correcting for the inaccuracy of
the submeter. Submetering thereafter shall only be permitted with a repaired submeter.

(iii)

The meter test fee for each test of a submeter pursuant to this subsection shall be
$65.

B.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent a landlord from addressing billing
of master metered or other unmetered utility services in a written addendum to a lease.
A lease addendum may be used to give the notice required under subsection A.1 of this
subsection, so long as the lease addendum is provided to the tenant with the notice
required under that subsection, and so long as all other requirements of this chapter
are satisfied.

(Ord.
123361
, § 235, 2010; Ord.
122213
, § 1, 2006; Ord.
121320
§ 1, 2003.)

7.25.050 - Dispute resolution and remedies.
A.

A dispute regarding the amount of charges or other terms and conditions contained
in a bill shall be resolved as follows:

1.

The tenant must notify the entity responsible for billing disputes as identified in
the bill ("Responsible Entity") of the nature of and reason for the dispute by calling
the number shown on the bill or by writing a letter to the Responsible Entity within
30 days of receiving the bill. The tenant must have a good faith basis for any such
dispute.

2.

Within 30 days of receiving notice of a billing dispute, the Responsible Entity must
contact the tenant to discuss the dispute, and the Responsible Entity and tenant must
determine the amount of disputed and undisputed charges. The tenant must pay all undisputed
charges within 30 days of reaching agreement with the Responsible Entity.

3.

No late fees or interest charges shall accrue on any disputed portions of a bill while
the amount is being resolved in accordance with subsections A.1 and 2, and no collection
activity related to the disputed portions of a bill may be instituted against a tenant
that has notified the Responsible Entity of a dispute in accordance with this chapter.

4.

The tenant and Responsible Entity shall continue to discuss in good faith any remaining
disputed amounts and attempt to reach an agreement on the amount due, if any, within
60 days of the Responsible Entity's receipt of notice of a billing dispute. If a tenant
is unable to reach a satisfactory resolution of any portion of a disputed charge within
the allotted time, the tenant may exercise any of the remedies set forth in Section
B below or any other available remedies, provided, however, that if within 120 days
of the Responsible Entity's receipt of notice of a billing dispute, the tenant has
not either exercised one of the remedies set forth in Section B or paid the remaining
disputed amounts, the landlord may exercise any legal or equitable remedies available
to it to collect the unpaid amounts, and provided further that nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to deprive a landlord of its right to exercise any legal or equitable
remedies available to it against a tenant that has not paid any undisputed charges,
has not followed the procedures set forth in this section, or has not exercised good
faith in disputing a charge.

B.

If a tenant believes that it has been or will be subject to billing practices that
violate any provision set forth in this chapter, the tenant may, at its option, file
a complaint against the landlord with the Office of the Hearing Examiner or institute
a civil action against the landlord, as follows:

1.

The Office of the Hearing Examiner is hereby vested with the authority to hear and
resolve tenant complaints against landlords regarding billing practices in accordance
with its rules and procedures then in force governing contested cases. The filing
fee for such a case shall be set at $5.00. Upon the finding of a violation of this
chapter, the Hearing Examiner shall award actual damages (including but not limited
to refund of any overpayment or other fees or charges resulting from such violation,
and costs of pursuing the claim) and a penalty of one hundred dollars, and may permit
the tenant to terminate the rental agreement by written notice in accordance with
RCW 59.18.090. If the Hearing Examiner determines that the landlord engaged in prohibited
billing practices in deliberate violation of this chapter, the penalty mentioned in
the preceding sentence shall be two hundred dollars, and the Hearing Examiner shall
also award attorneys' fees to the tenant. A final order or decision of the Hearing
Examiner may be subject to judicial review in the King County Superior Court in accordance
with the Hearing Examiner's rules and procedures.

2.

In the alternative, a tenant may institute a civil action against the landlord. Upon
a finding that a landlord engaged in billing practices that violate this chapter,
the court shall award actual damages (including but not limited to refund of any overpayment
or other fees or charges resulting from such violation, and costs of pursuing the
claim) and a penalty of one hundred dollars, and may permit the tenant to terminate
the rental agreement by written notice in accordance with RCW 59.18.090. If the court
determines that the landlord engaged in prohibited billing practices in deliberate
violation of this chapter, the penalty mentioned in the preceding sentence shall be
two hundred dollars, and the court shall also award attorneys' fees to the tenant.

3.

No late fees or interest charges shall accrue on any disputed portions of a bill while
the amount is being resolved by the Hearing Examiner or court, and no collection activity
or unlawful detainer action alleging default in the payment of rent related to the
disputed portions of a bill may be instituted against a tenant that has filed a complaint
with the Hearing Examiner or instituted a civil action in accordance with this chapter
while the amount is being resolved by the Hearing Examiner or court. If the Hearing
Examiner or court resolves the dispute and finds that a tenant that has not acted
in good faith in asserting a billing dispute, the Hearing Examiner or court may order
the tenant to pay late fees and/or interest charges on some or all of the disputed
portions of the bill.

4.

A landlord shall not pass on, charge, or otherwise allocate to tenants, in any manner
whatsoever, any damages, fine or penalty (including attorneys' fees) that the landlord
is ordered to pay under this chapter.

C.

The existence of an unresolved or pending billing dispute does not relieve a tenant
of its obligation to pay in a timely fashion all undisputed charges, including those
undisputed charges that accrue after the dispute resolution procedures of this chapter
have been invoked.

(Ord.
121320
§ 1, 2003.)

