SOURCE: https://portal.laserfiche.com/Portal/DocView.aspx?id=1452487&repo=r-3f0b2553
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
METHOD: public GetTextHtmlForPage, pages 1-12; HTML tags stripped from JSON response.


PAGE 1
									Vista Municipal Code
      									Chapter 9.40
       							Crime Free Multifamily Housing
    		Sections:
    		Section 9.40.010      Purpose
    		Section 9.40.020      Definitions
    		Section 9.40.030      Noncompliant Multifamily Developments; Issuance and Delivery of
   						Finding of Noncompliance
    		Section 9.40.040      Application for CFM Certification; Issuance
    		Section 9.40.050      Operational Requirements Imposed on All Noncompliant Multifamily
   						Developments
    		Section 9.40.060      Schedules of Required Actions; Modifying Deadlines.
    		Section 9.40.070      Finding of Compliance
    		Section 9.40.080      Appeals
    		Section 9.40.090      Transfers of Noncompliant Multifamily Developments.
    		Section 9.40.100      Program Fees; Fee Waivers
    		Section 9.40.110      Enforcement; Remedies
    		Section 9.40.120      Commencement and Sunset Dates for Chapter(Deleted)
    		Section 9.40.010      Findings; Purpose
      			A.       The City Council finds that a multifamily development which repeatedly reaches or
    		exceeds its threshold for service calls to the Sheriff qualifies as a noncompliant multifamily
    		development under this Chapter and constitutes a public nuisance. In those instances the public
    		health, safety and welfare require the City to work with the property owner and property manager
    		of the multifamily development so that the nuisance conditions associated with the multifamily
    		development can be eliminated and damage to the public health, safety and welfare can be
    		abated. These actions should help control crime, contain blight, avoid reductions in property
    		values, curb negative impacts on economic activity, preserve a desirable quality of life within
    		Vista, and control long-term enforcement costs that would otherwise be imposed by the City.
       			B.       In an effort to abate or reduce these nuisance conditions, the City Council intends
    		to establish a program by which noncompliant multifamily developments are required to adopt
    		practices and take actions to reduce or eliminate nuisance conditions and to improve the public
    		health, safety and welfare. As part of this program, the owner or manager of a noncompliant
    		multifamily development will be required to participate in a program to secure a crime free
    		multifamily certification, and to take the steps required to obtain a finding of compliance in
    		accordance with this Chapter.
       			C.       The City Council intends to implement this Chapter in a manner which allows the
    		owner of a noncompliant multifamily development to continue uninterrupted rental operations
    		provided that the owner is making substantial progress toward obtaining a crime free multifamily
    		certification.
       			D.       The City Council also intends that the program operate in a manner to regulate the
    		number of noncompliant multifamily developments which enter the program in a given six-month
    		period, thereby facilitating a manageable and well-operated program. To advance this aim, the
    		City Council intends that priority shall be given to those multifamily developments which appear
    		to be most damaging to the Vista community as determined by the compliance officer.
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
  										9.40 (1) 					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 2
									Vista Municipal Code
    		Section 9.40.020      Definitions
      			The following terms, when used in this Chapter, shall have the meanings set forth below:
       			"Actions which are not subject to appeal" means: (1) the issuance of an administrative
    		citation, which may be appealed as provided in Chapter 1.13; (2) any administrative action to
    		declare a multifamily development or a condition associated with that development a public
    		nuisance pursuant to Chapter 8.36, which may be reviewed as provided in that Chapter; (3) any
    		civil action filed in a California or Federal court, including any administrative tribunal, which shall
    		be heard or reviewed using the procedures particular to that court or tribunal; (4) any citation or
    		complaint  for  an  infraction  or  misdemeanor  under  the  Vista  Municipal  Code,  the  Vista
    		Development Code, or other law which shall be reviewed or adjudicated as otherwise provided
    		by applicable law; or (5) the issuance of a courtesy notice pursuant to Section 9.030.A.
       			"Administrative citation" means an administrative citation issued pursuant to Chapter
    		1.13 with respect to the operations of, or physical conditions of, a multifamily development.
       			"Available unit" means: (1) a unit which is vacant, uninhabited, or unoccupied; (2) a unit
    		on a month-to-month tenancy when it rolls over; and (3) a unit which had been or is under a term
    		lease upon expiration or extension of that term (including conversion of the lease to a month-to-
    		month tenancy).
       			"CFM certification program" means the City-administered program established by this
    		Chapter under which a noncompliant multifamily development takes actions based on a schedule
    		of required actions with the aim of obtaining a finding of compliance.
       			"CFM tenant meeting" means a periodic meeting held at the noncompliant multifamily
    		development to address the roll-out of the CFM certification program and its implementation with
    		respect to the noncompliant multifamily development and which is to be attended by tenants,
    		managers, the owner of the noncompliant multifamily development, as well as representatives of
    		the Sheriff and the City.
       			"CFM  tenant  meeting  rules  and  guidelines"  means  written  rules  and  guidelines
    		prepared by the City Manager or designee which establish requirements for noticing, advertising,
    		and conducting CFM tenant meetings.
       			"Crime free  multifamily certification"  or "CFM  certification"  means a certificate,
    		issued by the compliance officer to a noncompliant multifamily development pursuant to Section
    		9.40.040, after all certification actions for that development have been achieved and all notices of
    		violation have been corrected.
       			"Compliance officer" means any person or persons designated by the City Manager to
    		assume the responsibilities assigned to a compliance officer pursuant to this Chapter.
       			"Deliver" means providing a copy of a document to a property owner or manager through
    		one of the following means: (1) by actual personal delivery of the document to the property owner
    		and/or property  manager;  (2) by posting  the  document on  the  premises  of the  multifamily
    		development,  in  a  conspicuous  location,  addressed  to the  property owner and/or property
    		manager; (3) by sending the document by email to the property owner or manager, provided its
    		receipt is actually acknowledged; or (4) by mailing the document to the property owner at: (i) the
    		address of the multifamily development; (ii) the owner's address contained in the last equalized
    		assessment roll; or (iii) the address listed on the most recent business license for the multifamily
    		development on file with the City. Any delivery by mail shall be made by either first class mail
    		(postage prepaid), or alternatively, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
       			"Delivery date" means the earliest of the following for a document delivered by the City
    		of Vista: (1) the date the document is personally handed or delivered to that property owner or
    		property manager, as applicable; (2) the date on which the document is posted on the multifamily
    		development in a conspicuous place; (3) the date on which the document is deposited into the
    		United States postal service for delivery by first class mail (postage prepaid) or by registered or
  										9.40 (2) 					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 3
									Vista Municipal Code
    		certified mail, return receipt requested for delivery to the property owner or property manager, as
    		applicable; or (4) the date the property owner or manager acknowledges receipt of a document
    		delivered by email or other means.
       			"Determination" means any action or decision taken pursuant to this Chapter, except for
    		actions which are not subject to appeal.
       			"Disputed determination" means any determination which has been timely appealed
    		pursuant to Section 9.40.080 and which is not final under this Chapter.
       			"Excluded Call" means a call to the Sheriff's Department which, pursuant to written rules
    		adopted by the City Manager: (1) is not indicative of criminal or nuisance activity tied to a
    		multifamily development; and (2) is therefore not treated as a service call with respect to the
    		multifamily development for purposes of this Chapter.
       			"File" means the date on which a document: (1) is personally delivered to the City Clerk,
    		as reflected by the stamp of the City Clerk or; (2) the date of the United States postmark on a
    		document mailed and actually received by the City Clerk.
       			"Finding of compliance" means a written finding issued by a compliance officer pursuant
    		to Section  9.40.070 after a noncompliant multifamily development has:  (1) accomplished all
    		required actions; (2) received a CFM certification; and (3) operated with acceptable levels of
    		service calls for a 48-month period in accordance with paragraph A of Section 9.40.070.
       			"Finding of noncompliance" means a written finding, issued in accordance with Section
    		9.40.030 determining that a multifamily development is a noncompliant multifamily development
    		which must participate in the program established by this Chapter until it has received a finding
    		of compliance pursuant to Section 9.40.070.
       			"First-step appeal determination" means a determination made by a hearing officer
    		upon completion of a first-step appeal procedure pursuant to Section 9.40.080.
       			"Hearing officer" means a City employee or other person who reviews, administers and
    		issues a decision with respect to the one-step appeal procedure or the two-step appeal procedure,
    		as applicable, who has been assigned or appointed to that position by the City Manager.
       			"Initial  determination"  means a determination  made by a compliance officer upon
    		completion of a first-step appeal.
       			"Lease" means any action by which a unit or a bed within a multifamily development is
    		leased, rented or otherwise made available for consideration of any sort to a person pursuant to
    		an oral, written or other arrangement executed, approved or accepted by a property owner or
    		property manager. The term "Lease" also includes any action by a property owner or property
    		manager to provide a person with occupancy rights to a unit (or a bed or bedroom within a
    		multifamily development), if the property owner or property manager receives grant funds or
    		payments from third parties to defray the cost of providing housing to serve a targeted population
    		which includes such person (such as the homeless, paroles, etc.).
       			"Multifamily development" means any apartment, boarding house, transitional housing,
    		supportive  housing,  rental  mobilehome park,  or condominium development  (under a single
    		ownership) which has at least ten units, inclusive of any unit occupied by an on-site manager.
    		The term multifamily development excludes: (1) group homes for the developmentally disabled;
    		and (2) residential uses licensed or regulated by state or federal law to the extent those licenses
    		or regulations preempt application of this Chapter.
       			"Noncompliant multifamily development" means any multifamily development which:
    		(1) has been issued a final finding of noncompliance pursuant to Section 9.40.030; and (2) has
    		not received a finding of compliance pursuant to Section 9.40.070.
       			"Program Fee" means a fee, if any, set by resolution of the City Council pursuant to
    		Section  9.40.100  which  is  charged  to  the  property  owner  of  a  noncompliant  multifamily
    		development and used to defray all or part of the costs of administering the CFM multifamily
    		program with respect to noncompliant multifamily developments.
  										9.40 (3) 					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 4
									Vista Municipal Code
       			"Property manager"  means any person  who or entity which:  (1) is  identified  as a
    		manager  for  a  multifamily  development;  (2) executes  leases  for  units  in  the  multifamily
    		development;  (3) is  authorized  to  terminate  leases  within  the  multifamily  development;  or
    		(4) executes the functions, on behalf of a property owner, which are ordinarily performed by an
    		property manager. When the property manager is an entity, the term "property manager" also
    		includes the person or persons which the entity has selected, hired or employed to discharge the
    		functions of a property manager on behalf of the entity.
       			"Property owner" means a person, trust, corporation, partnership or other entity which
    		owns at least a fifty percent (50%) interest in a multifamily development, whether such ownership
    		is direct or indirect. When a property owner is an entity, the term "property owner" also includes
    		the person who serves as the most senior executive officer for the entity.
       			"Required action" means each action listed in a schedule of required actions (including
    		those added to the schedule of required actions pursuant to a safety and compliance report
    		prepared pursuant to Section 9.40.050.E).
       			"Required action deadline" means the deadline for accomplishing each required action
    		as set forth in the schedule of required actions or the safety and compliance report, subject to
    		possible extension pursuant to Section 9.40.060.
       			"Review period" means any six-month period from January 1 through June 30 or July 1
    		through December 31, which begins on or after January 1, 2015.
       			"Safety and compliance report" means the report listing required actions and setting
    		forth required action deadlines which is prepared pursuant to paragraph E of Section 9.40.050.
       			"Schedule of required actions" means a schedule, initially prepared by the compliance
    		officer pursuant to section 9.040.030, listing the required actions (inclusive of required action
    		deadlines) for a noncompliant multifamily development and which may be augmented or modified
    		by the safety and compliance report pursuant to Section 9.40.050.E, or as provided in Section
    		9.40.060.
       			"Service call" means a call to the Sheriff's Department, not including an excluded call, to
    		report suspicious  or criminal  activity,  or to  request assistance,  where the address for the
    		multifamily development is used as the address for the incident based on the contents of a
    		computer aided dispatch (CAD) record or similar report.
       			"Service  call  threshold"  means  a  whole  or  fractional  number  for  a  multifamily
    		development which equals 25% of the units within the development.
       			"Substantial progress towards obtaining a CFM certification" means progress with
    		respect to a  noncompliant multifamily development,  measured  as of a date,  consisting  of:
    		(1) satisfactorily completing all required actions to be completed prior to such date; and (2) all
    		remedial actions required by a final administrative citation to be completed prior to such date.
       			"Unit" means a dwelling unit, apartment unit, condominium unit, or mobilehome pad (with
    		or without a mobilehome on it).
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
    		Section 9.40.030      Noncompliant Multifamily Developments; Issuance and Delivery of
    		Finding of Noncompliance
      			A.       Issuance.  A  compliance officer may  issue  a  finding  of noncompliance  for a
    		multifamily development when the officer, based on an initial review, determines that the service
    		calls attributable to the multifamily development have equaled or exceeded the service call
    		threshold for the development during at least two six-month review periods occurring within an
    		18-month period. The compliance officer shall also endeavor to provide a courtesy notice to each
    		multifamily development which has exceeded its service call threshold for a review period, but
    		has not received a finding of noncompliance. The courtesy notice will advise the recipient that an
    		additional exceedance of the service call threshold could result in the issuance of a finding of
  										9.40 (4) 					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 5
									Vista Municipal Code
    		noncompliance, and obligate the multifamily development to participate in the CFM certification
    		program.
       			B.       Contents of Finding of Noncompliance. The finding of noncompliance shall include:
    		(1) the address of the multifamily development; (2) a statement advising the property owner or
    		property manager that the multifamily development has been determined to be a noncompliant
    		multifamily  development;  (3) a  brief  statement  of  the  facts  and  reasons  supporting  that
    		determination;  (4) a schedule of required actions (which  may be augmented or modified  in
    		accordance with paragraph (E) of Section 9.40.050) and Section 9.40.060) setting forth each
    		required action and each associated required action deadline; (5) a statement that the property
    		owner or property manager receiving the finding of noncompliance is legally obligated to submit
    		an application for a crime free multifamily certificate; (6) a form of application; and (7) a notice
    		regarding appeal rights. A copy of Chapter 9.40 of the Vista Municipal Code and the CFM tenant
    		meeting rules and guidelines shall be included with the finding of noncompliance.
       			C.       Delivery.   The  compliance  officer  shall   effect  delivery  of  the  finding   of
    		noncompliance to property owner, and may effect delivery of it to the property manager if the
    		compliance officer chooses.
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
    		Section 9.40.040      Application for CFM Certification; Issuance
      			A.       Obligation to Submit Application. Each property owner and/or property manager
    		receiving a finding of noncompliance is legally obligated to submit to the City Clerk an application
    		for CFM certification, even if the property owner intends to appeal that determination. Such
    		application shall be filed no later than 7 city business days following delivery of the finding of
    		noncompliance.
       			B.	Content of Application. The application shall be on a form provided by the City,
    		and shall include the location of the property; the name, address and telephone of the owner; the
    		name, address and 24-hour telephone number(s) of the manager or custodian of the property;
    		the owner's agent for service of process; and such other information as may be required by the
    		City.
       			C.       Issuance of CFM certification. The compliance officer, with the consent of the
    		Sheriff, shall issue a CFM certification for a noncompliant multifamily development within 14 city
    		business days of the date on which the following have occurred: (1) each required action for that
    		development has been accomplished (inclusive of all remedial actions required by a safety and
    		compliance  report prepared  pursuant to Section  9.40.050.E);  and  (2) each  remedial action
    		required by an administrative citation has been completed.
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
    		Section 9.40.050      Operational Requirements Imposed on All Noncompliant Multifamily
    		Developments
       			Until a finding of compliance is issued for a noncompliant multifamily development, the
    		following rules, prohibitions and obligations must be followed, observed, satisfied, and discharged
    		with  respect to each noncompliant multifamily development, and by each property owner or
    		property manager associated with that noncompliant multifamily development.
      			A.       Limitation on Rental of Units. No available unit shall be leased, nor shall any bed
    		or bedroom be leased, unless: (1) a crime free lease addendum has been executed by all adult
    		tenants who will reside in the unit or bedroom; (2) the property owner or property manager has
    		completed actions required pursuant to a schedule of required actions except for those with
    		deadlines on or after the date of the lease action; ;and (3) the property owner or property manager
  										9.40 (5) 					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 6
									Vista Municipal Code
    		has completed all remedial actions required pursuant to a final administrative citation except for
    		actions with deadlines occurring on or after the date of the lease action.
       			B.       Form of Crime Free Lease Addendum. Each crime-free lease addendum shall be
    		in the following form, with only those changes approved  in writing  by the City Manager or
    		designee:
      							CRIME-FREE LEASE ADDENDUM
 				In addition to all other terms of the lease, Landlord and Tenant agree as follows:
				The Tenant, any member of the Tenant's household, any guest or any other
 				person associated with the Tenant on the leased premises:
 				(1)      Shall  not engage in any nuisance activity as defined  in  Civil  Code
 				sections 3479 and 3480, any criminal activity, including drug-related criminal
 				activity, on the leased premises. "Drug related criminal activity" means the
 				illegal  manufacture,  sale,  distribution,  use,  or possession  of any illegal or
 				controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. 802.
 				(2)      Shall not engage in any act intended to facilitate nuisance or criminal
 				activity.
 				(3)      Shall  not allow the dwelling  unit to be used for or to facilitate any
 				nuisance or criminal activity.
				The Tenant, any member of the Tenant's household, any guests or any other
 				person associated with the Tenant shall not violate any civil law, ordinance or
 				statute in the use and occupancy of the premises, commit waste or nuisance,
 				annoy, molest or interfere with any other person on the property.
				ANY ACTIVITY PROHIBITED BY THIS AGREEMENT SHALL CONSTITUTE
				A     SUBSTANTIAL     VIOLATION     OF     THE     LEASE,     MATERIAL
 				NONCOMPLIANCE WITH THE LEASE, AND GROUNDS FOR TERMINATION
 				OF TENANCY AND EVICTION.
       			C.       Occupancy of Units in Violation of Crime Free Lease Addendum Prohibited. An
    		adult tenant, following the effective date of this ordinance, shall not move into a unit, bedroom, or
    		bed without first executing a crime free lease addendum. No lease occupancy of a unit shall be
    		permitted which would violate the terms of an executed crime free lease addendum.
       			D.       Lease Addendum Tracking Sheet. Within 30 calendar days of the date on which a
    		finding of noncompliance becomes final, and every February 1 and August 1 thereafter, a lease
    		addendum tracking sheet shall be delivered to the compliance officer consisting of: (1) a listing of
    		each unit in the multifamily development; (2) whether the unit is occupied; (3) whether a current
    		and effective lease addendum has been executed for that unit; and (4) for each unit without a fully
    		executed lease addendum; (a) an indication whether or not, in the prior six-month review period,
    		the lease for that unit either expired or rolled over; and (b) the next date on which the lease for
    		that unit is set to expire or rollover. The preceding information shall be submitted using a form
    		created by the City, or if no such form exists, using a form prepared by the property owner or
    		property manager. Until a finding of compliance has been issued, a copy of each effective lease
    		addendum shall be maintained by the property owner and shall be available for inspection by the
    		City upon 48 hours advance notice, but not more often than on three occasions during any three
    		month period.
       			E.       Safety and Compliance Report; Associated Inspections. With at least 48 hours
    		advance notice, the property owner and property manager shall permit the Sheriff Department
    		and the City to complete a safety and code compliance inspection of all common areas within the
    		noncompliant multifamily development. Following the inspection, the compliance officer (with
  										9.40 (6) 					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 7
									Vista Municipal Code
    		input of the Sheriff) will produce a safety and compliance report that identifies: (1) code violations
    		present at the noncompliant multifamily development which require correction or remediation;
    		(2) other physical changes, modifications, or improvements to the property needed or useful in
    		creating an environment designed to reasonably minimize the opportunity for crime; (3) changes
    		in the operations of the noncompliant multifamily development which will minimize the opportunity
    		for  crime,  and  (4) the  deadline  for  completing  or  accomplishing  each  of those  changes,
    		corrections, modifications or improvements. Following issuance of the safety and compliance
    		report: (1) each action, change or modification identified in that report shall constitute a required
    		action under the schedule of required actions; and (2) each associated deadline shall constitute
    		a required action deadline for purposes of the schedule of required actions.
       			F.       Completing Required and Remedial Actions by Deadlines. Each required action
    		must be accomplished by its required action deadline; and (2) each remedial or corrective action
    		required by a final administrative citation must be completed by the compliance deadline set by
    		the citation.
       			G.       Inspections to Verify Satisfaction of Required or Remedial Actions. Upon 48 hours
    		advance  notice,  the compliance officer shall  be  permitted  to  inspect those portions of the
    		multifamily development which the officer must reasonably view to confirm that all remedial
    		actions required by paragraph F, have been timely accomplished.
       			H.       Signage. If the property owner does not reside on the premises of any multifamily
    		development, a notice stating the name and address of the owner, or the name and address of
    		his agent in charge of the multifamily development, shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
    		premises.
       			I.	Seminar. By the deadlines set in the schedule of required actions, all persons
    		administering,   managing   or  controlling   the  operation   of  any   noncompliant   multifamily
    		development must: (1) attend and complete a crime free housing seminar, administered by the
    		Sheriffs Department or other provider selected by the City; and (2) repeat that training at least
    		once every two years thereafter.
       			J.	CFM Tenant Meeting. An initial CFM tenant meeting satisfying the CFM tenant
    		meeting rules and guidelines shall take place by the date set forth in the schedule of required
    		actions. In accordance with the schedule of required actions, a draft plan to promote the meeting
    		shall be prepared by the property owner and property manager, submitted to the compliance
    		officer for comment, revised, and then implemented to promote the meeting. At minimum, the plan
    		shall provide that written notice of the meeting shall be delivered to each unit, and that attendees
    		at the meeting shall  include the owner or owner's representative, senior managers for the
    		development, and representatives of the Sheriff and City. The management shall create a record
    		of adults attending the meeting (evidenced by their signatures) which shall list the unit in which
    		each attending adult resides. If fewer than 25% of the units had adult tenants in attendance at the
    		meeting, the compliance officer, in his or her discretion may require the management to advertise
    		and hold a second meeting within 60 days of the initial meeting. Thereafter, CFM tenant meetings
    		shall be conducted annually.
       			K.       Non-Retaliation. No action shall be taken to terminate a tenancy, increase the rent
    		for a tenancy, or to threaten punitive action concerning a tenancy based solely on a decision, by
    		a tenant or a tenant's invitee, to place a telephone call to the sheriff to report a crime or suspicious
    		activity.
       			L.	Payment of Program Fee. The property owner shall cause to be paid, in a timely
    		manner, the full amount of the program fee(s) when due.
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
  										9.40 (7) 					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 8
									Vista Municipal Code
    		Section 9.40.060      Schedules of Required Actions; Modifying Deadlines
      			A.       Schedules of Required Actions—Content. A schedule of required actions shall be
    		included with each finding of noncompliance issued by the compliance officer. The schedule shall:
    		(1) list each required action pertaining to a noncompliant multifamily development which must be
    		satisfied  or  completed  as  a  precondition  to  the  issuance  of a  CFM  certification  for  that
    		development; and (2) a reasonable deadline for accomplishing each of those required actions.
    		The contents of the schedule of required actions shall (by operation of law) be augmented or
    		modified to: (1) to include each new required action or required action deadline contained in a
    		safety and compliance report prepared pursuant to subsection 9.40.050.E; and (2) modification
    		in a required action deadline approved pursuant to paragraphs B through D of this Section. The
    		compliance officer is encouraged to prepare an updated and consolidated schedule of required
    		actions to reflect these changes, but those changes shall be effective whether or not an updated
    		and consolidated schedule is prepared.
       			B.       Requests to Adjust Deadlines. After a finding of noncompliance becomes final, a
    		property owner or property manager may request that the City extend a certification action
    		deadline by submitting an application to extend a required action deadline to the City Clerk. The
    		request must demonstrate:  (1) good cause for the extension; and (2) the property owner or
    		property manager has made substantial progress toward obtaining a CFM certification on behalf
    		of the noncomplying multifamily development.
       			C.       Action on Requests to Adjust Deadlines. The compliance officer shall deny, partly
    		grant, fully grant, or conditionally grant the request and set forth his or her determination in writing
    		with  a presentation  of the facts and  reasons for the determination.  The  resulting  deadline
    		adjustment determination shall be delivered to the property owner and/or property manager. Once
    		a request to extend a deadline has been finally denied, a further request to extend the same
    		deadline may not be processed.
       			D.       Modifications by Compliance Officer. A compliance officer,  in  his or her sole
    		discretion, may unilaterally modify a required action deadline or work constituting a required
    		action, provided that the property owner and/or property manager consents to the modification in
    		writing.  Neither an action  nor an inaction by the compliance officer under this paragraph is
    		appealable. Modifications proposed by the compliance officer shall be limited to changes which
    		will produce a more practicable implementation of the Chapter without impairing its objectives.
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
    		Section 9.40.070      Finding of Compliance
      			A.       Issuing  Finding  of Compliance.  A compliance officer shall  issue a finding  of
    		compliance within 14 city business days after the date that both of the following have occurred:
    		(1) a CFM certification has been issued to the noncompliant multifamily development; and (2) a
    		period of 48 consecutive months have passed from the issuance of that certification during which
    		the multifamily development has operated without exceeding its service call threshold, unless that
    		exceedance is excused by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee. The City Manager
    		or designee may excuse an exceedance on up to one occasion during a 24 month span, provided
    		that the property owner or property manager has been provided evidence which clearly and
    		convincingly  demonstrates  that:  (1) the  exceedance  was  due  to  unusual  circumstances;
    		(2) neither the property owner nor the property manager were in a position to reasonably avoid
    		the exceedance; and (3) the noncompliant multifamily development had  been operated in a
    		responsible and diligent manner consistent with all requirements of this Chapter and sound
    		management practices which are encouraged as part of the CFM certification program.
       			B.       Effect. When a noncompliant multifamily development has received a finding of
    		compliance,  the  multifamily  development,  shall  be  released  of all  obligations,  duties  and
  										9.40 (8) 					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 9
									Vista Municipal Code
    		limitations  imposed  by this  Chapter until  such  future  time,  if at all,  that a  new finding  of
    		noncompliance is issued for that multifamily development. However, all multifamily developments,
    		following completion of the CFM certification program are encouraged to voluntarily continue
    		participating in the crime free multifamily housing program.
       			C.       Option for Owner to Request a Finding. A property owner may request that the City
    		issue a finding of compliance for noncompliant multifamily development if more than ten days
    		have passed since all preconditions to issuance of the finding were met. The property owner's
    		request should set forth all facts and reasons supporting the request. Thereafter, compliance
    		officer shall issue the finding of compliance or explain in writing why a finding of compliance has
    		not been issued.
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
    		Section 9.40.080      Appeals
      			A.       Appealable Determinations. Each determination taken pursuant to this Chapter
    		may be appealed as follows.
       			B.       First-Step Appeal Procedure. A property owner or manager may appeal an initial
    		determination under this Chapter by filing a complete appeal with the City Clerk no later than 7
    		city business days following the delivery date for that initial determination. If a timely and complete
    		appeal is not filed, the initial determination shall become final and non-reviewable.
       			C.       Second-Step Appeal Procedure. Upon completing a first-step appeal procedure, a
    		property owner or manager may appeal the resulting first-step appeal determination by filing a
    		complete appeal with the City Clerk no later than 7 city business days following the delivery date
    		for that determination if(and only if) that determination involves one of the following: (1) a finding
    		of noncompliance issued pursuant to Section 9.40.030.A and C; (2) a compliance order issued
    		pursuant to subsection 9.40.110.H requiring a property owner to stop leasing available units; or
    		(3) a failure to issue a finding of compliance after receiving a legitimate request pursuant to
    		Section 9.40.070.C. If an appeal of a first-step appeal determination is not available under this
    		paragraph, or if is not filed in a timely and complete manner, the first-step appeal determination
    		shall become final and shall not be subject to further review.
       			D.       Complete Appeal Applications. For purposes of this Section, an appeal application
    		is incomplete unless all of the following are satisfied: (1) the City-created form is used, or if none
    		exists, a form prepared by appellant is used; (2) the appeal fee is included with the application in
    		the amount set by City Council  resolution;  (3) the specific determination to be appealed  is
    		identified; (4) the result sought by appellant on appeal is described; (5) all reasons, including legal
    		reasons, for the result being sought are presented; and (6) all evidence supporting the desired
    		result are identified. In addition, the appellant should submit with the application (i) any additional
    		evidence (not in the record) which the appellant wants the hearing officer to consider; and (ii) any
    		materials or information that may be necessary to establish a foundation for expert opinions
    		offered or other evidence submitted.
       			E.       Rules  for  Processing  Appeals.  If  a  timely  and  complete  appeal  if  filed  in
    		accordance with this Section, the appeal shall be conducted using the following procedures
 					1.       The  City  Clerk  shall  provide  the  compliance  officer  with  the  appeal
    		application, including any exhibits. No later than 14 city business days after the appeal application
    		is filed, the compliance officer may submit to the City Clerk additional  materials presenting
    		reasons for the disputed determination and additional relevant evidence.
 					2.	If such a submission is received by the City Clerk, a copy shall be made
    		available for review by the appellant at the offices of the City Clerk, and (at the option of the City
    		Clerk) may be provided by email or other means to the appellant if practicable. After being notified
    		of an additional submission by the compliance officer, the appellant shall have five days in which
    		to file a written response with the City Clerk.
  										9.40 (9) 					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 10
									Vista Municipal Code
 					3	If the hearing officer determines that it might be productive, the hearing
    		officer can invite the appellant and the compliance officer(or the compliance officer's designee) to
    		participate in an informal meeting to determine if a mutually acceptable resolution of the appeal
    		may be possible. The meeting shall not be used present any new arguments or any new evidence.
    		If the informal meeting achieves a mutually acceptable resolution, the resulting resolution shall be
    		formalized into a stipulated decision on appeal which shall be signed by the appellant, compliance
    		officer, and  hearing officer. Thereafter the stipulated decision shall be binding and  must be
    		followed by the property owner and manager.
 					4.	If a mutually acceptable resolution is not achieved under the preceding
    		subparagraph, the hearing officer shall consider the case file, all submitted evidence, and all
    		relevant arguments. Based on those submissions (but not on the discussions occurring during
    		the informal meeting, if any), the hearing officer shall issue a written decision on appeal which
    		presents the evidentiary determinations, reasons and conclusions supporting the decision on
    		appeal. That written decision shall be provided to the City Clerk and the appellant. Thereafter, it
    		shall be binding, final, and non-reviewable.
       			F.	Modification  of  Rules.  These  procedures  described  in  paragraph  E  may  be
    		supplemented, modified or adjusted to promote fair and efficient hearings by either City Manager
    		or hearing officer with advance written notice to the parties.
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
    		Section 9.40.090      Transfers of Noncompliant Multifamily developments
       			No property owner shall transfer a noncompliant multifamily development or a multifamily
    		development which has received a finding of noncompliance (whether or not final) unless the
    		owner first:  (1) informs  the  prospective  buyer that  the  multifamily  development  has  been
    		designated  a  noncompliant  multifamily  development  or  has  been   issued  a  finding  of
    		noncompliance pursuant to this Chapter; (2) provides the prospective buyer with the finding of
    		noncompliance including the schedule of required actions; and (3) provides the City, with an
    		executed  document,  in  which  the  prospective  buyer:  (a) acknowledges that the  multifamily
    		development has been identified by the City as a noncompliant multifamily development pursuant
    		to  Chapter  9.40  of the  Vista  Municipal  Code;  and  (b) the  multifamily  development,  upon
    		acquisition, shall continue to retain its classification as a noncompliant multifamily development
    		subject to all terms and obligations this Chapter, including the obligation to take all required
    		actions contained in the schedule of required actions on or before the required action deadline.
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
    		Section 9.40.100      Program Fee; Appeal Fees; Fee Waivers
      			A.       Program Fee. By resolution, the City Council may establish a program fee to be
    		paid by each noncompliant multifamily development to defray the costs of administering the CFM
    		certification program. The program fee may be set using any lawful method selected by the City
    		Council, including without limitation: (1) a fee which varies based according to a sliding scale
    		based on the units within the multifamily development; and (2) a fee which is payable by the
    		ownership of a multifamily development, on an annual or other periodic basis, for the time period
    		that the multifamily development participates in the CFM certification program.
       			B.       Appeal Fee. By resolution, the City Council may establish an appeal fee to be paid
    		by a property owner seeking to appeal a determination under this Chapter.
       			C.       Fee Waivers. If a property owner claims an economic hardship will result from
    		paying a program fee or appeal fee, the property owner may apply for a waiver of the fee on forms
    		provided by the City Clerk for that purpose. The forms shall be executed under penalty of perjury
    		and contain a declaration as to the truthfulness and correctness of the information contained
 										9.40 (10)					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 11
									Vista Municipal Code
    		therein. If the City Clerk determines that a sufficient showing has been made to support the waiver,
    		the City Clerk shall waive the fee. A sufficient showing requires that the owner demonstrate that
    		payment of the fee would pose a serious economic hardship on the property owner.
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
    		Section 9.40.110      Enforcement; Remedies
      			A.       Violations  of this  Code.  A  violation  of this  Chapter  occurs  any  time:  (1) a
    		requirement of this Chapter is not satisfied or is violated; (2) a required action is not achieved by
    		its required action deadline; (3) a correction required by a final administrative citation is not
    		accomplished by the deadline set in the citation; (4) each required action described in compliance
    		order is not accomplished by the deadline and in the manner required by that compliance order;
    		or (5) a person required to obtain a crime-free lease addendum intentionally allows a tenant or
    		other person to occupy a bed or unit within a multifamily development in material violation of the
    		crime-free lease addendum required by this Chapter.
       			B.       Separate Violations. Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue
    		constitutes a separate violation of this Code which is enforceable in accordance with the terms of
    		this Section.
       			C.       Remedies Cumulative.  Each  remedy allowed  by this Chapter is a cumulative
    		remedy and is not exclusive of any other remedy available under this Chapter or other legal
    		authority, including any federal, state, or local authority.
       			D.       Enforcement by Administrative Penalty. Any violation of this Chapter may be
    		enforced through the issuance of administrative citations in accordance with Chapter 1.13 of the
    		Vista Municipal Code.
       			E.       Nuisance.  Any violation  of this  Chapter  is  deemed  to  be  a  public  nuisance
    		enforceable pursuant to Chapter 8.36 of the Vista Municipal Code.
       			F.	Misdemeanor.  Any violation  of this  Chapter  is  a  misdemeanor and  may  be
    		enforced pursuant to Chapter 1.16 of the Vista Municipal Code.
       			G.       Civil Actions.  In addition to any other remedies provided in this Chapter, any
    		violation of this section may be enforced by civil action brought by the City. In any such action,
    		the City may seek, without limitation, and the court shall grant, as appropriate, any or all of the
    		following remedies:
 					1.	Injunctive relief;
 					2.       Assessment of the violator for the costs of any investigation, inspection, or
    		monitoring survey which led to the establishment of the violation, and for the reasonable costs of
    		preparing and bringing legal action under this subsection;
 					3.	Costs incurred in removing, correcting, or terminating the adverse effects
    		resulting from the violation;
 					4.	Payment or reimbursement of any governmental fines or penalties imposed
    		on the City as a result of the violation.
 					5.	Civil penalties, not to exceed $2,500 per violation for each day during which
    		any violation of any provision of this Chapter is committed, continued, permitted or maintained by
    		such person(s).
       			H.       Compliance Order. In addition to or instead of initiating an enforcement action
    		under paragraphs D through G, the City or compliance officer may issue a written compliance
    		order describing any violation(s) of this Code, setting a date or dates for correcting or remedying
    		such violation(s), and specifying (if appropriate) the means for remedying the violation(s). The
    		issuance of a compliance order shall not prevent the City from concurrently or thereafter taking
    		any enforcement action described in paragraphs D through G, including during any period that an
    		appeal involving the compliance order may be pending under Section 9.40.080."
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16)
 										9.40 (11)					(Vista 10/09/20)


PAGE 12
									Vista Municipal Code
    		Section 9.40.120      Commencement and Sunset Dates for Chapter
    		(Ord. No. 2016-9, Enacted, 8/9/16; Ord. No. 2018-5, Amended, 5/8/18; Ord. No. 2020-13, Deleted, 9/8/20)
 										9.40 (12)					(Vista 10/09/20)

