SOURCE: https://portal.laserfiche.com/Portal/DocView.aspx?id=11107&repo=r-3f0b2553
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
METHOD: public read-only GetTextHtmlForPage all 4 pages


PAGE 1
  									Vista Municipal Code
     									Chapter 18.60
      								Condominium Housing
    		Sections:
    		18.60.010      Establishment Procedure
    		18.60.020      Permit Application Procedure
    		18.60.040      Condominium Conversion -Apartment Project Requirements
    		18.60.030      Subdivision Map Requirement Waived When
    		18.60.050      Condominium Conversion - Requirements Generally
    		18.60.060      Approval or Denial Conditions - Hearing Procedure
    		18.60.070      Permit Nullified When
    		18.60.080      Modifications to Standards
    		18.60.090      Mobile Home Subdivisions
    		Section 18.60.010    Establishment Procedure
       			In  the  city,  condominium  housing  may  be  established  through  one  of the following
    		methods in addition to filing a subdivision map:
      			A.       In accordance with Chapter 18.24,  through a planned residential development
    		overlay zone, PRD permit and subdivision.
       			B.       Through  a  specific  plan  under  Section  65450  of  the  State  of  California
    		Government Code and Chapter 18.50 of this code.
       			C.       Through a specific plan of design translating potential zoning into effective zoning
    		in accordance with Section 18.58.050.
       			D.       By obtaining a condominium housing permit by the procedure contained in this
    		chapter, if the property is zoned R-M, M-U, or located within a specific plan that permits multi-
    		family dwellings.
    		(Prior Code Appendix A 2181; Ord. No. 2017-17, Amended, 10/24/17)
    		Section 18.60.020    Permit Application Procedure
      			A.       A subdivision of property into ownership parcels or divisions in accordance with
    		Section 66426 of the Government Code, shall, in addition to the recordation of a final subdivision
    		map, require a condominium housing permit. The condominium housing permit will be processed
    		in  the  same  manner  and  concurrent  with  a  tentative  subdivision  map  application  and
    		accompanied by a site development plan application. This section shall also apply to stock
    		cooperative housing.
       			B.       Application for a condominium housing permit shall be made on forms provided by
    		the  Director  of  Planning.  This  application  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  fee  established  by
    		resolution  of  the  City  Council.  The  application  shall  he  submitted  concurrently  with  the
    		appropriate submission of a tentative subdivision map and a site development plan.
    		(Prior Code Appendix A 2182)
    		Section 18.60.030    Subdivision Map Requirement Waived When
    		(Prior Code Appendix A 2182.3; Ord. 2012-12 Repealed 10/09/12)
    		Section 18.60.040    Condominium Conversion -Apartment Project Requirements
      			Apartment projects may apply for conversion to condominiums; provided, that:
      			A.       The project will be constructed under the provision of the current version of the
  										18.60 (l)					(Vista 11/24/17)

PAGE 2
  									Vista Municipal Code
    		Uniform Building Code.
       			B.	The  project meets  or will  be upgraded to  meet the requirements of Section
    		18.60.050.
       			C.       The project was constructed under the provisions of the Uniform Building Code
    		prior to the adoption of the original condominium housing ordinance, November 26, 1979.
       			D.       The  apartment  project was  approved  with  a  site  development  plan  prior to
    		January 1, 1985.
       			E.       No project constructed  as an apartment may convert to a condominium  after
    		January 1, 1988.
       			F.       The City Council may, however, waive the requirement for a tentative and final
    		subdivision map, and exempt a one-lot stock cooperative or a one-lot air-space condominium
    		from Condition E of this section under the following circumstances:
 					1.	A written  request is made to the City Council through the  Director of
    		Planning for such a waiver.
 					2.	The purchase is (a) a resident-initiated action of an apartment building or
    		group of buildings, or (b) of a mobile home park by a corporation comprised of over 50 percent of
    		the  existing  residents  prior  to  the  purchase  for  the  purpose  of  creating  a  one-lot  stock
    		cooperative or a one-lot air-space condominium;  provided,  that a  majority of the  remaining
    		residents either purchasing or not purchasing the park consent to such purchase and that such
    		corporate purchase does not result in displacement of either any lower income household unit or
    		any existing mobile home coach. In applying this section, the City Council may, by majority vote,
    		approve this waiver upon receipt of a request on behalf of at least 66 and 2/3 percent of the
    		residents intending to purchase the property or upon request of over 50 percent of the residents
    		intending to purchase and a petition consenting to the purchase signed by a majority of the
    		remaining residents not purchasing interest in the project. The application shall also include a
    		certification  that  no  existing  resident  will  be  economically  evicted  or  evicted  because  of
    		nonparticipation in the purchase.
 					3.	The City Council finds that the project meets all requirements that may
    		have been established as a condition of subdivision, were it applicable, including displacement of
    		residents.
 					4.	No more than 25 percent of the shares of the cooperative were owned by
    		any one person, as defined in Section 18.02.525, including an incorporator or director of the
    		cooperative, on January 1, 1980.
 					5.       A person renting a unit in a cooperative shall be entitled, at the time of
    		conversion, to all tenant rights in state or local law, including, but not limited to, rights respecting
    		first refusal, notice and displacement and relocation benefits.
     			6.  The City may establish a fee to recover cost of processing such a request.  This fee
    		shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
    		(Prior Code Appendix A 2182.5)
    		Section 18.60.050    Condominium Conversion - Requirements Generally
     			The applicant,  upon submittal of an application for a condominium housing permit,  in
    		addition to the requirements of Section 18.60.020, shall submit evidence that:
      			A.       The standards of the development meet the conditions of the underlying zone and
    		that applicable building codes are met, the units are individually metered, and adequately served
    		by public facilities, or on a single meter billed to the homeowners' association if so incorporated
    		in the CC&Rs.
       			B.       All applicable City development fees and development conditions are paid for or
    		guaranteed, or developed, with each unit calculated as a single-family unit.
       			C.       A  list of the  CC&Rs  of the  project  is  provided  and  approved  as  part of the
  										18.60 (2)					(Vista 11/24/17)

PAGE 3
  									Vista Municipal Code
    		condominium housing permit.
       			D.       All  private  streets,  driveways,  walkways,  parking  areas,  landscaped  areas,
    		storage areas, screening, sewers, drainage facilities, utilities, open space, recreation facilities
    		and other improvements not dedicated to public use shall be maintained by the property owners.
    		Any failure to maintain is unlawful and is declared to be a public nuisance endangering the
    		health, safety and general welfare of the public and a detriment to the surrounding community.
    		Where  such failure to  maintain  is  noted  by the City,  the City shall  institute compliance as
    		provided in the CC&Rs and have the authority to place lien on the property for its maintenance if
    		the homeowners' association is derelict in enforcing this requirement.
       			E.       1.       At least 40 percent of the gross land area of the project site shall be
    		maintained as open space.  Land occupied by buildings, streets, driveways or parking areas may
    		not be included in satisfying this requirement.
 					2.	Not less than 50 percent of the qualified open space shall be on land with
    		a slope of less than ten percent unless specifically modified by the Planning Commission or the
    		City Council.
 					3.	At least 50 square feet of common open space per unit shall be provided
    		in a single area reasonably accessible and available to all of the residential units.
       			F.       The applicant shall also submit evidence for granting the condominium housing
    		permit to the Planning Commission and/or the City Council; for existing units that have been
    		either certified for occupancy over six months or is occupied at the time of application, to enable
    		the Planning Commission and/or City Council to make the following findings:
 					1.	That the project is in compliance with the Housing Element of the General
    		Plan, in that it does not reduce the availability of lower income housing in the community.
 					2.	That the project is,  at time of application,  in legal compliance with the
    		codes and ordinances of the City under which its present use falls, and there are no outstanding
    		violations of these codes or ordinances.
 					3.	That all nonconforming features of the project, where reasonably possible,
    		are to be brought into compliance.
 					4.	That the resultant unit density and the proposed use is in compliance with
    		the land use element of the general plan.
       			G.       If the project is occupied, the applicant shall submit a current list of the tenants'
    		names who shall be notified by the City, of the meeting time and place where the matter will be
    		considered.
       			H.       1.	The  Planning  Commission  and/or City Council  may  impose  any other
    		reasonable condition as a condition of conversion approval, to bring a condominium housing
    		(conversion)  permit  into  compliance  with  the  above  findings  of  this  section,   including
    		requirements regarding mitigating impacts as set forth in the housing element and protections of
    		housing for lower income families. Such a condition may include a provision to reserve or sell up
    		to six percent of the units to be made eligible for and available to the City or its housing agency
    		for lower income households qualified for assistance. The City or the housing agency shall have
    		the  authority  to  accept  or  refuse  the  reservation  within  30  days  of the  adoption  of  the
    		requirement.  A condition for payment of relocation expense for certified lower income families
    		shall  be applied to all  condominium  conversion  policies,  the  amount to  provide for moving
    		expenses, cleaning deposit and two month's rent in a comparable or better relocation rental unit.
    		Applicants may provide a "tenant benefit package," which provides preferable terms of purchase
    		to residents of the project, compared to the open market.
 					2.	The City may accept land dedication and/or assess a fee in lieu of this
    		lower  income  housing  provision,  such  fee  to  be  placed  in  a  special  account  and  utilized
    		exclusively for programs providing lower income housing opportunity in the City. This dedication
    		and/or fee shall be based on a fair share contribution to the City's housing assistance program,
    		applied to the project in question.
  										18.60 (3)					(Vista 11/24/17)

PAGE 4
  									Vista Municipal Code
       			I.	The  Planning  Commission  and/or City Council  may  require  other reasonable
    		requirements including, but not limited to:
 					1.	Off-street parking and enforcement agreements.
 					2.	The  installation  of  smoke  alarms  or  other  safety  features  deemed
    		appropriate by the Fire Chief or the Building Official.
    		(Prior Code Appendix A 2183)
    		Section 18.60.060    Approval or Denial Conditions - Hearing Procedure
     			The Planning Commission and City Council shall include the findings for the condominium
    		housing in its resolution of approval or denial of the tentative subdivision map, and any hearing of
    		appeal or approval by the City Council shall be in accordance with the appropriate subdivision
    		and site plan review procedure.
    		(Prior Code Appendix A 2184)
    		Section 18.60.070     Permit Nullified When
      			Expiration or disapproval of a tentative subdivision map or site development plan shall
    		automatically nullify the companion condominium housing permit.
    		(Prior Code Appendix A 2185)
    		Section 18.60.080    Modifications to Standards
     			The Planning Commission  may grant modifications to the standards contained in this
    		chapter; provided, that the findings for a variance are met in accordance with Section 18.74.030.
    		(Prior Code Appendix A 2186)
    		Section 18.60.090     Mobile Home Subdivisions
     			The  following  additional  requirements  shall  apply  to  condominium  housing  projects
    		proposing  structures  certified  under  the  National  Mobile  Home  Construction  and  Safety
    		Standards Act of 1974:
      			A.  Non-condominium Subdivisions. Subdivisions on fee-simple lots containing lot sizes
    		conforming to the minimum  lot size of the zone in which the subdivision is located and not
    		proposing a condominium or stock cooperative shall not be regulated by the provisions of this
    		section.
       			B.  Condominium  Subdivisions.  The application for a tentative subdivision  map for a
    		subdivision for a condominium or stock cooperative shall be filed pursuant to this chapter and
    		shall include a site development plan.
    		(Prior Code Appendix A 2188)
  										18.60 (4)					(Vista 11/24/17)
