SOURCE: https://library.municode.com/co/westminster/codes/code_of_ordinances?nodeId=COOR_TITVLIRE_CH12REPRLIRE
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: municode API job 477674 (Supplement 12), product 15448; 10 sections
------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHAPTER 12. - RENTAL PROPERTY LICENSE AND REGISTRATION


5-12-1. - Application of Chapter.
Effective January 1, 2011, and for the reasons set forth in title IX, chapter 12,
of the Westminster Municipal Code, it shall be unlawful for any owner in the city
to do either of the following:

(A)

Lease for occupancy any rental property or portion thereof without first obtaining
a rental property license pursuant to this Chapter; or

(B)

Lease for occupancy any rental dwelling or portion thereof without first registering
the rental dwelling pursuant to this Chapter.

(3560)

5-12-2. - Definitions.
For purposes of this Chapter and unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words,
terms and phrases shall have the same meaning assigned to them by Title XI, Chapter
12, of the Westminster Municipal Code, the "Rental Property Maintenance Code."

5-12-3. - License Required; Rental Property.
(A)

Every owner of rental property shall file with the City Manager, acting by and through
the building division, an application for a rental property license.

(B)

A single license may be issued for the entire rental property and all units therein.

(C)

A restricted license may be issued or restrictions placed on an existing license for
a rental property if there is a portion of the property or certain units that do not
comply with the provisions of this Chapter. Restricted licenses shall clearly identify
the portion or portions of the rental property or units not in compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter, and those portions shall not be rented or occupied until
the City, upon reinspection pursuant to Title XI, Chapter 12, of the Westminster Municipal
Code, has removed such restriction from the license.

(D)

Applications for a license shall be required, and denial, non-renewal, suspension,
or revocation of a license shall proceed according to this Chapter. Licensees shall
have a duty to report changes as set forth in this Chapter.

(3646)

5-12-4. - Registration Required; Rental Dwellings.
(A)

Every owner of a rental dwelling(s) shall register the rental dwelling(s) with the
City Manager, acting by and through the building division, according to the application
process for licensing outlined in Section
5-12-5
, W.M.C., below.

(B)

The procedures set forth in Subsections
5-12-5
(A) and (B), Section
5-12-7
, and Section
5-12-8
, W.M.C., shall apply to registration. However, registration of rental dwellings is
performed without the imposition of a fee and no renewal is required.

(3646)

5-12-5. - License and Registration Application; Term of License; Renewal.
(A)

Application:
Applications for a rental property license or a rental dwelling registration shall
be submitted in writing on forms furnished by the building division and shall provide
the following information:

(1)

The full name, mailing address, telephone numbers and birth date for the property
owner, if the property owner is an individual.

(2)

The full names, mailing addresses, telephone numbers and birth dates for the property
owner(s) if the property is owned by more than one individual.

(3)

The full name, mailing address and birth date of at least one officer, manager or
director, if the property owner is a business entity.

(4)

An affirmation that the application is complete and contains no false, misleading
or fraudulent statements.

(5)

An affirmation that the applicant is in good standing for any other permits or licenses
granted by the City of Westminster.

(6)

An affirmation that each unit of the rental property currently complies with the requirements
set forth in the Rental Property Maintenance Code, Title XI, Chapter 12, of the Westminster
Municipal Code.

(7)

The address of all the unit(s), including individual unit numbers.

(8)

The number and type of units (one bedroom, two bedrooms, etc.) within the property.

(9)

The age of the property, calculated from the date of issuance of the building's certificate
of occupancy.

(10)

For every rental property or rental dwelling, an owner or agent shall reside or operate
within 50 miles of the property. If an owner does not reside or operate within a 50-mile
radius of the property, the owner shall appoint an agent meeting these requirements.

(11)

A site plan for or description of the property showing existing site improvements
including, but not limited to, structures, parking areas, and landscaping, and specifying
the materials used for each improvement.

(12)

Disclosure of how many units within the property, if any, constitute qualified income
restricted property and proof, satisfactory to the City, of such status.

(B)

Notices given to an agent designated by an owner pursuant to this Chapter shall be
sufficient to satisfy any requirement of notice to the owner.

(C)

Term:
License terms for rental properties shall be as follows:

(1)

Rental properties less than six years old shall have a license term of up to the time
they turn six years old.

(2)

Rental properties between six and 20 years old shall have a license term of every
four years.

(3)

Rental properties older than 20 years old shall have a license term of every two years.

(4)

The term of the initial license shall be determined by the age of the rental property
and the existing city inspection schedule, as set forth in Title XI, Chapter 12, of
the Westminster Municipal Code. License renewal shall take place at the time of the
next regularly scheduled inspection.

(D)

The owner or agent shall maintain the license on site and produce it upon request.
Posting of the license at the rental property is not required.

(E)

Renewal:
Approximately 60 days prior to the license expiration, the building division shall
send the owner a notice of renewal. Applications for renewal licenses shall proceed
as follows:

(1)

Submit a license application as required by Section
5-12-5
, W.M.C.

(2)

Pay inspection fees as required by Section
5-12-6
, W.M.C.

(3)

Schedule the rental property inspection with the building division.

(4)

Upon payment of the inspection fee, completion of the inspection and possible subsequent
reinspections, and with the property in full compliance, a license shall be renewed
for the term identified in Subsection
5-12-5
(C), W.M.C., unless the building division reduces or increases the term of a license
as permitted by Title XI, Chapter 12, of the Westminster Municipal Code. No scheduled
inspection shall be extended more than two years for any property and no inspection
schedule shall exceed six years between inspections.

(5)

Renewal of a license may be denied pursuant to Section
5-12-8
, W.M.C.

5-12-6. - Application Review.
(A)

Applications for rental property license and for rental dwelling registration shall
be filed with the building division for review and approval or denial by the City
Manager or authorized representative.

(B)

Fees:
Applicants for a new rental property license shall pay a licensing fee of $50.00
upon submission of a license application and shall pay a rental inspection fee of
$40.00 per unit, unless the unit is a qualified income restricted property, as addressed
below, prior to the next regularly scheduled inspection, which fee amounts may be
amended by subsequent resolution of City Council. Registration of rental dwellings
is performed without the imposition of a fee and no renewal is required.

(1)

The rental inspection fee shall be $20.00 per unit of qualified income restricted
property, as that term is defined in Section
11-12-3
, W.M.C., prior to the next regularly scheduled inspection, which fee amount may be
amended by subsequent resolution of City Council.

(2)

The burden of establishing that a unit is a qualified income restricted property rests
on the owner.

(C)

Standards for Review and Approval:
A license or registration application may be denied by the building division for
any of the reasons set forth in Section
5-1-6
, W.M.C.

(D)

Appeal Right:
The denial of license or registration application may be appealed pursuant to the
procedures established in Chapter 1 of this Title V.

(E)

Terms and Conditions:
As a condition of licensing and registration, an owner of rental property or of a
rental dwelling shall cooperate in the inspection of the property according to the
procedure outlined in Title XI, Chapter 12, of the Westminster Municipal Code.

(F)

Effective Date:
A rental property license or rental dwelling registration shall be effective as of
the date indicated in the notice provided by the City.

5-12-7. - License and Registration Administration.
(A)

It shall be the duty of each owner of a rental property or a rental dwelling to provide
the building division with notice of changes as follows:

(1)

If an owner or agent legally changes the use of a structure by adding units, the owner
or agent shall provide notice of the change to the building division no later than
60 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the new units and before
any new units are occupied. At the time of giving notice, there shall be no additional
fee assessed for the units that were added to the structure; however, when the license
is next renewed, the inspection fee will include the additional units.

(2)

If an owner reduces the number of units within the rental property or a rental dwelling,
the owner or agent shall provide notice of the change to the building division no
later than 60 days following completion of the change. The owner or agent shall not
be entitled to a refund of any fee previously paid.

(3)

For newly constructed property, inspections to determine compliance with the provisions
of this Chapter and the associated fees are not required prior to issuance of the
initial license, if a license application is submitted no later than 60 days following
issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the rental property.

(4)

The building division must be promptly notified, in writing, within 30 days of any
changes to the information provided on the license or registration application; except
that the building division shall be notified in writing within 15 days after the change
of an agent for a property and shall provide the name and mailing address of the new
agent.

(B)

A license or registration is non-transferable. Within 30 days of the transfer of ownership
of a rental property or a rental dwelling, the new owner shall submit a new license
or registration application.

(C)

Violation and Penalty:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate a provision of this Chapter or to
obstruct an inspection being conducted pursuant to Title XI, Chapter 12, of the Westminster
Municipal Code. Violators shall be subject to the penalties provided by Section
1-8-1
, W.M.C., and the procedures set forth in Chapter 1 of this Title V. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day such person is in violation of this Chapter.

5-12-8. - License Cancellation, Suspension, Non-Renewal, or Revocation.
(A)

A license or registration may be cancelled, suspended, revoked or non-renewed as set
forth in Chapter 1 of this Title V, and any such adverse action may be appealed pursuant
to the procedures established in Chapter 1 of this Title V.

(B)

In rental properties containing multiple units, upon issuance of a restricted license
according to Subsection
5-12-3
(C), W.M.C., a revocation, suspension, denial or non-renewal may apply to any portion
or portions of the property.

(C)

In addition to the process set forth in Chapter 1 of this Title V, a license or registration
may be summarily suspended for no more than 30 days by the building division when
required for the immediate protection of the public health, safety and welfare. Notice
of the summary suspension shall be given in the manner set forth in Chapter 1 of this
Title V, and a hearing thereon before the special permit and license board shall be
provided as soon as reasonably possible thereafter.

(D)

All hearings before the special permit and license board shall be conducted pursuant
to the procedures established for hearings in Chapter 1 of this Title V.

5-12-9. - Rules and Regulations.
The City Manager or authorized representative is authorized to promulgate rules and
regulations necessary for the implementation of this Chapter.

