SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._partnership_law_section_121-502
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-502 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Partnership Law Section 121-502

Liability for contributions

(a)
Except as provided in the partnership agreement, a partner is obligated to perform any promise, to contribute cash or property or to perform services which is otherwise enforceable in accordance with applicable law, even if he is unable to perform because of death, disability or any other reason. Except as provided in the partnership agreement, if a partner does not make any required contribution of property or services, he is obligated at the option of the limited partnership to contribute cash equal to that portion of the value, as stated in the partnership records if so stated, of the contribution that has not been made. The foregoing option shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other rights, including the right to specific performance, that the limited partnership may have against such partner under the partnership agreement or applicable law.

(b)
Unless otherwise provided in the partnership agreement and except as provided in section 121-705 of this article, the obligation of a partner to make a contribution or to return money or other property paid or distributed in violation of this article may be compromised only by consent of all the partners. Notwithstanding the compromise, a creditor of a limited partnership who extends credit in reliance on that obligation may enforce the original obligation to the extent he reasonably relied on such obligation.

(c)
A partnership agreement may provide that the interest of any partner who fails to make any required contribution shall be subject to specified consequences of such failure. Such consequences may take the form of reducing or eliminating the defaulting partner’s interest in the limited partnership, subordinating his partnership interest to that of nondefaulting partners, a forced sale of his partnership interest, the lending by other partners of the amount necessary to meet his commitment, a fixing of the value of his partnership interest by appraisal or by formula and redemption or sale of his partnership interest at such value, or other consequences.

Source:
Section 121-502 — Liability for contributions, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-502 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
