SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._partnership_law_section_121-103
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-103 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Partnership Law Section 121-103

Reservation of partnership name

(a)
Subject to section 121-102 of this article, the exclusive right to the use of a name may be reserved by:

(1)
Any person intending to organize a domestic limited partnership under this article;

(2)
Any domestic limited partnership or any foreign limited partnership authorized to do business in this state intending to change its name;

(3)
Any foreign limited partnership intending to apply for authority to do business in this state and to adopt that name; and

(4)
Any person intending to organize a foreign limited partnership and intending to have it apply for authority to do business in this state.

(b)
A fictitious name for use pursuant to section 121-902 of this article may be reserved by:

(1)
Any foreign limited partnership intending to apply for authority to do business in this state pursuant to subdivision (a) of section 121-902 of this article.

(2)
Any authorized foreign limited partnership intending to change its fictitious name under which it does business in this state.

(3)
Any authorized foreign limited partnership which has changed its name in its jurisdiction, such new name not being available in this state.

(c)
Application to reserve a limited partnership name shall be delivered to the department of state. It shall set forth the name and address of the applicant, the name to be reserved, and a statement of the basis for the application under subdivision (a) or (b) of this section. The secretary of state may require that there be included in the application a statement as to the nature of the business to be conducted by the limited partnership. If the name is available for limited partnership use, the department of state shall reserve the name for the use of the applicant for a period of sixty days and issue a certificate of reservation. The restrictions and qualifications set forth in section 121-102 of this article are not waived by the issuance of a certificate of reservation. The certificate of reservation shall include the name of the applicant, the name reserved, and the date of reservation. The certificate of reservation (or in lieu thereof an affidavit by the applicant or by his or her agent or attorney that the certificate of reservation has been lost or destroyed) shall accompany the certificate of limited partnership or the application for authority when either is delivered to the department of state.

(d)
The secretary of state may extend the reservation for additional periods of not more than sixty days each, upon the written request of the applicant or his or her attorney or agent delivered to the department of state, to be filed before expiration of the reservation period then in effect. Such request shall have attached to it the certificate of reservation of name. No more than two such extensions shall be granted.

Source:
Section 121-103 — Reservation of partnership name, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-103 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
