SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._partnership_law_section_121-1505
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-1505 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Partnership Law Section 121-1505

Service of process

(a)
* Service of process on the secretary of state as agent of a registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership under this article shall be made in the manner provided by paragraph one or two of this subdivision. Either option of service authorized pursuant to this subdivision shall be available at no extra cost to the consumer. * NB Effective until February 24, 2027 * Service of process on the secretary of state as agent of a registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership under this article shall be made in the manner provided by paragraph one, two or three of this subdivision. Each option of service authorized pursuant to this subdivision shall be available at no extra cost to the consumer. * NB Effective February 24, 2027 (1) Personally delivering to and leaving with the secretary of state or a deputy, or with any person authorized by the secretary of state to receive such service, at the office of the department of state in the city of Albany, duplicate copies of such process together with the statutory fee, which fee shall be a taxable disbursement. Service of process on such registered limited liability partnership shall be complete when the secretary of state is so served. The secretary of state shall promptly send one of such copies by certified mail, return receipt requested, to such registered limited liability partnership, at the post office address on file in the department of state specified for such purpose.

(2)
Electronically submitting a copy of the process to the department of state together with the statutory fee, which fee shall be a taxable disbursement, through an electronic system operated by the department of state, provided the registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership has an email address on file in the department of state to which the secretary of state shall email a notice of the fact that process against such registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership served has been electronically served on the secretary of state. Service of process on such registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership shall be complete when the secretary of state has reviewed and accepted service of such process. The secretary of state shall promptly send a notice of the fact that process against such registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership has been served electronically upon him or her, to such registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership at the email address on file in the department of state, specified for the purpose and shall make a copy of the process available to such registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership. * (3) Provided process is served by or on behalf of the state or a city, town, village or other political subdivision of the state, by electronically submitting a copy of the process to the department of state, through an electronic system operated by and with capabilities determined by the department of state, together with the statutory fee, if required, which fee shall be a taxable disbursement. Service of process on such limited liability partnership shall be complete when the secretary of state has reviewed and accepted service of such process. The secretary of state shall promptly either: (A) send a copy of such process by certified mail, return receipt requested, to such registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership, at the post office address, on file in the department of state, specified for the purpose; or (B) email a notice of the fact that process against the registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership has been served electronically on the secretary of state to the email address on file in the department of state, specified for the purpose and shall make a copy of the process available to such registered limited liability partnership or New York registered foreign limited liability partnership. * NB Effective February 24, 2027 (b) As used in this article, process shall mean judicial process and all orders, demands, notices or other papers required or permitted by law to be personally served on a registered limited liability partnership, for the purpose of acquiring jurisdiction of such registered limited liability partnership in any action or proceeding, civil or criminal, whether judicial, administrative, arbitrative or otherwise, in this state or in the federal courts sitting in or for this state.

(c)
Nothing in this section shall affect the right to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.

Source:
Section 121-1505 — Service of process, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-1505 (updated Sep. 4, 2026; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
