SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._partnership_law_section_121-202-a
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-202-A (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Partnership Law Section 121-202-A

Certificate of change

(a)
A certificate of limited partnership may be changed by filing with the department of state a certificate of change entitled “Certificate of Change of ..... (name of limited partnership) under Section 121-202-A of the Revised Limited Partnership Act” and shall be signed and delivered to the department of state. A certificate of change may (i) specify or change the location of the limited partnership’s office;

(ii)
specify or change the post office address to which the secretary of state shall mail a copy of process against the limited partnership served upon him;

(iii)
specify, change or delete the email address to which the secretary of state shall email a notice of the fact that process against the limited partnership has been electronically served upon him or her; and

(iv)
make, revoke or change the designation of a registered agent, or to specify or change the address of its registered agent. It shall set forth:

(1)
the name of the limited partnership, and if it has been changed, the name under which it was formed;

(2)
the date its certificate of limited partnership was filed by the department of state; and

(3)
each change effected thereby.

(b)
A certificate of change which changes only the post office address to which the secretary of state shall mail a copy of any process against a limited partnership served upon him or her, the email address to which the secretary of state shall email a notice of the fact that process against it has been electronically served upon the secretary of state, and/or the address of the registered agent, provided such address being changed is the address of a person, partnership or corporation whose address, as agent, is the address to be changed, and/or the email address being changed is the email address of a person, partnership or other corporation whose email address, as agent, is the email address to be changed, or who has been designated as registered agent for such limited partnership shall be signed and delivered to the department of state by such agent. The certificate of change shall set forth the statements required under subdivision (a) of this section; that a notice of the proposed change was mailed to the domestic limited partnership by the party signing the certificate not less than thirty days prior to the date of delivery to the department of state and that such domestic limited partnership has not objected thereto; and that the party signing the certificate is the agent of such limited partnership to whose address the secretary of state is required to mail copies of process, and/or the agent to whose email address the secretary of state is required to email a notice of the fact that process against it has been electronically served upon the secretary of state, and/or the registered agent, if such be the case. A certificate signed and delivered under this subdivision shall not be deemed to effect a change of location of the office of the limited partnership in whose behalf such certificate is filed.

Source:
Section 121-202-A — Certificate of change, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-202-A (updated Jan. 6, 2023; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
