SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._partnership_law_section_121-105
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-105 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Partnership Law Section 121-105

Registered agent

(a)
In addition to the designation of the secretary of state, each limited partnership or authorized foreign limited partnership may designate a registered agent upon whom process against the limited partnership may be served. The agent must be (i) a natural person who is a resident of this state or has a business address in this state, or

(ii)
a domestic corporation or a foreign corporation authorized to do business in this state.

(c)
The registered agent of a limited partnership may resign as such agent. The registered agent shall file a certificate with the department of state entitled, “Certificate of resignation of registered agent of... (name of designating limited partnership) under subdivision (c) of section 121-105 of the Revised Limited Partnership Act” which shall be executed by such registered agent. It shall set forth:

(1)
The name of the limited partnership, and if it has been changed, the name under which it was organized. A foreign limited partnership must set forth its name and the fictitious name the foreign limited partnership has agreed to use in this state pursuant to section 121-902 of this article.

(2)
The date the certificate of limited partnership or certificate of application for authority of the limited partnership was filed by the department of state.

(3)
That he resigns as registered agent for the limited partnership.

(4)
That he has sent a copy of the certificate of resignation by registered mail to the limited partnership at the post office address on file in the department of state specified for the mailing of process or if such address is the address of the registered agent, then to the office of the designating limited partnership and the jurisdiction of its organization.

(d)
The designation of a registered agent shall terminate thirty days after the filing by the department of state of the certificate of resignation. A certificate designating a new registered agent may be delivered to the department of state by the limited partnership within the thirty days or thereafter.

Source:
Section 121-105 — Registered agent, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-105 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
