SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._partnership_law_section_121-109
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-109 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Partnership Law Section 121-109

Service of process on limited partnerships

(a)
* Service of process on the secretary of state as agent of a domestic or authorized foreign limited partnership shall be made in the manner provided by paragraph one or two of this subdivision. Either option of service authorized pursuant to this subdivision shall be available at no extra cost to the consumer. * NB Effective until February 24, 2027 * Service of process on the secretary of state as agent of a domestic or authorized foreign limited partnership shall be made in the manner provided by paragraph one, two or three of this subdivision. Each option of service authorized pursuant to this subdivision shall be available at no extra cost to the consumer. * NB Effective February 24, 2027 (1) By personally delivering to and leaving with him or her or his or her deputy, or with any person authorized by the secretary of state to receive such service, at the office of the department of state in the city of Albany, duplicate copies of such process together with the statutory fee, which fee shall be a taxable disbursement. The service on the limited partnership is complete when the secretary of state is so served. The secretary of state shall promptly send one of such copies by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the limited partnership at the post office address, on file in the department of state, specified for that purpose.

(2)
Electronically submitting a copy of the process to the department of state together with the statutory fee, which fee shall be a taxable disbursement, through an electronic system operated by the department of state, provided the domestic or authorized foreign limited partnership has an email address on file in the department of state to which the secretary of state shall email a notice of the fact that process has been served electronically on the secretary of state as agent of such domestic or authorized foreign limited partnership. Service of process on such limited partnership or authorized foreign limited partnership shall be complete when the secretary of state has reviewed and accepted service of such process. The secretary of state shall promptly send a notice of the fact that process has been served to such limited partnership at the email address on file in the department of state, specified for the purpose and shall make a copy of the process available to such limited partnership or authorized foreign limited partnership. * (3) Provided process is served by or on behalf of the state or a city, town, village or other political subdivision of the state, by electronically submitting a copy of the process to the department of state, through an electronic system operated by and with capabilities determined by the department of state, together with the statutory fee, if required, which fee shall be a taxable disbursement. Service of process on such limited partnership shall be complete when the secretary of state has reviewed and accepted service of such process. The secretary of state shall promptly either: (A) send a copy of such process by certified mail, return receipt requested, to such limited partnership, at the post office address, on file in the department of state, specified for the purpose; or (B) email a notice of the fact that process against the limited partnership has been served electronically on the secretary of state to the email address on file in the department of state, specified for the purpose and shall make a copy of the process available to such limited partnership. * NB Effective February 24, 2027 (b) In any case in which a non-domiciliary would be subject to the personal or other jurisdiction of the courts of this state under article three of the civil practice law and rules, a foreign limited partnership not authorized to do business in this state is subject to a like jurisdiction. In any such case, process against such foreign limited partnership may be served upon the secretary of state as its agent. Such process may issue in any court in this state having jurisdiction of the subject matter. Service of process upon the secretary of state shall be made in the manner provided by paragraph one or two of this subdivision. Either option of service authorized pursuant to this paragraph shall be available at no extra cost to the consumer.

(1)
Personally delivering to and leaving with him or his deputy, or with any person authorized by the secretary of state to receive such service, at the office of the department of state in the city of Albany, a copy of such process together with the statutory fee, which fee shall be a taxable disbursement.

(2)
Electronically submitting a copy of the process to the department of state together with the statutory fee, which fee shall be a taxable disbursement, through an electronic system operated by the department of state. Such service shall be sufficient if notice thereof and a copy of the process are:

(1)
Delivered personally without this state to such foreign limited partnership by a person and in the manner authorized to serve process by law of the jurisdiction in which service is made, or

(2)
Sent by or on behalf of the plaintiff to such foreign limited partnership by registered mail with return receipt requested, at the post office address specified for the purpose of mailing process, on file in the department of state, or with any official or body performing the equivalent function, in the jurisdiction of its creation, or if no such address is specified, to its registered or other office there specified, or if no such office is specified, to the last address of such foreign limited partnership known to the plaintiff.

(3)
Where service of a copy of process was effected by personal service, proof of service shall be by affidavit of compliance with this section filed, together with the process, within thirty days after such service with the clerk of the court in which the action or special proceeding is pending. Service of process shall be complete ten days after such papers are filed with the clerk of the court.

(4)
Where service of a copy of process was effected by mailing in accordance with this section proof of service shall be by affidavit of compliance with this section filed, together with the process, within thirty days after receipt of the return receipt signed by the foreign limited partnership, or other official proof of delivery or of the original envelope mailed. If a copy of the process is mailed in accordance with this section, there shall be filed with the affidavit of compliance either the return receipt signed by such foreign limited partnership or other official proof of delivery or, if acceptance was refused by it, the original envelope with a notation by the postal authorities that acceptance was refused. If acceptance was refused a copy of the notice and process together with notice of the mailing by registered mail and refusal to accept shall be promptly sent to such foreign limited partnership at the same address by ordinary mail and the affidavit of compliance shall so state. Service of process shall be complete ten days after such papers are filed with the clerk of the court. The refusal to accept delivery of the registered mail or to sign the return receipt shall not affect the validity of the service and such foreign limited partnership refusing to accept such registered mail shall be charged with knowledge of the contents thereof.

(5)
Service made as provided in this section shall have the same force as personal service made within this state.

(c)
The secretary of state shall keep a record of all process served upon him under this section and shall record therein the date of such service and his action with reference thereto.

(d)
Nothing contained in this section shall limit or affect the right to serve any process required or permitted by law to be served upon the limited partnership in any other manner now or hereafter permitted by law or applicable rules of procedure.

Source:
Section 121-109 — Service of process on limited partnerships, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-109 (updated Sep. 4, 2026; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
