SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._partnership_law_section_121-702
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-702 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Partnership Law Section 121-702

Assignment of partnership interest

(a)
Except as provided in the partnership agreement, (1) A partnership interest is assignable in whole or in part;

(2)
An assignment of a partnership interest does not dissolve a limited partnership or entitle the assignee to become or to exercise any rights or powers of a partner;

(3)
The only effect of an assignment is to entitle the assignee to receive, to the extent assigned, the distributions and allocations of profits and losses to which the assignor would be entitled; and

(4)
A partner ceases to be a partner and to have the power to exercise any rights or powers of a partner upon assignment of all of his partnership interest. Unless otherwise provided in the partnership agreement, the pledge of, or the granting of a security interest, lien or other encumbrance in or against, any or all of the partnership interest of a partner shall not cause the partner to cease to be a partner or to have the power to exercise any rights or powers of a partner.

(b)
The partnership agreement may provide that a limited partner’s interest may be evidenced by a certificate issued by the partnership and may also provide for the assignment or transfer of any of the interest represented by such a certificate. A limited partner’s interest may be a certificated security or an uncertificated security within the meaning of section 8--102 of the uniform commercial code if the requirements of section 8--103(c) are met, and if the requirements are not met shall be deemed to be a general intangible.

(c)
Unless otherwise provided in a partnership agreement and except to the extent assumed by agreement, until an assignee of a partnership interest becomes a partner, the assignee shall have no liability as a partner solely as a result of the assignment.

Source:
Section 121-702 — Assignment of partnership interest, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-702 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
