SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._partnership_law_section_121-607
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-607 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Partnership Law Section 121-607

Limitations on distribution

(a)
A limited partnership shall not make a distribution to a partner to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, all liabilities of the limited partnership, other than liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities for which recourse of creditors is limited to specified property of the limited partnership, exceed the fair market value of the assets of the limited partnership, except that the fair market value of property that is subject to a liability for which the recourse of creditors is limited shall be included in the assets of the limited partnership only to the extent that the fair value of that property exceeds that liability.

(b)
A limited partner who receives a distribution in violation of subdivision (a) of this section, and who knew at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated subdivision (a) of this section, shall be liable to the limited partnership for the amount of the distribution. A limited partner who receives a distribution in violation of subdivision (a) of this section, and who did not know at the time of the distribution that the distribution violated subdivision (a) of this section, shall not be liable for the amount of the distribution. Subject to subdivision (c) of this section, this subdivision shall not affect any obligation or liability of a limited partner under a partnership agreement or other applicable law for the amount of a distribution.

(c)
Unless otherwise agreed, a limited partner who receives a wrongful distribution from a limited partnership shall have no liability under this article or other applicable law for the amount of the distribution after the expiration of three years from the date of the distribution.

Source:
Section 121-607 — Limitations on distribution, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PTR/121-607 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
