SOURCE: https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCrules/0-0-0-149914
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from American Legal Publishing official bulk XML (http://files.amlegal.com/pdffiles/NewYorkCity/Rules/XML.zip, downloaded 2026-09-28/29), XML file 0-0-0-55737.xml; text extracted mechanically by register/tools/aml.py

§ 11-03 Notice Inquiring About the Residency of a Child of Applicable Age.

§ 11-03 Notice Inquiring About the Residency of a Child of Applicable Age.

(a) Notice upon signing of a lease, including a renewal lease, if any, or upon any agreement to lease or at the commencement of occupancy if there is no lease.

(1) The owner of a multiple dwelling erected prior to January first, nineteen hundred sixty or of a multiple dwelling erected on or after January first, nineteen hundred sixty and before January first, nineteen hundred seventy-eight, where an owner has actual knowledge of the presence of lead-based paint, shall provide to an occupant of a dwelling unit at the signing of a lease, including a renewal lease, if any, or upon any agreement to lease, or at the commencement of occupancy if there is no lease, a notice in English and Spanish inquiring whether a child of applicable age resides or will reside therein. If there is a lease, such notice will be attached as a rider to the lease. In addition, such owner shall deliver to the occupant at the time the occupant signs a lease, if any, or upon any agreement to lease, or, at the commencement of occupancy if there is no lease, the pamphlet developed by the department of health and mental hygiene pursuant to § 17-179(b) of the Administrative Code of the City of New York. Such notice shall be printed on a single form, the content of which shall be as specified in Appendix A hereto, and shall be printed in not less than ten point type, and shall bear the title "Prevention of Lead-based Paint Hazards – Inquiry Regarding Child". Such notice shall be in duplicate, one copy of which will be for the occupant's records, and one copy of which will be returned to the owner. Such notice shall be kept for a period of ten years from the date of receipt by the owner or transferred to a subsequent owner and maintained by such subsequent owner during such time period, and made available to the department upon request. The notice provided at the signing of a lease, or upon any agreement to lease, or at the commencement of occupancy if there is no lease, shall also contain a statement, signed by such owner, stating that he or she has complied with the provisions concerning apartments at turnover pursuant to § 27-2056.8 of Article 14 of the Housing Maintenance Code and 28 RCNY § 11-05, and that he or she has delivered such pamphlet developed by the department of health and mental hygiene to the occupant.

(2) No occupant in a dwelling unit in such multiple dwelling shall refuse or unreasonably fail to provide accurate and truthful information regarding the residency of a child of applicable age therein, nor shall an occupant refuse access to the owner at a reasonable time and upon reasonable prior notice to any part of the dwelling unit for the purpose of investigation and repair of lead-based paint hazards.

(3) Where an occupant has responded to the notice provided by the owner pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision by indicating that no child of applicable age resides therein or has failed to respond to such notice, if a child of applicable age subsequently comes to reside in such dwelling unit at any time during the immediately following year prior to the delivery of the annual notice by the owner pursuant to subdivision (b) of this section, the occupant shall have the duty to inform the owner in writing that such child has come to reside therein.

(b)
Annual Notice.

(1) Each year an owner of a multiple dwelling erected prior to January first, nineteen hundred sixty shall cause to be delivered to each residential unit a notice in English and Spanish inquiring as to whether a child of applicable age resides therein and advising the occupant of his or her duty to report the presence of such child in writing.

(2) Such notice shall be delivered as provided in § 27-2056.4(e) of Article 14 of the Housing Maintenance Code, no earlier than January first and no later than January sixteenth, provided, however, that if such notice is enclosed with the January rent bill, such notice may be delivered no sooner than December fifteenth and no later than January sixteenth.

(3) Such notice shall be printed on a single form, the content of which shall be as specified in Appendix B hereto, and shall be printed in not less than ten point type, and shall bear the title "Prevention of Lead-based Paint Hazards – Inquiry Regarding Child". Such notice may be combined with the annual window guard notice required by 24 RCNY Chapter 12 in a form approved by the department of health and mental hygiene. Such notice shall be in duplicate, one copy of which will be for the occupant's records, and one copy of which will be returned to the owner. Such notice shall be kept for a period of ten years from the date of receipt by the owner or transferred to a subsequent owner and maintained by such subsequent owner during such time period, and made available to the department upon request.

(4) Upon receipt of such notice, the occupant shall have the duty to deliver a written response to the owner indicating whether a child of applicable age resides in the dwelling unit, by February fifteenth of the year in which the notice is sent. Where an occupant has responded to the notice provided by the owner pursuant to paragraph one of this subdivision by indicating that no child of applicable age resides therein, or has failed to respond to such notice, if a child of applicable age subsequently comes to reside in such dwelling unit at any time prior to delivery of the next annual notice, the occupant shall have the duty to inform the owner in writing that such child has come to reside therein.

(5) If, subsequent to the delivery of such annual notice, the owner does not receive a written response by February fifteenth, and does not otherwise have actual knowledge as to whether a child of applicable age resides therein, then the owner shall at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice inspect the occupant's dwelling unit to ascertain whether a child of applicable age resides therein. Where, between February sixteenth and March first of that year the owner has made reasonable attempt to gain access to the dwelling unit and was unable to gain access, the owner shall notify the department of health and mental hygiene of that circumstance in writing.

(c) The wording of the notices specified in this section shall not be altered or varied in any manner, unless otherwise approved by the department or the department of health and mental hygiene, provided, however, that such owner may provide such notice in any languages in addition to English and Spanish as such owner believes will be of assistance in ensuring communication of the content of such notice to the occupants of the multiple dwelling.
