SOURCE: https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCrules/0-0-0-57097
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from American Legal Publishing official bulk XML (http://files.amlegal.com/pdffiles/NewYorkCity/Rules/XML.zip, downloaded 2026-09-28/29), XML file 0-0-0-56907.xml; text extracted mechanically by register/tools/aml.py

§ 25-81 Signs Identifying Owner, Managing Agent and Superintendent; Plans on Premises.

§ 25-81 Signs Identifying Owner, Managing Agent and Superintendent; Plans on Premises.

(a) (1) Identification signs for the purpose of identifying the owners and managing agents of multiple dwellings by the display of the serial number, shall comply with the applicable provisions of these rules.

(2) Identification signs for the purpose of identifying the superintendents, janitors or housekeepers of multiple dwellings, wherein such employees are required by the provisions of § 83, Multiple Dwelling Law, shall comply with the applicable provisions of these rules.

(b) Signs shall be constructed of metal, slow-burning plastic or other material approved by the Commissioner and shall be substantial, rigid and durable, in construction. Signs of cardboard or heavy paper may be used if such material is encased in strong metal, wood or plastic frames and is covered by clear plastic or glass not less than one-sixteenth inch in thickness and if provided with substantial backing. Signs shall be provided with means for fastening securely to the wall.

(c) (1) The following information shall appear on the sign, prescribed in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of this section, in four lines of lettering as indicated and in the order indicated:

Department of Housing Preservation and Development City of New York Serial Number Street Address of Building

(2) The following information shall appear on the sign, prescribed in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of this section, in four lines of lettering as indicated and in the order indicated:

Title (Superintendent, Janitor or Housekeeper) Name of Superintendent, Janitor or Housekeeper Address of Superintendent, Janitor or housekeeper (including apartment number, if any)

(d)
Telephone number of superintendent, janitor or housekeeper. The size of sign shall be sufficient to accommodate the required lettering and provide a margin of not less than one-fourth inch about the lettering on all sides.

(e) (1) Serial numbers, as specified in § 27-2104 shall be determined and assigned by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. No serial number shall be changed or ordered without the approval of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. The serial number shall be placed on the sign by the owner or his representative.

(2) The street address of the building consisting of the house number and the street shall be placed on each sign by the owner or his representative.

(3) The lettering shall be gothic type. The numbers composing the serial number shall be not less than one-half inch in height. The letters forming "Department of Housing Preservation and Development" and the street address shall not be less than one-fourth inch in height. All other letters shall be not less than three-sixteenth of an inch in height. Letters shall be of such width and whatever as will provide the greatest legibility.

(f) The lettering of signs, as specified in § 27-2104, shall be Gothic type and shall not be less than three-sixteenths of an inch in height. Letters shall be of such width and spacing as will provide the greatest legibility.

(g) The letters and the background of the sign shall be of contrasting colors.

(h) Signs shall be approved by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development before installation.

(i) Signs shall be located in the entrance hall at the main entrance to the building at the street floor. Signs shall be placed preferably over the mail boxes but, in any case, shall be conspicuously displayed in a prominent location in the entrance hall. Signs shall be located between 7 feet and 9 feet above the floor.

(j) Signs shall be fastened directly to the wall by screws or bolts in a rigid, substantial manner, or by other means as may be approved by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development.

(k) Sufficient lighting shall be provided so that the sign will be plainly legible at all times.

(1) Signs that are defaced, damaged or removed, shall be promptly repaired or replaced. Signs shall be maintained in such manner as to be easily read at all times.
