SOURCE: https://www.yelp.com/biz/contour-39-lone-tree (search-engine index excerpt of this page; live page blocks automated access)
PAGE_URL: https://www.yelp.com/biz/contour-39-lone-tree
ORIGINAL_CAPTURE: sources/websearch_communities_r2.json
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: excerpt text as returned by the search index; not the full page; dates in excerpts are partial.

Hey there! We recently updated our Terms of Service & Privacy Policy . Please take a look.
Back to Search
Yelp
Contour 39
4.1 (26 reviews)
Claimed Apartments
Open 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM
See hours
Updated 2 weeks ago
See all 22 photos
Contour 39 - Lone Tree, CO
Contour 39 - Lone Tree, CO
Contour 39 - Lone Tree, CO
Contour 39 - Lone Tree, CO
Contour 39 - Lone Tree, CO
Contour 39 - Lone Tree, CO
Write a review
Add photos/videos
Share
Save
Do you recommend this business?
Yes
Experience the best Lone Tree has to offer at Contour 39. Our luxurious apartment community features modern floor plans, pristine finishes, and breathtaking amenities. These pet-friendly homes set the standard for apartments in Lone Tree.
Read more
Ask the Community
Ask a question
Yelp users haven’t asked any questions yet about Contour 39 .
Jun 3, 2022
I moved from South Florida to Lone Tree, CO at the end of 2020. Deanna made the process so easy. I did a lot of research on apartment complexes prior to my move. I could not have been happier that I chose Contour 39. I lived there for almost 2 year before purchasing my own home. It is truly a wonderful community.
Be careful and read some of the others reviews. It wasn't bad while I was living there, about two years, before I bought a house. However, when I moved out they made it harder than necessary, and the property manger is entirely to blame. She was always rude to me when I went into the front office even before I planned on moving out.
And being a resident that paid everything on time, was friendly to my neighbors, and recommended the place to my friends this seemed really odd. When I moved out they made sure to keep my entire security deposit, without any actual reasons for keeping it.
I already paid a $400, non-refundable deposit for having a cat and dog in the apartment, so them keeping the an additional security deposit was just petty. Then you have to factor in how the dealt with COVID: demanding that I still had to get someone in there to clean the carpets, when there is a stay at home order...
disappointing to say the least. You'll end up paying around $1,800/mo, when there are nicer apartments, with more parking a mile away... look around meridian and you can pay at least $500/mo less than contour. Johnny was awesome when he worked there and Deanna is great too. Nina was never friendly.
Helpful 2
Helpful 3
Thanks 0
Thanks 1
Love this 0
We do offer our "Easy Move Out Process" for our residents to make moving less stressful. In any event, we truly appreciated having you here at Contour 39 and wish you the best in the 
