SOURCE: https://www.yelp.com/biz/palladia-apartments-hillsboro-3 (search-engine index excerpt of this page; live page blocks automated access)
PAGE_URL: https://www.yelp.com/biz/palladia-apartments-hillsboro-3
ORIGINAL_CAPTURE: sources/websearch_communities.json
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: excerpt text as returned by the search index; not the full page; dates in excerpts are partial.

2.5 (55 reviews)
Claimed Apartments
Open 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM
See hours
Updated 2 months ago
See all 52 photos
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Write a review
Liz B.
“ Haven't had too many maintenance requests or issues but when we did Luis V was amazing and super kind. ” in 4 reviews
Chris L.
“ I had a great experience living at palladia, the move in went flawless and the leasing staff was always very nice and helpful. ” in 3 reviews
Topher D.
- Other tenants drive crazy fast around the streets. Not good for kids. - They push smokers to the perimeter side walks, so you get exposed to smokers when going for a walk.
There has got to be better managed places around and higher quality construction, for about same rental fees.
Read more
* Photo of Liz B.
Liz B.
Broomfield, CO
12
2
0
Thanks 2
Love this 1
Love this 2
Oh no 0
Oh no 1
What do you think?
Business owner information
Photo of Holland S.
Holland S.
Business Owner
Apr 15, 2024
Hello Gyanu, thank you for your review highlighting Luis' performance, we appreciate it! Our team is here 7 days a week to assist any way we can. Kindly, Palladia Staff
* Photo of Heather B.
Business owner information
Photo of Holland S.
Holland S.
Business Owner
Apr 1, 2024
Hello Heather, thank you for your review highlighting Luis' performance, we appreciate it! We are available 7 days a week to assist any way we can. Kindly, Palladia Staff
* Photo of Suhad M.
Suhad M.
Beaverton, OR
5
10
22
Sep 7, 2022
Staring from the apartment...
old appliances, bad flooding, old bathrooms faucet, broken and old toilet set .. all this and they charged $2550 a month. They do valet trash for $15 and the trash Sunday to Thursday, in fact they do only two or three days a week.
We asked for two months leasing, they said we have to sign for three , we agreed but we left earlier then they charged us for 3.5 months because they forgot to enter our move out date in their system Not recommended, high prices, poor services and old apartments.
First and foremost, Palladia is the Worst place I have ever lived. They will do anything to nickel and dime you and then completely ignore your concerns. Prior to moving out, we contacted management to set up a move-out inspection, which Palladia encouraged, but they refused due to Covid.
Management said they were keeping our entire deposit and then charging us an additional $200 on top of that to replace the carpet due to excessive pet urine despite us NOT ever having a pet.
In addition, police are called to this apartment complex monthly.
Do yourself a favor and stay away from this place.
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
See all photos from Ashley R. for Palladia Apartments
Helpful 1
Helpful 2
Thanks 0
