SOURCE: https://www.yelp.com/biz/the-brand-glendale?start=100 (search-engine index excerpt of this page; live page blocks automated access)
PAGE_URL: https://www.yelp.com/biz/the-brand-glendale?start=100
ORIGINAL_CAPTURE: sources/websearch_communities_r2.json
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: excerpt text as returned by the search index; not the full page; dates in excerpts are partial.

Back to Search
Yelp
The Brand
4.2 (237 reviews)
Claimed Apartments
Closed 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM
See hours
Updated 2 months ago
See all 256 photos
The Brand - Pool and spa - Glendale, CA
The Brand - Glendale, CA
The Brand - Outdoor lounge - Glendale, CA
The Brand - Glendale, CA
The Brand - Cardio room - Glendale, CA
The Brand - Glendale, CA
Write a review
Add photos/videos
Share
Services Offered
Verified by Business
Apartments
Review Highlights
“ Adia and the management team have been especially outstanding and are very responsive, professional, and helpful. ” in 23 reviews
* 1 star rating
Not good
* 2 star rating
Could’ve been better
* 3 star rating
OK
* 4 star rating
Good
* 5 star rating
Great
Select your rating
Start your review of The Brand
Overall rating
237 reviews
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Filter by rating
Search reviews
Search reviews
* Photo of Herica S.
Herica S.
Glendale, CA
0
3
4
May 19, 2020
The Brand Apartments are simply the worst management company I have ever interacted with. This company employs a systematic method of manipulation, deceit, and disrespect to prioritize their profits over the experiences of their tenants.
- Mark lied about the security deposit saying it was only going to be $250 but then charging me $500 because "I didn't read the full lease myself", charged an extra $30 'parking registration fee' that others didn't get, and upon a mistake with billing said I should wait to pay the rent, stalled, and then charged me a $100 late fee that he refused
to refund. He would watch you bleed out on the sidewalk without a care in the world don't trust a word he says.
- Shayla regularly ignored all of our inquiries about rent, extensions, and maintenance specifically trying to stall until the last day of the lease to then charge us $4000+ a month for a studio lease trying to leave us with no choice.
She doesn't answer, is manipulative, and works in conjunction with Mark to extract as much money out of the tenants as possible.
BUGS: While I was staying at the Brand I had several issues with water bugs and roaches. Since they are located above restaurants, it's not a mystery that they would have bug problems.
This was a deal breaker for me and was flatly ignored when I asked for maintenance to get an exterminator or address the issue.
MAINTENANCE: The Brand swindled me on the security deposit regarding the maintenance.
The concrete floors were stained and cracked when I moved in and, though I sent them detailed pictures within my first week, Mark still tried to hold me liable to the damages to take my security deposit, which I wasn't in a position to fight.
I moved out in February, it's now May and they still haven't paid me back my deposit in full! I've been plenty patient and nothing! Good luck calling here or emailing, they won't answer nor reply! Manager here doesn'
