SOURCE: https://www.yelp.com/biz/palladia-apartments-hillsboro-3 (search-engine index excerpt of this page; live page blocks automated access)
PAGE_URL: https://www.yelp.com/biz/palladia-apartments-hillsboro-3
ORIGINAL_CAPTURE: sources/websearch_communities.json
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: excerpt text as returned by the search index; not the full page; dates in excerpts are partial.

2.5 (55 reviews)
Claimed Apartments
Open 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM
See hours
Updated 2 months ago
See all 52 photos
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Write a review
Liz B.
“ Haven't had too many maintenance requests or issues but when we did Luis V was amazing and super kind. ” in 4 reviews
Chris L.
“ I had a great experience living at palladia, the move in went flawless and the leasing staff was always very nice and helpful. ” in 3 reviews
Topher D.
17
20
8
Apr 27, 2019
We have only just moved in but I am already impressed with Palladia. Upon move in inspection we found a few issues and they were addressed immediately. The maintenance was efficient and friendly. I have not had any issues with parking this week and usually have gotten a spot right in front of our apartment.
First and foremost, Palladia is the Worst place I have ever lived. They will do anything to nickel and dime you and then completely ignore your concerns. Prior to moving out, we contacted management to set up a move-out inspection, which Palladia encouraged, but they refused due to Covid.
We offered to go stand outside the unit while they did the inspection and they declined, but a couple weeks prior, they had no issue sending maintenance into our unit while our entire family was inside, unmasked. Palladia states their carpet has a lifespan of 60 months. Upon us moving out, our carpet had been used 58 months.
Management said they were keeping our entire deposit and then charging us an additional $200 on top of that to replace the carpet due to excessive pet urine despite us NOT ever having a pet.
I told them that the urine HAD to be there prior to us moving in, which was gross. I finally told management I would be contacting their corporate offices due to the matter and Palladia finally agreed we were not responsible for the cost of carpet replacement and returned our deposit.
But since WSG is a month or two behind, part of your deposit will automatically be taken and applied toward that.
Be prepared to leave your unit cleaner than when you first moved in.
Stove, refrigerator and washer and dryer were surrounded by dust, dirt and other debris, which was not a huge problem as I usually do light cleaning prior to moving in somewhere.
Furthermore, four days after moving in, I submitted my first noise complaint due to 4 straight nights of excessive noise between Midnight and 4AM. I expect noise living in an apartment, but this was beyond excessive.
In addition, police are called to this apartment complex monthly.
Do yourself a favor and stay away from this place.
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
Palladia Apartments - Hillsboro, OR
See all photos from Ashley R. for Palladia Apartments
Helpful 1
Helpful 2
Thanks 0
