SOURCE: https://www.yelp.com/biz/villas-at-amberglen-west-hillsboro (search-engine index excerpt of this page; live page blocks automated access)
PAGE_URL: https://www.yelp.com/biz/villas-at-amberglen-west-hillsboro
ORIGINAL_CAPTURE: sources/websearch_communities_r2.json
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: excerpt text as returned by the search index; not the full page; dates in excerpts are partial.

Back to Search
Yelp
The Villas At Amberglen West
3.2 (38 reviews)
Claimed Apartments
Open 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM
See hours
Updated 2 months ago
See all 126 photos
The Villas At Amberglen West - Hillsboro, OR
The Villas At Amberglen West - Hillsboro, OR
The Villas At Amberglen West - Hillsboro, OR
The Villas At Amberglen West - Hillsboro, OR
The Villas At Amberglen West - Hillsboro, OR
The Villas At Amberglen West - Hillsboro, OR
Write a review
Add photos/videos
Share
Save
Do you recommend this business?
Yes
No
Maybe
Villas at Amberglen West is a stunning European-style apartment village in Hillsboro, Oregon, where the incomparable Pacific Northwest meets the thriving Portland metropolis. This community is the epitome of thoughtfulness, elegance and grace, where the enduring comforts of refined living are…
Read more
Ask the Community
Ask a question
Yelp users haven’t asked any questions yet about The Villas At Amberglen West .
People also searched for
Apartments for Rent Luxury Apartments Apartment Complex Apartment Buildings Condominiums Office Space
Recommended Reviews
I am crying because I did! Here are some photos! Please don't move here! This is NOT luxury living.
The Villas At Amberglen West - Dog pee in hallway - Hillsboro, OR
The Villas At Amberglen West - More dog pee - Hillsboro, OR
The Villas At Amberglen West - Outside entrance and this has been here for weeks.
We also told them that people would just leaving their furniture in the hall like a yard sale with "free" sign on it. This is NOT a luxury place to live at all. You need to stay away.
When we signed the lease we had a set price but make sure to add additional 150-250$ on top of that for fees and other hidden charges they don't disclose.
I moved out in June (it's august) and I'm just figuring out my final statement. I've made multiple appointments with her and she still fails to show up or call me back or email me back.
Ramona will lie to your face. Don't trust her.
Haleigh says she can do something and doesn't do it.
Helpful 2
Helpful 3
Thanks 2
Thanks 3
Love this 1
Love this 2
I lost count of how many times that happened or how many times I stepped on dog shit when walking outside. In that same building, the AC stopped working during the hottest days of the summer. It was literally hotter inside the building than it was outside. This made it difficult to maintain the apartment cool even with a AC unit.
The kicker was that they still charged us an insane amount for building energy. If you do 
