SOURCE: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billAnalysisClient.xhtml?bill_id=202320240AB2801 (analysisId 381095, "Assembly Floor Analysis", retrieved by the page's own form POST)
TITLE: Assembly Floor Analysis, Concurrence in Senate Amendments, AB 2801 (Friedman), as amended August 23, 2024. OFFICIAL: California Legislative Information. Legislative history, not law.
SOURCE KIND: official (leginfo)
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-03 via curl; text converted with pdftotext -layout.
======================================================================

                                                                                            AB 2801
                                                                                             Page 1

CONCURRENCE IN SENATE AMENDMENTS
AB 2801 (Friedman)
As Amended August 23, 2024
Majority vote

SUMMARY
Strengthens security deposit law by adopting certain guardrails.

1) Establishes that a landlord may claim against the security deposit only the amounts that are
   reasonably necessary, as provided.

2) Establishes that claims against the tenant or the security deposit for work performed by a
   contractor, the landlord, or the landlord's employee must be limited to a reasonable amount
   necessary to restore the premises back to the condition it was in at the inception of the
   tenancy, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear.

3) Establishes that claims against the tenant or the security deposit for material or supplies must
   be limited to a reasonable amount necessary to restore the premises back to the condition it
   was in at the inception of the tenancy, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear.

4) Prohibits a landlord from requiring a tenant to pay for, or assert a claim against the tenant or
   the security for, professional carpet cleaning or other professional cleaning services, unless
   reasonably necessary to return the premises to the condition it was in at the inception of
   tenancy, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear.

5) Replaces the term "may not" with "shall not" in the provisions related to security deposit
   limits.

6) Establishes that if an initial inspection is conducted, as provided, and at the time of the
   inspection the premises do not contain tenant possessions that prevent the landlord from
   identifying repairs or cleanings due to the presence of those possessions, the landlord is
   prohibited from using the security for items unidentified in the itemized statement based on
   the initial inspection, as required.

7) Provides that a landlord may still use the security deposit for allowable deductions, as
   provided, that occur between completion of the initial inspection and when possession of the
   unit returned to the landlord.

8) Provides that a landlord may still use the security deposit for allowable deductions, as
   provided, not identified during the initial inspection due to the presence of the tenant's
   possessions.

9) Establishes that the initial inspection requirements, as provided, do not apply when a tenancy
   is terminated because the tenant is guilty of unlawful detainer, as provided.

10) Establishes that for tenancies that begin on or after July 1, 2025, the landlord is required to
   take photographs of the unit immediately before or at the inception of the tenancy.
                                                                                             AB 2801
                                                                                              Page 2

11) Establishes that beginning on April 1, 2025, the landlord must take photographs of the unit
    within a reasonable time after the possession of the unit is returned to the landlord, but prior
    to any repairs or cleanings for which the landlord will make a deduction from or claim
    against the security deposit, as permitted.

12) Establishes that beginning on April 1, 2025, the landlord must take photographs of the unit
    within a reasonable time after any repairs or cleanings for which the landlord is making a
    deduction or claim against the security deposit are completed.

13) Establishes that if a deduction is made for repairs or cleanings, as permitted, the landlord
    must provide photographs, as provided, along with a written explanation of the cost of the
    allowable repairs or cleanings.

14) Provides that the landlord may provide the photographs required in 13) to the tenant by mail,
    email, computer flash drive, or by providing a link where the tenant may view the
    photographs online.

15) Establishes that a landlord is not entitled to claim any amount of the security, if in bad faith,
    they fail to comply with the requirements regarding return of the security deposit.

16) Makes chaptering amendments to resolve conflicts with SB 611.

Senate Amendments
Make chaptering amendments to resolve conflicts with SB 611.

COMMENTS
Renting in California. Almost 17 million people rent their homes in California, amounting to
44% of the state's population. (California Budget and Policy Center, California's 17 Million
Renters Face Housing Instability and Inequity Before and After COVID-19 (Jan. 2021).) Many
of these renters are cost-burdened. As of 2020, over 52% of renter households paid more than
30% of their total income in rent, and 27% were severely cost-burdened, paying more than 50%
of their income in rent. (California Housing Partnership, California Affordable Housing Needs
Report 2021 (March 2021).) Black households are nearly 50% more likely to be severely cost-
burdened than white households. (Ibid.)

Existing law provides tenants with certain rights regarding the return of their security deposit at
the end of their lease. Civil Code Section 1950.5(e)-(g) outlines the process and requirements for
landlords to return the security deposit to tenants.

Initial inspection process. A tenant may request an "initial inspection" before they move out of
their rental. The initial inspection process aims to document the conditions prior to the tenant
vacating the premises, and in order to know ahead of time what repairs, if any, are necessary.
During the "initial inspection" the landlord or the landlord's agent identifies defects or conditions
that might justify deductions from the screening deposit. The tenant has the right to be present
during the inspection. Based on the findings of that inspection, the landlord or agent must
prepare an itemized statement of repairs or cleaning that the landlord or agent believes the tenant
should perform in order to avoid deductions from the tenant's security deposit. The landlord
cannot, for example, use the security deposit to repair damages or correct defects in the rental
that existed before the tenant moved in, or that are the result of ordinary wear and tear. After the
                                                                                           AB 2801
                                                                                            Page 3

initial inspection, the tenant may make the repairs or do the cleaning described in the itemized
statement as allowed by the rental agreement, to avoid deductions from the deposit.

Final inspection process. The landlord may perform a final inspection after the tenant has moved
out of the rental. The landlord may make a deduction from the tenant's security deposit to repair
damages to the unit, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear, or perform cleaning necessary to return
the unit to the same level of cleanliness it was in at the beginning of the tenancy, in the following
instances:

1) Where the damage/condition was identified in the itemized statement and the tenant did not
   repair or correct; or

2) Where the damage/condition occurred after the initial inspection; or

3) The damage/condition was not identified during the initial inspection process due to the
   presence of the tenant's possessions.

Landlord's obligations at end of tenancy. Within 21 days after the tenant vacates the property,
the landlord must return the full security deposit to the tenant. Or, if the landlord has deducted
from the deposit, within the same 21-day period, they must return any remaining amount along
with written notice of their withholding. This notice must include an itemized statement
explaining the deductions, along with receipts or invoices for any repairs or cleaning expenses,
including any labor and materials.

This bill strengthens landlord-tenant law regarding security deposits and the inspection process in
two keys ways.

1) Permissible charges. Amends existing law, which allows for claims for materials and
   supplies limited to "an amount necessary to make reasonable replacements" by requiring that
   claims for materials, supplies, and labor be limited to "a reasonable amount necessary to
   restore the premises back to the condition it was in at the inception of the tenancy, exclusive
   of ordinary wear and tear." This change is intended to prevent landlords from subsidizing
   improvements to their rental unit with their prior tenant's security deposit. The measure also
   prohibits the inclusion of professional carpet cleaning and other professional carpet cleaning
   service, which has become more commonplace in many leases, unless "reasonably necessary
   to return the premises to the condition it was in at the inception of the tenancy, exclusive of
   ordinary wear and tear."

2) Photograph requirement. This measure requires landlords in all leases beginning on or after
   July 1, 2025 to also take photographs immediately before or at the inception of the tenancy.
   And starting April 1, 2025, all landlords will be required to take photographs of the unit after
   the tenant moves out, but before repairs or cleanings, which the landlord intends to deduct
   from the security deposit, are performed. The landlord is then required to take photographs of
   the unit after the repairs/cleaning are completed. If the landlord does intend to deduct for
   damages/cleaning, they must provide photographs to the tenant in addition to the itemized
   statement. This photograph requirement is meant to minimize disputes over charges, and
   provide documentary evidence in the event a dispute over deductions does arise.
                                                                                          AB 2801
                                                                                           Page 4

According to the Author
   For many renters, especially those from lower income backgrounds, affording a security
   deposit entails a great deal of sacrifice. By creating a burden of evidence on the part of the
   landlord we are giving tenants, especially our most vulnerable, another tool in the toolbox to
   protect themselves against egregious claims of their hard earned money.

Arguments in Support
East Bay for Everyone supports this measure:

   According to the Federal Reserve's Survey of Consumer Finances, the bottom quartile of
   American households (most of whom are renters) had a median net worth of under $3,500 in
   2022. As such, just one month's security deposit can be a major factor for millions of
   households' financial stability, but landlords often use and spend these funds in
   unaccountable ways. [This bill] would put more guardrails around landlords' use of funds, to
   ensure landlords do not use them for normal wear and tear or property improvements, and
   would increase potential civil damages for violating. Renters have far less negotiating power
   than landlords as only one side at the table has their shelter at stake, which is a kind of
   market failure: therefore regulation is needed to make the contractual relationship fair and
   even.

UC San Diego Housing Commission also writes in support:

   [This bill] will address the concerns of student renters while also preserving the landlord's
   right to repair any damages caused by the tenant with the security deposit. Existing law limits
   the landlord's claim of a security deposit to only those amounts as are reasonably necessary
   for the repair of damages to the premises, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear, to return the
   unit to the same level of cleanliness it was in at the inception of the tenancy. Under the
   current system, however, landlords are able to overcharge tenants to subsidize upgrades to
   the unit after the termination of the tenancy. Bad-faith retentions like this reduce the
   accessibility of housing, as many renters depend on the return of their security deposit to
   cover the costs associated with moving to another unit.

   By requiring any deductions from the security deposit to be justified with photo evidence and
   preventing landlords from making additional claims on a deposit after a valid initial
   inspection is conducted, [this bill] will help protect the security deposits of tenants and close
   existing loopholes that allow landlords to violate the intention of the law.

Arguments in Opposition
A coalition of regional apartment associations, including the East Bay Rental Housing
Association, oppose the introduced version of the bill:

   AB 2801 proposes to limit the use of a security deposit to material and supplies necessary to
   make reasonable replacement or repairs and prohibits the use of professional cleaning
   services, including carpet cleaning. AB 2801 also leaves a gap of time between a pre-move
   out inspection and when tenants fully vacates the dwelling that exposes property owners or
   their agents to liability for damage caused by tenants and prohibiting recovery from tenants.

   AB 2801 is an attempt to redefine the definition of a "security deposit" by severely limiting
   the ways in which a property owner may provide a clean and sanitary unit to a subsequent
                                                                                      AB 2801
                                                                                       Page 5

   tenant following damage caused by a former tenant without violating California State
   Habitability Laws.

FISCAL COMMENTS
None.

VOTES:
ASM JUDICIARY: 9-3-0
YES: Kalra, Bauer-Kahan, Bryan, Connolly, Haney, Maienschein, McKinnor, Pacheco, Reyes
NO: Dixon, Essayli, Sanchez

ASSEMBLY FLOOR: 54-14-12
YES: Addis, Aguiar-Curry, Alvarez, Arambula, Bennett, Berman, Boerner, Bonta, Bryan,
Calderon, Juan Carrillo, Wendy Carrillo, Cervantes, Connolly, Mike Fong, Friedman, Gabriel,
Garcia, Gipson, Haney, Hart, Holden, Irwin, Jackson, Jones-Sawyer, Kalra, Lee, Low,
Lowenthal, Maienschein, McCarty, McKinnor, Muratsuchi, Stephanie Nguyen, Ortega, Pacheco,
Papan, Pellerin, Rendon, Reyes, Luz Rivas, Blanca Rubio, Santiago, Schiavo, Soria, Ting,
Villapudua, Ward, Weber, Wicks, Wilson, Wood, Zbur, Robert Rivas
NO: Bains, Chen, Davies, Dixon, Essayli, Flora, Vince Fong, Gallagher, Hoover, Lackey, Jim
Patterson, Joe Patterson, Sanchez, Ta
ABS, ABST OR NV: Alanis, Bauer-Kahan, Megan Dahle, Grayson, Mathis, Petrie-Norris,
Quirk-Silva, Ramos, Rodriguez, Valencia, Waldron, Wallis

SENATE FLOOR: 25-10-5
YES: Allen, Ashby, Atkins, Becker, Bradford, Caballero, Cortese, Dodd, Durazo, Eggman,
Gonzalez, Hurtado, Laird, Limón, McGuire, Menjivar, Padilla, Roth, Rubio, Skinner,
Smallwood-Cuevas, Stern, Umberg, Wahab, Wiener
NO: Alvarado-Gil, Dahle, Grove, Jones, Min, Nguyen, Niello, Ochoa Bogh, Seyarto, Wilk
ABS, ABST OR NV: Archuleta, Blakespear, Glazer, Newman, Portantino


UPDATED
VERSION: August 23, 2024

CONSULTANT: Shiran Zohar / JUD. / (916) 319-2334                                 FN: 0004616
