SOURCE: https://sjud.senate.ca.gov/system/files/2024-06/ab-2801-friedman-sjud-analysis.pdf
TITLE: Senate Judiciary Committee analysis of AB 2801 (Friedman), version April 25, 2024, hearing June 11, 2024. OFFICIAL: California State Senate Judiciary Committee website. Legislative history, not law.
SOURCE KIND: official (legislative committee)
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-03 via curl through the session proxy; text converted mechanically (pdftotext -layout).
======================================================================

                          SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
                            Senator Thomas Umberg, Chair
                              2023-2024 Regular Session

AB 2801 (Friedman)
Version: April 25, 2024
Hearing Date: June 11, 2024
Fiscal: No
Urgency: No
ID

                                        SUBJECT

                               Tenancy: security deposits

                                         DIGEST

This bill prohibits a landlord of residential property from deducting from a tenant’s
security deposit costs for materials or supplies, the work of a contractor, or for
professional carpet cleaning services, unless they are reasonably necessary to restore the
premises to their condition before the tenancy, less ordinary wear and tear, and requires
landlords to take photographs of the premises, as specified.

                                EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Rent and renting housing in California is incredibly expensive. In addition to rent,
landlords often require tenants to provide an amount of money as security for the unit
before they can move in. Under California law, landlords may only require specified
amounts for deposits, and landlords must return the deposit at the end of the tenancy,
less any specified, allowable deductions. Deposits pose significant burdens on
prospective tenants, and the unlawful withholding of a tenant’s deposit after the
tenancy has ended threatens many tenant’s savings. In order to limit landlords’
wrongful and excessive withholding of a tenant’s deposit, AB 2801 clarifies the laws
regarding allowable charges by a landlord, prohibiting the landlord from deducting
from a tenant’s security deposit costs for materials or supplies, the work of a contractor,
or for professional carpet cleaning services, unless they are reasonably necessary to
restore the premises to their condition before the tenancy, less ordinary wear and tear.
AB 2801 also requires landlords to document the condition of the leased premises by
taking photographs of the premises before the tenancy and before and after any repairs
or cleanings at the end of the tenancy, and that the landlord provide the photographs to
the tenant. AB 2801 is sponsored by Student Homes Coalition, Power California Action,
and the University of California Students Association, and is supported by various
Democratic and pro-housing groups and labor unions. It is opposed by the California
Association of Realtors.
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 2 of 14

                        PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE LAW

Existing law:

1) Defines “security” for the rental of residential property as a payment, fee, deposit, or
   charge, to be used for any purpose by the landlord, including but not limited to:
         a) Processing a new tenant;
         b) Ensuring advance payment of rent;
         c) Compensating for nonpayment of rent;
         d) Repairing damages to the property, other than ordinary wear and tear,
              caused by the tenant or the tenant’s guest or licensee;
         e) For tenancies beginning on or after January 1, 2003, cleaning the property
              upon termination of the tenancy in order to restore the same level of
              cleanliness the property had at the beginning of the tenancy; or
         f) Cover any obligation, as established by the rental agreement, to restore,
              replace, or return personal property or accessories, other than due to
              ordinary wear and tear. (Civ. Code § 1950.5 (b).)

2) Excludes from the definition of “security” any permissible application screening fee
   that a landlord charges a prospective tenant. (Civ. Code § 1950.6.)

3) Starting July 1, 2024, limits the amount of a security deposit a landlord can collect for
   a residential tenancy to no more than one month's rent, regardless of whether the
   property is furnished or unfurnished. (Civ. Code § 1950.5 (c)(1).)

4) Establishes that, notwithstanding (3), above, small landlords who meet the following
   requirements may demand or receive a security deposit of up to two months’ rent:
          a) the landlord is a natural person or a limited liability company in which all
             members are natural persons; and
          b) the landlord owns no more than two residential rental properties that
             collectively include no more than four dwelling units offered for rent.
             (Civ. Code § 1950.5 (c)(4)(A).)

5) Clarifies that notwithstanding (4), above, service members, as defined, may not be
   required to pay more than one month’s rent in security deposit. (Civ. Code § 1950.5
   (c)(4)(B).)

6) Specifies that a tenant is guilty of an unlawful detainer and subject to court-ordered
   eviction if, within three days of a demand to vacate the premises or pay rent that
   lawfully accrued within the last 12 months, the tenant does neither. Specifies that a
   tenant is guilty of an unlawful detainer and subject to court-ordered eviction if,
   within three days of a demand to vacate the premises or comply with a material
   obligation under the lease other than the payment of rent, the tenant does neither.
   (Code of Civ. Procedure § 1161.)
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 3 of 14

7) Specifies that a tenant who maintains, commits, or permits the maintenance or
   commission of a nuisance on rental property thereby terminates the lease and may
   on that basis be subject to an unlawful detainer action seeking a court order for the
   eviction of the tenant if the tenant does not vacate within three days of receiving
   notice from the landlord about the nuisance. (Code of Civ. Procedure § 1161(4).)

8) Permits a landlord to claim only that portion of the security deposit reasonably
   necessary for the purposes set forth in 1) above. Prohibits a landlord from asserting a
   claim against the tenant or the security for damages or defective conditions that
   preexisted the tenancy, ordinary wear and tear, or the cumulative effects of wear
   and tear. (Civ. Code § 1950.5 (e).)

9) Provides that, within a reasonable time after notification of either party’s intention
   to terminate the tenancy, or before the end of the lease term, the landlord must
   notify the tenant in writing of the tenant’s option to request an initial inspection
   where the tenant may be present. (Civ. Code § 1950.5 (f)(1).)

10) Establishes that, at a reasonable time, but no earlier than two weeks before the
    termination or the end of lease date, upon the request of the tenant, the landlord or
    their agent must make an initial inspection of the premises prior to any final
    inspection the landlord makes after the tenant has vacated the premises. Establishes
    that the purpose of the initial inspection is to allow the tenant an opportunity to
    remedy identified deficiencies, in a manner consistent with the rights and
    obligations of the parties under the rental agreement, in order to avoid deductions
    from the security. Provides that the landlord’s obligation to conduct an initial
    inspection is triggered only upon the tenant’s request. (Ibid.)

11) Provides that if an inspection is requested, the parties must attempt to schedule the
    inspection at a mutually acceptable date and time. The landlord must give at least 48
    hours’ prior written notice of the date and time of the inspection if either: a mutual
    time is agreed upon, or if a mutually agreed time cannot be scheduled but the tenant
    still wishes an inspection. Permits the tenant and landlord to agree to forgo the 48-
    hour prior written notice by both signing a written waiver. (Ibid.)

12) Establishes that a landlord must provide the tenant with an itemized statement,
    based on the inspection, specifying repairs or cleanings that are proposed to be the
    basis of any deductions from the security the landlord intends to make, as
    permitted. Provides that the landlord must give the statement in 17) to the tenant at
    the inspection, if the tenant is present, or must be left inside the unit, and that the
    statement must include the text of Civil Code Section 1950.5(b)(1)-(4). (Civ. Code §
    1950.5 (f)(2).)
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 4 of 14

13) Provides that, during the period following the initial inspection until termination of
    the tenancy, the tenant has the opportunity to remedy identified deficiencies in
    order to avoid deductions from the security. (Civ. Code § 1950.5 (f)(3).)

14) Permits a landlord to use the security deposit for itemized deductions that were not
    cured by the tenant, as provided. (Civ. Code § 1950.5 (f)(4).)

15) Permits a landlord to use the security for any permitted purposes, as provided, that
    occurs between completion of the initial inspection and termination of the tenancy,
    or that was not identified during the initial inspection due to the presence of a
    tenant’s possessions on the premises. (Civ. Code § 1950.5 (f)(5).)

16) Establishes that, no later than 21 calendar days after the tenant has vacated the
    premises, but not earlier than the time that either the landlord or the tenant provides
    a notice to terminate the tenancy or not earlier than 60 calendar days prior to the
    expiration of a fixed-term lease, the landlord must furnish the tenant, by personal
    delivery or by pre-paid first-class mail, a copy of an itemized statement indicating
    the basis for, and the amount of, any security received and the disposition of the
    security, and must return any remaining portion of the security to the tenant. (Civ.
    Code § 1950.5 (g)(1).)
           a) Exempts from this requirement deductions for repairs and cleaning that
               together do not exceed $125, or when the tenant waives the right to the
               above provision, as specified. (Civ. Code § 1950.5(g)(4).)
           b) If the tenant requests documentation within 14 calendar days of receiving
               the itemized statement, the landlord must provide the required
               documentation within 14 calendar days of the request from the tenant.
               (Civ. Code § 1950.5(g)(5).)

17) Requires the landlord to provide to the tenant, along with the itemized statement,
    copies of documents showing charges incurred and deducted by the landlord to
    repair or clean the premises, as follows:
           a) If the landlord or landlord’s employee did the work, the itemized
               statement must reasonably describe the work performed. The itemized
               statement must include the time spent and the reasonable hourly rate
               charged;
           b) If the landlord or landlord’s employee did not do the work, the landlord
               must provide the tenant a copy of the bill, invoice, or receipt supplied by
               the person or entity performing the work. The itemized statement must
               provide the tenant with the name, address, and telephone number of the
               person or entity, if the bill, invoice, or receipt does not include that
               information;
           c) If a deduction is made for materials or supplies, the landlord shall provide
               a copy of the bill, invoice, or receipt. If a particular material or supply item
               is purchased by the landlord on an ongoing basis, the landlord may
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 5 of 14

              document the cost of the item by providing a copy of a bill, invoice,
              receipt, vendor price list, or other vendor document that reasonably
              documents the cost of the item used in the repair or cleaning of the unit.
              (Civ. Code § 1950.5 (g)(2).)

18) Specifies that a tenant may receive statutory damages of up to twice the amount of
    the security deposit, in addition to actual damages, if the landlord retains or claims
    the tenant’s deposit or any portion thereof in bad faith violation of Civil Code
    Section 1950.5. Provides that, in any action under Section 1950.5, the landlord has
    the burden of proof as to the reasonableness or lawfulness of the amounts claimed.
    (Civ. Code § 1950.5(l).

19) Specifies that an action under Civil Code Section 1950.5 may be brought in small
    claims court, if the damages claimed are within the jurisdictional amount allowed
    for small claims court cases. (Civ. Code § 1950.5(n).)

This bill:

1) States that it is the intent of the Legislature to ensure that landlords do not subsidize
   improvements to their rental properties with a former tenant’s security deposit.

2) Specifies that claims by the landlord against a tenant or the deposit for materials or
   supplies, and for work performed by a contractor, must be limited to a reasonable
   amount necessary to restore the premises back to the condition it was in before the
   tenancy, except for ordinary wear and tear.

3) Prohibits a landlord from requiring a tenant to pay for, or from deducting from the
   deposit, the costs for professional carpet cleaning or other professional cleaning
   services, unless those services are reasonably necessary to return the premises to the
   condition it was in before the tenancy, except for ordinary wear and tear.

4) Specifies that, if an initial inspection is conducted and the premises did not contain
   tenant possessions that prevented the identification of repairs or cleaning, a landlord
   may not deduct from the security deposit costs for repairs or cleaning that are not
   identified in the itemized statement the landlord provided to the tenant.

5) Requires that, for tenancies beginning on or after July 1, 2025, a landlord must take
   photographs of the leased unit immediately before, or at the inception of the
   tenancy.

6) Requires that, beginning April 1, 2025, a landlord must take photographs of the unit
   within a reasonable time after the possession of the unit is returned to the landlord,
   but before any repairs or cleanings for which the landlord will deduct from the
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 6 of 14

    deposit are completed, and that the landlord take photographs of the unit within a
    reasonable time after the repairs or cleanings are completed.

7) Requires that the landlord include the photographs required by (5) and (6), above,
   along with a written explanation of the cost of the allowable repairs and cleanings as
   required, if deductions from the security deposit are made for allowable repairs or
   cleanings. Specifies that the landlord may provide the photographs by mail, email,
   computer flash drive, or by providing a link where the tenant may view the
   photographs online.

8) Specifies that a landlord is not entitled to claim any amount of the security deposit if
   the landlord fails to comply, in bad faith, with the requirement that they provide a
   tenant with an itemized statement, documentation of the charges incurred and
   deducted from the deposit, and the photographs and explanation as required in (7),
   above.

                                            COMMENTS

1. Author’s statement

According to the author:

        As the Attorney General pointed out in a recent settlement with a predatory
        landlord, ‘For many renters, especially those from lower income backgrounds,
        affording a security deposit entails a great deal of sacrifice.’ By creating a burden
        of evidence on the part of the landlord we are giving tenants, especially our most
        vulnerable, another tool in the toolbox to protect themselves against egregious
        claims of their hard earned money.

2. The state of renting in California

Almost 17 million Californians rent their apartments or homes, accounting for about 44
percent of all individuals in the state.1 Yet at the same time, California is experiencing
record high prices for homes and rent. In the past decade, median rents in the state have
increased dramatically. In 2022, the median gross rent in the state was $1,870, which
represented about an eight percent increase per year from the median gross rent in
2019.2 As a result for these high rents, significant numbers of California renters pay a
disproportionate amount of their income toward rent and struggle to make ends meet.

1 Monica Davalos et al, California’s 17 Million Renters Face Housing Instability and Inequity Before and

After COVID-19, California Budget & Policy Center (Jan. 2021), available at
https://calbudgetcenter.org/resources/renters-face-housing-instability-and-inequity-before-and-after-
covid-19/.
2 U.S. Census Bureau, Table: Median Gross Rent by Bedroom, American Community Survey (multiple

years) (accessed May 29, 2024), available at https://data.census.gov/.
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 7 of 14

In 2019, 51.8 percent of California renters were cost-burdened, in which their rent costs
exceeded 30 percent of their household income, and 27.3 percent were severely cost-
burdened, in which their rent costs exceeded 50 percent of their household income.3
Moreover, 78 percent of extremely low-income households are severely cost burdened,
meaning that they spend more than half of their income on housing costs, and 52
percent of low-income households are severely cost burdened.4 Data and multiple
studies also have demonstrated a strong link between homelessness and the cost of
housing, suggesting that California’s increases in residential rental rates contributes
directly to the state’s growing population of individuals experiencing homelessness.5
The state’s high rents significantly affects people of color, who disproportionately
account for the state’s renters.6

3. Current landlord-tenant laws

The financial strain of the high cost of renting in California is made worse by the fact
that most rentals require a substantial security deposit in order to begin the tenancy.
Security deposits are typically paid to ensure that the landlord will be covered in the
case that the tenant fails to pay rent or causes significant damage to the property, and
are required to be paid up front before the tenancy may start. In theory, the tenant will
receive their deposit back at the end of the tenancy, less any costs for which the deposit
was held as security. For lower income renters, this security deposit may be a major
barrier to accessing housing or moving between rental units, as a renter needs to save
up a month’s rent just to be able to enter into the rental agreement.

Recognizing the importance of housing and the significant financial impact that the
high costs of housing have on Californians, the state has enacted a variety of laws to
protect the state’s renters and their security deposits. In 2023, the Legislature enacted
AB 12, which will prohibit most landlords from charging a deposit of greater than one
month’s rent, starting July 1, 2024. (AB 12 (Haney), Ch. 733, Stats. 2023). In addition,
existing law limits what landlords can deduct from a tenant’s security deposit at the
end of the tenancy. Landlords may only deduct from a tenant’s deposit costs related to:
the compensation of a landlord for a tenant’s default in the payment of rent; the repair
of damages to the property, except for ordinary wear and tear, caused by the tenant or
their guest; the cleaning of the premises upon termination of the tenancy necessary to
return the unit to the same cleanliness it was in at the beginning of the tenancy and to

3 Davalos supra note 1, p. 3.
4 California Housing Partnership, “Housing Needs Dashboard,” Mar. 2024, available at

https://chpc.net/housingneeds/.
5 Margot Kushel et al, “California Statewide Study of People Experiencing Homelessness, UCSF Benioff

Homelessness and Housing Initiative (Jun. 2023), available at https://homelessness.ucsf.edu/our-
impact/studies/california-statewide-study-people-experiencing-homelessness; Alex Horowitz et al,
“How housing costs drive levels of homelessness: data from metro areas highlights strong connection,”
The APew Charitable Trusts (ug. 22, 2023), available at https://www.pewtrusts.org/en/research-and-
analysis/articles/2023/08/22/how-housing-costs-drive-levels-of-homelessness.
6 Davalos supra note 1, p. 6.
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 8 of 14

remedy future defaults by the tenant in any obligation under the rental agreement to
restore, replace, or return personal property. (Civ. Code § 1950(b).) The landlord may
only deduct from the deposit only those amounts reasonably necessary for those
purposes, and may not deduct or claim any amount of the deposit to cover damages to
the property that existed prior to the beginning of the tenancy or to cover ordinary wear
and tear. (Civ. Code § 1950(e).)

In addition to these limitations on what a landlord may deduct from a tenant’s deposit,
the law outlines a process by which the tenant can be made aware of any repairs or
costs that may be needed before the lease ends. The landlord must notify the tenant that
they may request an “initial inspection” prior to their vacating the unit to document the
condition of the unit and potential repairs needed or deductions from the tenant’s
deposit, and the tenant may request this inspection in writing. (Civ. Code § 1950.5(f).)
This inspection must take place no earlier than two weeks before the end of the lease,
and provides the tenant the opportunity to fix any deficiencies or damage to the unit
before the lease ends in order to avoid deductions from their deposit. The landlord
must give the tenant an itemized statement of the repairs and cleanings that the
landlord intends to make and deduct from the deposit, and the tenant is allowed to try
to remedy the deficiencies before the end of the tenancy. The landlord may still deduct
from the tenant’s deposit the costs of any deficiency identified in the inspection that
was not remedied by the tenant, or the costs of deficiencies that either arose between the
initial inspection and the end of the lease or that were not discovered during the
inspection because of the presence of the tenant’s possessions. (Id.) Exempt from this
initial inspection requirements are circumstances in which the tenancy is terminated
through an unlawful detainer action in court.

Within 21 calendar days of the tenant vacating the unit, the landlord must return the
full deposit, or provide the tenant with a detailed, itemized statement describing the
original reason for the deposit, the deposit amount received, and how much the
landlord is returning. (Civ. Code § 1950.5(g).) Along with the statement, the landlord
must include copies of documents showing the charges incurred and deducted from the
deposit to clean or repair the unit, including a copy of any bill, invoice, or receipt for
materials or supplies. (Id.) The law includes an exception to this documentation
requirement for deductions for repairs and cleaning that together are not more than
$125. However, if the tenant requests documentation to support the itemized statement
within 14 days of receiving the statement, the landlord must provide the documentation
within 14 days. (Id.)

4. AB 2801 addresses landlords who try to keep more of a tenant’s deposit than they
   are entitled to

The author asserts that AB 2801 is necessary to prevent landlords from unfairly
withholding tenant’s security deposits. They point out that a security deposit required
just to begin a tenancy is the tenant’s hard-earned money, and that being able to cover
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 9 of 14

the security deposit often entails significant sacrifice and saving. The author states that
their office has received reports of landlords over-charging former tenants for expenses
that go beyond what is reasonably necessary to repair damage to the premises or return
it to the condition in which it was before the tenancy. The reports include charges for
repairing damage or defective conditions that existed before the tenant moved into the
unit, or that resulted from ordinary wear and tear. These charges included charges for
materials to improve the unit, essentially using the tenant’s deposit to subsidize
renovations of the unit, even when the defective fixture was defective before the tenant
moved into the unit. The author also cites to reports or landlords charging pre-set
cleaning fees, regardless of whether cleaning is necessary or whether the tenant
sufficiently cleaned the premises themselves.

The author points to a recent settlement that the California Attorney General reached
against a corporate landlord that manages properties in Los Angeles and Orange
County for illegally withholding deposits from former tenants.7 The basis of that case
alleged that the company had automatically deducted pre-set cleaning charges. The
settlement was actually predated by a 2001 settlement between the same company and
the Attorney General, in a case in which the company had been accused of charging
former tenants for ordinary wear and tear and unreasonable clean-up and repair costs,
and of withholding tenants’ entire deposits regardless of the condition of the unit.8

5. AB 2801 proposes to strengthen protections for tenants regarding residential
   security deposits

            a. AB 2801 limits charges for materials or supplies, or work performed by a
               contractor

AB 2801 revises the rules relating to a tenant’s deposit and what the landlord can
deduct in two significant ways. First, it specifies that any deductions against a deposit
for materials, supplies, or work performed by a contractor to restore the premises must
be limited to a reasonable amount necessary to restore the premises back to the
condition it was before the tenancy began, except for ordinary wear and tear. It also
prohibits the landlord from requiring the tenant to pay for, or have deducted from the
security deposit, the costs for professional carpet cleaning or other professional cleaning
services, unless the cleaning services are reasonably necessary to return the premises to
the condition it was in before the tenancy began, except for ordinary wear and tear.

7 Office of the Attorney General, “California Attorney General Rob Bonta Announces Settlement with

Arnel Management Company over Illegal Withholding of Security Deposits,” California Department of
Justice (Mar. 29, 2024), available at https://oag.ca.gov/news/press-releases/california-attorney-general-
rob-bonta-announces-settlement-arnel-management.
8 Office of the Attorney General, “Attorney General Lockyer Files Legal Action Against Arnel

Management Company to Provide Refunds to Renters in Orange County,” California Department of
Justice (Sept. 28, 2001), available at https://oag.ca.gov/news/press-releases/attorney-general-lockyer-
files-legal-action-against-arnel-management-company.
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 10 of 14

Under current law, it is already the case that a landlord may only claim from the
deposit amounts that are reasonably necessary for the allowed purposes, and may not
deduct costs for damage that occurred to the premises before the tenancy or for
ordinary wear and tear.

These requirements arguably already apply to materials and supplies and to
professional cleaning costs; however, current law does not specifically address such
charges. AB 2801 would specify that these requirements apply to materials and
supplies, work performed by a contractor, and professional cleaning, including carpet
cleaning. Furthermore, it would specify that the charges related to materials or supplies,
or work performed by a contractor, must be limited to an amount reasonably necessary
to restore the premises back to the condition in which it was before the tenancy, except
for normal wear and tear. That requirement could be read to mean that, if such
materials or supplies or contracted work is necessary, the landlord can only charge the
tenant the portion of those materials or supplies or work that would return the premises
to the condition was in before the tenancy. The landlord would not be able to charge an
amount for more than that, such as for more materials than necessary or for work done
both to restore and improve the premises.

          b. AB 2801 revises the initial inspection process

AB 2801 also makes clarifying changes to the initial inspection process. It specifies that a
landlord may not deduct charges from the deposit not identified in the itemized
statement, unless: the damage necessitating the repair or cleaning occurs after the initial
inspection and before possession is returned to the landlord; or the tenant’s possessions
were in the unit at the time of the inspection and prevented the landlord from
identifying repairs or cleanings. While current law specifies these two circumstances as
allowable deductions, it does not specify that no other deductions for repairs or
cleanings not identified in the initial inspection are allowed. Thus, AB 2801 clarifies that
a landlord may only make deductions from a deposit or otherwise charge the tenant for
repairs or cleanings that are identified in the initial inspection, that are necessary due to
damage that occurs after the initial inspection, or that were not identified during the
initial inspection because of the presence of the tenant’s possessions in the unit. AB 2801
does not change the current rule that the initial inspection process does not apply to
tenancies terminated through an unlawful detainer proceeding or when a tenant does
not request an initial inspection.

          c. AB 2891 requires a landlord to document the premises’ condition with
             photographs

Perhaps most significantly, AB 2801 includes additional documentation requirements
requiring the landlord to photograph the premises at multiple stages and provide these
photographs to the tenant. For tenancies beginning on or after July 1, 2025, it requires
the landlord to take photographs of the unit immediately before, or at the inception of
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 11 of 14

the tenancy. AB 2801 also requires, beginning April 1, 2025, that the landlord take
photographs of the unit within a reasonable time after the possession of the unit is
returned to the landlord, but prior to making any repairs or cleanings that will be
deducted from the tenant’s deposit. Lastly, the landlord must take photographs of the
unit within a reasonable time after the repairs and cleanings are completed. Thus, AB
2801 requires photographs be taken by the landlord to document the condition of the
unit at three separate times: before the tenant moves in; after the tenant moves out; and
after the landlord has completed any repairs or cleanings necessary and for which they
will be deducting charges from the deposit.

AB 2801 requires that the landlord provide these photographs to the tenant as part of
the itemized statement and documents the landlord is currently required to provide the
tenant within 21 calendar days of the tenant vacating the premises. The photographs
must be provided along with a written explanation of the cost of the specified allowable
repairs or cleaning, and can be provided by mail, email, computer flash drive, or by an
online link.

             d. AB 2801 prohibits landlords from deducting from a tenant’s deposit if they fail, in
                bad faith, to provide an itemized statement and documentation of the deductions

Lastly, AB 2801 prohibits a landlord from keeping any part of the deposit if the landlord
fails to comply with the requirements that they provide the tenant an itemized
statement, documents showing the charges, and the photographs and written
explanation within the 21-day deadline, if the failure was a result of bad faith. This
provision requires that a landlord comply with the documentation requirements for any
deductions from the deposit, or forfeit their ability to claim any amount of the security
deposit. However, it does not require strict adherence; just a good faith attempt to
comply. Thus, if a landlord believes they are complying with the requirements in good
faith, they may still be able to withhold or deduct from the deposit for allowable
charges relating to repairs or cleaning.

6. AB would be enforced through the courts

If a landlord violates the provisions of Civil Code Section 1950.5, including the
provisions amended or created by this bill, the tenant may pursue a claim against the
landlord through small claims court or through a civil cause of action in court. (Civ.
Code §§ 1950.5(l), (n).) A tenant may obtain statutory damages up to twice the amount
of the security deposit, as well as actual damages, for a bad faith violation of AB 2801’s
provisions. (Civ. Code § 1950.5(l).) However, if a landlord violates the provisions of
Civil Code Section 1950.5 in good faith, a tenant may still pursue an action against the
landlord, but the landlord may offset their damages by any amounts which they could
have properly deducted from the tenant’s deposit originally.9

9 250 L.L.C. v. PhotoPoint Corp., (2005) 131 Cal. App. 4th 702, 727.
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 12 of 14

7. Arguments in support

According to the Student Homes Coalition, which is a co-sponsor of AB 2801:

      The members of the Student HOMES Coalitions believe that every student has
      the right to accessible and affordable housing. With the majority of California’s
      higher education institutions failing to guarantee undergraduate housing, the
      majority of students will have to rent while in college. Faced with limited options
      due to lack of available housing near college campuses, students often have to
      enter into any available lease. Landlords take advantage of the challenges facing
      student renters by refusing to return security deposits or manipulating the
      application process to shut out student renters all together. As first-time tenants
      often lack resources to contest unfair leasing practices, student renters are
      unlikely to get relief through the small claims court process.

      AB2801 will address the concerns of student renters while also preserving the
      landlord's right to repair any damages caused by the tenant with the security
      deposit. Existing law limits the landlord’s claim of a security deposit to only
      those amounts as are reasonably necessary for the repair of damages to the
      premises, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear, to return the unit to the same level
      of cleanliness it was in at the inception of the tenancy. Under the current system,
      however, landlords are able to overcharge tenants to subsidize upgrades to the
      unit after the termination of the tenancy. Bad-faith retentions like this reduce the
      accessibility of housing, as many renters depend on the return of their security
      deposit to cover the costs associated with moving to another unit.

      By requiring any deductions from the security deposit to be justified with photo
      evidence and preventing landlords from making additional claims on a deposit
      after a valid initial inspection is conducted, AB 2801 will help protect the security
      deposits of tenants and close existing loopholes that allow landlords to violate
      the intention of the law.

8. Arguments in opposition

According to the California Association of Realtors, which is opposed to AB 2801:

      AB 2801, among other things, establishes that claims against the tenant or the
      security deposit for work performed by a contractor, the housing provider, or the
      housing provider’s employee must be limited to a “reasonable” amount
      necessary to restore the premises back to the condition it was in at the inception
      of the tenancy. It isn’t clear what “reasonable” means in this context, and C.A.R.
      is concerned that this lack of clarity could lead to confusion in the marketplace
      and, in turn, increased litigation.
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 13 of 14

      Does a reasonable amount for a repair mean that a small housing provider has to
      use an unscrupulous repair person with 1 star on Yelp because they only charge
      $75 for that repair, or can a small housing provider pay $150 to a respected repair
      person with 4 stars on Yelp to ensure that the repair is done properly? An urgent
      repair in Anaheim that has to be performed on Labor Day Weekend is going to
      cost a different amount than the same repair performed in Yreka on a random
      Tuesday in October – is that reasonable or unreasonable under the bill?

                                       SUPPORT

Genup (Generation Up) (co-sponsor)
Student Homes Coalition (sponsor)
University of California Student Association (co-sponsor)
California Rural Legal Assistance Foundation
California State University Employees Union
Our Time to Act
Power California Action
Public Advocates
Tenants Together
UC San Diego Housing Commission
UC San Diego Associated Students Office of Local Affairs
UC Santa Barbara Campus Democrats
UCSC Student Housing Coalition
Youthbridge Housing

                                     OPPOSITION

California Association of Realtors

                              RELATED LEGISLATION

Pending Legislation:

AB 2785 (Wilson, 2024) would require a landlord to deposit a tenant’s security deposit
into a bank account or other financial institution, that this account shall only contain
deposit funds, and that, if the account is interest-bearing, the interest be paid to the
tenant. AB 2785 is currently on the inactive file on the floor of the Assembly.

AB 2216 (Haney, 2024) would prohibit a landlord from inquiring about whether a
prospective tenant plans to own or have a pet in the unit, prohibit a landlord from
preventing a tenant from owning or keeping a pet in the unit without reasonable
justification, prohibit a landlord from imposing payment of a separate or additional rent
for the pet, and would specify that a landlord could deduct from a tenant’s deposit
AB 2801 (Friedman)
Page 14 of 14

repair damages, or other related costs, caused by the tenant’s pet. AB 2216 is currently
in the Senate Rules Committee.

AB 611 (Menjivar, 2023) would, among other things, amend a prohibition on landlords
requiring security deposits or more than one month’s rent from a service member,
requiring the landlord to specify the rental agreement that a higher deposit is being
required because of the tenant’s poor credit score, and requiring that the additional
amount of deposit be returned after six months if the tenant does not owe rent or the
higher amount is not because of the tenant’s prior history of residential property
damage. SB 611 is currently in the Assembly Judiciary Committee.

Prior Legislation:
AB 12 (Haney, Ch. 733, Stats. 2023) limited allowable security deposits that a landlord
may charge a residential tenant to the amount equal to one month of rent, with
exceptions.

AB 2297 (Wicks, 2022) would have required a landlord who offers a tenant the option of
paying a fee in lieu of the security deposit to take certain action, including offering the
tenant the option of paying a deposit, and would allow a tenant paying a fee in lieu of a
deposit to stop paying the fee and pay a deposit at any time. AB 2297 died in the
Assembly Judiciary Committee.

AB 3260 (Wicks, 2020) would have required a landlord of residential property to
authorize a tenant, in place of paying the full amount of a security deposit, to satisfy
security through obtaining and maintaining rental security insurance coverage, by
obtaining a surety bond, or paying the security in monthly installments. AB 3260 died
on the Assembly Third Reading file.

SB 644 (Glazer, Ch. 602, Stats. 2019) prohibits a landlord from demanding or receiving
security from a service member who rents residential property in excess of one month’s
rent, or in excess of two month’s rent if the unit is furnished.

                                     PRIOR VOTES:
                          Assembly Floor (Ayes 54, Noes 14)
                     Assembly Judiciary Committee (Ayes 9, Noes 3)
                                     **************
