SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_390-d
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/390-D (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 390-D

Information concerning services for human trafficking victims in facilities at truck stops

1.
The operator of any truck stop shall make available in plain view and in a conspicuous place and manner in all sanitary facilities available for public use and in any lactation rooms, informational cards and/or signs developed by:

(a)
the office of temporary and disability assistance in consultation with the New York state interagency task force on human trafficking; or

(b)
the United States Department of Homeland Security.

2.
All informational cards and signs shall only contain information concerning services for human trafficking victims and shall prominently include the national human trafficking hotline telephone number.

3.
For purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

(a)
“Truck stop” shall mean a facility that has the capacity to provide fuel or service, or both, to any commercial motor vehicle as defined by subdivision four of section five hundred one-a of the vehicle and traffic law operating in commerce which is located within twenty-five hundred feet of a controlled-access highway as defined by section one hundred nine of the vehicle and traffic law which has been functionally classified by the department of transportation as principal arterial - interstate or principal arterial - other freeway/expressway on official functional classification maps approved by the federal highway administration pursuant to part 470.105 of title 23 of the code of federal regulations, as amended from time to time.

(b)
“Lactation room” shall mean a hygienic place, other than a restroom, that is:

(i)
is shielded from view;

(ii)
is free from intrusion;

(iii)
contains a chair, a working surface, and, if the building is otherwise supplied with electricity, an electrical outlet; and

(iv)
intended to be used for the primary purpose of breastfeeding or expressing breast milk.

Source:
Section 390-D — Information concerning services for human trafficking victims in facilities at truck stops, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/390-D (updated Dec. 1, 2023; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
