SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_390-e*2
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/390-E*2 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 390-E*2

Skimming awareness notice

1.
For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

(a)
“electronic benefit transfer card” means any medical assistance card, payment access card pursuant to subdivision nine of section one hundred thirty-one of the social services law, or any other identification, authorization card or electronic access device issued by the state or a social services district as defined in subdivision seven of section two of the social services law by which a person may access their medical assistance, supplemental nutrition assistance program, or public assistance benefits under a local, state or federal program administered by the state, its political subdivisions or social services districts; and

(b)
“skimming” shall be defined as obtaining a consumer’s personal identifying information as defined in subdivision one of section 190.77 of the penal law through the use of a skimmer device as defined in subdivision two of section 190.85 of the penal law.

2.
Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, every person, firm, partnership, association or corporation who is engaged in a sales transaction and accepts electronic benefit transfer cards shall place a sign at the point of sale containing a notice regarding skimming. Such sign shall include:

(a)
a link to a web page maintained by the office of temporary and disability assistance with information for victims of electronic benefit transfer scams, including, but not limited to, skimming;

(b)
steps customers can take to protect themselves from skimming;

(c)
an appropriate contact number as determined by the office of temporary and disability assistance to report that an electronic benefit transfer card was compromised and to disable and request a new electronic benefit transfer card; and

(d)
a request to notify law enforcement if a skimmer device appears to be in use. The office of temporary and disability assistance shall make available on its website a model sign as required by subdivision six of section one hundred fifty-two-d of the social services law that such establishments may use to comply with the provisions of this section.

3.
(a) Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation who fails to comply with the requirements of this section shall be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars per point of sale which lacks the notice required pursuant to subdivision two of this section for the second and each separate subsequent offense.

(b)
If the notice required pursuant to subdivision two of this section has been provided and such notice is subsequently removed, damaged, or altered by any person other than the person or entities required to provide such notice, such person or entities shall have no liability for a failure to comply with subdivision two of this section as long as such notice is replaced within ten business days from such person or entities becoming aware of the defect. * NB There are 2 § 390-e’s

Source:
Section 390-E*2 — Skimming awareness notice, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/390-E*2 (updated Mar. 29, 2024; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
