SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_391-q
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/391-Q (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 391-Q

Rebates

1.
For the purposes of this section, the term “rebate” shall mean an offer to provide cash, credit, or credit towards future purchases, that is offered to consumers who acquire or purchase a specified product or service and that is conditioned upon the customer submitting a request for redemption after satisfying the terms and conditions of the offer. The term shall not include any discount from the purchase price that is taken at the time of purchase, any discount, cash, credit, or credit towards a future purchase that is automatically provided to a consumer without the need to submit a request for redemption, or any refund that may be given to a consumer in accordance with a company’s return, guarantee, adjustment, or warranty policies, or any company’s frequent shopper customer reward program.

2.
(a) Any individual, firm, company, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or entity offering a consumer rebate shall provide the rebate redemption form directly with the product or at the same location and at the same time that the consumer purchases the product, or at the time a contractual agreement for service is signed by the consumer.

(b)
Any individual, firm, company, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or entity that does not provide rebate redemption forms directly with its product may comply with this section by supplying the retailer with either of the following:

(1)
a sufficient quantity of rebate redemption forms based on reasonably anticipated sales; or

(2)
the means to create a rebate redemption form prior to or at the time and place of sale.

(c)
For purposes of internet sales, a generally accessible individual, firm, company, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or entity internet site that clearly and conspicuously displays the rebate redemption form as a printable document on the internet page on which the product is purchased or on an internet page accessible by a hyperlink from the page on which the product is purchased shall comply with this section. For purposes of telephone sales, directing consumers to a generally accessible individual, firm, company, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or entity internet site that clearly and conspicuously displays the rebate redemption form as a printable document on the internet page on which the product is purchased or on an internet page accessible by a hyperlink from the page on which the product is purchased and, upon request, sending the rebate redemption form via the consumer’s choice of regular or electronic mail or telefacsimile shall comply with this section.

3.
(a) Any individual, firm, company, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or entity that offers a consumer rebate shall conspicuously disclose to the consumer (i) if the rebate will be issued to the consumer in any form other than cash or check, including but not limited to credit, credit towards a future purchase, gift certificate, gift card, general use prepaid card or any other form of compensation, and

(ii)
whether any additional fees related to the exercise or non-exercise of the rebate may apply.

(b)
Any retailer advertising a rebate shall clearly disclose whether the rebate will be issued to the consumer in any form other than cash or check, including but not limited to credit, credit towards a future purchase, gift certificate, gift card, general use prepaid card or any other form of compensation.

(c)
Any individual, firm, company, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or entity that offers a consumer rebate shall allow a minimum of fourteen days from the date the consumer purchases the product, or becomes eligible for the rebate upon satisfying the terms and conditions of the offer for the submission of a request for redemption by the consumer.

4.
Upon receipt of a request for redemption meeting the terms and conditions of the rebate offer, an individual, firm, company, partnership, limited liability company, corporation or entity shall mail the rebate or transmit the rebate funds to the consumer within sixty days.

5.
Any person, firm, corporation or association offering a rebate who violates this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than one hundred dollars nor more than one thousand dollars for each such violation.

Source:
Section 391-Q — Rebates, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/391-Q (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
