SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_391-i
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/391-I (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 391-I

Sale of urea-formaldehyde foam insulation

notice

1.
As used in this section, the term “urea-formaldehyde foam insulation” shall mean urea-formaldehyde based, foamed-in-place insulation.

2.
Any person, firm or corporation which sells or installs urea-formaldehyde foam insulation shall give written notice to the purchaser of such insulation or the owner of the building wherein such insulation is installed, stating as follows: “This insulation is urea-formaldehyde based and may emit formaldehyde. After installation of this product, some people have experienced adverse physical effects from formaldehyde emissions, including unpleasant odor, watery eyes, and nose and throat irritations. These conditions may be alleviated by introducing fresh air into the building. Exposure to urea-formaldehyde foam insulation is not recommended for persons who have been previously sensitized to formaldehyde, or who have a history of respiratory problems. Urea-formaldehyde foam insulation is not recommended for use in attics, below grade or wall cavities deeper than six inches. Urea-formaldehyde foam is not recommended unless the outside vertical walls have an air source. YOU MAY CANCEL THIS SALE WITHIN THREE DAYS To cancel the sale, you must notify the company in writing anytime before midnight of the third business day after the contract date. No explanation is necessary for cancellation.” 3. Such notice shall be printed or written in a size equal to at least ten point type and be placed at the beginning of any sales contract.

4.
Violation of this section shall be punishable by a civil penalty of not more than two hundred fifty dollars for the first offense and not more than one thousand dollars for each subsequent offense.

Source:
Section 391-I — Sale of urea-formaldehyde foam insulation; notice, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/391-I (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
