SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_392
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/392 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 392

Second-hand watches

1.
Definitions. As used in this section: A. “Person” shall be deemed to mean a person, firm, partnership, association or corporation. B. “Consumer” shall be deemed to mean an individual, firm, partnership, association or corporation who buys for own use, or for the use of another but not for resale. C. A “second-hand” watch shall be deemed to mean: A watch which, as a whole, the case thereof, or the movement thereof has been sold to a consumer; provided, however, that a watch which has been so sold and is thereafter returned, either through an exchange or for credit, to the same person who sold such watch to the consumer, shall not be deemed to be a second-hand watch for the purpose of this act if such person keeps a written or printed record setting forth the name and address of the consumer, the date of the sale to the consumer, the name of the watch or its maker, and the serial numbers, if any, on the case and the movement of the watch, or other distinguishing numbers or identification marks, the aforesaid record to be kept for at least three years from the date of the sale of the watch and to be open for inspection during all business hours by the district attorney, or his representative, of the county in which such person is engaged in business; or Any watch whose case or movement, serial numbers or other distinguishing numbers or identification marks have been erased, defaced, removed, altered or covered; or Any watch, the movement of which is more than five years old and has been repaired, or any part or parts of the watch, including the movement, have been replaced, whether in the vendor’s hands or while in the possession of another; and this provision shall apply whether or not the watch has been returned, either through an exchange or for credit to the same person who sold or disposed of said watch to the consumer in any manner.

2.
Any person, or agent or employee thereof, who sells a second-hand watch, shall affix and keep affixed to the same a tag with the words “second-hand” legibly written or printed thereon in the English language. For the purposes of this subdivision, “sell” shall be deemed to include offer to sell or exchange, expose for sale or exchange, possess with intent to sell or exchange, and sell or exchange.

3.
Any person, or agent or employee thereof, who sells a second-hand watch shall deliver to the vendee a written invoice setting forth the name and address of the vendor, the name and address of the vendee, the date of the sale, the name of the watch or its maker, and the serial numbers, if any or other distinguishing numbers or identification marks on its case and movement. In the event the serial numbers, or other distinguishing numbers or identification marks have been erased, defaced, removed, altered or covered, this shall be set forth in the invoice. A duplicate of the aforesaid invoice shall be kept on file by the vendor of such second-hand watch for at least three years from the date of the sale thereof and shall be open to inspection during all business hours by the district attorney or his representative of the county in which the vendor is engaged in business.

4.
Any person advertising in any manner second-hand watches for sale shall state clearly in such advertising that the watches so advertised are second-hand watches.

5.
Any violation of this act shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or not more than one hundred days in jail or both.

Source:
Section 392 — Second-hand watches, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/392 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
