SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_394-f
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/394-F (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 394-F

Warrants for electronic data related to legally protected health activities

1.
For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

a.
“Electronic communication” means any transfer of signs, signals, writing, images, sounds, data, or intelligence of any nature transmitted in whole or in part by a wire, radio, electromagnetic, photoelectronic or photo-optical system; provided, however, such term shall not include:

i.
any telephonic or telegraphic communication. ii. any communication made through a tone only paging device. iii. any communication made through a tracking device consisting of an electronic or mechanical device which permits the tracking of the movement of a person or object. iv. any communication that is disseminated by the sender through a method of transmission that is configured so that such communication is readily accessible to the public.

b.
“Electronic communication services” means any service which provides to users thereof the ability to send or receive wire or electronic communications.

c.
“Gender-affirming care” shall have the same meaning as defined by section 570.17 of the criminal procedure law.

d.
“Legally protected health activity” shall have the same meaning as defined by section 570.17 of the criminal procedure law.

e.
“Prohibited violation” means any investigation or proceeding that seeks to impose civil or criminal liability, professional sanctions, or any other legal consequences upon a person for any legally protected health activity, unless such proceeding i. sounds in tort or contract; ii. is actionable, in an equivalent or similar manner, under the laws of this state; and iii. was brought by the person who received reproductive health care or gender-affirming care, or the person’s legal representative, provided the person has given express consent unless express consent is not feasible due to their injury or death.

f.
“Reproductive health care” shall have the same meaning as defined by section 570.17 of the criminal procedure law.

2.
Any person or entity that is headquartered or incorporated in New York that provides electronic communications services to the general public, when, in New York, served with a warrant issued by another state to produce records in New York that would reveal the identity of the customers using those services, data stored by or on behalf of the customers, the customers’ usage of those services, the recipient or destination of communications sent to or from those customers, or the content of those communications, shall not produce those records when the corporation knows that the warrant relates to an investigation into, or enforcement of, a prohibited violation.

3.
Any person or entity that is headquartered or incorporated in New York may comply with a warrant as described in subdivision two of this section if the warrant is accompanied by an attestation made by the entity seeking the records that the evidence sought is not related to an investigation into, or enforcement of, a prohibited violation.

4.
The attorney general may commence a civil action or special proceeding to enforce the provisions of this section.

Source:
Section 394-F — Warrants for electronic data related to legally protected health activities, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/394-F (updated Jun. 12, 2026; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
