SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_396-p
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/396-P (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 396-P

Rates to be posted in taxicabs

certain charges prohibited

1.
Every taxicab available for hire in this state shall have posted, in the interior thereof, in a manner legible and conspicuous to passengers, a statement of the rates, fares or other charges whether imposed upon the basis of mileage, or fraction thereof, zones or other equivalent measurement and any additional charges for luggage or additional passengers, and if such charges are subject to variation, a statement of the conditions relating to such variation. No charges greater than those posted shall be made. For the purposes of this section, “taxicab” is a motor vehicle which carries passengers for hire with a seating capacity of not more than eight passengers exclusive of the driver; and “luggage” shall not include a wheelchair or other manual or electrically driven mobility assistance device, scooter, tricycle or similar device used by a person with a disability as a substitute for walking. 1-a. No taxicab available for hire in this state shall impose on additional charge for a wheelchair or other manual or electrically driven mobility assistance device, scooter, tricycle or similar device used by a person with a disability as a substitute for walking.

2.
This section shall not annul, alter, affect or exempt any person subject to the provisions of this section from complying with the laws, ordinances, rules or regulations of any locality, relating to the posting of rates in the interior of a taxicab, except to the extent that such local laws, ordinances, rules or regulations are inconsistent with any provision of this section, but no such local law, ordinance, rule or regulation shall be considered inconsistent, if it requires greater disclosure of information to the consumer.

3.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to cities having a population of one million or more.

4.
Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed fifty dollars, and for any subsequent violation, a fine of not more than one hundred dollars. * NB There are 2 396-p’s

Source:
Section 396-P — Rates to be posted in taxicabs; certain charges prohibited, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/396-P (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
