SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_396-aaa
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/396-AAA (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 396-AAA

Public display of tobacco and electronic cigarette advertisements and smoking paraphernalia prohibited

1.
For purposes of this section:

(a)
“Advertisement” means words, pictures, photographs, symbols, graphics or visual images of any kind, or any combination thereof, which bear a health warning required by federal statute, the purpose or effect of which is to identify a brand of a tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or vapor product intended or reasonably expected to be used with or for the consumption of nicotine, a trademark of a tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or vapor product intended or reasonably expected to be used with or for the consumption of nicotine or a trade name associated exclusively with a tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or vapor product intended or reasonably expected to be used with or for the consumption of nicotine, or to promote the use or sale of a tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or vapor product intended or reasonably expected to be used with or for the consumption of nicotine.

(b)
“Smoking paraphernalia” means any pipe, water pipe, hookah, rolling papers, electronic cigarette, vaporizer or any other device, equipment or apparatus designed for the inhalation of tobacco or nicotine.

(c)
“Vapor product” means any vapor product, as defined by section thirteen hundred ninety-nine-aa of the public health law, intended or reasonably expected to be used with or for the consumption of nicotine.

(d)
“Tobacco products” shall have the same meaning as in subdivision five of section thirteen hundred ninety-nine-aa of the public health law.

(e)
“Electronic cigarette” shall have the same meaning as in subdivision thirteen of section thirteen hundred ninety-nine-aa of the public health law.

2.
(a) No person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietor, limited partnership, association or any other business entity may place, cause to be placed, maintain or to cause to be maintained, smoking paraphernalia or tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or vapor product intended or reasonably expected to be used with or for the consumption of nicotine, advertisements in a store front or any exterior window or any door which is used for entry or egress by the public to the building or structure containing a place of business within one thousand five hundred feet of a school, provided that within New York city such prohibitions shall only apply within five hundred feet of a school.

(b)
Any person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietor, limited partnership, association or any other business entity in violation of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than five hundred dollars for a first violation and not more than one thousand dollars for a second or subsequent violation.

Source:
Section 396-AAA — Public display of tobacco and electronic cigarette advertisements and smoking paraphernalia prohibited, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/396-AAA (updated Jul. 3, 2020; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
