SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_396-eeee
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/396-EEEE (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 396-EEEE

Three-dimensional printers

1.
No person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation shall sell or deliver any three-dimensional printer in the state of New York unless such printer is equipped with blocking technology. As used in this section, the terms “three-dimensional printer” and “blocking technology” shall have the same meaning as such terms are defined in subdivision one of section eight hundred thirty-seven-aa of the executive law.

2.
Whenever the attorney general shall believe from evidence satisfactory to them that any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association or agent or employee thereof has engaged in or is about to engage in conduct prohibited by this section they may bring an action in the name and on behalf of the people of the state of New York to enjoin such unlawful acts or practices and to obtain restitution of any moneys or property obtained directly or indirectly by any such unlawful acts or practices. In such action preliminary relief may be granted under article sixty-three of the civil practice law and rules.

3.
Any gun industry member, as such term is defined in section eight hundred ninety-eight-a of this chapter, determined by a court to have violated this section shall be liable to the people of the state of New York for a civil penalty of five thousand dollars for each qualified product that is unlawfully sold, transferred, imported, distributed, manufactured, marketed, or offered for wholesale or retail sale in New York state.

4.
Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association that has been damaged as a result of any person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation whose acts or omissions that violate the provisions of this section shall be entitled to bring an action for recovery of damages or to enforce this section.

5.
The provisions of subdivision one of this section shall not apply to the sale or delivery of a three-dimensional printer to any person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation in this state that has both:

(a)
a valid gunsmith license issued pursuant to section 400.00 of the penal law; and

(b)
a valid federal firearms license, issued pursuant to section 922 of title 18 of the United States Code; provided, however, that prior to purchasing or accepting delivery of a three-dimensional printer that is not equipped with blocking technology, such person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation shall make a written request to the attorney general to authorize such purchase. Upon receipt of such a written request, the attorney general shall verify the validity of the state and federal firearms licenses issued to the person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation to whom the three-dimensional printer would be sold and delivered. Upon verifying the validity of the licenses required by this subdivision, the attorney general shall issue a written notice authorizing the sale and delivery of a three-dimensional printer that is not equipped with blocking technology to the person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation to whom the licenses were issued. The attorney general may promulgate rules and regulations, as necessary, to ensure compliance with this subdivision, including, but not limited to, developing and publishing rules and guidance for the submission of requests for authorization and the form of written authorization of sales and delivery of three-dimensional printers that are not equipped with blocking technology. * NB Effective one year after the promulgation of rules as specified in subdivision 3 of section 837-aa of the general business law (see Ch. 55 of 2026, Part C, Subpart B, § 6)

Source:
Section 396-EEEE — Three-dimensional printers, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/396-EEEE (updated May 29, 2026; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
