SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_396
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/396 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 396

Unlawful selling practices

1.
No person, firm, partnership, association or corporation, or agent or employee thereof, shall, in any manner, or by any means of advertisement, or other means of communication, offer for sale any merchandise, commodity, or service, as part of a plan or scheme with the intent, design, or purpose not to sell the merchandise, commodity, or service so advertised at the price stated therein, or with the intent, design or purpose not to sell the merchandise, commodity, or service so advertised. Nothing in this section shall apply to any television or sound radio broadcasting station or to any publisher or printer of a newspaper, magazine, or other form of printed advertising, who broadcasts, publishes, or prints such advertisement.

2.
a. No person, firm, partnership, association or corporation, or agent or employee thereof, shall, in any manner, or by any means, offer for sale goods, wares or merchandise, where the offer includes the voluntary and unsolicited sending of goods, wares or merchandise not actually ordered or requested by the recipient, either orally or in writing; any such goods, wares or merchandise so sent shall be prominently marked upon the container thereof in bold letters as follows: “THIS IS A GIFT. PAYMENT NOT REQUIRED FOR THIS ITEM”. The receipt of any goods, wares or merchandise pursuant to an existing membership or club arrangement in which the recipient receives such goods, wares or merchandise at specified intervals or a plan where the recipient agrees to receive such goods, wares or merchandise without further obligation shall not be construed as the receipt of unsolicited goods, wares or merchandise for the purposes of this section. The receipt of any such unsolicited goods, wares or merchandise shall for all purposes be deemed an unconditional gift to the recipient who may use or dispose of the same in any manner he sees fit without any obligation on his part to the sender. If after any such receipt deemed to be an unconditional gift under this paragraph a, the sender continues to send bill statements or requests for payment with respect thereto, an action may be brought by the recipient to enjoin such conduct, in which action there may also be awarded reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs to the prevailing party.

b.
If a person is a member of an organization which makes retail sales of any goods, wares, or merchandise to its members, and the person notifies the organization of his termination of membership by certified mail, return receipt requested, any unordered goods, wares, or merchandise which are sent to the person after thirty days following execution of the return receipt for the certified letter by the organization, shall for all purposes be deemed unconditional gifts to the person, who may use or dispose of the goods, wares, or merchandise in any manner he sees fit without any obligation on his part to the organization. If the termination of a person’s membership in such organization breaches any agreement with the organization, nothing in this subdivision shall relieve the person from liability for damages to which he might be otherwise subjected to pursuant to law. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to a member of an organization the sole purpose of which is the sale of a specific type of goods, wares or merchandise to its members until the member has fulfilled his initial purchase obligation.

3.
a. Whenever there shall be a violation of this section, an application may be made by the attorney general in the name of the people of the state of New York to a court or justice having jurisdiction to issue an injunction, and upon notice to the defendant of not less than five days, to enjoin and restrain the continuance of such violation; and if it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court or justice that the defendant is, in fact, violating this section, an injunction may be issued by such court or justice, enjoining and restraining such action or violation, without requiring proof that any person has, in fact, been misled or deceived or otherwise damaged thereby.

b.
In addition to the authority granted to the attorney general pursuant to paragraph a of this subdivision and the authority granted to a recipient pursuant to paragraph a of subdivision two of this section, the attorney general, or any person adversely affected by reason of a violation of the provisions of subdivision two of this section, may bring an action against a person who violates the provisions of subdivision two of this section to recover the greater of:

(1)
actual damages; or

(2)
up to five hundred dollars for each instance in which goods, wares or merchandise were sent in violation of the provisions of subdivision two of this section.

c.
In an action under paragraph b of this subdivision the court may award the costs of the action together with reasonable attorney’s fees to a prevailing plaintiff.

d.
Nothing in this section shall in any way limit rights or remedies which are otherwise available under law to the attorney general or any other person authorized to bring an action under this section.

Source:
Section 396 — Unlawful selling practices, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/396 (updated Dec. 23, 2022; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
