SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_398-f
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/398-F (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 398-F

Children’s non-regulated camp

1.
(a) As used in this section, a “children’s non-regulated camp” shall mean property consisting of a tract of land and any tents, vehicles, buildings or other structures that may be pertinent to its use, any part of which may be occupied on a scheduled basis any time between June first and September fifteenth in any year by ten or more persons under sixteen years of age under general supervision for the purpose of indoor or outdoor organized group activities, involving passive and nonpassive recreational activities, which is not subject to the provisions of article thirteen-B of the public health law and is:

(i)
a day program operating three hours or more at least five or more days in any two-week period; or

(ii)
an overnight program operated within New York state for less than seventy-two consecutive hours on more than one occasion.

(b)
This section shall not include activities operated by (i) a public school district and clubs which also occur during the traditional school year;

(ii)
school districts, boards of cooperative educational services or nonpublic schools providing instruction to satisfy, enrich, accelerate, or improve skills in accordance with education law requirements;

(iii)
child care programs and family shelter-based drop-off child supervision programs permitted pursuant to article forty-seven of the New York city health code;

(iv)
activities subject to licensure or registration by the office of children and family services; and

(v)
properties where children are under the supervision of family and/or family friends.

2.
(a) No person, firm, corporation or association shall enroll or allow participation of a child in a children’s non-regulated camp unless such non-regulated camp has registered with the department of health, in a form and manner prescribed by the department of health, on an annual basis and the parent or guardian of the child has been provided with the following written notice on the application or enrollment form: “This camp is registered with but not regulated or inspected by the New York State Department of Health and is not required to obtain a Department of Health permit. This camp is not required to follow Department of Health regulations, including, maintaining minimum staff-to-child ratios; hiring medical personnel; or reporting injuries or illnesses to the Department of Health.” (b) If a children’s non-regulated camp maintains a website, this notice must be placed on the website.

(c)
Any notice required in this subdivision shall be prominently and conspicuously posted at the camp facilities in minimum size twelve font.

3.
The operator of a children’s non-regulated camp shall retain a copy of each notice required to be provided by subdivision two of this section for a period of three years.

Source:
Section 398-F — Children's non-regulated camp, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/398-F (updated Dec. 26, 2025; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
