SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_399-yyy
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/399-YYY (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 399-YYY

Satellite television company providing television and/or telephone services

1.
Every direct broadcast satellite service provider, as defined in this section, that provides television and/or telephone services to customers in New York shall allow a person who is under contract including, but not limited to a multi-year contract or bundled contract with such satellite television company, to opt-out of such contract without fee, penalty or charge when such a person is a victim of domestic violence and provides an attestation in writing that they no longer wish to be a party to such contract due to their status as a victim of domestic violence. Such satellite television company may not require such person to disclose confidential information or details relating to such person’s status as a victim of domestic violence, as a condition of permitting such person to opt-out of such contract. Further, such satellite television company may not make release from such contract contingent on:

(a)
maintaining contractual or billing responsibility of a separated account with the provider;

(b)
approval of separation by the primary account holder, if the primary account holder is not the person making such request; or

(c)
a prohibition or limitation on the separation as a result of arrears accrued by the account. Such satellite television company shall release such person from such contract no later than seven days after receiving such opt-out request. Such satellite television company shall dispose of information submitted by such person no later than thirty days after receiving such information in a manner as to maintain confidentiality of such information. A claim for opting-out of such contract without charge shall be made in good faith. Such satellite television company shall waive the otherwise applicable fee, penalty or charge for such person requesting to opt-out of such contract. Every satellite television company shall make information about the options and process described in this section readily available to consumers on the website and any mobile application of the provider, in physical stores, and in other forms of public-facing consumer communication.

2.
For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

(a)
“Direct broadcast satellite service”, means the distribution or broadcasting by satellite of video programming or services directly to receiving equipment located at an end user subscriber’s or an end user customer’s premises, including, but not limited to, the provision of premium channels, the provision of music or other audio services or channels, and any other service received in connection with the provision of direct broadcast satellite service.

(b)
“Direct broadcast satellite service provider”, means a person who transmits, broadcasts or otherwise provides direct broadcast satellite service to subscribers or customers in the state. * 3. A covered provider and any officer, director, employee, vendor or agent thereof shall not be subject to liability for any claims arising from an action taken or omission made with respect to compliance with subdivision one of this section. * NB Effective June 30, 2023

Source:
Section 399-YYY — Satellite television company providing television and/or telephone services, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/399-YYY (updated Jul. 7, 2023; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
