SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_399-f
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/399-F (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 399-F

Laundromat refund procedures

1.
“Self service laundromats” or “coin operated laundries” shall mean and include all laundromats and any apartment building with two or more washing machines or clothes dryers.

2.
All self service laundromats, except those staffed by a full-time attendant, shall be required to post two signs with dimensions no less than twelve inches by eighteen inches. One sign shall list the owner’s name and address, and the second sign shall give the price for the use of the washer and dryer, the cycle time per unit of payment, and the method of refund if the coins are lost in the machines, including a telephone number or address to contact for refund. Information for the method of refund shall read as follows: “If coins are lost in the coin receptacle of the washer or dryer, contact (insert the name and address or telephone number of a person designated by the owner of the self service laundromat to contact for refund).” 3. All signs shall be prominently displayed in a clearly visible area of the self service laundromat.

4.
Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, company or organization which owns and/or operates such business and knowingly fails to comply with the requirements of this section shall be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed fifty dollars for the first violation, one hundred dollars for a second violation and two hundred fifty dollars for any subsequent violation. Each day such offense shall continue shall constitute a separate additional violation. It shall be a defense to the imposition of any such civil penalty if the owner or operator posted a sign as required by this section and such sign was removed or defaced by vandals, provided the owner or operator subsequently complies with the requirements of this section.

5.
This section shall not annul, alter, affect or exempt any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association, company or organization subject to the provisions of this section from complying with the laws, ordinances, rules or regulations of any locality, relating to the posting of laundromat refund procedures, except to the extent that these laws, ordinances, rules or regulations are inconsistent with any provision of this section, but no such local law, ordinance, rule or regulation shall be considered inconsistent, if it affords greater protection to the consumer.

Source:
Section 399-F — Laundromat refund procedures, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/399-F (updated Aug. 1, 2025; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
