SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_399-rr
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/399-RR (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 399-RR

September eleventh victim compensation fund and World Trade Center health program notification

1.
Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

(a)
the “eligible time period” and “notice area” shall be the same as provided for in the September eleventh victim compensation fund pursuant to 49 USC 40101 and World Trade Center health program pursuant to 42 USC 300mm.

(b)
the “September eleventh victim compensation fund” shall be the September eleventh victim compensation fund established under the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (49 USC 40101).

(c)
the “World Trade Center health program” shall be the World Trade Center health program established under 42 USC 300mm.

2.
The department of economic development shall, in consultation with the department of labor and any other appropriate state or municipal entity, develop rules and regulations necessary to promote awareness and notification to any past or present businesses and their employees which operated within the New York city disaster area during the eligible time period of their potential eligibility under the September eleventh victim compensation fund and the World Trade Center health program. This subdivision shall apply to both current and former employees. The department of economic development shall determine the most appropriate message and format that the state agencies may use to assist potentially eligible employers and employees with such awareness or notification.

3.
The department of economic development shall be authorized to consult with the special master of the September eleventh victim compensation fund and the program administrator of the World Trade Center health program relating to matters including, but not limited to, messaging and format to be used in the promotion of the September eleventh victim compensation fund and the World Trade Center health program and if the messages should be tailored for the specific geographic areas covered by the World Trade Center health program in a different manner than those covered by both the World Trade Center health program and the September eleventh victim compensation fund.

Source:
Section 399-RR — September eleventh victim compensation fund and World Trade Center health program notification, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/399-RR (updated Jun. 14, 2024; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
