SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_399-c
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/399-C (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 399-C

Mandatory arbitration clauses in certain consumer contracts prohibited

1.
Definitions.

a.
The term “consumer” shall mean a natural person residing in this state.

b.
The term “consumer goods” shall mean goods, wares, paid merchandise or services purchased or paid for by a consumer, the intended use or benefit of which is intended for the personal, family or household purposes of such consumer.

c.
The term “mandatory arbitration clause” shall mean a term or provision contained in a written contract for the sale or purchase of consumer goods which requires the parties to such contract to submit any controversy thereafter arising under such contract to arbitration prior to the commencement of any legal action to enforce the provisions of such contract and which also further provides language to the effect that the decision of the arbitrator or panel of arbitrators in its application to the consumer party shall be final and not subject to court review.

d.
The term “arbitration” shall mean the use of a decision making forum conducted by an arbitrator or panel of arbitrators within the meaning and subject to the provisions of article seventy-five of the civil practice law and rules.

2.
a. Prohibition. No written contract for the sale or purchase of consumer goods, entered into on or after the effective date of this section, to which a consumer is a party, shall contain a mandatory arbitration clause. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit a non-consumer party from incorporating a provision within such contract that such non-consumer party agrees that the decision of the arbitrator or panel of arbitrators shall be final in its application to such non-consumer party and not subject to court review.

b.
Mandatory arbitration clause null and void. The provisions of a mandatory arbitration clause shall be null and void. The inclusion of such clause in a written contract for the sale or purchase of consumer goods shall not serve to impair the enforceability of any other provision of such contract.

Source:
Section 399-C — Mandatory arbitration clauses in certain consumer contracts prohibited, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/399-C (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
