SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_399-h
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/399-H (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 399-H

Disposal of records containing personal identifying information

No person, business, firm, partnership, association, or corporation, not including the state or its political subdivisions, shall dispose of a record containing personal identifying information unless the person, business, firm, partnership, association, or corporation, or other person under contract with the business, firm, partnership, association, or corporation does any of the following:

a.
shreds the record before the disposal of the record; or

b.
destroys the personal identifying information contained in the record; or

c.
modifies the record to make the personal identifying information unreadable; or

d.
takes actions consistent with commonly accepted industry practices that it reasonably believes will ensure that no unauthorized person will have access to the personal identifying information contained in the record. Provided, however, that an individual person shall not be required to comply with this subdivision unless he or she is conducting business for profit.

3.
Penalties; disposal and use. Whenever there shall be a violation of this section, an application may be made by the attorney general in the name of the people of the state of New York to a court or justice having jurisdiction to issue an injunction, and upon notice to the defendant of not less than five days, to enjoin and restrain the continuance of such violations; and if it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court or justice, that the defendant has, in fact, violated this section an injunction may be issued by such court or justice enjoining and restraining any further violation, without requiring proof that any person has, in fact, been injured or damaged thereby. Whenever a court shall determine that a violation of subdivision two of this section has occurred, the court may impose a civil penalty of not more than five thousand dollars. Acts arising out of the same incident or occurrence shall constitute a single violation. It shall be an affirmative defense to a violation of subdivision two of this section if the business can show that it used due diligence in its attempt to properly dispose of such records.

Source:
Section 399-H — Disposal of records containing personal identifying information, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/399-H (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
