SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_600
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/600 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 600

Definitions

As used in this article, unless the context or subject matter otherwise requires:

1.
“Consumer claim” means any obligation of a natural person for the payment of money or its equivalent which is or is alleged to be in default and which arises out of a transaction wherein credit has been offered or extended to a natural person, and the money, property or service which was the subject of the transaction was primarily for personal, family or household purposes. The term includes an obligation of a natural person who is a co-maker, endorser, guarantor or surety as well as the natural person to whom such credit was originally extended.

2.
“Debtor” means any natural person who owes or who is asserted to owe a consumer claim.

3.
“Principal creditor” means any person, firm, corporation or organization to whom a consumer claim is owed, due or asserted to be due or owed, or any assignee for value of said person, firm, corporation or organization.

4.
“Debt collection agency” shall mean a person, firm or corporation engaged in business, the principal purpose of which is to regularly collect or attempt to collect debts:

(a)
owed or due or asserted to be owed or due to another; or

(b)
obtained by, or assigned to, such person, firm or corporation, that are in default when obtained or acquired by such person, firm or corporation.

5.
“Communication” shall mean the conveying of information regarding a debt directly or indirectly to any person through any medium.

6.
“Debt” means any obligation or alleged obligation of a consumer to pay money arising out of a transaction in which the money, property, insurance, or services which are the subject of the transaction are primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, whether or not such obligation has been reduced to judgment.

7.
“Debt collector” means an individual who, as part of his or her job, regularly collects or attempts to collect debts:

(a)
owed or due or asserted to be owed or due to another; or

(b)
obtained by, or assigned to, such person, firm or corporation, that are in default when obtained or acquired by such person, firm or corporation.

Source:
Section 600 — Definitions, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/600 (updated Aug. 1, 2025; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
