SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_604-b
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/604-B (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 604-B

Penalties

(a)
Whenever there shall be a violation of this article, an application may be made by the attorney general in the name of the people of the state of New York to a court or justice having jurisdiction by a special proceeding to issue an injunction, and upon notice to the defendant of not less than five days, to enjoin or restrain the continuance of such violation; and if it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court or justice that the defendant has, in fact, violated this article, an injunction may be issued by such court or justice, enjoining and restraining any further violation, without requiring proof that any person has, in fact, been injured or damaged thereby. In any such proceeding, the court may make allowances to the attorney general as provided in paragraph six of subdivision (a) of section eighty-three hundred three of the civil practice law and rules, and direct restitution. Whenever the court shall determine that a violation of this section has occurred, the court may impose a civil penalty of not less than five hundred dollars nor more than one thousand dollars for each violation. In connection with any such proposed application, the attorney general is authorized to take proof and make a determination of the relevant facts and to issue subpoenas in accordance with the civil practice law and rules.

(b)
A principal creditor shall have no civil liability under this article if, within fifteen days either after discovering a violation which is able to be cured, or after the receipt of a written notice of such violation, the principal creditor notifies the debtor of the violation, and makes whatever adjustments or corrections are necessary to cure the violation with respect to the debtor.

(c)
No principal creditor shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of this article, if such person, firm, partnership, association or corporation shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the violation was not intentional and resulted from a bona fide error made notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably adopted to avoid such error.

Source:
Section 604-B — Penalties, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/GBS/604-B (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
