SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._social_services_law_section_131-c
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/SOS/131-C (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Social Services Law Section 131-C

Inclusion of parents and siblings of a minor in the public assistance household

1.
For the purposes of determining eligibility for and the amount of assistance payable, the social services district shall, when a minor is named as an applicant for public assistance, require that his or her parents and minor brothers and sisters also apply for assistance and be included in the household for purposes of determining eligibility and grant amounts, if such individuals reside in the same dwelling unit as the minor applying for assistance. Any income of or available for such parents, brothers and sisters which is not disregarded under subdivision eight of section one hundred thirty-one-a of this article, shall be considered available to such household. The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to individuals who are recipients of federal supplemental security income benefits or additional state payments pursuant to this chapter, or to individuals whose relationship to the minor is that of stepbrother or stepsister, or to any other individuals whose needs are excluded pursuant to department regulations consistent with federal law and regulations.

2.
For the purposes of determining eligibility for and the amount of assistance payable, the social services district shall deem available to any minor whose parent or legal guardian is a minor, any income of the parent or legal guardian of such minor parent or legal guardian residing in the same dwelling unit, to the same extent that the income of a stepparent would be included pursuant to subdivision nine of section one hundred thirty-one-a of this article.

3.
For the purposes of this section a minor is a child under the age of eighteen.

Source:
Section 131-C — Inclusion of parents and siblings of a minor in the public assistance household, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/SOS/131-C (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
