SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._social_services_law_section_131-v
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/SOS/131-V (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Social Services Law Section 131-V

Temporary emergency shelter

1.
Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of law, and to the extent consistent with federal law, a social services official may contract with a non-profit corporation or charitable organization to provide temporary emergency shelter for eligible homeless households in dwelling units owned or leased, and operated by such corporations or organizations.

2.
An allowance for such shelter may be made for households dwelling in such units if:

(a)
no other suitable privately owned housing which meets the department’s standards for health and safety is available, other than a more expensive hotel or motel; and

(b)
no household was evicted to produce such units.

3.
The continued need for such shelter shall be reviewed, evaluated and authorized monthly by a social services official. Such allowance shall not be available for more than six months unless the commissioner of the social services district determines on an annual basis that permanent housing is not readily available in the district and submits to the department such determination on an annual basis.

4.
The social services district shall submit for approval by the department health and safety standards that such units must satisfy and shall inspect such units regularly to ensure that such standards are satisfied.

5.
Such non-profit corporation or charitable organization shall, at a minimum, provide such households with assistance in obtaining permanent housing and with information regarding available counseling services, employment assessment, job training and job placement services, and child care services.

6.
This section shall not be construed to limit other means of providing temporary emergency shelter otherwise permitted under this chapter and regulations promulgated thereunder.

Source:
Section 131-V — Temporary emergency shelter, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/SOS/131-V (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
