SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._social_services_law_section_131-d
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/SOS/131-D (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Social Services Law Section 131-D

Substance abuse rehabilitative and preventive services

1.
Any inconsistent provision of this chapter or other law notwithstanding, social services officials shall provide substance abuse services, to eligible needy substance abusers and persons who are substance dependent, under aid to dependent children, in accordance with regulations of the department, if and so long as federal aid is available therefor.

2.
Each social services official shall provide such services either directly or by purchase from a public or private non-profit agency; provided, however, that such services are approved by the state division of substance abuse services and that any facility furnishing such services is supervised and approved by the state division of substance abuse services.

3.
If and so long as federal funds are available therefor, the department shall be responsible for providing eligible services pursuant to this section, provided, however, such services shall be furnished through a cooperative agreement with the state division of substance abuse services. Provided, further that the scope of the responsibility of the department hereunder shall not extend beyond the authorization of such division to furnish such services either directly or through contract.

4.
There shall be such cooperative agreements, between the department and the state division of substance abuse services and other appropriate state departments and agencies as shall be necessary to assure that there will be a maximum utilization of existing rehabilitative and preventive services and that the purposes and objectives of this section will be effectively accomplished.

5.
Any inconsistent provision of law notwithstanding, expenditures made by a social services official under this section shall be deemed expenditures for and administration of public assistance and care, and shall be subject to reimbursement by the state in accordance with the provisions of section one hundred fifty-three of this chapter.

Source:
Section 131-D — Substance abuse rehabilitative and preventive services, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/SOS/131-D (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
