SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._social_services_law_section_142-b
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/SOS/142-B (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Social Services Law Section 142-B

Federal manpower development training act and elementary and secondary education act grants or payments

effect on eligibility for certai...

§ 142-b. Federal manpower development training act and elementary and secondary education act grants or payments; effect on eligibility for certain public assistance or care. So long as the applicable provisions of the federal manpower development and training act, as amended, or of the elementary and secondary education act as amended, may require:

1.
any inconsistent provision of title ten of article five, other provisions of this chapter, or of any other law notwithstanding, in determining the need for public assistance or care under such title, any payments made under the manpower development and training act, as amended, which are made in lieu of a training allowance to defray expenses attributable to training and/or as a training incentive payment, shall not be regarded as income or resources of the person in determining his need for such public assistance or care, or as income or resources of any other person in determining such other person’s need for such public assistance or care; and/or 2. any inconsistent provisions of title ten of article five, other provisions of this chapter, or of any other law notwithstanding, in determining the need for public assistance or care under such title, the first eighty-five dollars per month, during a period of not less than twelve nor more than twenty-four months as may be prescribed by regulations of the department, earned by any person for services rendered to any program assisted under title I of the elementary and secondary education act of nineteen hundred sixty-five, as amended, shall not be regarded as income or resources of such person in determining his need for public assistance or care under such title ten of article five of this chapter, or as income or resources of any other person in determining such other person’s need for such public assistance or care.

Source:
Section 142-B — Federal manpower development training act and elementary and secondary education act grants or payments; effect on eligibility for certai..., https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/SOS/142-B (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
