SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/vancouver/adera/amenities
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Adera - Luxury Apartment Amenities - Vancouver Washington explore adera community Amenities and Apartment features Apartment Community LEED® Gold Certification Apartment Features Washer & Dryer in Home Air Conditioning High-Speed Internet Smart Locks & Thermostats Video Building Access Stainless Steel Appliances Quartz Countertops Luxury Plank Flooring Dual Vanity* Walk-in Closets* Patio/Balconies* Kitchen Pantry Storage* Linen Closet* * Select Homes Only Community Amenities Fitness Center w/ Peloton Bikes and Echelon Mirrors & a Full CrossFit Station Coworking Spaces Club Room Courtyard Outdoor Covered BBQ & Kitchen Area w/ Firepits and Stadium Seating Community Gathering Spaces Mail & Parcel Room with Smart Tech Features Private Meeting Rooms Bike storage Bike Repair & Dog Wash Stations EV Parking Theater Room bring your furry friend At Adera we understand that your pet is your family member. That is why we happily welcome your furry friends to our pet-friendly community. Contact for details LEED® Gold Certification Creating an environmentally responsible, healthy, and prosperous environment for residents and staff at Adera. LEED, or Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is the most widely used green building rating system in the world. Created by the U.S. Green Building Council, LEED provides a framework to create healthy, highly efficient, and cost-saving green buildings. LEED certification is a globally recognized symbol of sustainability achievement and has become the international standard for certifying environmentally responsible buildings. It assesses building design, construction, operations, and maintenance based on prerequisites and credits that a project meets to achieve a certification level: Certified, Silver, Gold, or Platinum. LEED buildings save energy, water, and resources, generate less waste, and support human health. Adera Apartments is LEED registered, and achieved LEED Gold® certification . This is the result of a thorough evaluation of seven key development categories: Integrative Process Location & Transportation Sustainable Sites Water Efficiency Energy & Atmosphere Materials & Resources Indoor Environmental Quality Adera Apartments prioritizes energy conservation with a well-insulated, high-performance exterior. By achieving LEED Gold certification, we join thousands of projects worldwide in shaping a more sustainable future. We look forward to serving residents, businesses, and visitors with a safe, clean, and green mixed-use community. Contact Us 411 Columbia St., Vancouver, WA 98660 (877) 426-9334 Follow Us Today Office Hours Mon - Sat : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sun : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM @ Adera | All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
