SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/co/denver/contour39
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Contour 39 | Luxury Apartments for Rent in Lone Tree, CO Home Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Neighborhood Contact Us Residents Schedule A Tour Apply Now LUXURY APARTMENTS In Lone Tree , colorado Availability Welcome Home Elevated Living in Lone Tree Located in Lone Tree, Colorado, Contour 39 offers upscale apartment living with a touch of mountain charm. Residents enjoy modern amenities, attached and detached garages, spacious floor plans, and breathtaking views of the surrounding landscape. Conveniently situated near shopping, dining, and outdoor activities, Contour 39 provides the perfect balance of urban convenience and natural beauty. Floor Plans Modern & Inviting See for yourself Contour 39 is the perfect place to kick back with friends or enjoy a little alone time. Check out the gallery to explore our beautiful apartments, incredible community amenities, and lively neighborhood. VIEW Full Gallery CONVENIENCE Our features to complement your lifestyle The distinctive features Contour 39 has to offer, from our attached and detached garages to our seasonal resort-style pool, will bring unparalleled convenience and comfort to your everyday life. Check out our variety of different amenities that make this the perfect apartment home for you. Amenities Lone Tree | CO Prime Location, Endless Convenience Experience the essence of Lone Tree Colorado at Contour 39. Nestled among trendy boutiques and bustling cafes, our community offers unmatched convenience and sophistication. Enjoy nearby walking trails for a serene escape into nature, complemented by modern amenities and stunning mountain views. Contour 39: where urban excitement meets outdoor tranquility. Browse your future neighborhood below in our interactive map. Neighborhood Let’s get in touch. Contact Us Contact Us Contact Us Today (855) 457-4777 Address 9005 S Yosemite St Lone Tree, CO 80124 Office Hours Mon - Fri : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM Sun : 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Applicant has the right to provide Holland Residential with a Portable Tenant Screening Report (PTSR) that is not more than 30 days old, as defined in § 38-12-902(2.5), Colorado Revised Statutes; and 2) if Applicant provides Holland Residential with a PTSR, Holland Residential is prohibited from: a) charging APPLICANT, a rental application fee; or b) charging APPLICANT, a fee for Holland Residential to access or use the PTSR. © Contour 39 | All Rights Reserved. License #6712 Privacy Policy Renters Insurance equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch.
