SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/san-diego/bradbury-at-the-society/resort
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Resort | Bradbury HOME FLOOR PLANS AMENITIES GALLERY NEIGHBORHOOD RESORT CONTACT US Residents SCHEDULE A TOUR Apply Now COME AND VISIT US 610 DEL SOL DRIVE SAN DIEGO, CA 92108 OFFICE HOURS Mon - Sun : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM TOWN AND COUNTRY RESORT TOWN AND COUNTRY DINING From fresh pressed espresso and breakfast pastries, burgers and pizza, to craft cocktails, small plates and delicious epicurean experiences, Town and Country has a wide selection of dining options right next door. And, by showing your resident card, you and your guests can enjoy a 20% discount on food and beverages when you dine at Town and Country.* *Note, these exclusive discounts may not be combined with other discount offers. ARLO Enjoy the award-winning restaurant for breakfast, dinner and DJ Brunch on the weekends. The fun, fresh, quirky environment is highlighted by a sweeping outdoor patio, swaying palm trees and a giant outdoor fireplace. Rounding out the experience is an inventive cocktail program, extensive wine list and local craft beer on tap. ARLO also offers plenty of indoor and outdoor seating. Join Us LAPPER Sports Bar + Kitchen Chef Ernesto Hernandez is serving up SoCal spirit with elevated San Diego comforts like Surf and Turf Nachos, impossibly crisp fish tacos and a flatiron burger that'll stay at the top of your cravings list. Freestyle your way through a rotating tap of local brews including the Thelma Blonde Ale and top shelf tequila in all its glorious forms. Catch some rays on a spacious patio and dive into playtime with live sports on TV, cornhole, shuffleboard, trivia nights and more. Find Out More MONKEY BAR Monkey Bar is the central hub where you can enjoy craft cocktails, craft beer on draft, small plates and sharable bites around the fire pits with a view of all the action. Happy hour, Yappy Hour and live music available. Check Us Out THE MRKT Life is too short to drink bad coffee. Enjoy freshly brewed or crafted beverages just steps away from your elevator. Society Residents can join the free Coffee Club: buy 9 coffees and get one free. Plus, the breakfast burritos, pastries, wood-fired pizzas, salads, sandwiches and desserts are always fresh and ready when you need it. As a Society Resident, you can order ahead and have everything delivered to your door. Learn More ROOM SERVICE Want your meal delivered? No problem. The Society’s residents have access to Town and Country Room Service with 10% off food and beverages . Private dining & events Celebrate life’s special moments or wow a VIP guest at Town and Country Resort. From 10 people to 2,000, Town and Country can help you host the perfect event including selecting the ideal indoor or outdoor space, designing the menu and creating the ambiance. Learn More Resort guest rooms Having guests for the weekend? Don’t have room at your place? Town and Country offers The Society 20% off BAR (Best Available Rate) when you book a reservation directly with the resort. This discount is subject to availability, some restrictions apply. Contact the reservations department and ask for The Society Room Discount Rate. See Guest Rooms TOWN AND COUNTRY RESORT Recently renovated and authentically mid-century modern cool, our neighbor, the Town and Country Resort offers a host of exclusive amenities and recreational opportunities for The Society’s residents. Learn More Riverfront park Nestled on the shores of the SAN DIEGO River you’ll find the 3-acre Riverfront Park. Pick up your picnic supplies at THE MRKT, grab a blanket and head outside to unwind after a busy day. See More THE Society Special events Periodically Town and Country will open the resort for special Society events. Information will be available online and on our newsletter. Learn More COME AND VISIT US 610 DEL SOL DRIVE SAN DIEGO, CA 92108 (858) 956-7721 Contact us OFFICE HOURS Mon - Sun : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM © Bradbury | All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
