SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/seattle/kiara/amenities
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Amenities | Kiara Home Floor Plans Penthouses Amenities Gallery Virtual Tours Neighborhood Contact Us Residents Schedule A Tour Apply Now Amenities Apartment FEATURES Quartz Countertops with Backsplash Stainless Steel Appliances Built-In Microwave and Dishwasher Gas Range in select homes Wine Fridge in select homes Gigabit internet and cable ready Smart NEST Thermostat Motorized Roller Shades Smart Z-wave Light Fixtures USB outlets Central Air Conditioning In-Home Washer & Dryer Private Patios & Balconies in select homes COMMUNITY AMENITIES Custom Curated Wellness Program EV Charging Stations 41st Floor Rooftop Terrace featuring BBQ Stations, Dining Areas, Lounge Seating, and plenty of Outdoor Seating Clubroom with Presentation Kitchen Game Room with Pool Table, Poker Table, Board Games & More Sports Book featuring 9 screens Communal Business Center with Hospitality Station, Conference Room for Private Meetings, and Private Meeting Rooms Fitness Center with the latest equipment from Matrix Group Fitness Studio with Spin Bikes, Streaming Fitness Classes and Flex Space The Park - Elevated Oasis with Walking Paths, Secluded Seating Areas, BBQ Stations and Fire Pits The Pavilion - Entertaining Space with a Roll Up Door that allows you to welcome the outside in Resident Lobby with Coffee Bar Concierge ready to assist Dog Lounge with Dog Washing Station and Dog Play Area Package Lockers and Cold Storage Read our pet-friendly policy Breed restrictions may apply for dogs, and the number of pets is limited to two per apartment. Pet Deposit and monthly pet rent varies by the number of pets and type of pet. For the most current pricing, please contact the community for details. Pets must be "on leash" at all times when outside the apartment. Residents and guests are required to clean up pet droppings. Pets are not to be tied or staked outside the apartment. Residents may not leave a pet on balconies, porches or patios for extended periods of time. Assistance animals for the disabled are not considered to be pets and are not subject to the aforementioned type, breed or age restrictions. However, assistance animals for the disabled still require prior written approval of management. ready to take the next Step? Apply Now Contact Us Address 111 Terry Avenue N Seattle, WA 98109 Call Us (206) 207-9455 Office Hours Mon - Fri : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat - Sun : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Kiara does not accept comprehensive reusable screening reports. © Kiara | All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | ADA@2x Created with Sketch. equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
