SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/seattle/kiara
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Kiara - Luxury Apartments in SLU in Seattle Home Floor Plans Penthouses Amenities Gallery Virtual Tours Neighborhood Contact Us Residents Schedule A Tour Apply Now WELCOME to Kiara Step outside the norm Rise to the top with Kiara 's stunning details, incredible amenities, and extraordinary service. Our luxury high-rise apartment homes in South Lake Union will change the way you experience Seattle . Schedule a tour today! View Availability Apartments tailored to you High-rise living takes on new meaning at Kiara . You'll find us at the culmination of first class service, modern design, and stunning amenities - hands down Seattle 's best and most luxurious apartment community. Experience stunning views and day-to-day lifestyle in South Lake Union (SLU), just steps away from the lively Denny and Westlake intersection. Explore Floor Plans Imagine the Possibilities Explore our beautiful apartment community in our photo gallery below and see for yourself why our residents love it! View Photos AMENITIES Unforgettable Features Our sophisticated apartment amenities are designed to provide the ultimate in style, convenience, and comfort to enrich the everyday lives of our residents. AMENITIES NEIGHBORHOOD Premier Location With a Walk Score that gives residents unparalleled access to the best of Seattle , Denny Triangle is one of the most sought after locations to call home. NEIGHBORHOOD engagement INSPIRING LIFESTYLE Embrace and celebrate a well-rounded lifestyle with unique programs offered by NFC, including fitness classes, social events, cooking classes, and more! engagement ready to take the next Step? Apply Now Contact Us Address 111 Terry Avenue N Seattle, WA 98109 Call Us (206) 207-9455 Office Hours Mon - Fri : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat - Sun : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Kiara does not accept comprehensive reusable screening reports. © Kiara | All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | ADA@2x Created with Sketch. equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
