SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/oakland/lydian/neighborhood
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Neighborhood - Lydian Luxury Apartments in Downtown Oakland, CA Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Neighborhood CONTACT US RESIDENTS Schedule A Tour Apply Now Explore the Neighborhood of Oakland Our downtown Lydian location affords you prime access to the best attractions that the city has to offer. Enjoy shopping, dining, culture, and entertainment all just a quick walk from home. Commute around the area with ease by hopping on BART or stroll the neighborhood by foot to find your new favorite spots. Nature's Best Foods is right around the corner with health-conscious grocery items, and if you prefer to dine out, check out Maya Halal Taqueria, or Lake Chalet. Enjoy a picnic with a view of Lake Merritt or visit the Bonsai Garden to immerse yourself in nature. Fox Theater is your home for exciting live shows, and Mad Oak Bar is the perfect spot for drinks on the patio. Experience more with our luxury apartments in Oakland near BART, allowing you to take in all of the sights of neighboring cities in minutes. Visit today to find all of these Oakland favorites and more. RETAIL SPACE AVAILABLE FOR LEASE Opening a retail space at Lydian offers a unique opportunity to connect directly with a built-in customer base. With a thriving community of residents steps away, your business will benefit from consistent foot traffic, increased visibility, and the convenience that modern consumers crave. Contact: Jamie Flaherty-Evans CalDRE #01432663 [email protected] 510.334.8606 Our team is standing by to answer your questions, arrange a tour, or simply chat about Downtown Oakland and be your guide to the neighborhood. Contact us today to learn more about life at Lydian . Address 238 13th Street Oakland, CA 94612 Call Us Today (510) 756-3677 Follow Us Today OFFICE HOURS Monday : Closed Tuesday - Saturday : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sunday : Closed © Lydian | All Rights Reserved. | Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 013781199 Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
