SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/oakland/lydian/amenities
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Amenities - Lydian Luxury Apartments in Downtown Oakland, CA Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Neighborhood CONTACT US RESIDENTS Schedule A Tour Apply Now Amenities Experience unrivaled comfort and convenience when you reserve one of our luxury apartments in Downtown Oakland 's Lakeside District. Whether you love staying active, socializing, relaxing, or exploring, this community offers all of the amenities you need for an enriching lifestyle. Our state-of-the-art fitness center is fully equipped with cardio and strength training equipment for a diversified workout experience, and our resident lounge and co-working space is the ideal spot to get some business done from home. In the evening, head up to the rooftop deck for happy hour with a view. Gather around the fireplace, grill out at the barbecue station, or lounge in the cabanas. Drawing from the vibrant culture of our surroundings, our community features a music room as well as an art hall complete with work by Julie Cheng. Package lockers ensure you never miss an important delivery, and our dog run provides a convenient place for your four-legged best friend to roam. Get more out of life and apply for one of our apartments in downtown Oakland today! Community Amenities Rooftop Deck Fireplace BBQs Cabanas Green Space Roof Lounge Gaming Lounge Music Room Co Lab Coworking Space Courtyard 2000 Square Foot Fitness Center Art Hall with Community Art by Julie Chang Package Lockers Dog Run Bike Storage We Love Your Pets as Much as You Do Pet Max: 2 Breed restrictions may apply. Assistance animals for the disabled are not considered to be pets and are not subject to the type, breed or age restrictions, but require prior written management approval. Pet Deposit/Rent varies by number of pets and pet type. For current pricing, contact the community. Pets must be on leash when outside apartment, droppings must be picked up. Pets are not to be left outside the apartment, on balconies, porches or patios for extended periods. Call us Now Apartment Features Two Custom Finish Packages Air Conditioning Quartz Countertops with Tile Backsplash Stainless Steel Whirlpool Appliances USB Outlets Undercabinet Lighting in Kitchen Roller Shades Keyless Entry Luxury Vinyl Plank Flooring In-Home Washer & Dryer Our team is standing by to answer your questions, arrange a tour, or simply chat about Downtown Oakland and be your guide to the neighborhood. Contact us today to learn more about life at Lydian . Address 238 13th Street Oakland, CA 94612 Call Us Today (510) 756-3677 Follow Us Today OFFICE HOURS Monday : Closed Tuesday - Saturday : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sunday : Closed © Lydian | All Rights Reserved. | Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 013781199 Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
