SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/or/portland/maestro
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Maestro - Luxury Apartments in Portland, OR Find Your Place In Portland 'S Slabtown NEIGHBORHOOD View Availability Experience Northwest Portland Maestro sits peacefully in Portland 's Northwest neighborhood, a short stroll from some of the city's best dining, shopping, and entertainment options. Explore our range of studio, 1-bedroom, and 2-bedroom apartments to find your perfect space. Contact Us Designed with you in mind Maestro is the place where the music comes together. A place to live, work, breathe, sweat, contemplate, and mingle. Combining Portland 's creative spirit with the best of apartment living, Maestro is a truly authentic and unique place to call home. View Floor Plans AFFORDABLE hOMES AVAILABLE In collaboration with Oregon's MULTE program, Maestro offers an extensive selection of income-restricted MULTE apartment homes for rent. See our availability below or contact our leasing office to learn more. View Income Restricted Units live/work units for rent Maestro offers live-work units that are perfect for small retail, freelance, or professional service businesses. With private entrances, opportunity for signage, and great visibility at street level, these one-bedroom loft units are a wonderful value for a centrally-located business. Floor Plans STANDOUT FEATURES Community amenities Pet Friendly Game Room 6th Floor Rooftop Terrace with Outdoor BBQ Club Room 1st Floor Courtyard with Outdoor BBQ Fitness Center Coffee Bar Bike Storage Dog Wash Package Lockers Elevator Community Apartment Pet-Friendly Policy Breed restrictions may apply for dogs, and the number of pets is limited to two per apartment. Pet Deposit and monthly pet rent varies by the number of pets and type of pet. For the most current pricing, please contact the community for details. Pets must be "on leash" at all times when outside the apartment. Residents and guests are required to clean up pet droppings. Pets are not to be tied or staked outside the apartment. Residents may not leave a pet on balconies, porches or patios for extended periods of time. Assistance animals for the disabled are not considered to be pets and are not subject to the aforementioned type, breed or age restrictions. However, assistance animals for the disabled still require prior written approval of management. Contact Us Photo Gallery See For Yourself At Maestro we enjoy living. Check out our luminous kitchen and dining areas - Our luxury apartments boast exceptional interior highlights and unique community amenities. All All Community Apartments Neighborhood Virtual Tours Load More Neighborhood Learn More About What's Nearby Maestro is part of a new chapter in Nob Hill’s rich history putting residents in heart of the charm and convenience of Northwest Portland. Explore the interactive map below to get to know the neighborhood. Contact US Let's Chat! Our team is standing by to answer any and all of your questions about life at Maestro ! Fill out the form below and we'll get back to you a.s.a.p. First Name First Name Last Name Last Name Preferred Contact Method Email Phone Preferred Contact Method Phone Phone Email Email Preferred Bedrooms Interested In Studio 1 Bedroom 2 Bedrooms Referrer How did you hear about us? Zillow Apartment List Google Ad Apartments.com Rent.com / ApartmentGuide.com Google Business Listing Social Media Craigslist Move in date Message Message Unit (do not touch) Unit (do not touch) Model (do not touch) Model (do not touch) Google User Id Google User Id Submit Contact (844) 422-7865 1755 NW Kearney Street Portland, OR 97209 Office Hours Mon - Fri : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat - Sun : Closed Follow Us Today © Maestro | All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | ADA@2x Created with Sketch. equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
