SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/seattle/one-lakefront/amenities
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Amenities | One Lakefront Amenities From custom California Closets, to private balconies, to resident lounges, and a rooftop outdoor space, One Lakefront 's impressive amenity package and apartment features truly set our community apart. Community Amenities Two Rooftop Terraces featuring Sweeping Views of Lake Union, Outdoor Kitchens, Grills, Dining & Lounging Areas, TVs & Fire Pit The Boardroom - Vintage Lake Union Lounge with Seating, Pool Table, Private Liquor Cabinet & Large Flat Screen TV Resident Lounge with Presentation Kitchen and Plenty of Seating Indoor Pavilion with Lounge Seating and Fireplace State-of-the-Art Fitness Center with Yoga Studio Outdoor Courtyard Free Reservation-Only Kayaks and Paddle Boards Conference Room with Full Media Setup CAT-6 Wiring for Speed & Signal Strength Pet Friendly Community with Pet Parks Bike Storage Package Lockers Indoor Access to both Westlake Avenue and Dexter Avenue Read Our Pet-Friendly Policy Breed restrictions may apply for dogs, and the number of pets is limited to two per apartment. Pet Deposit and monthly pet rent varies by the number of pets and type of pet. For the most current pricing, please contact the community for details. Pets must be "on leash" at all times when outside the apartment. Residents and guests are required to clean up pet droppings. Pets are not to be tied or staked outside the apartments. Residents may not leave a pet on balconies, porches or patios for extended periods of time. Assistance animals for the disabled are not considered to be pets and are not subject to the aforementioned type, breed or age restrictions. However, assistance animals for the disabled still require prior written approval of management. Contact Us To Learn More Apartment Features Stainless Steel Appliances with Built-In Microwave & Dishwasher Quartz Countertops with Tile Backsplash Soft-Close Cabinets Custom California Closets system Hard Surface Flooring Throughout Electric Blinds that can be connected to a Smart Speaker Ceiling Fans Double Pane Windows Private Patios & Balconies in Select Homes In-Home Full-Size Washer & Dryer High Ceilings in Select Homes Let's Talk! Our team is standing by to answer your questions, arrange a tour, or simply chat about SLU and be your guide to the neighborhood. Contact us today to learn more about life at One Lakefront . 1287 Westlake Ave N Seattle, WA 98109 Contact Us (855) 432-0253 OFFICE HOURS Mon - Fri : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat - Sun : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM One Lakefront does not accept comprehensive reusable screening reports. © One Lakefront | All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
