SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/or/hillsboro/orenco-station/amenities
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Amenities | Orenco Station Floor Plans Gallery Amenities Neighborhood Contact Us Residents Schedule a Tour Apply Now (503) 406-4630 More Amenities. More Ways to Enjoy Home. Residents of Hub 9, Rowlock, and Vector share access to a thoughtfully curated collection of community amenities designed to make everyday life more comfortable, connected, and enjoyable. From rooftop gathering spaces and fitness centers to lounges, pools, parking, bike storage, EV charging, and more, you can enjoy the benefits of a larger community while choosing the apartment that feels right for you. Apartment Amenities Modern Apartment Features Quartz Countertops with Tile Backsplash Stainless Steel Appliances Built-in Microwave and Dishwasher French Door Refrigerators Private Balconies and Patios In-Home Washer & Dryer in all homes Portable AC Units Available* * Some features in select homes Community Amenities Enjoy More Every Day Rooftop Terrace with Grill, Outdoor Fireplace, and Outdoor Seating Large Community Lounge Pet Friendly Community Wi-Fi in Common Areas Guest Apartments Available Bike Storage Parcel Lockers EV Charging Stations Two-Story Covered Parking Garage Access to Orenco Station Amenities 2 Pools Open Year-Round 3 Community Rooms 2 Fitness Centers Close to MAX Blue Line Apartment Amenities Feel Right at Home Two Custom Finish Packages Quartz Countertops with Tile Backsplash Stainless Steel Appliances Built-in Microwave and Dishwasher French Door Refrigerators Private Balconies and Patios In-Home Washer & Dryer in All Homes Portable AC Units Available* * Some features in select homes Community Amenities Connected by Great Amenities Rooftop Terrace with Grill, Outdoor Fireplace, and Outdoor Seating Large Community Lounge Pet Friendly Community Wi-Fi in Common Areas Guest Apartments Available Bike Storage Parcel Lockers EV Charging Stations Two-Story Covered Parking Garage Access to Orenco Station Amenities 2 Pools Open Year-Round 3 Community Rooms 2 Fitness Centers Close to MAX Blue Line Apartment Amenities Crafted for Comfort Quartz Countertops with Tile Backsplash Stainless Steel Appliances Built-in Microwave and Dishwasher French Door Refrigerators Private Balconies and Patios In-Home Washer & Dryer in all homes Portable AC Units Available* * Some features in select homes Community Amenities Resort-Inspired Living Rooftop Terrace with Grill, Outdoor Fireplace, and Outdoor Seating Large Community Lounge Pet Friendly Community Wi-Fi in Common Areas Guest Apartments Available Bike Storage Parcel Lockers EV Charging Stations Two-Story Covered Parking Garage Access to Orenco Station Amenities 2 Pools Open Year-Round 3 Community Rooms 2 Fitness Centers Close to MAX Blue Line Pet FRIENDLY COMMUNITIES We know pets are family too Breed restrictions may apply for dogs, and the number of pets is limited to two per apartment. Pet Deposit and monthly pet rent varies by the number of pets and type of pet. For the most current pricing, please contact the community for details. Pets must be "on leash" at all times when outside the apartment. Residents and guests are required to clean up pet droppings. Pets are not to be tied or staked outside the apartment. Residents may not leave a pet on balconies, porches or patios for extended periods of time. Assistance animals for the disabled are not considered to be pets and are not subject to the aforementioned type, breed or age restrictions. However, assistance animals for the disabled still require prior written approval of management. Got questions or want to schedule a tour? We’re here to help. Reach out anytime! Contact Us Apply Now 980 NE Orenco Station Loop Hillsboro, OR 97124 (503) 406-4630 Mon - Sat : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sun : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM Home Floor Plans Gallery Amenities Neighborhood Contact Us Facebook Instagram YELP © Orenco Station . All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Renters Insurance Happily Made by Razz
