SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/or/hillsboro/savanna-at-reeds-crossing
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Savanna at Reed's Crossing | Apartments in Hillsboro OR Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Neighborhood RETAIL Contact Residents Schedule A Tour Apply now Luxury townhomes & Apartments Discover Modern Living at savanna at reed's crossing Savanna was named for the picturesque hills and prairies dotted with oaks that once covered most of Western Oregon. A landscape that’s reflected in our interiors—wide open spaces and inviting sanctuaries steeped in natural details. A place that brings the outdoors in, because the outdoors are always calling. At Savanna at Reed's Crossing, you can choose from a collection of modern apartments and spacious townhomes designed for the way you live. Our thoughtfully designed one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartments offer stylish interiors and everyday convenience, while our multi-level townhomes provide added space, private entry, and a home-like feel within a connected community. Whether you’re looking for the simplicity of apartment living or the comfort of a townhome, Savanna offers flexible options to fit your lifestyle. Floor Plans GALLERY Your story unfolding Savanna at Reeds Crossing is designed around walkability and community and creating spaces that inspire serene simplicity. Here, the picturesque landscape of Oregon is reflected in our apartment interiors with warm sanctuaries steeped in natural details. We invite you to explore our gallery for a preview of our luxurious apartments, exceptional amenity spaces, and lively neighborhood. Gallery Prev | Next cOMFORT IN EVERY CORNER Experience true comfort and ease in our thoughtfully designed apartments and townhomes, where every detail is crafted to make your life more convenient and truly feel like home. Amenities a place that brings the outdoors in unmatched convenience in reed's crossing Savanna at Reed’s Crossing is a lifestyle rooted in connection, simplicity, and the natural beauty of Oregon. Here, modern living meets everyday ease; just steps from home, you can fill your fridge with fresh finds from Market of Choice, cool down with a smoothie from Jamba, meet friends for lunch at Shake Shack, or treat your furry best friend to a check-up at Spruce Vet. Reed’s Crossing Town Center also offers movement and mindfulness with Club Pilates, while the local HOA brings the community together with garden plots, farmers markets, yoga in the park, and evenings spent under the stars with food trucks and outdoor movies. Neighborhood CONTACT US allow us to introduce ourselves We'd be honored to have the opportunity to show you all the reasons why Savanna at Reed's Crossing is perfectly suited as your new home. Don't hesitate to contact our leasing team via our contact form to learn more about our community in the heart of Hillsboro. Contact us (844) 295-1550 3405 SE Reed Dr Hillsboro, OR 97123 Mon - Sat : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sun : 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM Gallery Neighborhood Contact Us Privacy Policy Renters Insurance Apply Now Floor Plans FAQ @ Savanna at Reeds Crossing | All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
