SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/santa-clara/orlo-alba
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Orlo & Alba | Luxury Apartment Communities in Santa Clara, CA Floor Plans Site Map Residences Gallery Orlo Alba Amenities Neighborhood Retail FAQ Contact Us Residents Orlo Residents Alba Residents Schedule A Tour Orlo Alba Apply Now A New Way Of Life In Santa Clara Welcome to Orlo & Alba Orlo and Alba present studio, one, two, and three-bedroom apartment residences that feature a lively mixture of hues, tones, and textures. With resort-style pools, state-of-the-art fitness studios, and plenty of spaces for remote work, Orlo and Alba introduce a new era of life within Gateway Crossing in Silicon Valley. View Floor Plans Orlo Gallery Alba Gallery Orlo Amenities Where Style Meets Substance Highly refined amenities paired with layered, eclectic design, Orlo stands at an intersection of its own. View Orlo's Amenities Pool with Cabanas, Grilling, & Lawn Fitness Center with Freemotion Equipment & Private Training Studios Resort-style Pool with Outdoor Grilling and Fire Pit Game Lounge featuring Billiards and Foosball Alba Amenities A play between form and function From first impression to final departure, Alba thrills the senses with an array of amenities that encourage connectivity and creativity, whether for relaxation or gatherings. View Alba's Amenities Explore the Neighborhood BUILDING A BETTER SANTA CLARA Orlo & Alba are proud to partner with the city of Santa Clara and take part in their Below Market Rate (BMR) program, offering affordable rental options in the Santa Clara community. Our waiting list is now closed. Reach out to our team with any questions you may have regarding the program. Housing Income Limits Contact Us Apply Now Orlo & Alba 1200 Rickabaugh Way Santa Clara, CA 95050 (844) 560-7624 Mon - Sun : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Home Floor Plans Gallery - Orlo Gallery - Alba Amenities Neighborhood Contact Us © Orlo-Alba | All rights reserved | Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 Privacy Policy equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
