SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/or/hillsboro/palladia
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Palladia Apartments | Luxury Living in Hillsboro Oregon FLOOR PLANS Site Map Residences AMENITIES GALLERY NEIGHBORHOOD FAQ CONTACT RESIDENTS SCHEDULE A TOUR APPLY NOW Spacious APARTMENT Homes in Prime TANASBOURNE Neighborhood Experience a relaxing way-of-life at Palladia , a community of convenience and comfort apartment homes in the heart of Hillsboro . Check Availability Comfort & Style Palladia is conveniently located in the heart of Tanasbourne. This community is a short walk to the Streets of Tanasbourne Shopping Mall, Evergreen Theater, and area parks. Major employers in the area include Nike, Intel, Genentech and Maxim. Make your home at Palladia today! Proud Recipient of the 2019 Satisfacts Resident Satisfaction Award! Contact Us Ready to enjoy our beautiful apartments, vibrant community, and all the entertainment opportunities the surrounding neighborhood has to offer? Give us a call today! Contact Us Floor Plans Discover our spacious apartments and townhomes, designed with you in mind. Choose from one, two, three, or four bedroom layouts with spacious closets, modern fixtures and wood-style flooring. Each home includes kitchens with stainless steel appliances and walk-in pantries perfect for hosting and everyday living. Floor Plans Amenities Come home to ultimate convenience when you reside at our calming, maintenance-free community. Pursue endless recreational activities at our swimming pool, fitness center and dog park. With so much to offer, it's clear to see why Palladia is the area's preeminent apartment community! Amenities Gallery Explore our beautiful community in our photo gallery below and see for yourself why our residents love it! Gallery See what is going on in Hillsboro ! (855) 912-6845 2615 NE Amberglen Pkwy Hillsboro, OR 97124 With a variety of shopping locations and restaurants nearby, Palladia offers a perfect mix of convenience and luxury. Neighborhood Contact Us (855) 912-6845 2615 NE Amberglen Pkwy Hillsboro, OR 97124 Office Hours Mon - Sat : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sun : 11:00 AM - 5:00 PM © Palladia | All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
