SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/huntington-beach/paxton
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Paxton - Luxury Apartments in Huntington Beach CA, Home Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Neighborhood Contact Us Residents Schedule A Tour Apply Now paradise, perFected now leasing LUXURY APARTMENT RESIDENCES balance & simplicity begins at paxton Luxury Apartments in Huntington Beach , CA Paxton is easy, effortless. And it's home. Experience a renewed standard of living with ease and comfort - where the pool deck meets the skyline and ocean views are only a glimpse away. Perched above the beach and the city, it becomes clear that home is its own destination. Now leasing urban, one-, two-, and three-bedroom residences. Live, Work, Play, & Thrive Where the Beach Meets the City Paxton is setting the new standard of exceptional apartment living in Huntington Beach. EXPLORE GALLERY Unlike Anywhere Else in Huntington Beach Paxton invites in a new era of refined, resort-style apartment living in Huntington Beach, where sandy sophistication meets effortless comfort. Carefully crafted residences are paired with resort-inspired amenities, including a pool and spa, state-of-the-art fitness, and modern spaces to work, relax, and entertain. At Paxton, every detail is thoughtfully curated for a lifestyle that feels both elevated and grounded in coastal ease. Amenities & Features Huntington Beach , CA The Perfect Location for a Balanced Life Residing at Paxton provides an abundance of outdoor activities, including swimming and surfing, with endless opportunities to unwind. Even the pocket parks and paseos that line the community become an extension of home. With ocean views only a glance away from the rooftop cabanas, golden hour seems to be yours at all times. Take a look at our neighborhood map to see all that awaits you. Neighborhood Contact Us 18750 Delaware St. Huntington Beach, CA 92648 (888) 295-5221 Mon - Fri : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat - Sun : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM © Paxton All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy Renters Insurance Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
