SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/vista/preserve-at-melrose
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Preserve at Melrose - Apartments in Vista, CA FLOOR PLANS AMENITIES GALLERY NEIGHBORHOOD CONTACT US RESIDENTS APPLY NOW WELCOME TO Preserve at Melrose UNPARALLELED LIVING IN Vista View Availability Luxury & Style in vista, ca Discover an extraordinary lifestyle at Preserve at Melrose in Vista, California. Our spacious one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartments are beautifully outfitted with quartz countertops, European style cabinetry, and stainless-steel appliances. The community's central courtyard, resort-style pool deck, and lounge offer residents a complete staycation experience. Floor Plans See for yourself Explore some of the spaces of our beautiful community in the photo gallery below and envision yourself here. Gallery AMENITIES For All the Ways You Live Preserve at Melrose provides its residents with a thoughtfully crafted community of apartments featuring outdoor social spaces and fire pits, and a poolside barbecue pavilion. Our resident lounge with a kitchen and billiards table offers space to cook and entertain without really leaving home. This is truly a living experience that is a step above the rest. View More NEIGHBORHOOD What is happening in Vista Located in North County San Diego, we are centrally located. Home to many employers and exceptional schools, Vista , CA is the perfect home base. Just minutes away from the Sprinter Station and Camp Pendleton, Preserve at Melrose is a commuter-friendly location offering quick access to the 78 and the 5 Freeway putting everything from Oceanside and Carlsbad to Escondido and downtown San Diego at your fingertips. View More Apply Now Contact Us Address 1401 N Melrose Dr Vista, CA 92083 Call Us (877) 606-3634 Office Hours Mon - Sun : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM © Preserve at Melrose All Rights Reserved Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 Privacy Policy Renters Insurance Bilt Payments equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
