SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/vista/preserve-at-melrose/pet-policy
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Pet Policy | Preserve at Melrose FLOOR PLANS AMENITIES GALLERY NEIGHBORHOOD CONTACT US RESIDENTS APPLY NOW Pet Policy Overview Dogs and cats, including puppies and kittens under 1 year old, are welcome at our community. All pet residents must have their health check, shots and be spayed or neutered upon move-in. A signed Animal Addendum is required to be on file at our leasing office. Two (2) max pets allowed. Deposit And Pet Rent Residents pay a refundable deposit or a pet fee for each pet based on location. Pet rent, based on apartment community, will be charged monthly per pet. Additional Details We also welcome your domestic pet if it is a bird or fish with written approval from our onsite management team. No exotic animals please. Fish tanks are not to exceed 55 gallons. Emotional Support Animals If the animal is an emotional support animal, pet deposits are not necessary. A signed letter that meets the company standards for a reasonable accommodation regarding emotional support animals (ESA) from a qualified professional. Service Animals If the animal is a service animal, pet deposits are not necessary. If your disability and the work performed by the animal is not readily apparent, you may be asked to confirm that the service animal is required because of a disability and asked to describe the work or tasks the service animal is trained to perform. Breed Restrictions We will accept all breeds of dogs, except the following or any combination of mixed breed that contain any of the following: Akita, Alaskan Malamute, Bloodhound, Chow, Doberman Pinscher, Dogues de Bordeaux, German Shepherd, Great Dane, Husky, Pit Bull Terriers*, Presa Canarios, Rhodesian Ridgebacks, Rottweiler, Saint Bernard, and Wolf Dog Hybrids. *(including all Pit Bull breeds - American Pit Bull Terriers, American or Irish Staffordshire Terriers,Bull Terriers, Pit Bulls, American Bull Dogs,Pit Bull Bordeaux,andFila Brasilerio) We reserve the right to add additional restricted breeds at any time. Apply Now Contact Us Address 1401 N Melrose Dr Vista, CA 92083 Call Us (877) 606-3634 Office Hours Mon - Sun : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM © Preserve at Melrose All Rights Reserved Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 Privacy Policy Renters Insurance Bilt Payments equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
