SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/long-beach/resa
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Resa - Luxury Apartments in Long Beach CA Home Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Neighborhood Contact Us Residents Schedule A Tour Apply Now Discover Resa Luxury Apartments in Long Beach, CA We obsess over the details, so you don't have to. Resa ’s interiors have been carefully curated by an esteemed L.A. based design firm— crafting spaces you’ll be proud to show off - even through a Zoom background in one of our coworking spaces. Through thoughtful design, everything from the community's clean architectural lines to the bespoke residences are elevated, yet approachable. While we may boast the best of the best amenities, we never take ourselves too seriously. All corners of Resa have been refined to feel as relaxed and welcoming as possible. It is home, after all. Floor Plans Built Different features to complement your lifestyle We make space for the dreamer, the doers, and the people who dare. We celebrate the in-between moments. The pauses and the exhales. We know that it actually takes more effort to color outside the lines and those who do it are our kind of people. We're honored to make Resa your sanctuary to rest up and recharge. Let's let inspiration flow. Amenities Long Beach Prime Location, Endless Convenience Long Beach, CA, offers the perfect blend of coastal charm and urban convenience. Residents enjoy miles of beautiful beaches, a vibrant downtown scene, and cultural landmarks like the Aquarium of the Pacific and the Long Beach Museum of Art. With diverse dining, shopping, and entertainment options, it's a dynamic place to live and thrive. Neighborhood Let’s get in touch. Contact Us CONTACT US 300 Pacific Avenue Long Beach, CA 90802 (877) 591-9076 OFFICE HOURS Mon - Sat : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sun : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM © Resa All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
