SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/oakland/the-lark-uptown/retail-and-dining
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Retail & Dining | The Lark Uptown Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Neighborhood Retail and Dining Contact Us Residents Schedule A Tour Apply Now discover The Lark Uptown retail collection Thoughtfully curated cafes, wellness, and daily comforts within our Northlake high-rise community. flour + water pizza shop Oakland’s next must-try food destination is here! Flour + Water Pizza Shop , the acclaimed San Francisco pizzeria consistently ranked among the nation’s best, is now open just steps from home on the ground floor of The Lark Uptown. The modern West Coast pizza concept from co-chefs Thomas McNaughton and Ryan Pollnow builds on the legacy of their beloved Flour + Water Pizzeria and will bring the same craft, quality, and cult-favorite flavors to the neighborhood. Learn More Tarts de feybesse Just across the street from The Lark Uptown is a true neighborhood gem: Tarts de Feybesse, a 2025 James Beard Semifinalist. Led by chefs Paul and Monique Feybesse, the pâtisserie is known for its artisanal, French-inspired tarts and cakes. Each dessert is crafted with high-quality, seasonal ingredients, resulting in beautifully balanced flavors that have earned national recognition. Learn More highwire coffee roasters Recently opened in the Northlake community, Highwire Coffee brings an East Bay–owned and operated roasting and tea company to the neighborhood. Known for thoughtfully crafted, well-balanced cups, Highwire features a full selection of seasonally fresh coffee beans, four-track teas, handcrafted beverages, and locally sourced baked items served daily. Learn More Club Studio Oakland Club Studio® redefines fitness by bringing top tier amenities, industry leading boutique classes, and integrated wellness services together in one state of the art gym. Coming Soon (844) 457-3061 269 24th Street Oakland, CA 94612 OFFICE HOURS Tue - Sat : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 Privacy Policy Renters Insurance
