SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/glendale/the-brand
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Home - Luxury Apartments in Glendale, CA LUXURY APARTMENTS FOR RENT IN Glendale With the best location in Glendale , The Brand puts you just a short walk to your favorite restaurants and shopping – with some soon-to-be new favorites located right downstairs. All just moments from the San Gabriel mountains for outdoor pursuits, and the freeway for quick access to downtown LA, and beyond. Floor Plans Gallery AMENITIES APARTMENTS Stainless Steel Appliances Built-In Microwave, Dishwasher, and Gas Range Quartz Countertops with Tile Backsplash In-Home Washer & Dryer Hard Surface Flooring Central Air Conditioning Loft Style Homes* Private Balconies & Patios * Select Residences COMMUNITY Resort Style Pool & Spa Deck Resident Lounge with Billiards Roof Deck with Kitchen, Grilling, and Outdoor Seating Areas Two-Level 24-Hour Fitness Center with Cardio and Free Weights Yoga Studio The Vinyl Room 2 Theatres 2 Coworking Spaces Conference Room Guest Suite Pet Friendly Community with Pet Park EV Charging Station We Love Your Pets as Much as You Do Breed restrictions may apply for dogs, and the number of pets is limited to two per apartment. Pet Deposit and monthly pet rent varies by the number of pets and type of pet. For the most current pricing, please contact the community for details. Pets must be "on leash" at all times when outside the apartment. Residents and guests are required to clean up pet droppings. Pets are not to be tied or staked outside the apartment. Residents may not leave a pet on balconies, porches or patios for extended periods of time. Assistance animals for the disabled are not considered to be pets and are not subject to the aforementioned type, breed or age restrictions. However, assistance animals for the disabled still require prior written approval of management. GaLlery Discover Glendale ALL PICTURES 120 W Wilson Ave Glendale, CA 91203 Neighborhood Glendale hosts diverse restaurants, many shopping centers and various bars. Our community sits right in the middle of it. Browse your future neighborhood below in our interactive map. Contact Let's get in touch! Fill out the form below, and someone from our team will reach out shortly. First Name First Name Last Name Last Name Preferred Contact Method Email Phone Preferred Contact Method Phone Phone Email Email Preferred Bedrooms Interested In Studio 1 Bedroom 2 Bedrooms 3 Bedrooms Referrer How did you hear about us? Zillow Apartment List Google Ad Apartments.com Rent.com / ApartmentGuide.com Google Business Listing Social Media Move in date Message Message Unit (do not touch) Unit (do not touch) Model (do not touch) Model (do not touch) Google User Id Google User Id Submit Contact 120 W Wilson Ave Glendale, CA 91203 Office Hours Mon - Sat : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sun : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM CALL US (833) 847-2063 Follow Us Today © The Brand | All Rights Reserved. | Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 Renters Insurance | ADA@2x Created with Sketch. equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
