SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/seattle/the-ivey-on-boren
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

The Ivey on Boren - Luxury Apartments in Seattle, WA HOME FLOOR PLANS AMENITIES PENTHOUSE GALLERY Wellness NEIGHBORHOOD CONTACT US SCHEDULE A TOUR Apply Now RESIDENTS COME AND VISIT US Property Address: 2019 Boren Avenue Seattle, WA 98121 OFFICE HOURS Mon - Fri : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat - Sun : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM The Ivey on Boren cultivate a life well-lived At The Ivey on Boren, we believe that a life of fulfillment starts at home. When we enable our residents to begin and end each day in a setting that soothes and inspires, we empower them to discover and embrace their own brand of authentic wellness. Inspired by the natural world, The Ivey on Boren embodies living forms, neutral tones, and organic materials. Each detail of the community's remarkable interior design was thoughtfully selected to help encourage connection, create meaning, and cultivate creativity and stimulation. Lush green spaces bathed in natural light offer opportunities to enjoy moments of peace, exhilaration, and engagement. Regularly coordinated events and classes are held in a welcoming approachable environment and support a range of fitness and nutritional focus to promote mindfulness and foster community. Wellness & luxury discover both naturally The Ivey on Boren invites you to live in the heart of nature, and Seattle, at all times. GALLERY AMENITIES all that you need to nourish the mind, body & spirit Materials, color palettes, amenity programming, and plants were specifically selected with the goal of providing you with a rejuvenating oasis in the midst of the Seattle landscape. AMENITIES an oasis in the heart of Seattle 2019 Boren Avenue Seattle, WA 98121 The Denny Triangle has emerged as one of the most dynamic and rapidly evolving areas of the region. Towering spires, top tech industry, unique retail, exquisite dining, and lively parks contribute to this neighborhood of extraordinary flavor and energy. Neighborhood COME AND VISIT US Property Address: 2019 Boren Avenue Seattle, WA 98121 Contact us OFFICE HOURS Mon - Fri : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat - Sun : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM (206) 309-0991 The Ivey on Boren does not accept comprehensive reusable screening reports © The Ivey on Boren | All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch.
