SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/bothell/the-villas-at-beardslee
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Home | The Villas at Beardslee Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Retail Neighborhood Contact Us Residents Schedule A Tour Apply Now The Villas at Beardslee Discover Villas at Beardlee's onsite retail collection. View Availability Convenient Living Discover our spacious floor plans, designed with you in mind. Choose from studio, one, or two-bedroom floor plans with spacious walk-in closets, modern fixtures and wood-style flooring. Our kitchens feature stainless steel appliances and granite countertops that provide the perfect space to entertain family and friends. Floor Plans See For Yourself! Once you come home to the most charming homes in Bothell , your dream home can become a reality without all the maintenance worries! Gallery AMENITIES Features That Complement Your Lifestyle Come home to ultimate convenience when you reside at our luxury community in Bothell . Pursue endless recreational activities at our state-of-the-art fitness center, expansive courtyard with grilling stations, and upscale on-site retail. With so much to offer, it's clear to see why The Villas at Beardslee is the area's preeminent apartment community! VIEW AMENITIES NEIGHBORHOOD Live in the Heart of Bothell , WA . Just 30 minutes northeast of Seattle, The Villas at Beardslee offer all the conveniences of city living with the warmth and friendliness of a smaller community. Residing at The Villas at Beardslee situates you in a central location nearby several restaurants, bars and entertainment options. Discover your future neighborhood in our interactive map below. VIEW NEIGHBORHOOD Are you ready to take the next step in apartment living? Apply Now Contact Us Address 19128 112th Ave NE Bothell, WA 98011 Call Us (253) 881-8873 Office Hours Mon - Fri : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM Sun : 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM The Villas at Beardslee does not accept comprehensive reusable screening reports © The Villas at Beardslee All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
