SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/bothell/the-villas-at-beardslee/retail
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Retail | The Villas at Beardslee Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Retail Neighborhood Contact Us Residents Schedule A Tour Apply Now Discover Villas at Beardlee's onsite retail collection. Starbucks To be the premier purveyor of the finest coffee in the world, inspiring and nurturing the human spirit — one person, one cup and one neighborhood at a time. Learn More Beardslee Public House Beardslee Public House by Chef John Howie is a modern, upscale restaurant where everything is crafted with intention. Fresh beer is brewed in-house with 12 taps flowing at all times, alongside expertly made specialty cocktails from an impressive bar program featuring spirits from Chef Howie’s own Wildwood Spirits Co. , located just downstairs. All food is made from scratch under our roof, with a strong focus on locally sourced, high-quality ingredients. The menu goes well beyond typical bar fare—think classic burgers and pizzas alongside buttermilk fried chicken, salmon dishes, steaks, and delicious shareable appetizers. Weekend brunch is a guest favorite, and when the weather warms up, our spacious, dog-friendly patio with a large communal firepit is the place to be. With flexible spaces for large parties, group dining, and catering, Beardslee Public House is perfect for casual gatherings or elevated celebrations alike. Learn More Potbelly Sandwich Works Potbelly is the home of legendary hot, oven-toasted sandwiches. Try our signature: A Wreck®. Plus, fresh-made salads, hearty soups, hand-dipped shakes, and cookies baked fresh daily. With a fun, welcoming atmosphere, Potbelly is the best lunch spot in all the galaxies (sorry aliens, but it’s true). Also offered: pickup, delivery, dine-in, and catering Learn More Harborstone Credit Union It’s our mission to create thriving communities. We do this by helping our members achieve their full potential through trusted relationships. We believe our members, regardless of income level, can achieve financial prosperity with the right support, tools and resources. We’re here to help our members feel empowered – giving them confidence that they can thrive and achieve success in their own, unique financial situation. We believe in relationships. Establishing trust, and following through with consistent, exceptional service to our members. That’s our mission. Learn More MJ Brow & Skin Your One-Stop Shop for Beauty & Wellness MJ Brow & Skin is a boutique skincare and wellness clinic offering elevated beauty and medical spa services in a warm, welcoming environment. We combine advanced technology with premium Korean and European skincare to deliver natural, beautiful results. Our services include customized facials, microneedling, radio frequency and laser treatments, semipermanent makeup, lash and brow enhancements, waxing, facial and body lifting and contouring, whole-body medical-grade red light therapy, and personalized weight loss programs. At MJ Brow & Skin, we believe in expert care, thoughtful treatments, and results you can feel confident in. Beauty and wellness—everything you need, all in one place. Book online today. Learn More WHITE lotus At White Lotus, we cultivate a serene salon environment where you can enjoy relaxing and rejuvenating, whether they visit our Ballard or Bothell locations. We are dedicated to ensuring that our clients feel heard and well-cared for while providing top-notch customer service. At White Lotus, our top priority is the happiness and satisfaction of our customers. Our team members remain consistently well-trained and updated with the latest techniques, fashion trends, and customer service practices. We emphasize continuing education to enable us to deliver high-quality nail and lash services at affordable prices. s. Learn More KidStrong KidStrong is a kids training program that builds strong, confident and high-character kids. KidStrong helps kids win at life by developing a strong body, mind and character through weekly 45 minute classes led by expert coaches. Learn More Creative Minds Creative Minds is a learning space dedicated to developing your earliest learner as they embark on their academic journey. Our vision is to provide and nurture safe learning environments for children to create, learn and grow in their academic, cognitive, social-emotional and physical capacities. We offer a unique opportunity for you to be an active partner in your child’s education without having to volunteer hours in the classroom. Together we will set goals, monitor growth and maintain communication to ensure your child’s progression as they prepare for their journey as a learner. You will also learn how to effectively advocate for your child and become well-versed in how to navigate the educational system with confidence. Communication is key! Learn More Livewell Animal Urgent Care At Livewell Animal Urgent Care of Bothell, we provide top-quality veterinary care to pets in our community. Our staff treats you like family and each pet like our own. We are honored and proud to be a partner in your pet's healthcare team. As pet owners ourselves, we believe that preventative care with wellness exams are the keys to your pet living a longer, healthier, and happier life. As a full-service veterinary office, we offer state-of-the-art testing and diagnostics, an array of advanced care, routine and advanced surgical procedures, and many other services to provide your pet with the best possible care. We welcome new patients to our office and look forward to meeting you and your pet. Learn More marlowe Boutique Located on Beardslee Boulevard, Marlowe Boutique is a women’s clothing retail shop that offers trendy apparel, including outerwear, sweaters, denim, and accessories. Learn More Cut + Flow Cut + Flow is a boutique fitness studio focused on strength, mobility, and flexibility, both on the machine and on the mat. We offer low-impact, thoughtfully designed classes that help you build strength, move with ease, and feel confident in your body, all within a supportive, community-driven space. Learn More milan Laser We provide state of the art laser hair removal treatments in a relaxing environment. Learn More sotheby's Conveniently situated just North of Lake Washington, Marketplace Sotheby's International Realty's Bothell office is proud to represent homes of distinction throughout Western Washington, as well as continue the redefinition of luxury as a service, not a price. Learn More Annigan Dental We provide state of the art laser hair removal treatments in a relaxing environment. Learn More Are you ready to take the next step in apartment living? Apply Now Contact Us Address 19128 112th Ave NE Bothell, WA 98011 Call Us (253) 881-8873 Office Hours Mon - Fri : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM Sun : 12:00 PM - 5:00 PM The Villas at Beardslee does not accept comprehensive reusable screening reports © The Villas at Beardslee All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
