SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/san-diego/the-torrey/penthouses
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Penthouses | The Torrey Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Neighborhood FAQ Contact Us Residents Schedule A Tour Apply Now The Penthouse Collection at The Torrey The Penthouse Collection at The Torrey features exquisite two and three-bedroom penthouse residences spanning two levels on our 35th and 36th floors, offering custom finishes, smart-home technology, and spectacular views through floor-to-ceiling windows. Experience unrivaled comfort, luxury, and convenience in the heart of Downtown San Diego. AVAILABILITY WHERE LIFE COMES FULL CIRCLE The top-level Penthouse apartments The Torrey are unlike any other, boasting features and finishes that exceed expectations, even in the finest city on the West Coast. the new ideal At The Torrey , there's an undeniable magnetic pull, an irresistible feeling that you simply cannot describe. This is apparent nowhere more evidently than in our Penthouse residences, where you'll discover exactly what you've been searching for. Allow our leasing team to coordinate a tour with you. SCHEDULE TOUR penthouse Features Stunning San Diego Bay & City Views Light & Dark Designer Finishes Panelized Thermador Appliances Featuring Double Wall Oven & Wine Fridge Whirlpool Washer & Dryer Vinyl Plank Flooring Throughout Soft-Close Cabinets Under-Cabinet Lighting in Kitchen Quartz Countertops Throughout with Full Height Backsplash in Kitchen Tile Shower & Bathtub Surrounds Deep Soaking Bathtubs & Grohe Plumbing Fixtures Double-Height Ceilings Floor-To-Ceiling Windows Throughout to Maximize Natural Light Motorized Roller Shades ClosetMaid Custom Closet Organizer with Integrated Lighting, Shelving & Storage Custom Cabinetry Featured in Primary Bedroom Closets Keyless Entry Ecobee Smart Thermostat Balconies penthouse gallery penthouse Virtual Tours Load Less (888) 227-8030 1200 Front Street San Diego, CA 92101 Monday - Saturday : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sunday : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 © The Torrey All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy Renters Insurance equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
