SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/ca/oakland/the-lark-uptown
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

The Lark Uptown - Luxury Apartment Oakland CA Floor Plans Amenities Gallery Neighborhood Retail and Dining Contact Us Residents Schedule A Tour Apply Now A Lifestyle without boundaries at the lark uptown It's an homage to the vibrant, inspiring community that surrounds. A true break from the status quo. The Lark Uptown presents a collection of studio, one-, and two-bedroom residences designed to fit seamlessly into the rhythm of Oakland living. Intuitive AMENITIES remarkable spaces meant to inspire Rising high above the skyline, The Lark captures sweeping views of Lake Merritt, the Oakland Hills, and the lively cityscape, all of which sets the tone for an equally multifaceted experience within. Designed with intent, residents are invited to discover intuitive spaces for gathering and connecting, as well as unwinding and recharging. Explore Amenities Immerse yourself in The Possibilities Gallery The Pulse of Northlake Live Above the Energy: Shop, Dine, & Unwind below Nestled in the heart of Oakland, The Lark places you steps away from a mix of retail, dining, and entertainment. From trendy boutiques and cozy cafes to bustling local markets, the neighborhood offers everything you need to live, shop, and explore with ease. Indulge in neighborhood favorites like Tarts de Feybesse , Oakland's newest pastry haven known for its artisanal creations. Now Open: Flour + Water Pizza Shop , the acclaimed Bay Area pizzeria, from co-chefs Thomas McNaughton and Ryan Po llnow, alongside Oakland resident & chef de cuisine Elliott Armstrong, will soon open its doors right at The Lark. BUILDING A BETTER OAKLAND The Lark Uptown is proud to partner with the city of Oakland and take part in their Below Market Rate (BMR) program, offering affordable apartment rental options in the Oakland community. Join our waitlist today! Join BMR Waitlist (844) 457-3061 269 24th Street Oakland, CA 94612 OFFICE HOURS Tue - Sat : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 Privacy Policy Renters Insurance
