SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/bellevue/vicino
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Vicino | Luxury Apartments in Bellevue, WA Welcome to Vicino, Heart of the Pacific Northwest NOW LEASING! discover unmatched luxury Derived from the Italian translation of "neighbor", Vicino inspires community in every sense of the word. Comprised of warm, inviting spaces dedicated to activity, co-working, and entertainment, the spirit of togetherness is cultivated here naturally and effortlessly. Perfectly situated between Downtown Bellevue and the city of Redmond, and just minutes away from the light rail line, connections to the heart of the city and the Pacific Northwest's beauty are at your feet. Looking for more space? Explore our spacious townhomes at Vicino. AMENITIES TOWNHOMES Explore Bellevue A key essence of what the Pacific Northwest represents with culture, vibrancy, community, and modernity. Considered the gateway to the Puget Sound, Bellevue holds a focal point of intersecting pursuits and a number of attractions- a mere miles away from Seattle, Kirkland’s waterfront parks and galleries, or Woodinville’s wine tours. All against the backdrop of the Cascade Mountain range, where you can take your pick of hiking, biking, or skiing. Whatever you’re seeking, it begins and ends in Bellevue. Schedule your tour of Vicino apartments in Bellevue today! NEIGHBORHOOD YOUR HOME AMONG NEW FRIENDS At Vicino, residents get to merge their own sense of home into a Pacific Northwest aesthetic, creating the next chapter of their lives. A mingling of different cultures, allowing a sense of belonging and security. This time, however, broader strokes are offered — unlike other apartments in Bellevue that stand singular and promote a sense of retreat, Vicino brings in more from its surroundings and environment to create that unique neighborhood feeling — a real, diverse, active apartment community. GALLERY Building a Stronger Bellevue In cooperation with the city of Bellevue and the State of Washington, Vicino proudly offers a selection of income-restricted apartment homes through the MFTE and LUC programs. View our availability below or contact our leasing office for more details. MFTE LUC Contact Us Today (844) 566-3194 1955 129th Ave NE Bellevue, WA 98005 Mon - Sat : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sun : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM follow us on Social Vicino does not accept comprehensive reusable screening reports © Vicino | All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
