SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/or/hillsboro/amberglen-west
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

The Villas at Amberglen West - Luxury Apartments in Hillsboro, OR LUXURY APARTMENTS IN Hillsboro Experience 10 acres of old-world charm blended beautifully with modern elegance with our one, two, and three-bedroom apartment homes in the heart of Hillsboro . Learn More Convenient LivinG Find Your Perfect Space There's something for everyone at The Villas at Amberglen West . Each of our distinctive floor plans was designed with your comfort and convenience in mind and is equipped with modern features. Browse our available layouts and find your perfect home. Floor Plans Community Amenities Swimming Pool Community Lounge 24-Hour Fitness Center Pet Friendly Parcel Lockers Bike Storage Garage and Carport Available Key Fob Access Close to Streets of Tanasbourne and Orenco Nature Park Apartment FEATURES Quartz Countertops with Tile Backsplash Stainless Steel Appliances Built-In Microwave and Dishwasher Kitchen Islands Large Bedrooms with Walk-In Closets Private Balconies and Patios In-Home Washer & Dryer Portable AC Units Available * Some features in select homes Gallery Explore our beautiful community gallery below and see why residents love living at The Villas at Amberglen West ! All Community Apartments Lifestyle Virtual Tour Load More Explore Hillsboro 1101 NE 89th Ave Hillsboro, OR 97006 Located in one of Hillsboro 's fastest growing cities, The Villas at Amberglen West is conveniently located in Hillsboro near Tanasbourne with easy access to Beaverton and Downtown Portland, great restaurants, microbreweries/bars, yoga/fitness, unique shops and a multitude of outdoor activities. See What's Around Contact us! Fill out the form below, and someone from our team will reach out shortly. First Name First Name Last Name Last Name Preferred Contact Method Email Phone Preferred Contact Method Phone Phone Email Email Preferred Bedrooms Interested In 1 Bedroom 2 Bedrooms 3 Bedrooms Referrer How did you hear about us? Zillow Apartment List Google Ad Apartments.com Rent.com / ApartmentGuide.com Google Business Listing Social Media Move in date Message Message Unit (do not touch) Unit (do not touch) Model (do not touch) Model (do not touch) Google User Id Google User Id Submit Call Today and Schedule Your Tour! The Villas at Amberglen West has the finest dining, tasteful nightlife, great coffee, engaging art, outdoor activities and world-class sports venues, all within walking distance. Apply Now The Villas at Amberglen West Address 1101 NE 89th Ave Hillsboro, OR 97006 Phone (503) 476-3147 Hours Mon - Fri : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat - Sun : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM © The Villas at Amberglen West | All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | ADA@2x Created with Sketch. equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
