SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/seattle/the-ballard-independent/faq
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

FAQ | The Ballard Independent The Ballard Independent FAQ Location & Neighborhood Where is The Ballard Independent located? The Ballard Independent is located at 2245 NW 56th St. Seattle, WA 98107. What is near The Ballard Independent? The Ballard Independent is near the Ballard Branch of the Seattle Public Library, Salt & Straw, The National Nordic Museum, Edgeworks Climbing Seattle, Carl S. English Botanical Gardens, Ballard Commons Park, and the Ballard Farmers Market. Is The Ballard Independent near bus lines? Yes, The Ballard Independent is near the 17, 40, and 44 bus lines. The closest bus stop is at NW Market St & Ballard Ave NW. Property & Building Information When was The Ballard Independent built? The Ballard Independent was built in 2024. Does The Ballard Independent have on-site maintenance? Yes, The Ballard Independent has on-site maintenance. Is there an elevator at The Ballard Independent? There are 3 elevators at The Ballard Independent. Amenities What amenities are available at The Ballard Independent? The Ballard Independent has a lounge, work pods, a courtyard lounge, a fitness center, The Annex Club featuring an entertaining kitchen and vapor fireplace, a rooftop terrace with firepits and views of Salmon Bay, a dog park, package lockers, bicycle storage, EV parking and more. Is there a fitness center at The Ballard Independent? Yes, The Ballard Independent has a fitness center. It features Freemotion equipment, free weights, cardio machines, and more. Parking, Bike Storage & Storage Units Is there parking available at The Ballard Independent? Yes, The Ballard Independent offers EV parking, garage parking, parking with storage, tandem parking, and motorcycle parking for an additional cost per month. Does The Ballard Independent offer bike storage? Yes, The Ballard Independent offers bike storage for an additional monthly cost. Does the Ballard Independent offer storage units? Yes, The Ballard Independent offers storage units for an additional monthly fee. Pets Are pets allowed at The Ballard Independent? What are the pet fees, rules, and restrictions? Yes, The Ballard Independent is a pet-friendly community. Breed restrictions apply. Contact the leasing team for more information. Apartments & Floor Plans What floor plans are available at The Ballard Independent apartments in Seattle? The Ballard Independent offers studios, one-bedroom, and two-bedroom apartments. Leasing Information What are the hours of operation for The Ballard Independent leasing office in Seattle, WA? The Ballard Independent’s leasing office is open Monday through Saturday from 9am to 6pm. On Sunday, the leasing office is open from 9am to 5pm. What lease terms are available at The Ballard Independent? Lease terms vary, but the leasing team at The Ballard Independent is happy to help you find the right term for you. How much is the deposit at The Ballard Independent? Holding deposits are 300 and are refundable if your application is denied or if you cancel within 24 hours. Utilities & Insurance Are utilities included in the rent payment at The Ballard Independent? Monthly utilities are not included in the monthly rent payment. Use our fee calculator to estimate your monthly costs to live at The Ballard Independent. Is renters’ insurance required at The Ballard Independent? Yes, renters must have liability renters’ insurance. BE BALLARD, BE Get the latest on what we're about and be one of the first to claim your independence at The Ballard Independent . Now open and leasing. Contact Us Contact 2245 NW 56th St. Seattle, WA 98107 (833) 530-9360 Office Hours Mon - Sat : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Social The Ballard Independent does not accept comprehensive reusable screening reports © The Ballard Independent All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy Renters Insurance equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
