SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/seattle/the-ballard-independent
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

The Ballard Independent | Apartments in Ballard, WA On A Different Wavelength We're different in Ballard. We march to the beat of our own drum - and we always march together. We're a small town with big spirit; a vibrant microcosm of energy distinct from any other Seattle neighborhood. The Ballard Independent reflects that same spirit, embracing the grit and texture that is undeniably Ballard. Surrounded by art, food, and culture, we're here to add to the flavor, not change it. Because we're not just "any other Seattle neighborhood" or "any apartment community". We're Independent. Floor Plans AMENITIES our spaces are your spaces. We invite you to explore The Ballard Independent 's amenities, starting with our rooftop lounge and terrace, where views of Salmon Bay and the surrounding Ballard community entice your eyes. Features including our courtyard lounge, work pods, and 24-hour fitness make life just a little bit easier and a whole lot more convenient, providing spaces to do your thing. Whatever that might be. Amenities GALLERY Imagine the Possibilities As you browse our gallery, you'll get a taste of our residents’ lifestyle and sneak a peek at our impeccably designed, modern apartment home interiors. See what life is like at The Ballard Independent . Gallery NEIGHBORHOOD The spirit of ballard Comprised of small businesses and historic architecture, Ballard honors its past with bright colors and eclectic energy. Evidence of real people and real places here - All uniquely Ballard. Neighborhood AFFORDABLE HOMES AVAILABLE In collaboration with Seattle’s MFTE program , The Ballard Independent offers an extensive selection of income restricted MFTE apartment homes for rent. Please see our availability below or contact our leasing team to learn more. MFTE BE BALLARD, BE Get the latest on what we're about and be one of the first to claim your independence at The Ballard Independent . Now open and leasing. Contact Us Contact 2245 NW 56th St. Seattle, WA 98107 (833) 530-9360 Office Hours Mon - Sat : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Social The Ballard Independent does not accept comprehensive reusable screening reports © The Ballard Independent All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy Renters Insurance equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Happily Made by Razz
