SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/wa/seattle/westlake-steps
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl, server-rendered HTML text)
HTTP: 200

Westlake Steps - Luxury Apartments in Seattle, WA Raise Your Expectations View FLOOR PLANS WELCOME HOME Experience South Lake Union's most comfortable and vibrant luxury apartment community. Features to Complement Your Lifestyle Resort-style amenities meets urban excitement. Enjoy oversized windows along with inspiring views of Lake Union. Walk or bike to Amazon, Facebook, and a myriad of other employers. Explore four sprawling roof decks with incredible lake views and multiple recreation areas including pet parks, outdoor kitchens, fireplaces, seating areas, ping-pong tables, and an outdoor movie screen. VIEW AMENITIES Convenient Living Discover our spacious floor plans, designed with you in mind. Choose from a studio, or two-bedroom floor plan with spacious closets, modern fixtures and wood-style flooring. Our kitchens feature stainless steel appliances and granite countertops that provide the perfect space to entertain family and friends. VIEW Floor Plans Imagine the Possibilities See why calling Westlake Steps home is a dream come true. All Community Apartment Virtual Tours Load More affordable homes available In partnership with Seattle’s MFTE Program , Westlake Steps & Marina SLU proudly offer a wide range of income‑restricted MFTE apartment homes. As an added value, all utilities are included with MFTE home rent, making city living even more convenient and affordable. Applicants for MFTE homes will complete our standard leasing application and screening process, along with providing additional documents required to confirm MFTE program eligibility. To qualify, household income must fall within the MFTE income limits based on household size, outlined below. Please note that certain income sources—such as Housing Choice Voucher amounts—may not be counted toward total household income. For more details or to learn whether an MFTE home is the right fit for you, we invite you to contact our leasing office—we’re happy to help! View Availability Living at Westlake Steps puts you in the heart of SLU, one of Seattle 's most desirable neighborhoods. 1209 Westlake Ave N Seattle, WA 98109 Residing at Westlake Steps situates you in a central location nearby several restaurants, bars and entertainment options. Discover your future neighborhood in our interactive map below. VIEW MAP CONTACT 1209 Westlake Ave N Seattle, WA 98109 (855) 432-0281 OFFICE HOURS Mon - Fri : 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Sat - Sun : 10:00 AM - 5:00 PM Westlake Steps does not accept comprehensive reusable screening reports. Privacy Policy | Renters Insurance | equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. © Westlake Steps | All Rights Reserved. Happily Made by Razz
