SENATE RULES COMMITTEE                                                      SB 233
Office of Senate Floor Analyses
1020 N Street, Suite 524
(916) 651-1520       Fax: (916) 327-4478


                                THIRD READING


Bill No:    SB 233
Author:     Leno (D)
Amended:    4/22/13
Vote:       21


SENATE BANKING & FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS COMM.: 8-0, 4/17/13
AYES: Correa, Berryhill, Beall, Calderon, Corbett, Hill, Hueso, Roth
NO VOTE RECORDED: Walters

SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE: 6-0, 5/7/13
AYES: Evans, Anderson, Corbett, Jackson, Leno, Monning
NO VOTE RECORDED: Walters


SUBJECT:       Debt buyers

SOURCE:        Attorney General Kamala Harris


DIGEST: This bill enacts the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act, to further regulate
the activities of persons and entities that purchase charged-off consumer loans, as
specified.

ANALYSIS: Existing federal law provides for the Fair Debt Collection Practices
Act (FDCPA), whose stated purposes are to eliminate abusive practices in the
collection of consumer debts, promote fair debt collection, and provide consumers
with an avenue for disputing and obtaining validation of debt information in order
to ensure the information's accuracy. The FDCPA creates guidelines under which
debt collectors may conduct business, defines rights of consumers involved with
debt collectors, and prescribes penalties and remedies for violations of FDCPA.
Responsibility for enforcing the FDCPA was transferred from the Federal Trade
Commission (FTC) to the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau through
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
                                                                       CONTINUED
                                                                                 SB 233
                                                                                 Page 2


Existing state law provides for the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act,
whose stated purposes are to prohibit debt collectors from engaging in unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in the collection of consumer debts and to require
debtors to act fairly in entering into and honoring such debts. The Act prohibits
deceptive, dishonest, unfair and unreasonable debt collection practices by debt
collectors, and regulates the form and content of communications by debt
collectors to debtors and others.

This bill:

1. Establishes the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act to regulate the activities of a
   person or entity (debt buyer) that has bought charged-off consumer loans for
   collection purposes.

2. Defines a “debt buyer,” as a person or entity that is regularly engaged in the
   business of purchasing charged-off consumer debt for collection purposes,
   whether it collects the debt itself, hires a third party for collection, or hires an
   attorney for collection litigation. It does not mean a person or entity that
   acquires a charged-off consumer debt incidental to the purchase of a portfolio
   predominantly consisting of consumer debt that has not been charged off.

3. Applies the provisions of this bill to consumer debt sold or resold on or after
   January 1, 2014.

4. Prohibits a debt buyer from making any written statement to a debtor in an
   attempt to collect a consumer debt, unless it possesses the following
   information:

    A. That the debt buyer is the sole owner of the debt at issue or otherwise has
       authority to assert the rights of all owners of the debt.

    B. The debt balance at charge off and an explanation of the amount, nature,
       and reason for all post-charge off interest and fees, if any, imposed by the
       charge-off creditor or any subsequent purchasers of the debt. A specific
       itemization is not required, but the explanation shall identify separately the
       charge-off balance, the total of any post-charge-off interest, and the total of
       any post-charge-off fees.

    C. The date of default or the date of the last payment by the debtor.


                                                                         CONTINUED
                                                                               SB 233
                                                                               Page 3

    D. The name and an address of the charge-off creditor at the time of charge
       off, and the charge-off creditor’s account number associated with the debt.

    E. The name and last known address of the debtor as they appeared in the
       charge-off creditor’s records prior to the sale of the debt.

    F. The names and addresses of all persons or entities that purchased the debt
       after charge off, including the debt buyer making the written statement.

5. Prohibits a debt buyer from making any written statement to a debtor in an
   attempt to collect a consumer debt, unless it has access to a copy of the
   contract or other document evidencing the debtor’s agreement to the debt.

6. Requires a debt buyer to include a statement with its first written
   communication to a debtor in no smaller than 12-point type, a separate
   prominent notice informing the debtor that he/she is eligible to request all of
   the information listed in #4 and #5 above, and requires the debt buyer to
   provide that information to a debtor, without charge, within 15 calendar days
   of receiving a debtor’s written request for it. Any debt buyer who is unable to
   provide the information to a debtor within 15 calendar days must cease all
   attempts to collect the debt, until that debt buyer is able to provide the
   information.

7. Provides that, if a language other than English is principally used by a debt
   buyer in its initial oral contact with a debtor, the debt buyer must provide the
   statement described in #6 above to that debtor in that language, as specified.

8. Requires all settlement agreements between a debt buyer and a debtor to be
   documented in open court or otherwise reduced to writing, and requires a debt
   buyer to ensure that a copy of the written agreement is provided to the debtor.

9. Requires debt buyers who receive payment on a debt to provide a written
   receipt or monthly statement reflecting that payment (or a final statement
   reflecting that payment, if the payment is accepted as payment in full or as a
   final compromise of the debt) to the debtor within 30 calendar days.

10. Prohibits a debt buyer from bringing suit or initiating an arbitration or other
    legal proceeding to collect a consumer debt if the applicable statute of
    limitations on the debt buyer’s claim has expired.



                                                                        CONTINUED
                                                                                 SB 233
                                                                                 Page 4

11. Except as necessary to protect confidential personal, financial, or medical
    information, requires the complaint in an action brought by a debt buyer on a
    consumer debt to allege the nature of the underlying debt and the consumer
    transaction(s) from which it is derived, and to include all of the information
    listed in #4 above, along with a statement that the debt buyer complied with the
    provisions of the bill described in #4 through #7 above. Requires each
    complaint to contain a copy of the contract or other document evidencing the
    debtor’s agreement to the debt as an attachment to the complaint.

12. Provides that no default or other judgment may be entered against a debtor,
    unless business records, authenticated through a sworn declaration, are
    submitted by the debt buyer to the court to establish the information that is
    alleged in the complaint, and unless a copy of the contract or other document
    evidencing the debtor’s agreement to the debt, authenticated through a sworn
    declaration, has been submitted by the debt buyer to the court.

13. Provides that, if a debt buyer plaintiff seeks a default judgment and has not
    complied with the provisions of the bill, the court may not enter a default
    judgment for the plaintiff and may, in its discretion, dismiss the action.

14. Provides for all of the following, to enforce the provisions of this bill:

    A. In the case of an action brought by an individual(s), a debt buyer who
       violates the provisions of the bill with respect to a person is liable to that
       person for actual damages, as specified, plus statutory damages between
       $100 and $1,000, plus reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs, as determined
       by the court.

    B. In the case of a class action, a debt buyer who violates the provisions of the
       bill with respect to a class is liable for statutory damages of between $100
       and $1,000 for each named plaintiff, plus reasonable attorneys’ fees and
       costs, as determined by the court.

    C. If, as part of a class action, a court finds that the debt buyer engaged in a
       pattern and practice of violating this bill, the court may award additional
       damages to the class in an amount not to exceed the lesser of $500,000 or
       1% of the net worth of the debt buyer.

    D. Courts are authorized to award reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs to a
       prevailing debt buyer, upon a finding by the court that the plaintiff’s
       prosecution of the action was not in good faith.

                                                                         CONTINUED
                                                                               SB 233
                                                                               Page 5


    E. A debt buyer has no civil liability under the provisions of the bill if it
       shows, by a preponderance of the evidence, that its violation was not
       intentional, resulted from a bona fide error, and occurred notwithstanding
       the maintenance of procedures reasonably adopted to avoid any such error.

    F. Requires that any action brought to enforce the provisions of the bill be
       brought within one year from the date of the last violation by the debt
       buyer.

    G. Provides that recovery in an action brought under the Rosenthal Fair Debt
       Collection Practices Act or the FDCPA precludes recovery for the same
       acts in an action brought under the provisions of this bill.

15. Provides that any waiver of the provisions of this bill is contrary to public
    policy, and is void and unenforceable.

16. Amends the Code of Civil Procedure to align the additional information
    requirements of this bill with the requirements that levying officers, process
    servicers, and employers must follow in connection with wage garnishment.

Background

During 2012, approximately 30 million individuals nationwide (14% of American
adults who have credit reports) had debt that was subject to the collections process.
The average amount of consumer debt held by these consumers was $1,500.

Debt buyers are companies that purchase delinquent or charged-off debts from a
creditor for a fraction of the face value of the debt. Those companies have become
subject to increased scrutiny due to numerous complaints on behalf of consumers.
FTC issued a report in July 2010 examining debt collection litigation and
arbitration proceedings that concluded the “system for resolving consumer debt
collection disputes is broken” and recommended significant reforms. (Repairing a
Broken System (July 2010))

In a rule released by the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) in
October 2012, CFPB described the importance of regulating the consumer debt
collection industry. It noted that consumer debt collection is important to the
functioning of the consumer credit markets. By collecting consumer debt,
collectors reduce creditors’ losses from non-repayment and help keep credit
accessible and more affordable to consumers.

                                                                        CONTINUED
                                                                               SB 233
                                                                               Page 6


However, debt collection performed in illegal ways has the potential to cause
consumers substantial harm. If collectors falsely represent amounts owed,
consumers may pay debts they do not owe, either to stop collection efforts or
because they are unsure how much they owe. Consumers may also unintentionally
yield their rights, by waiving the statute of limitations on debt claims for which the
relevant limit periods have expired. “Whether or not consumers owe and are liable
for the debts collectors are attempting to recover, unlawful collection practices can
cause significant reputational damage, invade personal privacy, and inflict
emotional distress. Among the possible consequences, a collector’s inappropriate
interference with a consumer’s employment relationships can also impair the
consumer’s ability to repay debts.”

Although federal and state laws already exist to protect consumers from such
harms, several interested parties, including FTC and this bill’s sponsor, believe that
existing law is inadequate, and that more needs to be done to protect consumers.

Comments

According to the author’s office, the debt buying industry has become a significant
focus of public concern, related, in part, to the inadequacy of documentation
maintained by the industry in support of its debt collection activities and litigation.
There have been widespread accounts of debt buyer collection efforts, including
collection litigation, against the wrong person, or targeting debt that is time-barred
or has already been paid. Collection efforts have become increasingly misdirected,
as consumer debt is sold and resold, repeatedly, without reliable documentation
evidencing its origin.

This bill is intended to provide better documentation of alleged debts to consumers
who are contacted by debt collectors, and to reduce the occurrence of debt
collection activities directed toward time-barred debt, or to the wrong person, or
both. It does so by establishing clear, enforceable standards governing the
documentation required to support the collection of purchased delinquent or
charged-off debt, particularly in collection litigation.

FISCAL EFFECT: Appropriation: No Fiscal Com.: No Local: No

SUPPORT: (Verified 5/9/13)

Attorney General Kamala Harris (source)
AARP

                                                                        CONTINUED
                                                                             SB 233
                                                                             Page 7

California State Council of the SEIU
Center for Responsible Lending
Consumers Union
East Bay Community Law Center
Encore Capital Group
Public Law Center of Orange County

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT: The Attorney General’s interest in the area
stems from industry practices, which are causing collection efforts to be directed
toward the wrong consumer, or toward the collection of debt that is time-barred or
has been paid. The Attorney General’s concerns are compounded, because a very
high percentage of debt collection litigation result in default judgments, where
consumers do not appear to present whatever defenses may be available to them.

Consumers Union and the Center for Responsible Lending write that this bill is
sorely needed. “Tens of thousands of Californians are contacted every year by
debt buyers they have never done business with, for debts that may be old or in an
amount that doesn’t match the consumer’s memory or records. The debt may even
be owed by someone else or the result of identity theft. Yet, some debt buyers
have little more than a robo-signed affidavit to back up their claims in court.” This
bill will help consumers and courts determine if the consumer is, in fact, the person
who incurred the debt. To ensure fairness in all civil collections cases, this bill
requires debt buyers to show how the debt was calculated, including the original
amount and the nature and type of post charge-off fees and charges. This is a
protection that does not currently exist for persons who are sued on a debt.


MW:nk 5/9/13 Senate Floor Analyses
                      SUPPORT/OPPOSITION:         SEE ABOVE
                                **** END ****
