                                                                                      SB 233
                                                                                      Page 1

Date of Hearing: June 18, 2013

                         ASSEMBLY COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY
                                    Bob Wieckowski, Chair
                     SB 233 (Leno and Correa) – As Amended: May 15, 2013

SENATE VOTE: 36-0

SUBJECT: FAIR DEBT BUYING PRACTICES ACT

KEY ISSUE: SHOULD DEBT BUYERS BE REQUIRED TO SUBSTANTIATE CERTAIN
BASIC INFORMATION ABOUT AN ALLEGED DEBT TO PROVE THAT A CONSUMER
ACTUALLY OWES THE DEBT BEFORE THE DEBT BUYER CAN FILE A LAWSUIT OR
OTHERWISE TAKE ACTION TO COLLECT THE DEBT?

FISCAL EFFECT: As currently in print this bill is keyed non-fiscal.

                                            SYNOPSIS

According to proponents, California's courts are swamped with debt collection lawsuits at a time
when our judicial system is facing unprecedented budget challenges, and debt buyers--
companies that purchase delinquent or charged-off debts from a creditor for a certain fraction of
the face value of the debt--are largely driving this crisis by filing thousands of lawsuits against
consumers each month to collect their purchased debts. Proponents further contend that many
of these lawsuits are simply unsubstantiated by facts necessary to determine, among other things,
that the debt buyer actually owns the debt at issue, that the defendant is the person who owes the
debt, or that the debt is not time-barred.

This important bill, sponsored by the Attorney General, seeks to enact the Fair Debt Buyer
Practices Act. Among other things, this bill: (1) prohibits written statements to collect consumer
debt unless the debt buyer has sufficient information to justify his collection efforts; (2) clarifies
the allegations required in a lawsuit filed by a debt buyer and the evidence required of a debt
buyer to obtain a judgment in a collection suit; (3) prohibits collection suits where the statute of
limitations has already run; and (4) provides a private right of action against a debt buyer who
violates any provision of this act. By requiring greater documentation and substantiation of debt
claims as a condition of filing a collection lawsuit, this bill may help conserve judicial resources
that might otherwise be spent processing large numbers of unsubstantiated lawsuits. The bill is
supported by a range of consumer advocates, legal aid providers, civil rights advocates, and
labor groups. There is no known opposition, and the bill did not receive any "No" votes in the
Senate. This bill is double-referred to the Assembly Banking and Finance Committee.

SUMMARY: Enacts the Fair Debt Buyers Practices Act, imposing various requirements on
practices that may be used to collect on purchased consumer debt. Specifically, this bill:

1) Prohibits a debt buyer from making any written statement in an attempt to collect a consumer
   debt unless the debt buyer possesses certain information, including, among other things: (a)
   the debt balance at charge off; (b) the date of default or last payment; (c) the name and
   address of the charge-off creditor at the time of charge off, and all persons or entities that
   purchased the debt after charge off; and (d) a statement that the buyer is the sole owner of the
                                                                                     SB 233
                                                                                     Page 2

   debt or has authority to assert the rights of all owners of the debt.

2) Prohibits a debt buyer from making any written statement to a debtor in an attempt to collect
   a consumer debt unless the debt buyer has access to a copy of a contract or other document
   evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt, or if no signed contract exists, demonstrating
   that the debt was incurred by the debtor.

3) Requires a debt buyer to provide all of the above information or documents to the debtor
   without charge within 15 calendar days of receipt of a debtor's written request for
   information regarding the debt or proof of the debt, or to cease all collection of the debt until
   the debt buyer provides the information or documents to the debtor.

4) Requires the debt buyer to provide a specified written notice with its initial written
   communication to the debtor that, among other things, informs the debtor of his or her right
   to request records from the debt buyer showing information that the debt buyer is required to
   possess as a condition of collecting on the debt.

5) Prohibits a debt buyer from bringing suit, initiating another proceeding, or taking any other
   action to collect a consumer debt if the applicable statute of limitations on the cause of action
   has expired.

6) Requires specific information regarding the underlying debt, the debt buyer, the debtor, and
   charge-off creditors to be so stated in any action brought by a debt buyer on a consumer debt.

7) Provides that in an action initiated by a debt buyer, no default of other judgment may be
   entered against a debtor unless the following authenticated documents have been submitted
   by the debt buyer to the court:

   a) Business records establishing facts about the debt, debtor, and charge-off creditors that
      are required by this act to be alleged in the complaint; and
   b) A copy of a contract or other document evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt, or
      if no signed contract exists, demonstrating that the debt was incurred by the debtor.

8) Provides that, in an action brought by an individual, a debt buyer who violates any provision
   of this act with respect to any person is liable to the person in an amount equal to the sum of
   the following: (a) actual damages sustained as a result of the violation; (b) statutory damages,
   as specified for an individual or class action; and (3) costs of the action and reasonable
   attorney’s fees.

9) Relieves a debt buyer from any liability under this act if the debt buyer shows by a
   preponderance of the evidence that the violation was not intentional and resulted from a bona
   fide error, and occurred notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably designed
   to avoid any such error.

10) Provides that these requirements shall only apply to debt buyers with respect to all consumer
    debt sold or resold on or after January 1, 2014.
                                                                                     SB 233
                                                                                     Page 3

11) Requires a claim of exemption and related financial statement form to be provided to a
    judgment debtor by the levying officer whenever a writ of execution or an earnings
    withholding order is served upon the judgment debtor or the debtor's employer, as specified.

EXISTING LAW:

1) Pursuant to federal law, generally regulates the collection of debt through, among other
   things, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act; Fair Credit Reporting Act; and the Gramm-
   Leach-Bliley Act.

2) Pursuant to the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, generally prohibits deceptive,
   dishonest, unfair and unreasonable debt collection practices by debt collectors, and regulates
   the form and content of communications by debt collectors to debtors and others. (Title 1.6C
   of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code, commencing with Section 1788.)

COMMENTS: This bill, sponsored by Attorney General Kamala Harris, seeks to enact the Fair
Debt Buyer Practices Act, a comprehensive approach to address problems that, according to bill
proponents, are largely traceable to the inadequacy of documentation maintained by the debt
buying industry to support its debt collection activities and litigation. According to the author:

       There have been widespread accounts of debt buyer collection efforts, including
       collection litigation, against the wrong person, or targeting debt that is time-barred or has
       already been paid. Collection efforts become increasingly misdirected as consumer debt
       is repeatedly sold and resold without reliable documentation evidencing its origin. The
       more remote the debt buyer is from the original creditor, the more likely it is that
       collection efforts will target stale debt or the wrong person. This bill establishes a
       number of reforms to ensure that the documentation used to support the collection of
       purchased debt is sufficient. This will help ensure that collection efforts target the correct
       individuals, avoid litigation over time-barred debt, and that the amount of the debt is
       calculated accurately.

In addition to protecting consumers, this bill will help relieve the overwhelming burden placed
on our courts by thousands of debt collection lawsuits, many of them unsubstantiated.
According to proponents, California's courts are swamped with debt collection lawsuits at a time
that could not be worse given recent court closures and the fiscal crisis facing our judicial
system. A recent New York Times article reported that collection lawsuits across California
have increased by 20% over the past five years, with an estimated 96,000 consumer debt
collection cases filed in three Bay Area counties in 2009 alone, up from 53,700 cases in 2007.
("Some Lawyers Want to Keep Debt Collection Out of the Courts," NY Times, 4/22/2010.)
Proponents contend that many of these lawsuits are simply unsubstantiated by facts necessary to
determine, among other things, that the plaintiff owns the debt at issue, that the defendant is the
person who truly owes the debt, or that the debt is not time-barred. They note that the cost of
unsubstantiated debt litigation falls upon courts that must expend resources processing collection
claims, and taxpayers who subsidize the time and resources spent by the courts. By requiring
greater documentation and substantiation of debt claims as a condition of filing collection
lawsuits, this bill could potentially reduce the amount of debt buyer litigation by weeding out
"meritless" suits before they are filed. Supporters of the bill contend that anecdotal evidence
indicates this is exactly what has happened in North Carolina since passage of a law there similar
to this bill.
                                                                                      SB 233
                                                                                      Page 4


Key definitions and scope of the bill. This bill would enact the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act,
and as expressed in its Legislative findings, is intended to address the fact that state law does not
currently prescribe the specific nature of documentation that a debt buyer must maintain and
produce in a legal action on the debt. Under this bill, the term "debt buyer" is defined to mean a
person or entity that is regularly engaged in the business of purchasing delinquent or charged-off
consumer debt for collection purposes, whether it collects the debt itself, hires a third party for
collection, or hires an attorney-at-law for collection litigation. The bill also clarifies that “debt
buyer” does not mean a person or entity that acquires a charged-off consumer debt incidental to
the purchase of a portfolio predominantly consisting of consumer debt that has not been charged
off, and that “charged-off consumer debt” means a consumer debt that has been removed from a
creditor’s books as an asset and treated as a loss or expense.

The Legislative findings further clarify that this bill is not intended to affect the legal
enforceability, or collectability, of a charged-off consumer debt, but is intended to impose
enforceable standards upon the collection and litigation of consumer debt that has been
purchased by a debt buyer following the consumer debt’s charge off by a creditor. The author
has worked with the debt buyer and banking industries to negotiate the definition of these key
terms, and as a result of amendments taken in the Senate, the bill currently has no known
opposition.

This bill prohibits written statements to collect consumer debt unless the debt buyer has
sufficient information to justify collection efforts. According to the author, many consumers
report being the subject of collection lawsuits where there is insufficient evidence of the
consumer's underlying indebtedness, or where not enough informa tion is provided to the
consumer regarding the debt at issue to allow an appropriate answer to the complaint. A recent
report by Consumers Union and East Bay Community Law Center (EBCLC) found that debt
buyers frequently buy portfolios of individual consumer debts with inadequate information, and
frequently sue without any proof that they own the debts or that the consumer owes them money.
(Past Due: Why Debt Collection Practices and the Debt Buying Industry Need Reform Now,
Consumers Union, January 2011.)

Accordingly, this bill prohibits a debt buyer from contacting a debtor unless the debt buyer has
access to a copy of a contract or other document evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt or
responsibility for incurring the debt, as well as other specific factual information establishing the
buyer's right to collect. This essential factual information includes, among other things, the debt
balance at charge off, the date of default or last payment, and the names and addresses of the
charge-off creditor, debt buyer, and debtor as they appear in the records of the debt. The bill also
requires the debt buyer to provide the information or documents to the debtor without charge
within 15 days upon request of the debtor, and to include a specified notice informing the debtor
of this right. These requirements seek to ensure that the consumer will at least have basic
information about the debt in question that is necessary to determine a next step, including filing
an answer if a complaint has been served.

This bill clarifies requirements for collection suits filed by debt buyers. In 2011, the Federal
Trade Commission (FTC) issued an extensive report in which it found that complaints filed by
debt collectors to initiate collection actions against debtors do not provide sufficient information
to the defendant-debtor or the court about the underlying debt or the collector's right to collect.
The FTC’s report explained that “the function of debt collection complaints in a notice pleading
                                                                                      SB 233
                                                                                      Page 5

system is to provide sufficient information so that: (1) consumers can determine whether to
admit or deny the complaint allegations and assert affirmative defenses in their answers; and (2)
judges can determine whether to grant a motion for a more definite statement or enter a default
judgment.” (FTC, "Repairing A Broken System: Protecting Consumers in Debt Collection
Litigation and Arbitration", July 2010.)

To address these problems identified by the FTC, this bill promotes greater transparency and
clarity with respect to the allegations required in a lawsuit filed by a debt buyer, as well as the
evidence required of a debt buyer to obtain a judgment in a collection suit. First, the bill requires
the complaint in any collection suit to allege, among other things, the nature of the underlying
debt and the consumer transactions from which it is derived, and that the debt buyer is the sole
owner of the debt at issue or has the right to collect the debt. The complaint shall also allege the
same specific factual information about the debt that the debt buyer is required to possess in
order to initiate a written contact with the debtor, as discussed above. According to the author,
many of the complaints filed by some debt buyers are form complaints containing little
information useful to the person being sued. This bill helps ensure that the complaint provides
essential information about the underlying debt at issue to not only the consumer being sued, but
the court itself, which needs reliable information if it is to enter a judgment for either party.

According to the FTC, about 95% of collection lawsuits end in default judgments, which the
author contends is the business model for some debt buyers who file thousands of collection
lawsuits each year. The FTC’s report noted concern about the number of default judgments, and
recommended that states take steps to “increase consumer participation in debt collection
litigation to help decrease the prevalence of default judgments.” Accordingly, this bill would
prohibit entry of a default or other judgment against the debtor unless the debt buyer submits to
the court: (1) authenticated business records establishing the factual information about the debt
that the debt buyer is required to possess and allege in the complaint; and (2) a copy of a contract
or other document evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt, or responsibility for incurring
the debt. In addition, if a debt buyer seeks a default judgment but has not complied with the
requirements of this bill, the bill would prohibit the court from entering a default judgment for
the debt buyer and allow the court, in its discretion, to dismiss the action. This provision seeks
to provide a strong incentive for the debt buyer to provide all required information to the court
prior to pursuing a default judgment.

As a practical matter, it is expected that many consumers would not be able to find an attorney to
represent them in collection matters, or cannot afford attorney fees. Proponents contend, quite
reasonably, that in collection suits where the debt buyer cannot provide adequate information to
prove that the consumer actually owes the debt alleged, the consumer should not have a default
judgment entered against him simply because he is unsophisticated or could not afford legal
representation. This bill seeks to end that basic unfairness in collection cases where the debt
buyer does not substantiate or support his claim with adequate information.

This bill prohibits collection suits where the statute of limitations has already run. The FTC’s
report also expressed concern that certain collectors “regularly sue consumers on time-barred
debts.” This practice is likely to continue as long as many consumers do not defend suits against
them, even when the action would be barred by the statute of limitations, because they do not
know or realize that this is the case. According to the FTC, “Because an expired statute of
limitations is an affirmative defense in most states, collectors have no obligation to allege in the
complaint that the debt is not time-barred, and many collectors do not include this information.
                                                                                      SB 233
                                                                                      Page 6

If consumers do not defend, there is no one to raise the defense that the debt is time-barred . . .
Even if a debt collection action appears to be time-barred, it would be improper for courts to
consider affirmative defenses that no party had raised. As a result, some courts appear to be
granting default judgments on time-barred debt.” (FTC Report, July 2010.)

To address this concern, this bill expressly prohibits a debt buyer from bringing suit or initiating
arbitration or any other legal proceeding to collect a consumer debt if the applicable statute of
limitations on the debt buyer's claim has expired. This common-sense restriction helps protect
consumers from litigation on debts they have no legal obligation to pay, which as EBCLC notes,
may include debts resulting from identity theft, mistake, and debts already paid, in addition to
debts barred by statutes of limitations.

Private right of action against a debt buyer for violations of this act. This bill provides a private
right of action against a debt buyer who violates any provision of this act. Under this bill, a debt
buyer is liable to the person bringing the action in an amount equal to the sum of the following:
(a) actual damages sustained as a result of the violation; (b) statutory damages in an amount as
the court may allow for an individual (between $100 and $1000) or in a class action (as
specified); and (3) costs of the action and reasonable attorney’s fees. However, a debt buyer is
relieved from any liability under this bill if he shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the
violation was not intentional and resulted from a bona fide error, and occurred notwithstanding
the maintenance of procedures reasonably designed to avoid any such error. These provisions
appear similar to the private right of action under the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices
Act (Civil Code Section 1788 et seq.) It should be noted that even with this private right of
action, there is no known opposition to the bill, and it is supported by Encore Capital Group,
headquartered in San Diego and the nation's largest publicly traded debt buyer.

Previous Related Legislation: SB 890 (Leno) of 2012 was the author's attempt last year to enact
the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act. That bill contained provisions substantially similar to this
bill, but died in the Assembly Banking Committee.

REGISTERED SUPPORT / OPPOSITION:

Support

Attorney General Kamala Harris (co-sponsor)
East Bay Community Law Center (co-sponsor)
AARP
Alexander Community Law Center
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
California Consumer Affairs Association
California Labor Federation
California Public Interest Research Group
California Reinvestment Coalition
Center for Responsible Lending
Consumer Federation of California
Consumers Union
Encore Capital Group
Housing and Economic Rights Advocates
Judicial Council of California
                                                                    SB 233
                                                                    Page 7

Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund
Professor Scott Maurer, Santa Clara University School of Law
Public Counsel Law Center of Los Angeles
Public Law Center of Orange County
Service Employees International Union

Opposition

None on file

Analysis Prepared by: Anthony Lew / JUD. / (916) 319-2334
