                          SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
                             Senator Noreen Evans, Chair
                              2013-2014 Regular Session


SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
As Amended April 22, 2013
Hearing Date: May 7, 2013
Fiscal: No
Urgency: No
BCP


                                        SUBJECT

                                       Debt Buyers

                                     DESCRIPTION

This bill, the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act, would regulate the activities of a person or
entity (debt buyer) that has bought charged-off consumer loans for collection purposes.
Specifically, this bill would:
   prohibit a debt buyer from making any written statement in an attempt to collect a
   consumer debt unless the debt buyer possesses specified information;
   require the debt buyer to make that information available to the debtor, without
   charge, upon receipt of a request, within 15 days;
   require all settlement agreements between a debt buyer and a debtor to be
   documented in open court or otherwise in writing;
   require a debt buyer who receives a payment on a debt to provide a receipt or
   statement containing certain information;
   prohibit a debt buyer from initiating a suit to collect a debt if the statute of
   limitations on the cause of action has expired;
   require a debt buyer bringing an action on consumer debt to include certain
   information in his or her complaint; and
   prohibit an entry of judgment in favor of a plaintiff debt buyer unless business
   records, authenticated through a sworn declaration and proving ownership of the
   debt, are submitted by the debt buyer to the court.

This bill would provide that a debt buyer who violates the provisions of this bill is liable
for specified damages, including costs and reasonable attorney’s fees, but permits a
debt buyer to avoid liability for unintentional bona fide errors.

This bill would also require a claim of exemption, and related financial statement fo rm,
to be provided to a judgment debtor by a levying officer, as specified.


                                                                              (more)
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 2 of 12


                                    BACKGROUND

Debt buyers are companies that purchase delinquent or charged-off debts from a
creditor for a fraction of the face value of the debt. Those companies have become
subject to increased scrutiny due to numerous complaints on behalf of consumers. The
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issued a report in July 2010 examining debt collection
litigation and arbitration proceedings that concluded the “system for resolving
consumer debt collection disputes is broken” and recommended significant reforms.
(Repairing a Broken System (July 2010) Federal Trade Commission <http://www.ftc.
gov/os/2010/07/debtcollectionreport.pdf > [as of May 3, 2013] at p. i.) The FTC further
noted that:

   The report finds very few consumers defend or otherwise participate in debt
   collection litigation. The Commission therefore recommends state and local
   governments consider making a variety of reforms to service of process,
   pleading, and court rules and practices to increase the ability of consumers to
   defend or otherwise participate in debt collection litigation. The report also finds
   complaints and attachments in debt collection cases often do not provide
   adequate information for consumers to answer complaints or for judges to rule
   on motions for default judgment. The FTC therefore recommends that courts
   more rigorously apply existing rules to require that collectors provide adequate
   information and that jurisdictions consider adopting rules mandating the
   information which must be included in or attached to the complaint. The report
   additionally finds that state statutes of limitations on filing actions to recover on
   debt are sometimes variable and complex, and generally not understood by
   consumers. The Commission suggests that states consider modifying their laws
   to make it simpler to determine the applicable statute of limitations, and to
   require that collectors provide consumers with important information about
   their legal rights when collecting debt they know or should know is time-barred.
   (Id. at p. 2.)

Additionally, on October 24, 2012, the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
(CFPB) published a rule to allow the agency to federally supervise the larger consumer
debt collectors. The CFPB noted that:

   Approximately 30 million Americans have, on average, $1,500 of debt subject to
   collection. Debt collectors often report consumers’ collection status to the credit
   bureaus. If they get the information wrong, this can be the difference between
   getting approved or denied for such financial products as a mortgage or a car
   loan.

   The consumer debt collection market covered by the rule includes three main
   types of debt collection: first, firms that may buy defaulted debt and collect the
   proceeds for themselves; second, firms that may collect defaulted debt owned by
   another company in return for a fee; and third, there are debt collection attorneys
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 3 of 12


   that collect through litigation. A single company may be involved in any or all of
   these activities. By expanding the supervision program to oversee the nonbanks
   that are larger participants in the consumer debt collection market, the Bureau
   will now have a window into every stage of the process – from the origination of
   credit to debt collection.

   The CFPB’s supervision authority over these entities will begin when the rule
   takes effect on January 2, 2013. Under the rule, any firm that has more than $10
   million in annual receipts from consumer debt collection activities will be subject
   to the CFPB’s supervisory authority. This authority will extend to about 175 debt
   collectors, which account for over 60 percent of the industry’s annual receipts in
   the consumer debt collection market. (Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to
   oversee debt collectors (Oct. 24, 2012) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
   <http://www.consumerfinance.gov/pressreleases /consumer-financial-
   protection-bureau-to-oversee-debt-collectors/> [as of May 1, 2013].)

In further response to the above issues, this bill, sponsored by Attorney General Kamala
Harris, seeks to make numerous changes relating to debt buyers, including prohibiting
a debt buyer from making a written statement to collect a consumer debt without
possessing specific information, requiring a complaint in an action to collect on a
consumer debt to include specific allegations, and prohibiting a debt buyer from
bringing suit if the applicable statute of limitations has expired.

This bill was approved by the Senate Committee on Banking & Financial Institutions on
April 17, 2013, by a vote of 8-0, and is similar to SB 890 (Leno, 2011), which was
approved by this Committee but failed passage in the Assembly Committee on Banking
& Finance.

                           CHANGES TO EXISTING LAW

1. Existing federal law generally regulates the collection of debt through, among other
   things, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the
   Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.

   Existing state law, the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, generally
   prohibits deceptive, dishonest, unfair, and unreasonable debt collection practices by
   debt collectors, and regulates the form and content of communications by collectors
   to debtors and others. (Civ. Code Sec. 1788 et seq.)

   This bill would establish the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act and prohibit a debt
   buyer from making any written statement to a debtor in an attempt to collect a
   consumer debt unless the debt buyer possesses the following information:
      the debt buyer is the sole owner of the debt or has authority to assert the rights of
      all owners of the debt;
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 4 of 12


      the debt balance at charge off and an explanation for all post-charge-off interest
      rates and fees, if any, imposed by charge-off creditor or any subsequent
      purchasers of the debt;
      the date of default or date of the last payment;
      the name and address of the charge-off creditor at the time of charge off, and the
      charge-off creditor’s account number associated with the debt;
      the name and last known address of the debtor as they appeared in the charge-
      off creditor’s records prior to the sale of the debt; and
      the names and addresses of all persons or entities that purchased the debt after
      charge off, including the debt buyer making the written statement;

   This bill would prohibit a debt buyer from making any written statement to a debtor
   in an attempt to collect a consumer debt unless the debt buyer has access to a copy
   of the contract or other document evidencing the debtor’s agreement to the debt. If
   the claim is based on debt for which no signed contract or agreement exists, the debt
   buyer shall have access to a copy of a document provided to the debtor while the
   account was active, demonstrating that the debt was incurred by the debtor.

   This bill would require a debt buyer to provide the information or documents
   identified above to the debtor without charge within 15 calendar days of receipt of a
   debtor’s written request for information regarding the debt or proof of debt. If the
   debt buyer cannot provide the information or documents within 15 calendar days,
   the debt buyer shall cease all collection of the debt until the debt buyer provides the
   information or documents. A debt buyer must provide an active postal address to
   which these requests can be sent, and may provide an active email address to which
   these requests can be sent and through which information and documents can be
   delivered.

   This bill would require a debt buyer to include a prominent statutory notice with its
   first written communication with the debtor that is in no smaller than 12-point type,
   as specified.

   This bill would provide that when a debt buyer attempts to collect on a time-barred
   debt where the debt is not past the date for obsolescence, the buyer must provide the
   following notice: “The law limits how long you can be sued on a debt. Because of
   the age of your debt, we will not sue you for it. If you do not pay the debt, [insert
   name of debt buyer] may [continue to] report it to the credit reporting agencies as
   unpaid for as long as the law permits this reporting.” If the debt is both time -barred
   and past the date for obsolescence, the debtor shall provide the following notice:
   “The law limits how long you can be sued on a debt. Because of the age of your
   debt, we will not sue you for it, and we will not report it to any credit reporting
   agency.”
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 5 of 12


   This bill would state that if a language other than English is principally used by the
   debt buyer in the initial oral contact with the debtor, the above-required notices shall
   be provided to the debtor in that language within five working days.

   This bill would require all settlement agreements between a debt buyer and a debtor
   to be documented in open court or otherwise reduced to writing, and, the debt
   buyer shall ensure that a copy of the written agreement is provided to the debtor.

   This bill would require a debt buyer that receives payment on a debt to provide,
   within 30 calendar days, a receipt or monthly statement to the debtor, as specified.
   A debt buyer that accepts a payment as payment in full, or as a full and final
   compromise of the debt, shall provide, within 30 calendar days, a final statement to
   the debtor. A debt buyer shall not sell an interest in a resolved debt or any personal
   or financial information related to the resolved debt.

   This bill would prohibit a debt buyer from bringing suit or initiating an arbitration
   or other legal proceeding to collect a consumer debt if the applicable statute of
   limitations on the debt buyer’s claim has expired.

   This bill would provide that in an action brought by a debt buyer on a consumer
   debt, the complaint shall allege all of the following:
      that the plaintiff is a debt buyer;
      the nature of the underlying debt and the consumer transaction or transactions
      from which it is derived, in a short and plain statement;
      that the debt buyer is the sole owner of the debt at issue, or has authority to
      assert the rights of all owners of the debt;
      the debt balance at charge off and an explanation of the amount, nature, and
      reason for all post-charge-off interest and fees, as specified;
      the date of default or date of the last payment;
      the name and an address of the charge-off creditor at the time of charge off, and
      the charge-off creditor’s account number associated with the debt;
      the names and addresses of all persons or entities that purchased the debt after
      charge off; and
      that the debt buyer has complied with specified requirements of this bill.

   This bill would require a copy of the contract or other document that evidences the
   debtor’s agreement to the debt to be attached to the complaint.

   This bill would provide that the above requirements shall not be deemed to require
   the disclosure in public records of personal, financial, or medical information, the
   confidentiality of which is protected by any state or federal law.

   This bill would provide that in an action initiated by a debt buyer, no default or
   other judgment may be entered against a debtor unless business records,
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 6 of 12


   authenticated through a sworn declaration, are submitted by the debt buyer to the
   court to establish specified facts required to be alleged in the complaint.

   This bill would prohibit a default or other judgment from being entered against a
   debtor unless a copy of the contract or other document, as specified, authenticated
   through a sworn declaration, has been submitted by the debt buyer to the court.

   This bill would provide that in any action on a consumer debt, if a debt buyer
   plaintiff seeks a default judgment and has not complied with the above
   requirements, the court shall not enter a default judgment for the plaintiff and may,
   in its discretion, dismiss the action.

   This bill would provide that in the case of an action brought by an individual or
   individuals, a debt buyer that violates any provision above with respect to any
   person shall be liable to that person in an amount equal to a sum of: (1) actual
   damages; and (2) statutory damages, which shall not be less than $100 nor greater
   than $1,000.

   This bill would provide that, in the case of a class action, a debt buyer that violates
   any of the above provisions shall be liable for statutory damages for each plaintiff,
   and, if the court finds that the debt buyer engages in a pattern and practice of
   violating any provision of this bill, the court may award additional damages to the
   class in an amount not to exceed the lesser of $500,000 or one percent of the net
   worth of the debt buyer.

   This bill would provide that, in the case of any successful action to enforce liability
   under this bill, the court shall award the costs of the action, together with reasonable
   attorney’s fees as determined by the court.

   This bill would allow reasonable attorney’s fees to be awarded to a prevailing debt
   buyer upon a finding by the court that the plaintiff’s prosecution of the action was
   not in good faith. This bill would also provide that a debt buyer shall have no civil
   liability if the debt buyer shows by a preponderance of evidence that the violation
   was not intentional and resulted from a bona fide error, and occurred
   notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably adopted to avoid any
   error.

   This bill would require an action to enforce any liability created by this bill to be
   brought within one year from the date of the last violation. This bill would further
   state that recovery in an action brought under the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection
   Practices Act shall preclude recovery for the same acts in an action brought under
   this bill.

   This bill would further provide that in a case involving consumer debt, as regulated
   by this bill, if the defendant debtor appears for trial on the scheduled trial date, and
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 7 of 12


   the plaintiff debt buyer either fails to appear or is not prepared to proceed to trial,
   and the court does not find a good cause for continuance, the court may, in its
   discretion, dismiss the action with or without prejudice. The court may also award
   the defendant debtor’s costs of preparing for trial, including, but not limited to, lost
   wages and transportation expenses.

   This bill would additionally define “debt buyer,” apply the above provisions to
   consumer debt sold or resold on or after January 1, 2014, and make related findings
   and declarations.

2. Existing law establishes a process for the enforcement of money judgments and
   requires a levying officer to provide certain documents and information to a
   judgment debtor and to a designated employer in connection with wage
   garnishment. Existing law permits a process server also to serve an earnings
   withholding order on an employer and requires that the process server also serve
   certain documents at this time. Existing law requires an employer who is served
   with an earnings withholding order to provide certain documents to an employee
   who is a judgment debtor. (Code Civ. Proc Secs. 700.010; 706.103; 706.104; 706.108;
   706.122.)

   This bill would require, in the circumstances described above, that a copy of the
   form that the judgment debtor may use to make a claim of exemption and a copy of
   the form used to provide a financial statement also be provided.

                                       COMMENT

1. Stated need for the bill

According to the author:

   [T]he Federal Trade Commission [(FTC) has stated that], [t]he system for
   resolving disputes about consumer debts is broken, and has urged states to pass
   legislation to provide adequate protection for consumers.

   The system is broken because courts have been swamped with debt collection
   law suits driven by the growth of an industry that buys and sells bundled
   portfolios of consumer debt, and misuses the courts to leverage their collection
   efforts.

   The industry’s practices echo the scandal surrounding the processing of
   delinquent mortgages. Here, debt buyers use “robo signers” who sign affidavits
   averring that they have reviewed and verified debtors’ records, when they have
   only reviewed basic, and often incomplete, account statements records or
   spreadsheets on a computer screen. Moreover, because consumer debt is being
   bought and sold so frequently, and over a period of years, companies are
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 8 of 12


   frequently pursuing the wrong person, or the filing claims that have no lawful
   basis.

   Frequently, these debt collection actions are filed by debt buyers without proof
   that the debt ever existed. Yet actions proceed to judgment because ninety-five
   percent of consumers do not respond to these lawsuits—many because they do
   not receive notice—allowing the debt collector to take a default judgment against
   the consumer and levy against the consumer’s personnel accounts.
   ...

   The Fair Debt Buyers Act would reform the debt collection litigation process in a
   number of ways to aid consumers and unburden the courts from costly,
   unmeritorious litigation.

2. Implementing the FTC’s recommendations

As noted above, the FTC recently released a comprehensive report entitled Repairing
A Broken System: Protecting Consumers in Debt Collection Litigation and Arbitration that
contained recommendations for reforms similar to those proposed by this bill.

   a. Complaints must include detailed information

   The FTC found that complaints filed by debt collectors to initiate collection
   actions against debtors were lacking. The FTC’s report noted that “[t]he function
   of debt collection complaints in a notice pleading system is to provide sufficient
   information so that: (1) consumers can determine whether to admit or deny the
   complaint allegations and assert affirmative defenses in their answers; and (2)
   judges can determine whether to grant a motion for a more definite statement or
   enter a default judgment . . . Based on the evidence gathered in connection with
   these proceedings, the FTC believes that many debt collection complaints do not
   provide this information to consumers.” To address that issue, this bill would,
   among other things, enhance the complaint so that the debtor has more complete
   information regarding the debt at issue, and, in turn, is able to respond
   appropriately to the complaint.

   Specifically, the bill would provide that in an action brought by a debt buyer on a
   consumer debt, the complaint must allege: (1) that the plaintiff is a debt buyer;
   (2) the nature of the underlying debt and the transaction from which it is
   derived; (3) that the debt buyer is the sole owner or has authority to assert the
   owners rights; (4) the debt balance at charge off and the reason for all post-
   charge-off interest and fees; (5) the date of the last payment; (6) the name and
   address of the charge-off creditor, and the creditor’s account number; (7) the
   name and last known address of the debtor as they appear in the charge-off
   creditor’s records; and (8) the names and addresses of all entities that purchased
   the debt after charge off. The complaint must also allege that the debt buyer
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 9 of 12


   complied with this bill’s requirement for debt buyers to possess specific
   information before making a written statement to a debtor in an attempt to
   collect the debt. Regarding the necessity of requiring additional information
   from debt buyers when they seek to collect upon debt, Consumers Union (CU),
   in support, contends that “[t]ens of thousands of Californians are contacted every
   year by debt buyers they have never done business with, for debts that may be
   old or in an amount that doesn’t match the consumer’s memory or records. The
   debt may even be owed by someone else or the result of identity theft. Yet some
   debt buyer[s] have little more than a robo-signed affidavit to back up their claims
   in court.” To address the reported abuses, the detailed complaint requirements
   would appear to provide consumers with necessary information about the debt
   for which collection is attempted, and in turn, allow those consumers to file an
   appropriate answer to the complaint.

   It is important to note that many of the complaints currently filed by some debt
   buyers are simply form complaints that provide little, if any, useful information
   to the consumer being sued about the underlying debt. Regarding the filing
   practices of some of those firms, the New York Times’ October 31, 2010 article
   entitled Debt Collectors Face a Hazard: Writer’s Cramp reported that:

      In some instances, banks are selling account information that is riddled with
      errors. More often, essential background information simply is not acquired
      by debt buyers, in large part because that data adds to the price of each
      account. But court rules state that anyone submitting an affidavit to a court
      against a debtor must have proof of that claim — proper documentation of a
      debt’s origins, history and amount.

      Without that information it is hard to imagine how any company could meet
      the legal standard of due diligence, particularly while churning out
      thousands and thousands of affidavits a week. Analysts say that affidavit-
      signers at debt-buying companies appear to have little choice but to take at
      face value the few facts typically provided to them — often little more than
      basic account information on a computer screen. (Segal, Debt Collectors Face a
      Hazard: Writer’s Cramp (Oct. 31, 2010) New York Times <http://www.
      nytimes.com/2010/11/01/business/01debt.html?pagewanted=all> [as of
      May 3, 2013].)

   b. Disclosure of information prior to judgments

   To ensure that the court has sufficient information about the underlying debt, this
   bill would prohibit a default or other judgment from being entered against a debtor
   until the debt buyer submits business records that have been authenticated through
   sworn declaration and establish specified facts regarding the debt. Specifically,
   those records must show proper ownership of the debt, the debt balance and reason
   for any post-charge-off fees, date of default or last payment, and the name and
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 10 of 12


   address of the charge-off creditor, debtor, and all persons or entities who purchased
   the debt after charge-off. Furthermore, the debt buyer must also provide a copy of
   the contract or other document evidencing the debtor’s agreement to the debt,
   authenticated through sworn declaration, prior to entering a default or other
   judgment against a debtor. As a result, the proposed requirements would appear to
   ensure that the court has relatively detailed information about the nature and
   history of the debt.

   It should be noted that a large percentage of debt collection actions reportedly result
   in default judgments. Those judgments are entered in favor of the plaintiff (debt
   buyer) due to the failure of the defendant (consumer) to file a timely response to the
   complaint.

   When those consumers fail to respond, there is no advocate to raise, on their
   behalf, applicable defenses or challenge the assertions made by the debt buyer.
   The FTC’s report noted concern about the number of default judgments and
   recommended steps to “increase consumer participation in debt collection
   litigation to help decrease the prevalence of default judgments,” and noted that
   “[i]n an effort to address this problem in another way, some court systems have
   adopted measures to encourage judges to apply appropriate and consistent
   standards – including legal standards and court rules – in deciding whether to
   grant such judgments.” (Repairing a Broken System (July 2010) Federal Trade
   Commission <http://www.ftc.gov/os/2010/07/debtcollectionreport.pdf > [as
   of May 3, 2013] at p. 20.) The requirements discussed above essentially provide a
   set of consistent standards for a judge to use when granting a default judgment.

   This bill would also provide that if a debt buyer seeks a default judgment and has
   not complied with the requirement of this bill, the court shall not enter a default
   judgment and may dismiss the action. Similarly, if a defendant debtor appears for
   trial and the plaintiff debt buyer fails to appear or is not prepared to proceed (and
   there is no good cause for continuance), the court may dismiss the action and award
   the defendant debtor’s costs for preparing for trial.

   c. Statute of limitations

   The FTC’s report also expressed concern that certain collectors “regularly sue
   consumers on time-barred debts.” That practice is exacerbated by the practical
   reality that many consumers do not defend themselves against these suits, even
   when the action would be barred by the statute of limitations. The FTC further
   asserted that “[b]ecause an expired statute of limitations is an affirmative defense
   in most states, collectors have no obligation to allege in the complaint that the
   debt is not time-barred, and many collectors do not include this information. If
   consumers do not defend, there is no one to raise the defense that the debt is
   time-barred. Indeed, some judges who participated in the roundtables stated
   that, even if a debt collection action appears to be time-barred, it would be
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 11 of 12


   improper for courts to consider affirmative defenses that no party had raised. As
   a result, some courts appear to be granting default judgments on time-barred
   debt.” (Repairing a Broken System (July 2010) Federal Trade Commission
   <http://www.ftc.gov/os/2010/07/debtcollectionreport.pdf > [as of May 3,
   2013] at p. 30.)

   This bill would address those issues by, among other things, prohibiting a debt
   buyer from bringing suit or initiating an arbitration or other legal proceeding to
   collect a consumer debt if the applicable statute of limitations has expired, and
   requiring a debt buyer to notify a debtor if a debt is time-barred. Regarding the
   need to address the issue of time-barred debts, the Attorney General, sponsor,
   asserts:

       Industry practices have become a significant focus of public concern due to
       collection efforts being directed to the wrong consumer, or seeking the
       collection of debt that is time barred or has been paid. These concerns are
       compounded because a very high percentage of debt collection litigation
       results in default judgments where consumers do not appear to present
       whatever defenses may be available to them.

3. Additional limitations on debt collection

This bill would additionally prohibit a debt buyer from making a written statement
to a debtor in an attempt to collect a consumer debt unless the debt buyer possesses
specific documentation regarding the debt. The debt buyer must make that
information available, without charge, to the debtor within 15 calendar days of
receipt of a request. If the debt buyer cannot provide the information within that
time frame, the debt buyer must cease all collection of the debt until the information
is provided.

In support of the documentation requirements, AARP notes that “[t]he elderly are
disproportionately victims of identity theft and are thus often targeted with lawsuits
for debts they never obtained or authorized. . . . This legislation will provide cru cial
protections to ensure that the senior will not be subjected to this type of
unwarranted harassment, requiring that debt buyers have essential information
about a debt before they try to collect the debt and that the information be shared
with the consumer on request. . . .”

4. Remedies

This bill would provide specific penalties and damages against a debt buyer who
violates the above requirements. Specifically, the debt buyer would be liable to the
consumer in an amount equal to the actual damages plus statutory damages
(between $100 and $1000 per violation per person), and also would allow a
prevailing debtor to receive reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. This bill would
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
Page 12 of 12


also provide that in any class action where a court finds that the debt buyer engaged
in a pattern and practice of violating this bill, the court may award additional
damages in an amount not to exceed the lesser of $500,000 or one percent of the net
worth of the debt buyer.

It should be noted that this bill would also limit the liability of debt buyers if the
buyer shows that the violation was not intentional and resulted from a bona fide
error, and occurred notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably
adopted to avoid any error. That safe harbor provision would appear to shield debt
buyers from liability in cases where the error was truly inadvertent.

5. Claim of exemption

Under existing law, a judgment debtor can claim that his or her property or money is
exempt from collection efforts. Those claims may be filed with the levying officer
within 10 days after the date the notice of levy was served on the judgment debtor, and
must include a financial statement. (Code Civ. Proc. Secs. 703.520, 703.530.) To
facilitate exemptions, this bill would require the levying officer enforcing a money
judgment to also provide a copy of the forms that the judgment debtor may use to make
a claim of exemption and provide a financial statement, as specified.


Support: AARP; Center for Responsible Lending; Consumers Union; East Bay
Community Law Center; Encore Capital Group; Public Law Center

Opposition: None Known

                                       HISTORY

Source: Attorney General Kamala Harris

Related Pending Legislation: SB 702 (Anderson) would require applications for default
judgment to contain specified information. This bill is set for hearing in this Committee
on May 7, 2013.

Prior Legislation: SB 890 (Leno, 2011) See Background.

Prior Vote: Senate Committee on Banking & Financial Institutions (Ayes 8, Noes 0)

                                      **************
