     SENATE BANKING & FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS COMMITTEE
                   Senator Lou Correa, Chair
                  2013-2014 Regular Session
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)                                  Hearing Date: April 17, 2013

As Amended:          April 1, 2013
Fiscal:              No
Urgency:             No


SUMMARY Would enact the Fair Debt Buyers Practices Act, to further regulate the
activities of persons and entities that purchase delinquent or charged-off consumer
debt, as specified.

DESCRIPTION

1.   Would define a debt buyer, for purposes of the bill, as a person or entity that is
     regularly engaged in the business of purchasing charged-off consumer loans,
     consumer credit accounts, or other delinquent consumer debt for collection
     purposes, whether it collects the debt itself, hires a third party for collection, or
     hires an attorney for collection litigation.

2.   A debt buyer would also include any parent, subsidiary, or other affiliate that
     exercises direct control over a person or entity that meets the definition of a debt
     buyer in Number 1, immediately above.

3.   Would prohibit a debt buyer from making any written statement to a debtor in an
     attempt to collect a consumer debt, unless it possesses the following information:

      a. That the debt buyer is the sole owner of the debt at issue or otherwise has
         authority to assert the rights of all owners of the debt.

      b. The debt balance at charge off and an explanation of the amount, nature, and
         reason for all post-charge off fees and charges imposed by the charge-off
         creditor or any subsequent purchasers of the debt.

      c. The date of default or the date of the last payment by the debtor.

      d. The name and an address of the charge-off creditor at the time of charge off,
         and the charge-off creditor’s account number associated with the debt.

      e. The name and last known address of the debtor as they appeared in the
         charge-off creditor’s records prior to the sale of the debt.

      f. The names and addresses of all persons or entities that purchased the debt
         after charge off.
                                                SB 233 (Leno and Correa), Page 2



4.   Would prohibit a debt buyer from making any written statement to a debtor in an
     attempt to collect a consumer debt, unless it has access to a copy of the contract
     or other document evidencing the debtor’s agreement to the debt.

5.   Would require a debt buyer to include a statement with its first written
     communication to a debtor, informing the debtor that he or she is eligible to request
     all of the information listed in Numbers 3 and 4 above, and would require the debt
     buyer to provide that information to a debtor, without charge, within 15 calendar
     days of receiving a debtor’s written request for it. Any debt buyer who is unable to
     provide the information to a debtor within 15 calendar days must cease all attempts
     to collect the debt, until that debt buyer is able to provide the information.

6.   Would provide that, if a language other than English is principally used by a debt
     buyer in its initial oral contact with a debtor, the debt buyer must provide the
     statement described in Number 5 above to that debtor in that language, as
     specified.

7.   Would require all settlement agreements between a debt buyer and a debtor to be
     documented in open court or otherwise reduced to writing, and would require a
     debt buyer to ensure that a copy of the written agreement is provided to the debtor.

8.   Would require debt buyers who receive payment on a debt to provide a written
     receipt or monthly statement reflecting that payment (or a final statement reflecting
     that payment, if the payment is accepted as payment in full or as a final
     compromise of the debt) to the debtor within 30 calendar days.

9.   Would prohibit a debt buyer from bringing suit or initiating an arbitration or other
     legal proceeding to collect a consumer debt if the applicable statute of limitations
     on the debt buyer’s claim has expired.

10. Except as necessary to protect confidential personal, financial, or medical
    information, would require the complaint in any action brought by a debt buyer on a
    consumer debt to allege the nature of the underlying debt and the consumer
    transaction or transactions from which it is derived, and to include all of the
    information listed in Number 3 above, along with a statement that the debt buyer
    complied with the provisions of the bill described in Numbers 3 through 6 above.
    Would further require each complaint to contain a copy of the contract or other
    document evidencing the debtor’s agreement to the debt as an attachment to the
    complaint.

11. Would provide that no default or other judgment may be entered against a debtor,
    unless business records, authenticated through a sworn declaration, are submitted
    by the debt buyer to the court to establish the information that is alleged in the
    complaint, and unless a copy of the contract or other document evidencing the
    debtor’s agreement to the debt, authenticated through a sworn declaration, has
    been submitted by the debt buyer to the court.

12. Would provide that, if a debt buyer plaintiff seeks a default judgment and has not
    complied with the provisions of the bill, the court may not enter a default judgment
                                                  SB 233 (Leno and Correa), Page 3



     for the plaintiff and may, in its discretion, dismiss the action.

13. Would provide for all of the following, to enforce the provisions of this bill:

       a. A debt buyer who violates the provisions of the bill with respect to a person is
          liable to that person for actual damages, as specified, plus statutory damages
          between $100 and $1000 per violation, plus reasonable attorneys’ fees and
          costs, as determined by the court.

       b. In the case of a class action, a debt buyer who violates the provisions of the
          bill with respect to a class is liable for statutory damages of between $100
          and $1000 per violation for each named plaintiff, plus reasonable attorneys’
          fees and costs, as determined by the court.

       c. If, as part of a class action, a court finds that the debt buyer engaged in a
          pattern and practice of violating the bill, the court may award additional
          damages to the class in an amount not to exceed the lesser of $500,000 or
          1% of the net worth of the debt buyer.

       d. Courts are authorized to award reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs to a
          prevailing debt buyer, upon a finding by the court that the plaintiff’s
          prosecution of the action was not in good faith.

       e. A debt buyer has no civil liability under the provisions of the bill if it shows, by
          a preponderance of the evidence, that its violation was not intentional,
          resulted from a bona fide error, and occurred notwithstanding the
          maintenance of procedures reasonably adopted to avoid any such error.

       f. Would require that any action brought to enforce the provisions of the bill be
          brought within one year from the date of the last alleged violation by the debt
          buyer.

       g. Would provide that recovery in an action brought under the Rosenthal Fair
          Debt Collection Practices Act or the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act
          precludes recovery for the same acts in an action brought under the
          provisions of this bill.

14. Would provide that any waiver of the provisions of this bill is contrary to public
    policy, and is void and unenforceable.

15. Would amend the Code of Civil Procedure to align the additional information
    requirements of this bill with the requirements that levying officers, process
    servicers, and employers must follow in connection with wage garnishment.


EXISTING FEDERAL LAW

1.   Provides for the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA; 15 USC Section
     1692), whose stated purposes are to eliminate abusive practices in the collection
                                                 SB 233 (Leno and Correa), Page 4



     of consumer debts, promote fair debt collection, and provide consumers with an
     avenue for disputing and obtaining validation of debt information in order to ensure
     the information's accuracy. The Act creates guidelines under which debt collectors
     may conduct business, defines rights of consumers involved with debt collectors,
     and prescribes penalties and remedies for violations of the Act. Responsibility for
     enforcing the FDCPA was transferred from the Federal Trade Commission to the
     federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau through the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
     Reform and Consumer Protection Act.

EXISTING STATE LAW

1.   Provides for the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (Civil Code Section
     1788 et seq.), whose stated purposes are to prohibit debt collectors from engaging
     in unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the collection of consumer debts and to
     require debtors to act fairly in entering into and honoring such debts. The Act
     prohibits deceptive, dishonest, unfair and unreasonable debt collection practices
     by debt collectors, and regulates the form and content of communications by debt
     collectors to debtors and others.

COMMENTS

1.   Purpose: This bill is intended to provide better documentation of alleged debts to
     consumers who are contacted by debt collectors, and to reduce the occurrence of
     debt collection activities directed toward time-barred debt, or to the wrong person,
     or both. It does so by establishing clear, enforceable standards governing the
     documentation required to support the collection of purchased delinquent or
     charged-off debt, particularly in collection litigation.

     According to the author’s office, the debt buying industry has become a significant
     focus of public concern, related, in part, to the inadequacy of documentation
     maintained by the industry in support of its debt collection activities and litigation.
     There have been widespread accounts of debt buyer collection efforts, including
     collection litigation, against the wrong person, or targeting debt that is time-barred
     or has already been paid. Collection efforts have become increasingly
     misdirected, as consumer debt is sold and resold, repeatedly, without reliable
     documentation evidencing its origin. This bill is a response to these concerns.

2.   Background: According to the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
     (CFPB), debt collection is a multi-billion dollar industry. During 2012,
     approximately 30 million individuals nationwide (14% of American adults who have
     credit reports) had debt that was subject to the collections process. The average
     amount of consumer debt held by these consumers was $1,500.

     In a rule released by the CFPB in October 2012 (see discussion below), CFPB
     described the importance of regulating the consumer debt collection industry. It
     noted that consumer debt collection is important to the functioning of the consumer
     credit markets. By collecting consumer debt, collectors reduce creditors’ losses
     from non-repayment and help keep credit accessible and more affordable to
     consumers.
                                                 SB 233 (Leno and Correa), Page 5




     However, debt collection performed in illegal ways has the potential to cause
     consumers substantial harm. If collectors falsely represent amounts owed,
     consumers may pay debts they do not owe, either to stop collection efforts or
     because they are unsure how much they owe. Consumers may also
     unintentionally yield their rights, by waiving the statute of limitations on debt claims
     for which the relevant limit periods have expired. “Whether or not consumers owe
     and are liable for the debts collectors are attempting to recover, unlawful collection
     practices can cause significant reputational damage, invade personal privacy, and
     inflict emotional distress. Among the possible consequences, a collector’s
     inappropriate interference with a consumer’s employment relationships can also
     impair the consumer’s ability to repay debts.”

     Although federal and state laws already exist to protect consumers from such
     harms, several interested parties, including the Federal Trade Commission and
     this bill’s sponsor, believe that existing law is inadequate, and that more needs to
     be done to protect consumers.

3.   Discussion:

     a.   Relation to SB 890: The provisions of this bill are substantially similar to
          provisions of SB 890 (Leno), a bill that was extensively debated during the
          2011-12 Legislative Session, and which was ultimately amended to reflect a
          compromise between the author, sponsor, debt buyer, and debt collector
          industries. SB 890 ultimately failed passage in the Assembly Banking &
          Finance Committee, due to opposition from the California Bankers
          Association.

          SB 233 builds on the compromise reached last year with the debt buyer and
          debt collector industries. Although complete consensus on the bill has not yet
          been reached with the California Bankers Association, the two sides are
          much closer than they were last year, and have tentatively agreed to a new
          definition of “debt buyer.” That agreement is summarized below in the
          Amendments section.

     b.   Recent Federal Action: The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
          Protection Act granted CFPB authority to supervise certain nonbank persons
          for compliance with federal consumer financial law and for other purposes.
          CFPB has the authority to supervise nonbank covered persons of all sizes in
          the residential mortgage, private education lending, and payday lending
          markets. It has the authority to supervise nonbank “larger participants” in
          markets of other consumer financial products or services, as the Bureau
          defines by rule. Since SB 890 failed passage on July 2, 2012, the CFPB has
          taken two actions related to the debt collection industry.

          In October 2012, the CFPB published a Final Consumer Debt Collection Rule,
          defining larger participants in the context of consumer debt collection, and
          giving CFPB authority to undertake supervisory activities with respect to those
          consumer debt collectors, effective January 2, 2013. In its rule (codified as
                                               SB 233 (Leno and Correa), Page 6



          12 CFR Part 1090.105), CFPB defined “consumer debt collection,” “creditor,”
          and “debt collector,” and defined a larger participant in the context of
          consumer debt collection as one whose annual receipts resulting from
          consumer debt collection are more than $10 million.

          Consistent with its new supervisory authority over larger consumer debt
          collectors, the CFPB issued a manual of examination procedures in October
          2012, for use by CFPB examiners in reviewing the activities of those
          collectors. That examination manual does not impose any new rules for
          larger consumer debt collectors; instead, it provides checklists for use by
          CFPB examiners in evaluating whether larger consumer debt collectors are
          complying with existing federal law in this area.

          Staff’s review of the new federal rules and examination guidelines did not
          identify any conflict with what is being proposed in SB 233. There are,
          however, differences in this bill’s definition of a “debt buyer” and the CFPB’s
          definition of a “debt collector,” which is likely to mean that the new rules
          proposed by SB 233 will fall on a somewhat different population than rules
          that may be promulgated for large debt collectors in the future by the CFPB.

4.   Summary of Arguments in Support:

     a.   Attorney General Kamala Harris is sponsoring SB 233. The Attorney
          General’s interest in the area stems from industry practices, which are
          causing collection efforts to be directed toward the wrong consumer, or
          toward the collection of debt that is time-barred or has been paid. The
          Attorney General’s concerns are compounded, because a very high
          percentage of debt collection litigation result in default judgments, where
          consumers do not appear to present whatever defenses may be available to
          them.

          SB 233 addresses these concerns in a number of ways, but principally by
          ensuring that collection efforts on purchased debt will be supported by
          adequate documentation. By requiring all payments and agreements
          associated with debt to be reduced to writing, the bill will ensure that no
          judgment is entered on purchased debt that is time barred or that lacks
          documentary evidence.

     b.   Consumers Union and the Center for Responsible Lending write that SB 233
          is sorely needed. “Tens of thousands of Californians are contacted every
          year by debt buyers they have never done business with, for debts that may
          be old or in an amount that doesn’t match the consumer’s memory or records.
          The debt may even be owed by someone else or the result of identity theft.
          Yet, some debt buyers have little more than a robo-signed affidavit to back up
          their claims in court.” SB 233 will help consumers and courts determine if the
          consumer is, in fact, the person who incurred the debt. To ensure fairness in
          all civil collections cases, the bill would require debt buyers to show how the
          debt was calculated, including the original amount and the nature and type of
          post charge-off fees and charges. This is a protection that does not currently
                                                 SB 233 (Leno and Correa), Page 7



          exist for persons who are sued on a debt.

     c.   The Public Law Center routinely sees cases in which low-income and
          formerly middle-class Californians are victims of unscrupulous debt buyer
          practices. It observes that collection lawsuits have increased by 20%
          statewide over the past five years. This marked workload increase is coming
          during a fiscal crisis, when California courts are closing their doors early and
          cutting staff hours as a result of budget strain. When legislation similar to SB
          233 passed in North Carolina, the result was a marked drop in the courts’ civil
          caseload.

5.   Summary of Arguments in Opposition: None received.

6.   Amendments: The author, sponsor, debt buyer, and debt collector industries have
     agreed on a series of largely technical amendments to the April 1 st version of the
     bill, which will be offered by the author in Committee. The three most substantive
     changes to the bill’s language that are contained in those amendments include the
     following:

     a.   The definition of a debt buyer will now read as follows: 1788.50 (a) “As used
          in this title, ‘debt buyer’ means a person or entity that is regularly engaged in
          the business of purchasing charged-off consumer debt for collection
          purposes, whether it collects the debt itself, hires a third party for collection, or
          hires an attorney-at-law for collection litigation.”

          The definition of a debt buyer will no longer include “any parent, subsidiary, or
          other affiliate that exercises direct control over the person or entity described
          in subdivision (a).”

          A definition of what is meant by charged-off debt will be added to the bill.
          Language to reflect this definition was not available at the time this
          Committee analysis was prepared. Staff understands that this definition
          represents the final point of contention between the California Bankers
          Association and this bill’s sponsor.

     b.   Language will be added, which applies the bill to debt buyers with respect to
          all charged-off consumer debt sold or resold on or after January 1, 2014.

     c.   The words “per violation” will be deleted from the provision of the bill that
          authorizes courts to award statutory damages to persons who prevail in an
          action against a debt buyer for a violation of the bill. This has the effect of
          awarding statutory damages of between $100 and $100 per action, rather
          than per violation.

7.   Prior and Related Legislation:

     a.   SB 890 (Leno), 2011-12 Legislative Session: The final version of SB 890 is
          substantially similar to the current version of SB 233. Failed passage in the
          Assembly Banking & Finance Committee.
                                            SB 233 (Leno and Correa), Page 8




LIST OF REGISTERED SUPPORT/OPPOSITION

Support

Attorney General Kamala Harris (sponsor)
AARP
Center for Responsible Lending
Consumers Union
Public Law Center

Opposition

None received

Consultant: Eileen Newhall (916) 651-4102
