SENATE RULES COMMITTEE                                                       SB 531
Office of Senate Floor Analyses
(916) 651-1520 Fax: (916) 327-4478

                                THIRD READING

Bill No:     SB 531
Author:      Wieckowski (D)
Amended:     4/29/21
Vote:        21


SENATE BANKING & F.I. COMMITTEE: 7-2, 4/7/21
AYES: Limón, Bradford, Caballero, Durazo, Hueso, Min, Portantino
NOES: Ochoa Bogh, Dahle

SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE: 9-1, 4/27/21
AYES: Umberg, Caballero, Durazo, Gonzalez, Hertzberg, Laird, Stern,
  Wieckowski, Wiener
NOES: Jones
NO VOTE RECORDED: Borgeas

SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE: Senate Rule 28.8


SUBJECT: Consumer debt
SOURCE: Author

DIGEST: This bill requires specified notices to be provided to debtors in
connection with the sale or assignment of delinquent consumer debt. This bill also
establishes certain documentation requirements for debt collectors and provides a
right to request specified information from those collecting on sold or assigned
delinquent debt.
ANALYSIS:
Existing federal law:
1) Provides the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) which prohibits
   deceptive, unfair, and harassing debt collection activity. (15 U.S.C. Section
   1692 et seq.)
                                                                                  SB 531
                                                                                  Page 2

2) Requires a debt collector to send a consumer a written notice containing
   information validating the debt, including the amount of the debt and the name
   of the creditor to whom the debt is owed. Provides the consumer with 30 days
   to dispute the debt or to request the name and address of the original creditor, if
   different from the current creditor. (15 U.S.C. Section 1692g)
Existing state law:
1) Regulates the collection of consumer debt under the Rosenthal Fair Debt
   Collections Practices Act (Rosenthal Act), which generally prohibits deceptive,
   dishonest, unfair, and unreasonable debt collection practices by debt collectors
   and regulates the form and content of communications by debt collectors to
   debtors and others. (Title 1.6C of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code, Section
   1788 et seq.)
2) Regulates the activities of a debt buyer, including requirements for debt buyers
   to have specified evidence of the origin, balance, payment history, and
   ownership history of a charged off consumer debt and to provide this evidence
   to a debtor upon request. (Title 1.6C.5 of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code,
   Section 1788.50 et seq.)
3) Prohibits a debt buyer from making any written statement to a debtor in an
   attempt to collect a consumer debt unless the debt buyer possesses specified
   information, including the date of default or the date of the last payment. (Civil
   Code Section 1788.52)
4) Defines a “debt buyer” as a person or entity that is regularly engaged in the
   business of purchasing charged-off consumer debt for collection purposes,
   whether it collects the debt itself, hires a third party for collection, or hires an
   attorney-at-law for collection litigation.
5) Defines “charged-off consumer debt” as a consumer debt that has been removed
   from a creditor’s books as an asset and treated as a loss or expense.
This bill:
1) Defines, pursuant to the Rosenthal Act, “delinquent debt” as a consumer debt,
   other than a mortgage debt, that is past due at least 30 days and has not been
   charged off.
2) Prohibits a creditor from selling or assigning a delinquent debt to a third party
   unless the creditor has provided notice to the debtor within five days after the
   sale or assignment that contains the dollar amount of the outstanding debt and
                                                                                SB 531
                                                                                Page 3

   the name of the party to whom the debt will be sold. Requires the creditor to
   provide the notice to the purchaser or assignee of the debt that is the subject of
   the notice.
3) Requires a debt collector to which a delinquent debt has been assigned for
   collection to provide to the debtor, upon the debtor’s written request, a
   statement that includes all of the following information:
   a) That the debt collector has authority to assert the rights of the creditor to
      collect the debt.
   b) The debt balance and an explanation of the amount, nature, and reason for
      all interest and fees, as specified.
   c) The date the debt became delinquent or the date of the last payment.
   d) The name and an address of the creditor and the creditor’s account number
      associated with the debt.
   e) The name and last known address of the debtor as they appeared in the
      creditor’s records before the assignment of the debt to the debt collector.
   f) The names and addresses of all persons or entities other than the debt
      collector to which the debt was assigned. The names and addresses shall be
      in sufficient form so as to reasonably identify each assignee.
   g) The California license number of the debt collector.
   h) A copy of the notice sent by the creditor that the delinquent debt was being
      sold or assigned, as specified.
4) Prohibits a debt collector to which delinquent debt has been assigned from
   making a written statement to a debtor in an attempt to collect a delinquent
   consumer debt unless the debt collector has access to proof of contract, as
   specified, and a copy of the notice described in 2) above.
5) Requires a debt collector to provide the information described in 3) above
   within 30 days of a debtor’s request, as specified. Prohibits debt collection
   activity after the 30-day window if the information is not provided, as specified.
6) Requires a debt collector to which delinquent debt has been assigned to include
   in its first written communication with the debtor a prominent notice about the
   debtor’s rights to request records described in 3) above.
                                                                                                             SB 531
                                                                                                             Page 4

7) Prohibits a debt buyer from making any written statement to a debtor in an
   attempt to collect a consumer debt unless the debt buyer possesses the required
   notice described in 2) above.
Comments
According to the author’s office, consumers are being sued by debt collectors who
sometimes lack sufficient documentation to identify where the debt originated. In
some cases, a debtor may ask the debt collector to provide information required by
the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act (FDBPA), such as proof that the debt collector
has the right to collect the debt and sufficient information so that the debtor can
determine if they are the correct debtor and if they actually owe the debt. In cases
where the debt in question was not charged off and sold, the debt collector does not
have any legal obligations under FDBPA, which covers charged-off debts. This
leaves the debtor with the burden of conducting their own research to determine if
the debt is really theirs and whether they owe the amount claimed by the debt
collector.
If all debt collectors had a reputation for accurate recordkeeping, then this bill may
not be necessary. In practice, however, some debt collectors have behaved in a
manner that casts doubt on their ability to prevent innocent consumers from being
held liable for amounts they do not owe. Debt collectors have sued the wrong
person, sued on inaccurate amounts, or have sued with incomplete information.1
Although federal law applicable to debt collection establishes some validation
requirements of a debt, the author’s office argues that federal law is insufficient to
protect consumers due to the less comprehensive definition of “debt collector”
under federal law and the lack of more specific validation requirements that inhibit
a debtor from defending against the claim.
Delinquent vs. charged-off debts
The author intends for this bill to improve transparency for consumers who are
subject to collections activities, regardless of whether their debt has been charged
off or is only delinquent. As discussed in the next section, existing law provides
transparency for consumers if the debt related to the collections activity has been
charged off. The term “charge off” generally refers to the situation where a
creditor, in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles, determines
that a loan will not be repaid as agreed upon and removes that loan from its
balance sheet. Instead of the loan serving as an asset representing an investment

1
 https://www.responsiblelending.org/sites/default/files/nodes/files/research -publication/crl-california-debt-
oct2020.pdf
                                                                                                         SB 531
                                                                                                         Page 5

that will provide a profit over time, a charged-off loan is an expense that reduces
the creditor’s profit because the debtor is not expected to repay the loan. In some
cases, the creditor will attempt to sell the charged-off debt to a debt buyer who
purchases the legal rights to act as the creditor in attempting to collect the debt. A
person who attempts to collect a charged-off debt is required to comply with the
state FDBPA, in addition to the state and federal versions of the FDCPA when
engaging in collections activities.
A delinquent debt describes a debt where the consumer has fallen behind on their
loan payments. Falling behind on loan payments is a fairly common event and does
not necessarily mean the loan will ultimately be charged off, though a loan that
remains in delinquent status will eventually be charged off. 2 When a loan falls into
delinquent status, some creditors decide to assign the debt to a third-party
collector, often because the third party may have comparative advantages relative
to the creditor in collecting past-due accounts. In cases where the transfer of the
debt is not structured as a charge off and sale, the third-party collector is not
subject to the requirements of the FDBPA, which contains stronger validation
requirements than the federal Fair Debt Collections Practices Act to which the
third party must comply.
This bill creates similar documentation requirements for delinquent debts as
existing law requires for charged-off debts
In 2013 California enacted FDBPA in response to concerns that debt buyers were
attempting to collect debts that were attributed to the wrong consumer, time-barred
and thus unenforceable, and debts that were already repaid. The FDBPA covers
consumer debts that have been charged off. The law requires, among other things,
that a debt buyer possess specified information related to the debt prior to
attempting to collect, including specified information about the debt buyer’s
authority to assert rights as the creditor to collect the debt, the debt balance, the
date of default or last payment, identifying information about the debtor, and
identifying information about the creditor and any person who has purchased the
debt since it was charged off. These requirements were established to prevent
situations where creditors were selling charged-off debts to third parties with little
or no supporting documentation, leading to collections activities that targeted the
wrong consumer or targeted the correct debtor for an incorrect amount. This bill
borrows heavily from the documentation requirements of the FDBPA and applies
those requirements to debt collectors collecting delinquent debts. If enacted, this

2
  Accounting requirements and practices differ somewhat between types of creditor. Bank regulatory accounting
requirements state that open-end accounts should be charged off after 180 days of delinquency and that closed -end
accounts should be charged off after 120 days (source: https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-09-748.pdf).
                                                                                SB 531
                                                                                Page 6

bill would provide similarly situated debtors with access to similar information that
may help them defend against the claim of a debt collector.
FISCAL EFFECT: Appropriation: No               Fiscal Com.: Yes       Local: No
SUPPORT: (Verified 5/11/21)
Center for Responsible Lending
Neighborhood Legal Services of Los Angeles County
Public Law Center
Western Center on Law & Poverty, Inc.
OPPOSITION: (Verified 5/11/21)
California Association of Collectors, Inc.
California Bankers Association
California Credit Union League
California Creditors Bar Association
California Financial Services Association
California Land Title Association
ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT: The Center for Responsible Lending and Public
Law Center, a 501(c)(3) legal aid organization, argue that the FDBPA helped to
address issues of debt buyers collecting the wrong debts and believe that this bill
will help to prevent similar situations in the context of collecting delinquent debts.
The organizations also state their belief that the creditor notification requirement
will reduce a consumer’s suspicions of fraud or scams when the consumer is
contacted by a collector with whom they have not previously interacted.
ARGUMENTS IN OPPOSITION: The California Bankers Association,
California Credit Union League, and California Creditors Bar Association argue
that this bill is premature given expected federal rules related to debt collection that
may go into effect soon. The organizations also state that several terms in this bill
require further defining and refinement, including “delinquent debt” and “assigned
for collection,” but the organizations do not provide specific recommendations for
how these terms should be defined.


Prepared by: Michael Burdick / B. & F.I. /
5/12/21 15:32:49
                             **** END ****
