                                                                                          SB 531
                                                                                          Page 1

SENATE THIRD READING
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
As Amended July 8, 2021
Majority vote

SUMMARY
Establishes documentation and notification requirements for a debt collector who has been
assigned a delinquent debt.

Major Provisions
1) Defines, under the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (Rosenthal Act), the term
   "delinquent debt" to mean a consumer debt, other than a mortgage debt, that has not been
   charged off and is past due at least 90 days.
2) Requires a debt collector to whom a delinquent debt has been assigned to provide the debtor,
   upon request and within 30 days, a statement including specified information about the
   delinquent debt, such as the balance and reason for all interest and fees, and a copy of the
   contract evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt.
3) Prohibits a debt collector to which delinquent debt has been assigned from making a written
   statement to a debtor in an attempt to collect a delinquent consumer debt unless the debt
   collector has access to specified information, such as a copy of the contract or other
   document evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt.

COMMENTS
Background. State law places various notification requirements and protections for borrowers
related to the practices of debt collection and debt purchasing. Specifically:

1) The Rosenthal Act. The Legislature passed the Rosenthal Act in 1977 to place limits on the
   kinds of activities that creditors and debt collectors can employ when collecting payments.
   The Rosenthal Act prohibits deceptive, dishonest, unfair and unreasonable debt collection
   practices, and many of the law's provisions govern how debt collectors can interact and
   communicate with consumers. The law also provides a private right of action for harmed
   consumers, though nothing in the Rosenthal Act requires the debt collector prove they have
   the right to collect the debt.

2) The Fair Debt Buying Practices Act. The Legislature passed the Fair Debt Buying Practices
   Act in 2014 to provide protections to consumers whose debts were sold to a debt buyer. It
   requires an entity that buys charged-off consumer debt to maintain certain documentation and
   also requires that debt buyer to provide disclosures to consumers when the buyer attempts to
   collect debts. While the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act applies only to instances when the
   transfer of collection is structured as a sale, it also contains stronger validation and
   documentation requirements than the Rosenthal Act.

This bill extends similar validation and documentation requirements found in the Fair Debt
Buying Practices Act to certain instances where delinquent debt is assigned to a debt collector by
a creditor. Currently, these requirements, such as making available certain information that
                                                                                                SB 531
                                                                                                Page 2

proves an entity has a right to collect a particular debt, do not apply to a debt collector who is
collecting an assigned delinquent debt that the collector did not purchase.

Questions around this bill's applicability to rental debt. Opponents to this bill have expressed
concerns that this bill would apply to rental debt and would have an impact on landlords seeking
the recovery of lost rent. For a more detailed discussion of this issue, refer to the Assembly
Judiciary Committee's analysis of this bill.

According to the Author
   SB 531 will bring needed transparency to the debt collection business, an industry
   where debt is exchanged so fast and often times through multiple hands that
   consumers are left confused as to whom they really owe money. My bill would
   require debt collectors, who have delinquent debt assigned to them, to have proof that
   they have the authority to collect on the debt. Consumers would have the right to
   request that proof, along with simple but important information such as how much
   debt is owed, any fees or interests, and the date of the last payment.

Arguments in Support
Public Law Center describes the need for this bill as follows:

   …There are reports from legal services of debt collectors going out of their way to
   assert that debt they are collecting on is assigned debt, not sold. Assigned meaning the
   original creditor technically still owns the debt, but they have a debt collector make all
   decisions relating to collection activity. Because the debt is not being sold, debtors'
   rights and protections under the FDBPA is being circumvented. Collectors are targeting
   wrong debtors, they are collecting on incorrect amounts, and the consumer has no way
   to determine the truth of their claims. SB 531 would require debt collectors that have
   delinquent debt assigned to them have proof that they have the authority to collect on
   the assigned debt, and the bill would allow the consumer the right to request that proof,
   along with other basic information in regards to the debt. These rights are the same as
   those found in the FDBPA for debt that is sold

Arguments in Opposition
Southern California Rental Housing Association contends that this bill will burden collection of
rental debt:

   Even a mention of rent that's due triggers [the] Rosenthal [Act]. So, consumer debt and any
   debt collection agency…that collects rental debt also has to comply.

FISCAL COMMENTS
According to the Assembly Appropriations Committee, minor and absorbable costs to the
Department of Financial Protection and Innovation (DFPI) to update manuals and licensee
examination procedures and respond to new complaints.
                                                                                      SB 531
                                                                                      Page 3

VOTES
SENATE FLOOR: 29-9-2
YES: Allen, Archuleta, Atkins, Becker, Bradford, Caballero, Cortese, Dodd, Durazo, Eggman,
Glazer, Gonzalez, Hertzberg, Hueso, Hurtado, Kamlager, Laird, Leyva, McGuire, Min,
Newman, Pan, Portantino, Roth, Rubio, Skinner, Umberg, Wieckowski, Wiener
NO: Bates, Borgeas, Dahle, Grove, Jones, Melendez, Nielsen, Ochoa Bogh, Wilk
ABS, ABST OR NV: Limón, Stern

ASM BANKING AND FINANCE: 9-0-3
YES: Grayson, Bauer-Kahan, Burke, Cervantes, Gabriel, Cristina Garcia, Petrie-Norris, Stone,
Wicks
ABS, ABST OR NV: Chen, Choi, Nguyen

ASM JUDICIARY: 9-1-1
YES: Stone, Gallagher, Chau, Chiu, Lorena Gonzalez, Holden, Kalra, Maienschein, Reyes
NO: Davies
ABS, ABST OR NV: Kiley

ASM APPROPRIATIONS: 15-1-0
YES: Lorena Gonzalez, Bryan, Calderon, Carrillo, Chau, Megan Dahle, Voepel, Fong, Mullin,
Eduardo Garcia, Luz Rivas, Quirk, Kalra, Stone, McCarty
NO: Bigelow


UPDATED
VERSION: July 8, 2021

CONSULTANT: Luke Reidenbach / B. & F. / (916) 319-3081                          FN: 0001120
