                                                                                           SB 531
                                                                                           Page 1

Date of Hearing: July 6, 2021

                        ASSEMBLY COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY
                                    Mark Stone, Chair
                      SB 531 (Wieckowski) – As Amended June 29, 2021

                                   As Proposed to be Amended

SENATE VOTE: 29-9

SUBJECT: CONSUMER DEBT

KEY ISSUE: SHOULD CERTAIN CIVIL CODE PROVISIONS THAT REGULATE THE
COLLECTION PRACTICES OF DEBT BUYERS BE ADAPTED TO APPLY TO DEBT
COLLECTORS?

                                           SYNOPSIS

This measure would adapt certain provisions of the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act and
incorporate them in the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. Specifically, under the
bill, debt collectors that are assigned debts for collection which are at least 90 days overdue and
have not yet been “charged off” as a loss would have to:

      Provide, upon the debtor’s written request, basic information about the debt, such as an
       accounting of the balance sought and the date on which the last payment was made, as
       well as documentation of the debtor’s underlying contract.

      Notify debtors of their right to request this information.

      Cease collection activity if the debt collector cannot provide the requested information
       within 30 days of the debtor’s request.

The purpose of the bill is two-fold. First, it would help prevent entities from claiming that they
are not legally required to provide debtors with basic information about debts they are seeking
to collect. Second, it would enable a person from whom a debt is wrongfully collected to easily
obtain evidence to show that they are not legally responsible for the debt and/or that the amount
sought is incorrect—without having to go to court. The bill is supported by four nonprofits:
California Low-Income Consumer Coalition, Center for Responsible Lending, Public Law
Center, and Western Center on Law & Poverty. It is opposed by the Southern California Rental
Housing Association.

SUMMARY: Amends the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act to incorporate
provisions similar to those enacted under the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act. Specifically, this
bill:

1) Defines, under the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (Rosenthal Act), the term
   “delinquent debt” to mean a consumer debt, other than a mortgage debt, that has not been
   charged off and is past due at least 90 days.
                                                                                              SB 531
                                                                                              Page 2

2) Requires a debt collector to which delinquent debt has been assigned to include, in its first
   written communication with the debtor, a separate prominent notice in no smaller than 12-
   point type that includes the following statement:
       “You may request records showing the following: (1) that [insert name of debt collector]
       has the right to seek collection of the debt; (2) the debt balance, including an explanation
       of any interest charges and additional fees; (3) the date the debt became delinquent or the
       date of the last payment; (4) the name of the creditor and the account number associated
       with the debt; (5) the name and last known address of the debtor as it appeared in the
       creditor’s records prior to assignment of the debt; and (6) the names of all persons or
       entities other than the debt collector to which the debt has been assigned, if applicable.
       You may also request from us a copy of the contract or other document evidencing your
       agreement to the debt.

       A request for these records may be addressed to: [insert debt collector’s active mailing
       address and email address, if applicable].”

3) Specifies that if the debt collector principally uses a language other than English in its first
   oral contact with the debtor, then it must provide the notice in 2) in that language within five
   business days.
4) Requires a debt collector to which delinquent debt has been assigned to provide to the debtor,
   upon the debtor’s written request, a statement that includes the following information:
   a) That the debt collector has authority to assert the rights of the creditor to collect the debt.

   b) The debt balance and an explanation of the amount, nature, and reason for all interest and
      fees, if any, imposed by the creditor or any subsequent entities to which the debt was
      assigned. The debt balance, the total interest, and the total fees must be identified
      separately.

   c) The date the debt became delinquent or the date of the last payment.
   d) The creditor’s name, address, and the account number associated with the debt. The
      creditor’s name and address must be in sufficient form so as to reasonably identify the
      creditor.
   e) The name and last known address of the debtor as they appeared in the creditor’s records
      before the assignment of the debt to the debt collector.
   f) The names and addresses of all persons or entities other than the debt collector to which
      the debt was assigned. Each assignee’s name and address must be in sufficient form so as
      to identify the assignee.

   g) The California license number of the debt collector.

5) Forbids a debt collector to which delinquent debt has been assigned from making a written
   statement to a debtor in an attempt to collect a delinquent consumer debt unless the debt
   collector has access to the following:

   a) A copy of a contract or other document evidencing the debtor’s agreement to the debt.
                                                                                              SB 531
                                                                                              Page 3

   b) As an alternative to a), if the claim is based on debt for which no signed contract or
      agreement exists, a copy of a document provided to the debtor while the account was
      active which demonstrates that the debt was incurred by the debtor.
   c) For a revolving credit account, the most recent monthly statement recording a purchase
      transaction, last payment, or balance transfer.
6) Requires a debt collector to which delinquent debt has been assigned to provide the
   information and documents listed in 4) and 5) to the debtor within 30 calendar days of
   receiving the debtor’s written request for information regarding the debt or proof of debt.

7) Mandates a debt collector that cannot provide the information and documents listed in 4) and
   5) to cease all collection of the debt until such time as the collector can provide it.

8) Deems a “debt buyer,” as that term is defined under the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act, that
   complies with similar provisions of that Act to be in compliance with the requirements of this
   bill.

9) Makes this bill applicable to all delinquent debt sold or assigned on or after January 1, 2022.
EXISTING LAW:

1) Regulates the practice of debt collection and the conduct of debt collectors under the
   Rosenthal Act. (Title 1.6C of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code, commencing with
   Section 1788. All further references are to the Civil Code, unless otherwise indicated.)

2) Finds and declares that “it is the purpose of [the Rosenthal Act] to prohibit debt collectors
   from engaging in unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the collection of consumer debts and
   to require debtors to act fairly in entering into and honoring such debts, as specified in [the
   Act.]” (Section 17881.1 (b).)

3) Defines the following terms under the Rosenthal Act:

   a) “Consumer debt” means money or property owed by a natural person due to that person’s
      acquisition, on credit, of property, services, or money used primarily for personal, family,
      or household purposes. The term includes mortgage debt. (Section 1788.2 (e), (f).)

   b) “Debt collection” means any act or practice in connection with the collection of
      consumer debts. (Section 1788.2 (b).)

   c) “Debt collector” means any person who regularly, in the ordinary course of business,
      engages in debt collection on behalf of themselves or others. (Section 1788.2 (c).)

   d) “Debtor” means a natural person from whom a debt collector seeks to collect a consumer
      debt that is, or is alleged to be, due and owing from that person.

4) Regulates the practice of buying charged-off consumer debt and the conduct of debt buyers
   under the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act (FDBPA). (Title 1.6C.5 of Part 4 of Division 3 of
   the Civil Code, commencing with Section 1788.50.)

5) Defines the following terms under the FDBPA:
                                                                                             SB 531
                                                                                             Page 4

   a) “Charged-off consumer debt” means a consumer debt that has been removed from a
      creditor’s books as an asset and treated as a loss or expense. (Section 1788.50 (a)(1).)

   b) “Debt buyer” means a person or entity regularly engaged in the business of purchasing
      charged-off consumer debt for collection purposes, whether it collects the debt itself,
      hires a third party for collection, or hires an attorney to conduct collection litigation.
      (Section 1788.50 (a)(2).)

6) Requires a debt buyer to possess certain information and documents before making any
   written statement to a debtor; to provide this information and documents to a debtor upon
   request; to cease collection activity if it cannot provide the information and documents to the
   debtor; and to notify the debtor of its rights to request the information and documents.
   (Section 1788.52.)

FISCAL EFFECT: As currently in print this bill is keyed fiscal.

COMMENTS: In 1977, the Legislature enacted the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices
Act (Rosenthal Act), which regulates the conduct and practices of debt collectors, defined as
“any person who regularly, in the ordinary course of business, engages in debt collection on
behalf of themselves or others.” (Civil Code Section 1788.2 (c).)

In 2014, the Legislature enacted the FDBPA in response to the shoddy evidence being used in
thousands of lawsuits for charged-off consumer debt. The Act regulates the conduct and
practices of debt buyers, defined as “a person or entity that is regularly engaged in the business
of purchasing charged-off consumer debt for collection purposes.” (Civil Code Section 1788.50
(a)(2).)

For purposes of this analysis, several aspects in the relationship between the two statutes are
important to understand. First, persons subject to the FDBPA can also be subject to the
Rosenthal Act. For example, an entity may regularly purchase charged-off consumer debt for
collection purposes (and therefore be subject to the FDBPA), and then attempt to collect this debt
on its own behalf (and therefore be subject to the Rosenthal Act). Conversely, there are persons
subject to the Rosenthal Act who are not subject to the FDBPA. Chief among these are debt
collectors that seek to collect debts assigned by a creditor (“engage[d] in debt collection on
behalf of…others”), rather than purchasing these debts outright (“purchasing charged-off
consumer debt for collection purposes”).

Second, the FDBPA imposes requirements on debt buyers that the Rosenthal Act does not
impose on debt collectors.

This bill would begin to address gaps in coverage between the two statutes by including in the
Rosenthal Act versions of certain FDBPA debtor protections. These include:

      Requiring debt collectors to provide, upon the debtor’s written request, basic information
       about the debt, such as an accounting of the balance sought and the date on which the last
       payment was made, as well as documentation of the debtor’s underlying contract.

      Requiring debt collectors to notify debtors of their right to request this information.
                                                                                              SB 531
                                                                                              Page 5

      Prohibiting further debt collection activity if a debt collector cannot provide this
       information within 30 days of the debtor’s request.

Note that, under this bill, these requirements would not apply to all debt collectors; rather, they
would apply to debt collectors to which delinquent debt, as defined, has been assigned. (The term
“delinquent debt” is discussed in further detail below.)

The California Low-Income Consumer Coalition explains the bill’s motivations as follows:

   [The FDBPA] brought needed reform to a largely unregulated and broken system of debt
   buying in California. There had been widespread cases of debt buyers collecting against the
   wrong person, targeting of debt that had already been paid off, and efforts to collect on
   incorrect amounts. The FDBPA helped to address these issues by requiring debt buyers to
   provide proof of ownership of the debt and to disclose basic information such as how much
   debt is allegedly owed, any fees or interest, and the date of the last payment.

   Unfortunately, legal services providers have recently reported debt collectors going out of
   their way to assert that debt they are collecting has been “assigned” to them rather than sold –
   and therefore that they are not subject to the FDBPA’s restrictions on debt buyers. But there
   is no reason for these collectors not to be subject to the same consumer protection measures
   as debt buyers: “assignment” means that the original creditor technically still owns the debt,
   but the debt collector makes all decisions relating to collection activity. And the abuses are
   the same as those targeted by the FDBPA: collectors are targeting the wrong debtors
   and collecting incorrect amounts, and the consumer has no way to determine the truth
   of the collectors’ claims. (emphasis added)

The author concurs, writing:

   There have been reports from legal services of debt collectors claiming that they are not
   subject to the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act because the debt they are collecting on is
   assigned to them, not sold. Consumers are unable to take advantage of the protections given
   to them under the FDBPA and ensure they really do owe debt to the collector. SB 531 will
   bring needed transparency to the debt collection business, an industry where debt is
   exchanged so fast and often times through multiple hands that consumers are left confused as
   to whom they really owe money. My bill would require debt collectors, who have delinquent
   debt assigned to them, to have proof that they have the authority to collect on the debt.
   Consumers would have the right to request that proof, along with simple but important
   information [about the debt.]

What is a “delinquent debt” under this bill? This bill defines the term “delinquent debt” as “a
consumer debt, other than a mortgage debt, that is past due at least 90 days and has not been
charged off.” The term “charged off” refers to an accounting practice in which a creditor deems a
debt unlikely to be collected. Once charged off, a debt is eligible to be written off as worthless
and claimed as a tax deduction. (26 U.S.C. Section 166.) The FDBPA captures this concept with
its definition of “charged-off consumer debt”: “a consumer debt that has been removed from a
creditor’s books as an asset and treated as a loss or expense.” (Civil Code Section 1788.50
(a)(1).)

A debt remains legally collectable after charge off, and can continue to accrue interest and fees
allowable under law. However, once the creditor has written off the debt and deducted the loss,
                                                                                             SB 531
                                                                                             Page 6

such a debt is generally sold to a debt buyer (making it subject to the FDBPA), rather than
assigned to a debt collector for collection (making it subject to the Rosenthal Act). The definition
of “delinquent debt” under this bill therefore fills a gap between the two statutes, allowing them
to better function together.

Absence of authority for the proposition that the Rosenthal Act applies to rental debt. The sole
remaining opposition to this bill is from the Southern California Rental Housing Association
(SCRHA), which writes:

   [R]ental debt is consumer debt under Rosenthal. Our attorneys who represent landlords in
   unlawful detainer cases and with the recovery of lost rent have to comply with Rosenthal and
   all the other debt collection laws anytime they are seeking rent on behalf of a client (even if
   the matter has not yet been reduced to a judgment as in their collections department). […]
   Considering the focus of the bill seems to be lenders, perhaps amending the bill to exclude
   rental housing is in order.

SCRHA’s opposition to this bill is puzzling. While a rental debt might be subject to the
Rosenthal Act if reduced to judgment (a question that is beyond the scope of this analysis), there
is no authority for the proposition that unpaid rent is covered by the Rosenthal Act while it
remains a pre-judgment debt. Courts faced with the question have consistently held that rent does
not fall under the Rosenthal Act’s definition of “consumer debt.” (See, e.g., Leasure v. Willmark
Communities, Inc. (2013), No. 11-CV-00443 BEN DHB, 2013 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 35975 [“The
Court is not aware of any cases holding that rent collection equates to ‘debt collection’ or that
rent involves a ‘consumer credit transaction’ under the Rosenthal Act.”]; Phillips v. Archstone
Simi Valley LLC (C.D. Cal. 2016) No. CV 15-5559-DMG (PLAx), 2016 U.S. Dist. LEXIS
186266 at *12 [“[T]he court concludes that residential rent collection is not a consumer credit
transaction protected under the Rosenthal Act.”].) Consequently, it does not appear that anything
in this bill would affect landlords or their assignees who seek to collect unpaid rent. As such, the
Committee is not persuaded by SCHRA’s letter of opposition to incorporate the requested
amendment.

Author’s amendment—delaying date of implementation. Two author’s amendments negotiated
in the Assembly Banking & Finance Committee are meant to ensure that firms involved in the
debt collection process have sufficient time to alter their processes in order to implement this
bill’s requirements. The first amendment would delay by six months the date on which debt that
is assigned or sold would become subject to the bill’s requirements:

   (h) This section shall apply to all delinquent debt sold or assigned on or after January July1,
   2022.

For consistency, the second amendment would make the bill effective on that same date:

   (i) The provisions of this section shall take effect on July 1, 2022.

These amendments brought both California Bankers Association and California Financial
Services Association to a neutral position on the bill.

Technical amendment—using consistent terminology. As amended on June 29, 2021, Section
1788.14.5 in the bill used the operative noun phrase, “A debt collector to which a delinquent
debt has been assigned for collection” in subdivision (a) and “A debt collector to which
                                                                                            SB 531
                                                                                            Page 7

delinquent debt has been assigned” in subdivision (b) and paragraphs (c)(1) and (e)(1). The
following amendment will make the wording of all four phrases consistent:

   (a) A debt collector to which a delinquent debt has been assigned for collection shall
       provide to the debtor, upon the debtor’s written request, a statement that includes all of
       the following information pursuant to subdivision (c):

It would be undesirable to leave subdivision (a) as is, given that the California Supreme Court
utilizes the following canon of statutory interpretation:

   A court must…accord[] significance, if possible, to every word, phrase and sentence in
   pursuance of the legislative purpose. A construction making some words surplusage is to be
   avoided. […] [S]tatutory sections relating to the same subject must be harmonized, both
   internally and with each other, to the extent possible. (Dyna-Med, Inc. v. Fair Employment &
   Houssing Com. (1987) 43 Cal. 3d 1379, 1387.)

The Rosenthal Act is a heavily litigated statute. Without this amendment, litigants would no
doubt seek to exploit the difference in wording between these portions of the statute, arguing that
courts should give meaning to the difference in wording, where no such difference was intended.

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT: Public Law Center describes how this measure would have aided
a wronged client, and will help aid others like him in the future:

   In one situation, the plaintiff debt collector sued the wrong individual. The true defendant
   was an individual with a similar name, but the wrong person had been notified of the lawsuit.
   The plaintiff was not a debt buyer, and therefore was not subject to the FDBPA. Until [our
   organization] got involved, the plaintiff would not provide the information that the debtor
   needed in order to show that this debt was not his. While legal services assists as many
   individuals as possible, there are always individuals who cannot find assistance, and this law
   would ensure those debtors are also protected.

ARGUMENTS IN OPPOSITION: Southern California Rental Housing Association contends
that this bill will burden collection of rental debt:

   Even a mention of rent that’s due triggers [the] Rosenthal [Act]. So, consumer debt and any
   debt collection agency…that collects rental debt also has to comply.

As discussed above, this fear appears unwarranted, as courts have not interpreted the Rosenthal
Act to cover rental debt.

Prior Related Legislation: SB 187 (Wieckowski, Chap. 545, Stats. 2019) clarified that collection
activity on mortgage debt is subject to the Rosenthal Act, and removed an exception for
individual attorneys from the Act.

AB 1526 (Kalra, Chap. 247, Stats. 2018) amended the Rosenthal Act to prohibit a debt collector
from attempting to collect a time-barred debt without providing specific notices to the debtor
indicating that the debtor may not be sued for the debt, but that the debt, depending on its age,
could be reported as unpaid to credit reporting agencies, as specified.
                                                                                            SB 531
                                                                                            Page 8

SB 233 (Leno, Chap. 64, Stats. 2013) established the Fair Debt Buying Practices Act, which
regulates the debt collection and collection litigation activity of buyers of charged-off consumer
debt.

SB 237 (Robbins, Chap. 907, Stats. 1977) established what was then known as the Robbins-
Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.

REGISTERED SUPPORT / OPPOSITION:

Support

California Low-Income Consumer Coalition
Center for Responsible Lending
Public Law Center
Western Center on Law & Poverty

Opposition

Southern California Rental Housing Association

Analysis Prepared by: Jith Meganathan / JUD. / (916) 319-2334
