                                                                                     SB 233
                                                                                     Page 1

SENATE THIRD READING
SB 233 (Leno and Correa)
As Amended May 15, 2013
Majority vote

SENATE VOTE: 36-0

JUDICIARY                      9-0                BANKING & FINANCE               10-0

Ayes:   Wieckowski, Wagner, Alejo, Chau,          Ayes:    Dickinson, Morrell, Achadjian,
        Dickinson, Garcia, Maienschein,                    Blumenfield, Bonta, Chau, Gatto,
        Muratsuchi, Stone                                  Linder, Perea, Weber

SUMMARY: Enacts the Fair Debt Buyers Practices Act, imposing various requirements on
practices that may be used to collect on purchased consumer debt. Specifically, this bill:

1) Prohibits a debt buyer from making any written statement in an attempt to collect a consumer
   debt unless the debt buyer possesses certain information, including, among other things: a)
   the debt balance at charge off; b) the date of default or last payment; c) the name and address
   of the charge-off creditor at the time of charge off, and all persons or entities that purchased
   the debt after charge off; and d) a statement that the buyer is the sole owner of the debt or has
   authority to assert the rights of all owners of the debt.

2) Prohibits a debt buyer from making any written statement to a debtor in an attempt to collect
   a consumer debt unless the debt buyer has access to a copy of a contract or other document
   evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt, or if no signed contract exists, demonstrating
   that the debt was incurred by the debtor.

3) Requires a debt buyer to provide all of the above information or documents to the debtor
   without charge within 15 calendar days of receipt of a debtor's written request for
   information regarding the debt or proof of the debt, or to cease all collection of the debt until
   the debt buyer provides the information or documents to the debtor.

4) Requires the debt buyer to provide a specified written notice with its initial written
   communication to the debtor that, among other things, informs the debtor of his or her right
   to request records from the debt buyer showing information that the debt buyer is required to
   possess as a condition of collecting on the debt.

5) Prohibits a debt buyer from bringing suit, initiating another proceeding, or taking any other
   action to collect a consumer debt if the applicable statute of limitations on the cause of action
   has expired.

6) Requires specific information regarding the underlying debt, the debt buyer, the debtor, and
   charge-off creditors to be so stated in any action brought by a debt buyer on a consumer debt.

7) Provides that in an action initiated by a debt buyer, no default of other judgment may be
   entered against a debtor unless the following authenticated documents have been submitted
   by the debt buyer to the court:
                                                                                     SB 233
                                                                                     Page 2

   a) Business records establishing facts about the debt, debtor, and charge-off creditors that
      are required by this act to be alleged in the complaint; and

   b) A copy of a contract or other document evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt, or
      if no signed contract exists, demonstrating that the debt was incurred by the debtor.

8) Provides that, in an action brought by an individual, a debt buyer who violates any provision
   of this act with respect to any person is liable to the person in an amount equal to the sum of
   the following: a) actual damages sustained as a result of the violation; b) statutory damages,
   as specified for an individual or class action; and c) costs of the action and reasonable
   attorney’s fees.

9) Relieves a debt buyer from any liability under this act if the debt buyer shows by a
   preponderance of the evidence that the violation was not intentional and resulted from a bona
   fide error, and occurred notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably designed
   to avoid any such error.

10) Provides that these requirements shall only apply to debt buyers with respect to all consumer
    debt sold or resold on or after January 1, 2014.

11) Requires a claim of exemption and related financial statement form to be provided to a
    judgment debtor by the levying officer whenever a writ of execution or an earnings
    withholding order is served upon the judgment debtor or the debtor's employer, as specified.

FISCAL EFFECT: None

COMMENTS: This bill, sponsored by Attorney General Kamala Harris, seeks to enact the Fair
Debt Buyer Practices Act, a comprehensive approach to address problems that, according to bill
proponents, are largely traceable to the inadequacy of documentation maintained by the debt
buying industry to support its debt collection activities and litigation. According to the author,
"There have been widespread accounts of debt buyer collection efforts, including collection
litigation, against the wrong person, or targeting debt that is time-barred or has already been
paid. This bill establishes a number of reforms to ensure that the documentation used to support
the collection of purchased debt is sufficient. This will help ensure that collection efforts target
the correct individuals, avoid litigation over time-barred debt, and that the amount of the debt is
calculated accurately."

According to proponents, California's courts are swamped with debt collection lawsuits at a time
that could not be worse given recent court closures and the fiscal crisis facing our judicial
system. A recent New York Times article reported that collection lawsuits across California have
increased by 20% over the past five years, with an estimated 96,000 consumer debt collection
cases filed in three Bay Area counties in 2009 alone, up from 53,700 cases in 2007. ("Some
Lawyers Want to Keep Debt Collection Out of the Courts," NY Times, April 22, 2010.)
Proponents contend that many of these lawsuits are simply unsubstantiated by facts necessary to
determine, among other things, that the plaintiff owns the debt at issue, that the defendant is the
person who truly owes the debt, or that the debt is not time-barred.

Furthermore, according to the author, many consumers report being the subject of collection
lawsuits where there is insufficient evidence of the consumer's underlying indebtedness, or
                                                                                      SB 233
                                                                                      Page 3

where not enough information is provided to the consumer regarding the debt at issue to allow an
appropriate answer to the complaint. A recent report by Consumers Union and East Bay
Community Law Center (EBCLC) found that debt buyers frequently buy portfolios of individual
consumer debts with inadequate information, and frequently sue without any proof that they own
the debts or that the consumer owes them money. ("Past Due: Why Debt Collection Practices
and the Debt Buying Industry Need Reform Now," Consumers Union, January 2011.)

Accordingly, this bill prohibits a debt buyer from contacting a debtor unless the debt buyer has
access to a copy of a contract or other document evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt or
responsibility for incurring the debt, as well as other specific factual information establishing the
buyer's right to collect. This essential factual information includes, among other things, the debt
balance at charge off, the date of default or last payment, and the names and addresses of the
charge-off creditor, debt buyer, and debtor as they appear in the records of the debt. The bill also
requires the debt buyer to provide the information or documents to the debtor without charge
within 15 days upon request of the debtor, and to include a specified notice informing the debtor
of this right. These requirements seek to ensure that the consumer will at least have basic
information about the debt in question that is necessary to determine a next step, including filing
an answer if a complaint has been served.

In 2011, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issued an extensive report in which it found that
complaints filed by debt collectors to initiate collection actions against debtors do not provide
sufficient information to the defendant-debtor or the court about the underlying debt or the
collector's right to collect. To address these problems identified by the FTC, this bill promotes
greater transparency and clarity with respect to the allegations required in a lawsuit filed by a
debt buyer, as well as the evidence required of a debt buyer to obtain a judgment in a collection
suit. First, the bill requires the complaint in any collection suit to allege, among other things, the
nature of the underlying debt and the consumer transactions from which it is derived, and that the
debt buyer is the sole owner of the debt at issue or has the right to collect the debt. The
complaint shall also allege the same specific factual information about the debt that the debt
buyer is required to possess in order to initiate a written contact with the debtor.

According to the FTC, about 95% of collection lawsuits end in default judgments, which the
author contends is the business model for some debt buyers who file thousands of collection
lawsuits each year. The FTC’s report noted concern about the number of default judgments, and
recommended that states take steps to “increase consumer participation in debt collection
litigation to help decrease the prevalence of default judgments.” Accordingly, this bill would
prohibit entry of a default or other judgment against the debtor unless the debt buyer submits to
the court: 1) authenticated business records establishing the factual information about the debt
that the debt buyer is required to possess and allege in the complaint; and 2) a copy of a contract
or other document evidencing the debtor's agreement to the debt, or responsibility for incurring
the debt. In addition, if a debt buyer seeks a default judgment but has not complied with the
requirements of this bill, the bill would prohibit the court from entering a default judgment for
the debt buyer and allow the court, in its discretion, to dismiss the action. This provision seeks
to provide a strong incentive for the debt buyer to provide all required information to the court
prior to pursuing a default judgment.

As a practical matter, it is expected that many consumers would not be able to find an attorney to
represent them in collection matters, or cannot afford attorney fees. Proponents contend, quite
reasonably, that in collection suits where the debt buyer cannot provide adequate information to
                                                                                     SB 233
                                                                                     Page 4

prove that the consumer actually owes the debt alleged, the consumer should not have a default
judgment entered against him simply because he is unsophisticated or could not afford legal
representation. This bill seeks to end that basic unfairness in collection cases where the debt
buyer does not substantiate or support his claim with adequate information.

The FTC’s report also expressed concern that certain collectors “regularly sue consumers on
time-barred debts.” This practice is likely to continue as long as many consumers do not defend
suits against them, even when the action would be barred by the statute of limitations, because
they do not know or realize that this is the case. According to the FTC, “Because an expired
statute of limitations is an affirmative defense in most states, collectors have no obligation to
allege in the complaint that the debt is not time-barred, and many collectors do not include this
information. If consumers do not defend, there is no one to raise the defense that the debt is
time-barred . . . Even if a debt collection action appears to be time-barred, it would be improper
for courts to consider affirmative defenses that no party had raised. As a result, some courts
appear to be granting default judgments on time-barred debt.” (FTC Report, July 2010.)

To address this concern, this bill expressly prohibits a debt buyer from bringing suit or initiating
arbitration or any other legal proceeding to collect a consumer debt if the applicable statute of
limitations on the debt buyer's claim has expired. This common-sense restriction helps protect
consumers from litigation on debts they have no legal obligation to pay, which as EBCLC notes,
may include debts resulting from identity theft, mistake, and debts already paid, in addition to
debts barred by statutes of limitations.


Analysis Prepared by: Anthony Lew / JUD. / (916) 319-2334


                                                                                       FN: 0001309
