SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._mental_hygiene_law_section_81.09
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.09 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Mental Hygiene Law Section 81.09

Appointment of court evaluator

(a)
At the time of the issuance of the order to show cause, the court shall appoint a court evaluator.

(b)
1. the court may appoint as court evaluator any person including, but not limited to, the mental hygiene legal service in the judicial department where the person resides, a not-for-profit corporation, an attorney-at-law, physician, psychologist, accountant, social worker, or nurse, with knowledge of property management, personal care skills, the problems associated with disabilities, and the private and public resources available for the type of limitations the person is alleged to have. The name of the court evaluator shall be drawn from a list maintained by the office of court administration;

2.
if the court appoints the mental hygiene legal service as the evaluator and upon investigation in accordance with section 81.10 of this article it appears to the mental hygiene legal service that the mental hygiene legal service represents the person alleged to be incapacitated as counsel, or that counsel should otherwise be appointed in accordance with section 81.10 of this article for the person alleged to be incapacitated, the mental hygiene legal service shall so report to the court. The mental hygiene legal service shall be relieved of its appointment as court evaluator whenever the mental hygiene legal service represents as counsel, or is assigned to represent as counsel, the person alleged to be incapacitated.

(c)
The duties of the court evaluator shall include the following:

1.
meeting, interviewing, and consulting with the person alleged to be incapacitated regarding the proceeding.

2.
determining whether the alleged incapacitated person understands English or only another language, and explaining to the person alleged to be incapacitated, in a manner which the person can reasonably be expected to understand, the nature and possible consequences of the proceeding, the general powers and duties of a guardian, available resources, and the rights to which the person is entitled, including the right to counsel.

3.
determining whether the person alleged to be incapacitated wishes legal counsel of his or her own choice to be appointed and otherwise evaluating whether legal counsel should be appointed in accordance with section 81.10 of this article.

4.
interviewing the petitioner, or, if the petitioner is a facility or government agency, a person within the facility or agency fully familiar with the person’s condition, affairs and situation.

5.
investigating and making a written report and recommendations to the court; the report and recommendations shall include the court evaluator’s personal observations as to the person alleged to be incapacitated and his or her condition, affairs and situation, as well as information in response to the following questions:

(i)
does the person alleged to be incapacitated agree to the appointment of the proposed guardian and to the powers proposed for the guardian;

(ii)
does the person wish legal counsel of his or her own choice to be appointed or is the appointment of counsel in accordance with section 81.10 of this article otherwise appropriate;

(iii)
can the person alleged to be incapacitated come to the courthouse for the hearing;

(iv)
if the person alleged to be incapacitated cannot come to the courthouse, is the person completely unable to participate in the hearing;

(v)
if the person alleged to be incapacitated cannot come to the courthouse, would any meaningful participation result from the person’s presence at the hearing;

(vi)
are available resources sufficient and reliable to provide for personal needs or property management without the appointment of a guardian;

(vii)
how is the person alleged to be incapacitated functioning with respect to the activities of daily living and what is the prognosis and reversibility of any physical and mental disabilities, alcoholism or substance dependence? The response to this question shall be based on the evaluator’s own assessment of the person alleged to be incapacitated to the extent possible, and where necessary, on the examination of assessments by third parties, including records of medical, psychological and/or psychiatric examinations obtained pursuant to subdivision (d) of this section. As part of this review, the court evaluator shall consider the diagnostic and assessment procedures used to determine the prognosis and reversibility of any disability and the necessity, efficacy, and dose of each prescribed medication;

(viii)
what is the person’s understanding and appreciation of the nature and consequences of any inability to manage the activities of daily living;

(ix)
what is the approximate value and nature of the financial resources of the person alleged to be incapacitated;

(x)
what are the person’s preferences, wishes, and values with regard to managing the activities of daily living;

(xi)
has the person alleged to be incapacitated made any appointment or delegation pursuant to section 5-1501, 5-1505, or 5-1506 of the general obligations law, section two thousand nine hundred sixty-five or two thousand nine hundred eighty-one of the public health law, or a living will;

(xii)
what would be the least restrictive form of intervention consistent with the person’s functional level and the powers proposed for the guardian;

(xiii)
what assistance is necessary for those who are financially dependent upon the person alleged to be incapacitated;

(xiv)
is the choice of proposed guardian appropriate, including a guardian nominated by the allegedly incapacitated person pursuant to section 81.17 or subdivision (c) of section 81.19 of this article; and what steps has the proposed guardian taken or does the proposed guardian intend to take to identify and meet the current and emerging needs of the person alleged to be incapacitated unless that information has been provided to the court by the local department of social services when the proposed guardian is a community guardian program operating pursuant to the provisions of title three of article nine-B of the social services law;

(xv)
what potential conflicts of interest, if any, exist between or among family members and/or other interested parties regarding the proposed guardian or the proposed relief;

(xvi)
what potential conflicts of interest, if any, exist involving the person alleged to be incapacitated, the petitioner, and the proposed guardian; and

(xvii)
are there any additional persons who should be given notice and an opportunity to be heard. In addition, the report and recommendations shall include any information required under subdivision (e) of this section, and any additional information required by the court.

6.
interviewing or consulting with professionals having specialized knowledge in the area of the person’s alleged incapacity including but not limited to developmental disabilities, alcohol and substance abuse, and geriatrics.

7.
retaining an independent medical expert where the court finds it is appropriate, the cost of which is to be charged to the estate of the allegedly incapacitated person unless the person is indigent.

8.
conducting any other investigations or making recommendations with respect to other subjects as the court deems appropriate.

9.
attending all court proceedings and conferences.

(d)
The court evaluator may apply to the court for permission to inspect records of medical, psychological and/or psychiatric examinations of the person alleged to be incapacitated; except as otherwise provided by federal or state law, if the court determines that such records are likely to contain information which will assist the court evaluator in completing his or her report to the court, the court may order the disclosure of such records to the court evaluator, notwithstanding the physician/patient privilege, the psychologist/patient privilege, or the social worker/client privilege as set forth in sections four thousand five hundred four, four thousand five hundred seven, and four thousand five hundred eight of the civil practice law and rules; if the court orders that such records be disclosed to the court evaluator, the court may, upon the court’s own motion, at the request of the court evaluator, or upon the application of counsel for the person alleged to be incapacitated, or the petitioner, also direct such further disclosure of such records as the court deems proper.

(e)
The court evaluator shall have the authority to take the steps necessary to preserve the property of the person alleged to be incapacitated pending the hearing in the event the property is in danger of waste, misappropriation, or loss; if the court evaluator exercises authority under this subdivision, the court evaluator shall immediately advise the court of the actions taken and include in his or her report to the court an explanation of the actions the court evaluator has taken and the reasons for such actions.

(f)
When judgment grants a petition, the court may award a reasonable compensation to a court evaluator, including the mental hygiene legal service, payable by the estate of the allegedly incapacitated person. When a judgment denies or dismisses a petition, the court may award a reasonable allowance to a court evaluator, including the mental hygiene legal service, payable by the petitioner or by the person alleged to be incapacitated, or both in such proportions as the court may deem just. When the person alleged to be incapacitated dies before the determination is made in the proceeding, the court may award a reasonable allowance to a court evaluator, payable by the petitioner or by the estate of the decedent, or by both in such proportions as the court may deem just.

Source:
Section 81.09 — Appointment of court evaluator, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.09 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
