SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._mental_hygiene_law_section_81.08
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.08 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Mental Hygiene Law Section 81.08

Petition

(a)
The petition shall be verified under oath and shall include the following information:

1.
the name, age, address, and telephone number of the person alleged to be incapacitated;

2.
the name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons with whom the person alleged to be incapacitated resides, if any, and the name, address and telephone number of any persons that the petitioner intends to serve with the order to show cause and the nature of their relationship to the alleged incapacitated person;

3.
a description of the alleged incapacitated person’s functional level including that person’s ability to manage the activities of daily living, behavior, and understanding and appreciation of the nature and consequences of any inability to manage the activities of daily living;

4.
if powers are sought with respect to the personal needs of the alleged incapacitated person, specific factual allegations as to the personal actions or other actual occurrences involving the person alleged to be incapacitated which are claimed to demonstrate that the person is likely to suffer harm because he or she cannot adequately understand and appreciate the nature and consequences of his or her inability to provide for personal needs;

5.
if powers are sought with respect to property management for the alleged incapacitated person, specific factual allegations as to the financial transactions or other actual occurrences involving the person alleged to be incapacitated which are claimed to demonstrate that the person is likely to suffer harm because he or she cannot adequately understand and appreciate the nature and consequences of his or her inability to provide for property management; if powers are sought to transfer a part of the alleged incapacitated person’s property or assets to or for the benefit of another person, including the petitioner or guardian, the petition shall include the information required by subdivision (b) of section 81.21 of this article;

6.
the particular powers being sought and their relationship to the functional level and needs of the person alleged to be incapacitated;

7.
the duration of the powers being sought;

8.
the approximate value and description of the financial resources of the person alleged to be incapacitated and whether, to the best of the petitioner’s knowledge, the person is a recipient of public assistance;

9.
the nature and amount of any claim, debt, or obligations of the person alleged to be incapacitated, to the best of the petitioner’s knowledge;

10.
the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of presumptive distributees of the person alleged to be incapacitated as that term is defined in subdivision forty-two of section one hundred three of the surrogate’s court procedure act unless they are unknown and cannot be reasonably ascertained;

11.
the name, address, and telephone number of the petitioner;

12.
the name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons, if any, proposed as guardian and standby guardian, the relationship of the proposed guardian or standby guardian to the person alleged to be incapacitated, and the reasons why the proposed guardian or standby guardian is suitable to exercise the powers necessary to assist the person alleged to be incapacitated;

13.
any relief sought pursuant to section 81.23 of this article;

14.
the available resources, if any, that have been considered by the petitioner and the petitioner’s opinion as to their sufficiency and reliability;

15.
any other information which in the petitioner’s opinion will assist the court evaluator in completing the investigation and report in accordance with section 81.09 of this article.

Source:
Section 81.08 — Petition, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.08 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
