SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._mental_hygiene_law_section_81.10
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.10 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Mental Hygiene Law Section 81.10

Counsel

(a)
Any person for whom relief under this article is sought shall have the right to choose and engage legal counsel of the person’s choice. In such event, any attorney appointed pursuant to this section shall continue his or her duties until the court has determined that retained counsel has been chosen freely and independently by the alleged incapacitated person.

(b)
If the person alleged to be incapacitated is not represented by counsel at the time of the issuance of the order to show cause, the court evaluator shall assist the court in accordance with subdivision (c) of section 81.09 of this article in determining whether counsel should be appointed.

(c)
The court shall appoint counsel in any of the following circumstances unless the court is satisfied that the alleged incapacitated person is represented by counsel of his or her own choosing:

1.
the person alleged to be incapacitated requests counsel;

2.
the person alleged to be incapacitated wishes to contest the petition;

3.
the person alleged to be incapacitated does not consent to the authority requested in the petition to move the person alleged to be incapacitated from where that person presently resides to a nursing home or other residential facility as those terms are defined in section two thousand eight hundred one of the public health law, or other similar facility;

4.
if the petition alleges that the person is in need of major medical or dental treatment and the person alleged to be incapacitated does not consent;

5.
the petition requests the appointment of a temporary guardian pursuant to section 81.23 of this article;

6.
the court determines that a possible conflict may exist between the court evaluator’s role and the advocacy needs of the person alleged to be incapacitated;

7.
if at any time the court determines that appointment of counsel would be helpful to the resolution of the matter.

(d)
If the person refuses the assistance of counsel, the court may, nevertheless, appoint counsel if the court is not satisfied that the person is capable of making an informed decision regarding the appointment of counsel.

(e)
The court may appoint as counsel the mental hygiene legal service in the judicial department where the residence is located.

(f)
The court shall determine the reasonable compensation for the mental hygiene legal service or any attorney appointed pursuant to this section. The person alleged to be incapacitated shall be liable for such compensation unless the court is satisfied that the person is indigent. If the petition is dismissed, the court may in its discretion direct that petitioner pay such compensation for the person alleged to be incapacitated. When the person alleged to be incapacitated dies before the determination is made in the proceeding, the court may award reasonable compensation to the mental hygiene legal service or any attorney appointed pursuant to this section, payable by the petitioner or the estate of the decedent or by both in such proportions as the court may deem just.

(g)
If the court appoints counsel under this section, the court may dispense with the appointment of a court evaluator or may vacate or suspend the appointment of a previously appointed court evaluator.

Source:
Section 81.10 — Counsel, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.10 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
