SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._mental_hygiene_law_section_81.25
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.25 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Mental Hygiene Law Section 81.25

Filing of bond by guardian

(a)
Before the guardian, or special guardian appointed under this article, or a trustee of a trust created pursuant to this article, enters upon the execution of his or her duties, the court may require or dispense with the filing of a bond.

(b)
The court may require or dispense with the filing of a bond by the temporary guardian. If the temporary guardian is required to file a bond, such bond must be filed within ten days after the issuance of the temporary guardian’s commission.

(c)
If the value of the estate of the person for whom a guardian, special guardian, temporary guardian, or trustee is appointed is so great or for other sufficient reason the court deems it inexpedient to require security in the full amount prescribed by law it may direct that all or part of the assets of the estate be delivered subject to the further order of the court to the county treasurer, or other proper fiscal officer, the clerk of the court or a trust company, bank or safe deposit company or otherwise restrict the authority of the guardian or trustee. The court may thereupon fix the amount of the bond taking into consideration the value of the remainder only of the estate. The assets so deposited shall not be withdrawn from the custody of the depositary and no person other than the proper fiscal officer of such county or depository shall receive or collect any principal or income or other benefits derived from such assets without order of the court.

(d)
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any community guardian program operating pursuant to the provisions of title three of article nine-B of the social services law, appointed as guardian pursuant to subdivision (a) of section 81.19 of this article, may file with the clerk of the court before the thirty-first day of January of each year, a consolidated undertaking up to the amount of one million five hundred thousand dollars, in lieu of filing individual undertakings for each incapacitated person for whom it serves as guardian, as required by subdivision (a) of this section. To the extent of the aggregate value of such consolidated undertaking, the community guardian program will certify to the clerk of the court faithful discharge of the trust imposed upon it, obey all directions of the court in regard to the trust, and make and render a true account of all properties received by it and the application thereof and of its acts in the administration of its trust whenever so required to do by the court. At such time as the aggregate amount of the individual bonds, fixed by the court pursuant to subdivision (a) of this section for persons for whom the community guardian program is appointed guardian, shall exceed the consolidated bond filed by such program, the program shall before entering upon the execution of its duties, file with the clerk of the court individual undertakings, in the amounts fixed by the court, that it will faithfully discharge the trust imposed upon it.

(e)
If the court requires the filing of a bond, the guardian or special or temporary guardian, or trustee, appointed under this article shall file with the clerk of the court by which such guardian was appointed a bond that he or she will faithfully discharge the powers granted by the court to the guardian or special or temporary guardian, or trustee, obey all directions of the court in regard to the powers, and make and render a true account of all properties received by him or her and the application thereof and a true report of his or her acts in the administration of his or her powers, whenever so required to do by the court. The amount of the bond shall be fixed by the court. If the guardian, special or temporary guardian, or trustee, receives after-acquired property not covered by the bond, such guardian, special or temporary guardian, or trustee, shall immediately have such acquisition approved by the court and file a further bond.

Source:
Section 81.25 — Filing of bond by guardian, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.25 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
