SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._mental_hygiene_law_section_81.33
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.33 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Mental Hygiene Law Section 81.33

Intermediate and final report

(a)
A guardian may move in the court of his or her appointment for an order permitting him or her to render an intermediate report to the date of the filing thereof in a form prescribed by the court which shall include the same information as is required under section 81.31 of this article provided, however, that if the incapacitated person has died the report need not include information otherwise required in paragraphs five and six of subdivision (b) of section 81.31 of this article. The court may order the report to be filed with the clerk of the court on or before a fixed date.

(b)
When a guardian dies or is removed, suspended, discharged pursuant to the provisions of this article, or allowed to resign, the court shall order a final report in a form prescribed by the court which shall include the same information as is required under section 81.31 of this article provided, however, that if the incapacitated person has died the report need not include information otherwise required in paragraphs five and six of subdivision (b) of section 81.31 of this article. When such a report has been made in the course of a proceeding to remove a guardian, the court may dispense with a further report.

(c)
Notice of the filing of a report under this section shall be served upon the persons entitled to notice pursuant to paragraph three of subdivision (c) of section 81.16 of this article. If the incapacitated person is deceased, notice shall also be served upon his or her executor or administrator, if any.

(d)
The court may appoint counsel for the incapacitated person, if living, for the protection of such person’s rights and interests with regard to such report. The court may appoint a referee to hear the matter and report to the court.

(e)
Upon the motion for a confirmation of the report of the referee, or if the report is made before the court, upon the court’s determination, the report shall be judicially approved and filed. The compensation of the referee and of counsel shall be fixed by the court and shall be payable out of the estate of the incapacitated person unless it is determined that the incapacitated person is indigent.

(f)
If the incapacitated person resides in a facility, a copy of a report under this section shall be served upon the chief executive officer in charge of that facility and upon the mental hygiene legal service of the judicial department in which the residence is located.

Source:
Section 81.33 — Intermediate and final report, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.33 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
