SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._mental_hygiene_law_section_81.30
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.30 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Mental Hygiene Law Section 81.30

Initial report

(a)
No later than ninety days after the issuance of the commission to the guardian, the guardian shall file with the court that appointed the guardian a report in a form prescribed by the court stating what steps the guardian has taken to fulfill his or her responsibilities. Proof of completion of the guardian education requirements under section 81.39 of this article must be filed with the initial report.

(b)
To the extent that the guardian has been granted powers with respect to property management, the initial report shall contain a verified and complete inventory of the property and financial resources over which the guardian has control, the location of any will executed by the incapacitated person, the guardian’s plan, consistent with the court’s order of appointment, for the management of such property and financial resources, and any need for any change in the powers authorized by the court.

(c)
To the extent that the guardian has been granted powers regarding personal needs, the initial report shall contain a report of the guardian’s personal visits with the incapacitated person, and the steps the guardian has taken, consistent with the court’s order, to provide for the personal needs of that person, the guardian’s plan, consistent with the court’s order of appointment, for providing for the personal needs of the incapacitated person, a copy of any directives in accordance with sections two thousand nine hundred sixty-five and two thousand nine hundred eighty-one of the public health law, any living will, and any other advance directive, and any necessary change in the powers authorized by the court. The plan for providing for the personal needs of the incapacitated person shall include the following information:

1.
the medical, dental, mental health, or related services that are to be provided for the welfare of the incapacitated person;

2.
the social and personal services that are to be provided for the welfare of the incapacitated person;

3.
any physical, dental, and mental health examinations necessary to determine the medical, dental, and mental health treatment needs; and

4.
the application of health and accident insurance and any other private or government benefits to which the incapacitated person may be entitled to meet any part of the costs of medical, dental, mental health, or related services provided to the incapacitated person.

(d)
If the initial report sets forth any reasons for a change in the powers authorized by the court, the guardian shall make an application within ten days of the filing of the report on notice to the persons entitled to such notice in accordance with paragraph one of subdivision (d) of section 81.07 of this article for such relief. If the initial report sets forth any reasons for a change in the powers authorized by the court and the guardian fails to act under this subdivision, any person entitled to commence a proceeding under this article may petition the court for a change in such powers on notice to the guardian and the persons entitled to such notice in accordance with paragraph one of subdivision (d) of section 81.07 of this article for such relief.

(e)
The guardian shall send a copy of the initial report to the incapacitated person by mail unless the court orders otherwise pursuant to paragraph seven of subdivision (b) and paragraph nine of subdivision (c) of section 81.15 of this article.

(f)
The guardian shall send a copy of the initial report to the court evaluator and counsel for the incapacitated person at the time of the guardianship proceeding unless the court orders otherwise pursuant to paragraph seven of subdivision (b) and paragraph nine of subdivision (c) of section 81.15 of this article.

(g)
The guardian shall send a copy of the initial report to the court examiner.

(h)
If the incapacitated person resides in a facility, the guardian shall send a duplicate of such report to the chief executive officer of that facility.

(i)
If the incapacitated person resides in a mental hygiene facility, the guardian shall send a duplicate of such report to the mental hygiene legal service of the judicial department in which the residence is located.

Source:
Section 81.30 — Initial report, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.30 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
