SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._mental_hygiene_law_section_81.34
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.34 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Mental Hygiene Law Section 81.34

Decree on filing instruments approving accounts

(a)
The guardian or the personal representative of the guardian may present to the court a petition showing the names and addresses of all persons entitled to receive notice pursuant to paragraph three of subdivision (c) of section 81.16 of this article and the personal representative of the estate showing that, to the extent the guardian is responsible for the property of the incapacitated person, all taxes have been paid or that no taxes are due and that the petitioner has fully reported and has made full disclosure in writing of all the guardian’s actions affecting the property of the incapacitated person to all persons interested and seeking a decree releasing and discharging the petitioner. Upon the death of the incapacitated person, the guardian is authorized to pay the funeral expenses of the incapacitated person and, in the absence of a duly appointed personal representative of the estate, pay estimated estate and income tax charges, as well as other charges of emergent nature.

(b)
The petitioner shall also show that the incapacitated person has died or that the guardian has died, or has been removed, suspended, or discharged pursuant to the provisions of this article, or allowed to resign.

(c)
The petitioner shall also file with the petition acknowledged instruments executed by all persons interested or in the case of an infant, or incapacitated person whose claim has been paid, by the guardian, or guardian receiving payment, approving the report of the petitioner and releasing and discharging the petitioner.

(d)
The court may thereupon make a decree releasing and discharging the petitioner and the sureties on his or her bond, if any, from any further liability to the persons interested.

Source:
Section 81.34 — Decree on filing instruments approving accounts, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MHY/81.34 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
