                    Volume 3


 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA
         AND DIGESTS OF MEASURES

                        2000

         Constitution of 1879 as Amended

      Measures Submitted to Vote of Electors,
         Primary Election, March 7, 2000
     and General Election, November 7, 2000

General Laws, Amendments to the Codes, Resolutions,
   and Constitutional Amendment passed by the
               California Legislature


        1999–2000 Regular Session




                       Compiled by
                  BION M. GREGORY
                    Legislative Counsel
[Ch. 367 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            2881

                             CHAPTER 367

  An act relating to the California School for the Deaf, and making an
appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 7, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 8, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the
contrary, including, but not limited to, Section 11011 of the Government
Code or Section 118 of the Streets and Highways Code, the Department
of General Services, in consultation with the State Department of
Education, may sell to the City of Fremont the real property described
in this section for current market value upon terms and conditions that
are in the best interest of the state. The primary purpose of this section
is to secure sufficient net proceeds for repair and upgrade of the
California School for the Deaf, rather than to transfer the property for
other suitable state or local government purposes. However, the
Department of General Services may transfer the property for the
purpose of expansion of the adjacent street if sufficient net proceeds will
be realized for the purposes set forth in this section.
   (b) The net proceeds from the sale of the real property at the
California School for the Deaf, Northern California, further described in
subdivision (e) are hereby appropriated to the State Department of
Education for the 2000–01 fiscal year in augmentation of the support
appropriation for the California School for the Deaf.
   (c) The funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall be allocated
to the California School for the Deaf, Northern California, for the
purpose of repairing and upgrading the middle school activity center and
any necessary and related facility improvements, as determined by the
State Department of Education.
   (d) Funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall augment rather
than supplant any past appropriations to the State Department of
Education for the California School for the Deaf in Northern California
for similar purposes.
   (e) The real property set forth in subdivision (a) is described as
follows: approximately a 58 foot wide strip of property fronting
Stevenson Boulevard between Gallaudet Drive and Mission Boulevard,
in the City of Fremont, in Alameda County, California.
   (f) From the proceeds of the sale of property pursuant to this section,
the Department of General Services shall be reimbursed for its costs
 2882                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 368 ]
related to the sale, including, but not limited to, any survey costs, title
transfer fees, and department staff time.



                             CHAPTER 368

  An act to amend Section 103885 of, and to amend the heading of
Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 103875) of Part 2 of Division 102
of, the Health and Safety Code, relating to health.
             [Approved by Governor September 7, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 8, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The heading of Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
103875) of Part 2 of Division 102 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:

        CHAPTER 2.   KEN MADDY CALIFORNIA CANCER REGISTRY

   SEC. 2. Section 103885 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   103885. (a) The director shall establish a statewide system for the
collection of information determining the incidence of cancer, using
population-based cancer registries modeled after the Cancer
Surveillance Program of Orange County. As of the effective date of this
section the director shall begin phasing in the statewide cancer reporting
system. By July 1, 1988, all county or regional registries shall be
implemented or initiated. By July 1, 1990, the statewide cancer reporting
system shall be fully operational. Within 60 days of the effective date of
this section, the director shall submit an implementation and funding
schedule to the Legislature.
   (b) The department may designate any demographic parts of the state
as regional cancer incidence reporting areas and may establish regional
cancer registries, with the responsibility and authority to carry out the
intent of this section in designated areas. Designated regional registries
shall provide, on a timely basis, cancer incidence data as designated by
the state department to the department. The department may contract
with an agency, including, but not limited to, a health systems agency,
single county health department, multicounty health department
grouping, or nonprofit professional association, representing a
designated cancer reporting region for the purposes of collecting and
collating cancer incidence data.
[Ch. 368 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2883

   (c) The director shall designate cancer as a disease required to be
reported in the state or any demographic parts of the state in which cancer
information is collected under this section. All cancers diagnosed or
treated in the reporting area shall thereafter be reported to the
representative of the department authorized to compile the cancer data,
or any individual, agency, or organization designated to cooperate with
that representative.
   (d) (1) Any hospital or other facility providing therapy to cancer
patients within an area designated as a cancer reporting area shall report
each case of cancer to the department or the authorized representative of
the department in a format prescribed by the department. If the hospital
or other facility fails to report in a format prescribed by the department,
the department’s authorized representative may access the information
from the hospital or the facility and report it in the appropriate format.
In these cases, the hospital or other health facility shall reimburse the
state department or the authorized representative for its cost to access
and report the information.
   (2) Any physician and surgeon, dentist, podiatrist, or other health
care practitioner diagnosing or providing treatment for cancer patients
shall report each cancer case to the department or the authorized
representative of the department except for those cases directly referred
to a treatment facility or those previously admitted to a treatment facility
for diagnosis or treatment of that instance of cancer.
   (e) Any hospital or other facility that is required to reimburse the
department or its authorized representative for the cost to access and
report the information pursuant to subdivision (d) shall provide payment
to the department or its authorized representative within 60 days of the
date this payment is demanded. In the event any hospital or other facility
fails to make the payment to the department or its authorized
representative within 60 days of the date the payment is demanded, the
department or its authorized representative may, at its discretion, assess
a late fee not to exceed 11/2 percent per month of the outstanding balance.
Further, in the event that the department or its authorized representative
takes a legal action to recover its costs and any associated fees, and the
department or its authorized representative receives a judgment in its
favor, the hospital or other facility shall also reimburse the department
or its authorized representative for any additional costs it incurred to
pursue the legal action. Late fees and payments made to the department
by hospitals or other facilities pursuant to this subdivision shall be
considered as reimbursements of the additional costs incurred by the
department.
   (f) All physicians and surgeons, hospitals, outpatient clinics, nursing
homes and all other facilities, individuals or agencies providing
diagnostic or treatment services to patients with cancer shall grant to the
 2884                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 368 ]
department or the authorized representative access to all records that
would identify cases of cancer or would establish characteristics of the
cancer, treatment of the cancer, or medical status of any identified cancer
patient. Willful failure to grant access to those records shall be
punishable by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500) each day access
is refused. Any fines collected pursuant to this subdivision shall be
deposited in the General Fund.
   (g) All information reported pursuant to this section shall be
confidential as provided in Section 100330, except that the department
and any regional cancer registry designated by the department shall use
the information to determine the sources of malignant neoplasms and
evaluate measures designed to eliminate, alleviate, or ameliorate their
effect. The department and any regional cancer registry designated by
the department may enter into agreements to furnish confidential
information to other states’ cancer registries, federal cancer control
agencies, local health officers, or health researchers for the purposes set
forth in this subdivision if those out-of-state registries, agencies,
officers, or researchers agree in writing to maintain the confidentiality
of the information, and in the case of researchers, if they have obtained
the approval of their committee for the protection of human subjects
established in accordance with Part 46 (commencing with Section
46.101) of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (h) For the purpose of this section, ‘‘cancer’’ means either of the
following:
   (1) All malignant neoplasms, regardless of the tissue of origin,
including malignant lymphoma, Hodgkins disease, and leukemia, but
excluding basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.
   (2) All primary intracranial and central nervous system (CNS) tumors
occurring in the following sites, irrespective of histologic type: brain,
meninges, spinal cord, caudae equina, cranial nerves and other parts of
the CNS, pituitary gland, pineal gland, and craniopharyngeal duct.
   (i) Nothing in this section shall preempt the authority of facilities or
individuals, providing diagnostic or treatment services to patients with
cancer, to maintain their own facility-based cancer registries.
   (j) It is the intent of the Legislature that the department, in
establishing a system pursuant to this section, maximize the use of
available federal funds.
   SEC. 3. Section 103885 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   103885. (a) The director shall establish a statewide system for the
collection of information determining the incidence of cancer, using
population-based cancer registries modeled after the Cancer
Surveillance Program of Orange County. As of the effective date of this
section, the director shall begin phasing in the statewide cancer reporting
[Ch. 368 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2885

system. By July 1, 1988, all county or regional registries shall be
implemented or initiated. By July 1, 1990, the statewide cancer reporting
system shall be fully operational. Within 60 days of the effective date of
this section, the director shall submit an implementation and funding
schedule to the Legislature.
   (b) The department may designate any demographic parts of the state
as regional cancer incidence reporting areas and may establish regional
cancer registries, with the responsibility and authority to carry out the
intent of this section in designated areas. Designated regional registries
shall provide, on a timely basis, cancer incidence data as designated by
the state department to the department. The department may contract
with an agency, including, but not limited to, a health systems agency,
single county health department, multicounty health department
grouping, or nonprofit professional association, representing a
designated cancer reporting region for the purposes of collecting and
collating cancer incidence data.
   (c) The director shall designate cancer as a disease required to be
reported in the state or any demographic parts of the state in which cancer
information is collected under this section. All cancers diagnosed or
treated in the reporting area shall thereafter be reported to the
representative of the department authorized to compile the cancer data,
or any individual, agency, or organization designated to cooperate with
that representative.
   (d) (1) Any hospital or other facility providing therapy to cancer
patients within an area designated as a cancer reporting area shall report
each case of cancer to the department or the authorized representative of
the department in a format prescribed by the department. If the hospital
or other facility fails to report in a format prescribed by the department,
the department’s authorized representative may access the information
from the hospital or the facility and report it in the appropriate format.
In these cases, the hospital or other health facility shall reimburse the
state department or the authorized representative for its cost to access
and report the information.
   (2) Any physician and surgeon, dentist, podiatrist, or other health
care practitioner diagnosing or providing treatment for cancer patients
shall report each cancer case to the department or the authorized
representative of the department except for those cases directly referred
to a treatment facility or those previously admitted to a treatment facility
for diagnosis or treatment of that instance of cancer.
   (e) Any hospital or other facility that is required to reimburse the
department or its authorized representative for the cost to access and
report the information pursuant to subdivision (d) shall provide payment
to the department or its authorized representative within 60 days of the
date this payment is demanded. In the event any hospital or other facility
 2886                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 368 ]
fails to make the payment to the department or its authorized
representative within 60 days of the date the payment is demanded, the
department or its authorized representative may, at its discretion, assess
a late fee not to exceed 11/2 percent per month of the outstanding balance.
Further, in the event that the department or its authorized representative
takes a legal action to recover its costs and any associated fees, and the
department or its authorized representative receives a judgment in its
favor, the hospital or other facility shall also reimburse the department
or its authorized representative for any additional costs it incurred to
pursue the legal action. Late fees and payments made to the department
by hospitals or other facilities pursuant to this subdivision shall be
considered as reimbursements of the additional costs incurred by the
department.
   (f) All physicians and surgeons, hospitals, outpatient clinics, nursing
homes and all other facilities, individuals or agencies providing
diagnostic or treatment services to patients with cancer shall grant to the
department or the authorized representative access to all records that
would identify cases of cancer or would establish characteristics of the
cancer, treatment of the cancer, or medical status of any identified cancer
patient. Willful failure to grant access to those records shall be
punishable by a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500) each day access
is refused. Any fines collected pursuant to this subdivision shall be
deposited in the General Fund.
   (g) (1) All data including, but not limited to, medical and pathology
records, records of health status, interviews, questionnaires, reports,
statements, notes, and memoranda collected pursuant to this section
shall be confidential. Access shall be limited to the department and any
regional registry designated by the department except as otherwise
provided in this subdivision.
   (2) The department and any regional cancer registry designated by the
department may enter into agreements to furnish confidential data to
other states’ cancer registries, federal cancer control agencies, local
health officers, or health researchers for the purposes of determining the
sources of malignant neoplasms and evaluating measures designed to
eliminate, alleviate, or ameliorate their effect. Before confidential data
are disclosed to those out-of-state registries, agencies, officers, or
researchers, the requesting entity shall agree in writing to maintain the
confidentiality of the information, and, in the case of researchers, shall
do both of the following:
   (A) Obtain approval of their committee for the protection of human
subjects established in accordance with Part 46 (commencing with
Section 46.101) of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
[Ch. 368 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2887

   (B) Provide documentation to the department that demonstrates to
the department’s satisfaction that the entity has established the
procedures and ability to maintain the confidentiality of the information.
   (3) Confidential data may be disclosed to other local, state, or federal
public health or environmental agencies, or to collaborating medical
researchers, when the confidential data are necessary to carry out the
duties of the agency or researcher in the investigation, control, or
surveillance of disease, as determined by the department.
   (4) Any disclosure authorized by this section shall include only the
information necessary for the stated purpose of the requested disclosure
and shall be made only upon written agreement that the information will
be kept confidential and will not be further disclosed without written
authorization of the department.
   (5) The furnishing of confidential data to the department or its
authorized representative or to any other cooperating individual, agency,
or organization in any study in accordance with this subdivision shall not
expose any person, agency, or entity furnishing data to liability and shall
not be considered to be the violation of any privileged or confidential
relationship.
   (6) (A) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that the necessity for
preserving the confidentiality of the data outweighs the necessity for
disclosure. The confidential data may only be subject to discovery or
subpoena if the party seeking the disclosure rebuts the presumption. This
presumption may only be overcome if the court finds that the disclosure
of the information will serve to protect public health or safety.
   (B) If the court finds that the presumption has been rebutted and the
confidential data is subject to discovery or subpoena, certain
confidential information shall be redacted. This information includes
personal names, addresses, telephone numbers, social security numbers,
personal identification numbers, insurance policy numbers, specific
places of employment and education, any other data that identifies or
accesses the participant or any friends, employers, or associates of the
participant, and any other data the court deems appropriate. The party
requesting the data shall be responsible for all costs associated with the
production of the data, including costs attributable to any time required
to redact the confidential information. The party requesting the data shall
demonstrate the ability to ensure data security and confidentiality.
   (7) (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person who
violates this subdivision shall be subject to civil and criminal penalties
and other actions in accordance with Section 56.36 of the Civil Code.
   (B) Any person who intentionally discloses confidential data to any
third party, except as authorized in this subdivision, may be denied
further access to confidential data maintained by the department.
 2888                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 369 ]
   (8) Nothing in this subdivision shall prohibit the publication by the
department of reports and statistical compilations relating to the causes
of malignant neoplasms or measures to eliminate, alleviate, or
ameliorate the effect of malignant neoplasms that do not identify
individual cases and sources of information or religious affiliations.
   (h) For the purpose of this section, ‘‘cancer’’ means either of the
following:
   (1) All malignant neoplasms, regardless of the tissue of origin,
including malignant lymphoma, Hodgkins disease, and leukemia, but
excluding basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.
   (2) All primary intracranial and central nervous system (CNS) tumors
occurring in the following sites, irrespective of histologic type: brain,
meninges, spinal cord, caudae equina, cranial nerves and other parts of
the CNS, pituitary gland, pineal gland, and craniopharyngeal duct.
   (i) Nothing in this section shall preempt the authority of facilities or
individuals, providing diagnostic or treatment services to patients with
cancer, to maintain their own facility-based cancer registries.
   (j) It is the intent of the Legislature that the department, in
establishing a system pursuant to this section, maximize the use of
available federal funds.
   SEC. 4. Section 3 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
103885 of the Health and Safety Code proposed by both this bill and SB
1596. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 103885 of the Health and Safety Code, and (3) this bill is enacted
after SB 1596, in which case Section 2 of this bill shall not become
operative.



                             CHAPTER 369

  An act to amend Section 63000 of, to add a chapter heading to, and to
add Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 63050) to, Part 35 of, the
Education Code, relating to categorical education programs.
             [Approved by Governor September 7, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 8, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. A chapter heading is added to Part 35 (commencing
with Section 63000) of the Education Code, immediately preceding
Section 63000, to read:
[Ch. 369 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2889

     CHAPTER 1.      EXPENDITURE FOR DIRECT SERVICES TO PUPILS

  SEC. 2. Section 63000 of the Education Code is amended to read:
  63000. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to funds received
for the following categorical programs:
  (a) Child care and development programs pursuant to Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 8200) of Part 6.
  (b) School library programs pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 18100) of Part 11.
  (c) School improvement programs pursuant to Chapter 6
(commencing with Section 52000) of Part 28.
  (d) Bilingual education programs pursuant to Article 1 (commencing
with Section 52000) and Article 3 (commencing with Section 52160) of
Chapter 7 of Part 28.
  (e) Economic Impact Aid programs pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 54000) of Part 29.
  (f) The Miller-Unruh Basic Reading Act of 1965 pursuant to Chapter
2 (commencing with Section 54100) of Part 29.
  (g) Compensatory education programs pursuant to Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 54400) of Part 29, except for programs for
migrant children pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section
54440) of Chapter 4 of Part 29.
  SEC. 3. Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 63050) is added to
Part 35 of the Education Code, to read:

CHAPTER 2.     PILOT PROJECT FOR CATEGORICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM
                            FLEXIBILITY

  63050. There is hereby established the Pilot Project for Categorical
Education Program Flexibility under which a school district selected to
participate in the pilot project shall have flexibility as described in this
chapter in the expenditure of the funding the school district receives for
the categorical education programs listed in the following three clusters:
  (a) The school improvement and staff development cluster consisting
of the following programs:
  (1) Administrator training and education as set forth in Article 3
(commencing with Section 44681) of Chapter 3.1 of Part 25.
  (2) Bilingual Teacher Training and Assistance as set forth in Article
4 (commencing with Section 52180) of Chapter 7 of Part 28.
  (3) Demonstration programs in intensive instruction as set forth in
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 58600) of Part 31.
  (4) Early Intervention for School Success as set forth in Article 4.5
(commencing with Section 58685) of Chapter 9 of Part 29.
 2890                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 369 ]
   (5) Intersegmental Staff Development. For the purposes of this
chapter, intersegmental staff development shall not include any of the
following:
   (A) The English Language Acquisition Program pursuant to Chapter
4 (commencing with Section 400) of Part 1.
   (B) The Professional Development Institutes pursuant to Article 2
(commencing with Section 99220) of Chapter 5 of Part 65.
   (6) High school coach training as set forth in Article 4.5
(commencing with Section 35179) of Chapter 2 of Part 21.
   (7) Miller-Unruh Basic Reading Act of 1965 as set forth in Chapter
2 (commencing with Section 54100) of Part 29.
   (8) Reader services for the blind as set forth in Article 8.5
(commencing with Section 45370) of Chapter 5 of Part 25.
   (9) School-based management and advanced career opportunities for
classroom teachers as set forth in Article 12 (commencing with Section
44666) of Chapter 3 of Part 25.
   (10) School development plans and resource consortia as set forth in
Article 1 (commencing with Section 44670.1) of, and Article 2
(commencing with Section 44680) of, Chapter 3.1 of Part 25.
   (11) Improvement of elementary and secondary education as set forth
in Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 52000) of Part 28.
   (12) Specialized secondary program grants as set forth in Chapter 6
(commencing with Section 58800) of Part 31.
   (13) Student vocational education organizations as set forth in
subdivision (b) of Section 19632 of the Business and Professions Code.
   (14) Gifted and Talented Pupils as set forth in Chapter 8
(commencing with Section 52200) of Part 28.
   (b) The alternative and compensatory education cluster consisting of
the following programs:
   (1) Agricultural vocational education incentives as set forth in Article
7.5 (commencing with Section 52460) of Chapter 9 of Part 28.
   (2) California Indian education centers as set forth in Article 6
(commencing with Section 33380) of Chapter 3 of Part 20.
   (3) Dropout prevention as set forth in Article 6 (commencing with
Section 52890) of, and Article 7 (commencing with Section 52900) of,
Chapter 12 of Part 28, Article 7 (commencing with Section 54720) of
Chapter 9 of Part 29, and Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 58550)
of Part 31.
   (4) Economic Impact Aid as set forth in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 54020) of Chapter 1 of Part 29.
   (5) Foster youth programs as set forth in Chapter 11.3 (commencing
with Section 42920) of Part 24.
   (6) Opportunity classes and programs as set forth in Article 2.3
(commencing with Section 48643) of Chapter 4 of Part 27.
[Ch. 369 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2891

   (7) Tenth grade counseling as set forth in Sections 48431.6 and
48431.7.
   (c) The school district improvement cluster consisting of the
following programs:
   (1) Home-to-school transportation as set forth in Article 10
(commencing with Section 41850) of Chapter 5 of, and Article 4.5
(commencing with Section 42290) of Chapter 7 of, Part 24.
   (2) Voluntary desegregation as set forth in Section 42247 and 42249.
   (3) Year-round school grants as set forth in Article 3 (commencing
with Section 42260) of Chapter 7 of Part 24.
   63051. (a) The Superintendent of Public Instruction, with the
approval of the State Board of Education, shall select not more than 75
school districts that apply to participate in the pilot project established
pursuant to this chapter.
   (b) Each school district that applies to participate in the pilot project
established pursuant to this chapter shall submit a project budget with
the application. The project budget shall specify how categorical
program funding will be allocated or reallocated under the pilot project.
No school district may participate in the pilot project unless the district’s
proposed plan is approved by the State Board of Education.
   (c) The superintendent shall determine the 25 largest school districts
in the state on the basis of pupil enrollment as of October 1999. From
this list, the superintendent shall select no more than one school district
from the largest five school districts and no more than four school
districts from the remaining 20 largest school districts to participate in
the pilot project. If more than one of the largest five school districts
applies, or more than four school districts from the remaining 20 school
districts applies, the superintendent shall select those school districts to
participate in the pilot project by lottery.
   (d) After making selections pursuant to subdivision (b), the
superintendent may select up to 70 additional participants from
applicant school districts. The superintendent shall ensure that
participating school districts are broadly representative of the state,
including small school districts, urban school districts, rural school
districts, suburban school districts, elementary school districts, high
school districts, and unified school districts.
   (e) A school district approved for participation shall have a minimum
of five years of funding flexibility as described in this chapter
commencing on and after the 2000–01 fiscal year.
   63052. (a) A school district participating in the pilot project is
exempt from the program requirements and regulations for those
categorical education programs listed in Section 63050.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a school district
participating in the pilot project shall receive the same amount of funds
 2892                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 369 ]
for the categorical programs constituting the three clusters described in
Section 63050 while participating in the pilot project as the school
district received for those programs in the year prior to participation in
the pilot project, plus growth and cost-of-living adjustments if approved
in the annual Budget Act. However, nothing in this section shall be
construed to allow program expansion for any of the categorical
programs contained in the clusters specified in Section 63050 that are
also included in subdivision (b) of Section 63051. All funding for those
programs is suspended for the duration of the district’s pilot program
participation.
   (c) A school district participating in the pilot project shall not be
entitled to receive, and may not receive, funding in replacement of
categorical funds that have been redirected or otherwise reduced
pursuant to this chapter. This subdivision may not be construed to
prevent a school district from receiving funds that the district is
otherwise eligible to receive for cost-of-living adjustments, or growth
adjustments that are allocated in accordance with this code, unless
otherwise provided for in the annual budget process.
   63053. (a) Each school district participating in the pilot project
shall annually report to the State Department of Education information
requested pursuant to this section, in order to determine the following:
   (1) Revisions to categorical program implementation and local
allocation of funds made pursuant to the district’s participation in the
pilot project.
   (2) Academic progress of pupils, as determined by test scores, grades
assigned, and other measures, reported by grade level.
   (b) Each school district participating in the pilot project shall
separately report to the State Department of Education assessment data
for English language learners, pupils who qualify for compensatory
education, gifted pupils, pupils by gender, and all numerically
significant ethnic and socioeconomically disadvantaged subgroups
within schools. A numerically significant ethnic or socioeconomically
disadvantaged subgroup is a subgroup that constitutes at least 15 percent
of a school’s total pupil population and consists of at least 30 pupils. For
the purposes of this section, assessment data shall include test results and
related information from all testing conducted pursuant to Chapter 5
(commencing with Section 60600) of Part 33, Chapter 8 (commencing
with Section 60850) of Part 33, and any other standardized testing
administered by the participating district.
   (c) The State Department of Education shall report to the Governor
and the education policy and fiscal committees of both houses of the
Legislature on the pilot projects established pursuant to this chapter in
accordance with the following schedule:
[Ch. 369 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2893

   (1) By February 1, 2002, the State Department of Education shall
submit a summative report of information collected pursuant to
subdivisions (a) and (b).
   (2) By February 1, 2003, the State Department of Education shall
submit a preliminary evaluation of the pilot projects, prepared in
accordance with subdivision (d).
   (3) By February 1, 2004, the State Department of Education shall
submit a summative report of information collected pursuant to
subdivisions (a) and (b).
   (4) By February 1, 2005, the State Department of Education shall
submit a final evaluation of the pilot projects, prepared in accordance
with subdivision (d).
   (d) The State Department of Education shall prepare, or contract for
the preparation of, evaluations of the pilot projects established pursuant
to this chapter. Among other matters, these evaluations shall be designed
to assess the effect of the pilot projects, if any, on pupil achievement,
including the achievement of those groups of pupils for whom
assessment data is separately reported pursuant to subdivision (b).
Preliminary and final evaluations shall be submitted pursuant to
subdivision (c). It is the intent of the Legislature that funds be provided
in appropriate budget acts to conduct the evaluations required by this
section and that further direction for conduct of the evaluations may be
provided through instructions attached to those appropriations.
   (e) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall convene a group
consisting of a representative of the Secretary for Education and
representatives from the State Department of Education, Office of the
Legislative Analyst, and the Department of Finance, to advise the State
Department of Education regarding the evaluation of the pilot projects
established by this chapter.
   (f) After the initial two-year period, the oversight group convened
pursuant to subdivision (e) shall review the academic progress of pupils
and make a recommendation to the State Board of Education regarding
a district’s continued participation in the pilot project.
   63054. (a) A school district approved for participation in the pilot
project may expend the funds from the programs in the school
improvement and staff development cluster to improve the quality of
instruction and to improve pupil performance and shall expend those
funds in a manner that is consistent with the intent of those programs
taken as a whole.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a) of Section 63052, a school
district is not exempt from the program requirements concerning
schoolsite plans and councils.
   (c) The schoolsite council and the governing board of the school
district shall approve the schoolsite expenditure plans and budgets for
 2894                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 370 ]
the funds received for the purposes of the school improvement and staff
development cluster.
  63055. A school district approved for participation in the pilot
project may expend the funds from the programs in the alternative and
compensatory education cluster to support alternative education settings
and compensatory services provided that those settings and services are
consistent with the intent of the programs composing the alternative and
compensatory education cluster. Participating school districts shall
continue to allocate funds in the alternative and compensatory education
cluster to schools with the largest number or percentage of pupils in need
of alternative and compensatory education.
  63056. A school district approved for participation in the pilot
project may expend the funds from the programs in the school district
improvement cluster for any high priority program that the district
considers will improve pupil performance or will be a more effective use
of resources.



                             CHAPTER 370

  An act relating to the California State University.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature hereby finds and declares all of the
following:
  (a) The California State University at Los Angeles and the Los
Angeles County High School for the Arts have long sought a theater in
which to perform the approximately 200 dramatic, music, and dance
events produced each year by the 20,000 students at their campuses.
Both schools are recognized for their extensive and impressive
performing arts programs, and they have received many awards for their
productions. However, they do not have an adequate facility for their
performances, forcing administrators to seek temporary venues in
distant communities.
  (b) A performing arts center would bring hundreds of students, their
families, and other theater patrons to downtown Los Angeles several
evenings each week. The two schools would benefit from having a
visible and important downtown location for their performing arts
events, and the city would benefit from the new life brought by the
students’ activities.
[Ch. 370 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               2895

   (c) The establishment of a performing arts center in the former
cathedral is supported by a wide array of civic and governmental bodies,
including the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, the Los Angeles
Conservancy, California State University, the office of the Mayor of the
City of Los Angeles, the City Council of the City of Los Angeles, the
Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, the Little Tokyo Service Center,
and others.
   (d) The former St. Vibiana’s Cathedral is a major cultural landmark
of downtown Los Angeles, being the first cathedral built in California
south of San Francisco. The cathedral served for 120 years as the seat of
the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, and its history is closely intertwined
with City of Los Angeles and the religious heritage of southern
California.
   (e) The cathedral building is listed on the National Register of
Historic Places, and it occupies a crucial location in downtown Los
Angeles, one and one-half blocks from City Hall, that links the civic
center with the reviving historic core and the Little Tokyo district.
   (f) The legacy of the cathedral is now threatened, and its important
role in the city’s life could be lost to future generations. The structure was
closed in 1994 after suffering damage from the Northridge earthquake,
and the archdiocese is now constructing a new cathedral, Our Lady of
the Angels, at another downtown site.
   (g) Downtown Los Angeles would benefit economically and socially
from the revitilization and reuse of the cathedral. The reuse would
further invigorate the historic core of the city, bring street life back to the
surrounding neighborhood, and ensure that the heritage of the cathedral
is preserved.
   (h) The Los Angeles Restoration Foundation is seeking to restore the
former St. Vibiana’s Cathedral, in partnership with public agencies and
the private sector, and adapt the building for reuse as a performing arts
center. When work is completed the foundation will offer the center to
the two schools as a permanent home for their performing arts programs.
   (i) The Los Angeles Restoration Foundation is working to secure
funding for the performing arts center from private sources as well as
from the City of Los Angeles, the County of Los Angeles, and other
public agencies.
   (j) Provision 21 of Schedule (a) of Item 6610-001-0001 of Section
2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000 (Chapter 52 of the Statutes of 2000)
provides four million dollars ($4,000,000) in one-time funds to be used
to fund the California State University Los Angeles Performing Arts
Center.
 2896                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 371 ]
                             CHAPTER 371

  An act to add Section 69613.7 to the Education Code, relating to
student financial aid.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 69613.7 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
  69613.7. (a) For the purposes of this article, ‘‘subject matter
shortage area’’ may not be construed to include teaching in a
self-contained classroom or teaching pursuant to a multiple subject
credential.
  (b) The list, furnished by the Superintendent of Public Instruction
pursuant to Section 69613.1 and relating to teaching fields that have the
most critical shortage of teachers, shall not include teaching in a
self-contained classroom or teaching pursuant to a multiple subject
credential.



                             CHAPTER 372

  An act to add Section 5080 to the Vehicle Code, relating to vehicles.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 5080 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   5080. (a) The department, in consultation with the Rotary
International Foundation, shall design and make available for issuance,
pursuant to this article, special interest license plates. The special
interest license plates issued under this section shall contain the words
‘‘Service Above Self’’ and the emblem of Rotary International. The
plates may be issued in a combination of numbers or letters, or both, as
requested by the applicant for the plates. Any person described in
Section 5101, upon payment of the additional fees set forth in
subdivision (b), may apply for and be issued a set of special interest
license plates described in this subdivision.
   (b) In addition to the regular fees for an original registration, a
renewal of registration, or a transfer or substitution of the license plates,
[Ch. 373 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2897

the following additional fees shall be paid for the issuance, renewal,
retention, transfer, or substitution of the special interest license plates
authorized by this section:
   (1) For the original issuance of the plates, seventy-five dollars ($75).
   (2) For a renewal of registration with the plates, forty dollars ($40).
   (3) For transfer of the plates to another vehicle, fifteen dollars ($15).
   (4) For each substitute replacement plate, thirty-five dollars ($35).
   (5) For the conversion of an existing special license plate to the
Rotary International special interest license plate authorized pursuant to
this section, sixty-five dollars ($65).
   (c) After deducting its administrative costs under this section, the
department shall deposit the additional revenue derived from the
issuance, renewal, transfer, and substitution of the Rotary International
special interest license plates into the Rotary International Foundation
Account, which is hereby created in the General Fund. The funds, when
appropriated by the Legislature, shall be allocated by the Controller to
the Rotary International Foundation for educational, international
outreach, community service, and humanitarian purposes.
   (d) Any organization participating in the special interest license plate
program pursuant to this section shall comply with all of the
requirements imposed on participating organizations pursuant to
Section 5060.



                             CHAPTER 373

  An act to amend Section 4301 of the Fish and Game Code, and to
amend Sections 18943, 18946, 18947, 18991, 19000, 19001, 19013,
19016, 19020, and 19501 of, and to add Section 18963 to, the Food and
Agricultural Code, relating to meat.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 4301 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
   4301. (a) Subject to the provisions of this code permitting the sale
of domestically raised game mammals, it is unlawful to sell or purchase,
or transport for the purpose of sale, any deer meat in this state whether
fresh, smoked, canned, or preserved by any means, except fallow deer
meat processed by a slaughterer in accordance with Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 18650) of, and Chapter 4.1 (commencing
 2898                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 373 ]
with Section 18940) of, Part 3 of Division 9 of the Food and Agricultural
Code, and except that deer meat may be imported into this state from a
foreign country for the purpose of processing (manufacturing) and
selling a product commonly known as venison or deer jerky or venison
or deer salami, properly labeled as such, for human consumption. All
deer meat imported into this state shall meet all of the sanitary and
inspection requirements for wholesomeness, except an antemortem
inspection, but including a postmortem inspection, as required for other
meat imported for human consumption. The deer meat shall be in an
identifiable condition and accompanied by a bill of lading, showing the
name of the consignor, the consignee, and the weight of the deer meat
shipped. A copy of the bill of lading shall be delivered to the nearest
office of the department either prior to, or not later than, two days from
the date of receipt of the deer meat. No such deer meat imported into this
state may leave the premises of the original consignee unless written
permission is received from the department, or unless it is processed into
the form of the product commonly known as jerky or salami.
   (b) As used in this section, ‘‘deer’’ includes any animal of the family
Cervidae.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 18943 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   18943. ‘‘Livestock’’ means any cattle, sheep, swine, and goat, and
pursuant to regulations adopted by the Fish and Game Commission, for
the purposes of Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 18650) and this
chapter, fallow deer (Dama dama) whether alive or dead.
   SEC. 2. Section 18946 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   18946. ‘‘Custom livestock slaughterhouse’’ means a licensed
establishment where:
   (a) Cattle, sheep, swine, or goats are slaughtered and prepared for the
owners of the livestock.
   (b) Fallow deer are slaughtered and prepared for transportation or
sale, or transportation and sale.
   SEC. 3. Section 18947 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   18947. ‘‘Meat processing establishment’’ means a licensed
establishment required to be inspected pursuant to Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 18650) where livestock or poultry products
are prepared by curing, drying, smoking, or rendering, or where
livestock products of swine are cooked, and the products are sold on the
premises to household consumers, and a licensed establishment where
fallow deer products may be prepared for transportation or sale, or
transportation and sale.
[Ch. 373 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           2899

   SEC. 4. Section 18963 is added to the Food and Agricultural Code,
to read:
   18963. The department, in consultation with the State Department
of Health Services, shall, on or before December 31, 2001, adopt, by
regulations, standards and requirements relating to inspection,
sanitation, facilities, equipment, reinspection, preparation, processing,
buying, selling, transporting, storing, identification, recordkeeping,
registration and labeling, and marking for fallow deer slaughtered and
processed under this chapter. The regulations shall provide for the safe
and humane handling and transportation of the fallow deer to a state
inspected slaughter facility. No custom livestock slaughterhouse or meat
processing establishment shall be approved by the department to
slaughter or process fallow deer until adoption of these regulations.
   SEC. 5. Section 18991 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   18991. (a) A licensed livestock meat inspector, in accordance with
regulations adopted hereunder, shall conduct antemortem examination
of each animal to be slaughtered in a licensed establishment and shall
permit the slaughter of apparently healthy animals and withhold from
slaughter all animals suspected, as well as those plainly showing
evidence, of a disease. Animals so withheld shall be examined by a
department employee who shall order the disposition of the animal
pursuant to the regulations adopted hereunder.
   (b) The licensed livestock meat inspector shall conduct a postmortem
examination and make dispositions of carcasses and parts thereof in
accordance with regulations adopted hereunder.
   (c) A licensed livestock meat inspector shall conduct a sanitation
inspection before the establishment commences operations for the day,
and make periodic inspections throughout the day.
   (d) The licensed livestock meat inspector shall order the
establishment not to begin operations or to cease operations at any time
that the establishment sanitation fails to meet the requirements of this
chapter and the regulations adopted thereunder, or at any time any
product is not handled, retained, condemned, or disposed of in violation
of this chapter or the regulations thereunder.
   (e) (1) Passed carcasses and parts of cattle, sheep, swine, and goat
shall be stamped by the licensed livestock meat inspector or under his
or her supervision with an approved California identification number.
   (2) Passed carcasses and parts of fallow deer slaughtered and
prepared for transportation or sale shall be stamped with an approved
mark of inspection.
   SEC. 6. Section 19000 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
 2900                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 373 ]
   19000. Each person, before acting as a licensed processing inspector
in a retail meat processing establishment, shall apply to the department
and receive from the department a license after passing an examination
and a demonstration that shows the applicant’s ability to understand laws
and regulations that pertain to meat inspection and a practical knowledge
of all the following:
   (a) Conditions that affect adulteration, misbranding, and
wholesomeness of livestock and poultry products.
   (b) Sanitary meat and poultry processing procedures.
   (c) Sanitation of the facilities and the equipment used in retail meat
processing establishments.
   SEC. 7. Section 19001 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   19001. (a) A licensed processing inspector shall conduct a
sanitation inspection before the establishment commences operations
for the day, and shall make periodic inspections throughout the day.
   (b) The licensed processing inspector shall order the establishment
not to begin operations or to cease operations at any time that the
establishment sanitation fails to meet the requirements of this chapter
and the regulations adopted thereunder, or at any time any product is not
handled, retained, condemned, or disposed of in violation of this chapter
or the regulations thereunder.
   (c) The licensed processing inspector shall direct the application of
the mark of inspection as provided by regulations on products that are
inspected by him or her and found to be wholesome, not adulterated, and
derived from (1) United States Department of Agriculture inspected
carcasses, or (2) fallow deer carcasses at custom livestock
slaughterhouses.
   SEC. 8. Section 19013 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   19013. No person shall operate a meat processing establishment
unless all livestock and poultry products used in processing and to be
sold have been inspected by the United States Department of
Agriculture, fallow deer products have been inspected at a custom
livestock slaughterhouse, or poultry products have been inspected in
accordance with the requirements of Chapter 3 (commencing with
Section 24951) of Part 1 of Division 12 and the processing of the product
is inspected by a licensed processing inspector.
   SEC. 9. Section 19016 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   19016. (a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), all custom
slaughtered livestock carcasses and parts shall be marked in a manner
required by the department to identify the inspected premises and that
the products are not for sale.
[Ch. 373 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2901

   (2) Fallow deer carcasses and parts thereof intended for
transportation or sale shall be marked in a manner required by the
department to identify the inspected premises and to show that the
products have been inspected under this chapter.
   (b) The department shall determine, by regulation, the official design
of the marks that are required by this chapter.
   SEC. 10. Section 19020 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   19020. This chapter does not apply to any of the following:
   (a) Owners who slaughter, on their own premises, livestock of their
own raising where the meat is not for sale, but used exclusively by the
owners, members of the owner’s household, the owner’s employees, and
nonpaying guests.
   (b) A mobile slaughter operator who provides services to an owner
as specified in subdivision (a) where the slaughter occurs on the owner’s
premises and the meat is thereafter transported for the owner to an
establishment for further processing.
   (c) Persons solely engaged in cutting, wrapping, and otherwise
processing farm or custom slaughter livestock or the processing and sale
of fresh meats derived from United States Department of Agriculture
inspected carcasses, except the curing, smoking, and preparing of
cooked or smoked sausages or cooked pork products that are not
exempted under subdivision (b) of Section 18814.
   (d) Livestock slaughter and meat and poultry processing inspected by
the United States Department of Agriculture.
   SEC. 11. Section 19501 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   19501. (a) Cattle, calves, horses, mules, sheep, swine, goats, or
fallow deer, or poultry shall be slaughtered by the methods prescribed
in this section. No state agency shall contract for, purchase, procure, or
sell all or any portion of any animal, unless that animal is slaughtered in
conformity with this chapter. This chapter applies to any person engaged
in the business of slaughtering animals enumerated in this section, or any
person slaughtering any of those animals when all, or any part of, that
animal is subsequently sold or used for commercial purposes.
   (b) All cattle, calves, horses, mules, sheep, swine, goats, or fallow
deer subject to this part, or poultry subject to Part 1 (commencing with
Section 24501) of, Part 2 (commencing with Section 25401) of, and Part
3 (commencing with Section 26401) of, Division 12 shall be slaughtered
by either of the following prescribed methods:
   (1) The animal shall be rendered insensible to pain by a captive bolt,
gunshot, electrical or chemical means, or any other means that is rapid
and effective before being cut, shackled, hoisted, thrown, or cast, with
the exception of poultry which may be shackled.
 2902                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 374 ]
   (2) The animal shall be handled, prepared for slaughter, and
slaughtered in accordance with ritual requirements of the Jewish or any
other religious faith that prescribes a method of slaughter whereby the
animal suffers loss of consciousness by anemia of the brain caused by
the simultaneous and instantaneous severance of the carotid arteries with
a sharp instrument.
   This section does not apply to the slaughter of spent hens and small
game birds, as defined by the department by regulation.
   SEC. 12. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 374

  An act to amend Section 12002 of the Fish and Game Code, relating
to birds.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12002 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
   12002. (a) Unless otherwise provided, the punishment for a
violation of this code that is a misdemeanor is a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000), imprisonment in the county jail for not more
than six months, or both the fine and imprisonment.
   (b) The punishment for a violation of any of the following provisions
is a fine of not more than two thousand dollars ($2,000), imprisonment
in the county jail for not more than one year, or both the fine and
imprisonment:
   (1) Section 1059.
   (2) Subdivision (d) of Section 4004.
   (3) Section 4600.
   (4) Paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 5650.
   (5) A first violation of Section 8670.
   (6) Section 10500.
[Ch. 375 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            2903

   (7) Section 3005.9.
   (8) A violation of commission regulations that is discovered pursuant
to Section 3005.91 or 3005.92.
   (9) Unless a greater punishment is otherwise provided, a violation
subject to subdivision (a) of Section 12003.1.
   (c) Except as specified in Sections 12001 and 12010, the punishment
for violation of Section 3503, 3503.5, 3513, or 3800 is a fine of not more
than five thousand dollars ($5,000), imprisonment in the county jail for
not more than six months, or both that fine and that imprisonment.
   (d) (1) A license or permit issued pursuant to this code to a defendant
who fails to appear at a court hearing for a violation of this code, or who
fails to pay a fine imposed pursuant to this code, shall be immediately
suspended. The license or permit shall not be reinstated or renewed, and
no other license or permit shall be issued to that person pursuant to this
code, until the court proceeding is completed or the fine is paid.
   (2) This subdivision does not apply to any violation of Section 1052,
1059, 1170, 3005.9, 3005.91, 3005.92, 5650, 5653.9, 6454, 6650, or
6653.5.



                             CHAPTER 375

   An act to amend Section 7507.4 of the Business and Professions Code,
to amend Sections 1748.10, 1748.11, 1748.22, 1788, 1810.20, and
1810.21 of the Civil Code, to amend Section 22 of the Financial Code,
to amend Sections 16265, 76219, and 76245 of the Government Code,
to amend Sections 1067.05, 1067.055, and 11628 of the Insurance Code,
to amend Section 1656.2 of the Vehicle Code, and to repeal Section 3 of
Chapter 569 of the Statutes of 1974, relating to governmental regulation.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 7507.4 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   7507.4. A licensed repossession agency or its registrants may make
demand for payment in lieu of repossession, if the demand is made
pursuant to an assignment for repossession.
   In making demand upon a debtor for a money payment in lieu of
repossession, the repossessor shall present the demand in compliance
with the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Act (Title 1.6C (commencing
with Section 1788) of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code), setting
 2904                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 375 ]
forth in the demand only the amount that was specified by the creditor
in the repossession referral and the fees that are properly chargeable.
Itemized receipts shall be furnished the debtor at the time payment is
received. Payments received shall forthwith be transmitted to the
creditor, disclosing the full amount of money received from the debtor
in addition to the contract payments.
   SEC. 2. Section 1748.10 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   1748.10. This act shall be known and may be cited as the ‘‘Areias
Credit Card Full Disclosure Act Of 1986.’’
   SEC. 3. Section 1748.11 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   1748.11. (a) Any application form or preapproved written
solicitation for an open-end credit card account to be used for personal,
family, or household purposes which is mailed on or after October 1,
1987, to a consumer residing in this state by or on behalf of a creditor,
whether or not the creditor is located in this state, other than an
application form or solicitation included in a magazine, newspaper, or
other publication distributed by someone other than the creditor, shall
contain or be accompanied by either of the following disclosures:
   (1) A disclosure of each of the following, if applicable:
   (A) Any periodic rate or rates that may be applied to the account,
expressed as an annual percentage rate or rates. If the account is subject
to a variable rate, the creditor may instead either disclose the rate as of
a specific date and indicate that the rate may vary, or identify the index
and any amount or percentage added to, or subtracted from, that index
and used to determine the rate. For purposes of this section, that amount
or percentage shall be referred to as the ‘‘spread.’’
   (B) Any membership or participation fee that may be imposed for
availability of a credit card account, expressed as an annualized amount.
   (C) Any per transaction fee that may be imposed on purchases,
expressed as an amount or as a percentage of the transaction, as
applicable.
   (D) If the creditor provides a period during which the consumer may
repay the full balance reflected on a billing statement which is
attributable to purchases of goods or services from the creditor or from
merchants participating in the credit card plan, without the imposition
of additional finance charges, the creditor shall either disclose the
number of days of that period, calculated from the closing date of the
prior billing cycle to the date designated in the billing statement sent to
the consumer as the date by which that payment must be received to
avoid additional finance charges, or describe the manner in which the
period is calculated. For purposes of this section, the period shall be
referred to as the ‘‘free period’’ or ‘‘free-ride period.’’ If the creditor does
not provide such a period for purchases, the disclosure shall so indicate.
[Ch. 375 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2905

   (2) A disclosure that satisfies the initial disclosure statement
requirements of Regulation Z.
   (b) A creditor need not present the disclosures required by paragraph
(1) of subdivision (a) in chart form or use any specific terminology,
except as expressly provided in this section. The following chart shall
not be construed in any way as a standard by which to determine whether
a creditor who elects not to use such a chart has provided the required
disclosures in a manner which satisfies paragraph (1) of subdivision (a).
However, disclosures shall be conclusively presumed to satisfy the
requirements of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) if a chart with captions
substantially as follows is completed with the applicable terms offered
by the creditor, or if the creditor presents the applicable terms in tabular,
list, or narrative format using terminology substantially similar to the
captions included in the following chart:
 2906                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 375 ]
   THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS PROVIDED PURSUANT TO THE
        AREIAS CREDIT CARD FULL DISCLOSURE ACT OF 1986:
   INTEREST RATES, FEES, AND FREE–RIDE PERIOD FOR PURCHASES
               UNDER THIS CREDIT CARD ACCOUNT


                                  ANNUAL-
                                    IZED
    ANNUAL         VARIABLE       MEMBER-
      PER-           RATE           SHIP          TRANS-
    CENTAGE       INDEX AND      OR PARTICI-      ACTION      FREE–RIDE
                                   PATION
     RATE (1)     SPREAD (2)        FEE            FEE        PERIOD (3)




   (1) For fixed interest rates. If variable rate, creditor may elect to
disclose a rate as of a specified date and indicate that the rate may vary.
   (2) For variable interest rates. If fixed rate, creditor may eliminate the
column, leave the column blank, or indicate ‘‘No’’ or ‘‘None’’ or ‘‘Does
not apply.’’
   (3) For example, ‘‘30 days’’ or ‘‘Yes, if full payment is received by
next billing date’’ or ‘‘Yes, if full new balance is paid by due date.’’
   (c) For purposes of this section, ‘‘Regulation Z’’ has the meaning
attributed to it under Section 1802.18, and all of the terms used in this
section have the same meaning as attributed to them in federal
Regulation Z (12 C.F.R. Sec. 226.1 et seq.). For the purposes of this
section, ‘‘open-end credit card account’’ does not include an account
accessed by a device described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of
Section 1747.02.
   (d) Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit
a creditor from disclosing additional terms, conditions, or information,
whether or not relating to the disclosures required under this section, in
conjunction with the disclosures required by this section.
   (e) If a creditor is required under federal law to make any disclosure
of the terms applicable to a credit card account in connection with
[Ch. 375 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               2907

application forms or solicitations, the creditor shall be deemed to have
complied with the requirements of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) with
respect to those application forms or solicitations if the creditor complies
with the federal disclosure requirement. For example, in lieu of
complying with the requirements of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a), a
creditor has the option of disclosing the specific terms required to be
disclosed in an advertisement under Regulation Z, if the application
forms or solicitations constitute advertisements in which specific terms
must be disclosed under Regulation Z.
   (f) If for any reason the requirements of this section do not apply
equally to creditors located in this state and creditors not located in this
state, then the requirements applicable to creditors located in this state
shall automatically be reduced to the extent necessary to establish equal
requirements for both categories of creditors, until it is otherwise
determined by a court of law in a proceeding to which the creditor located
in this state is a party.
   (g) All application forms for an open-end credit card account
distributed in this state on or after October 1, 1987, other than by mail,
shall contain a statement in substantially the following form:
   ‘‘If you wish to receive disclosure of the terms of this credit card,
pursuant to the Areias Credit Card Full Disclosure Act of 1986, check
here and return to the address on this application.’’
   A box shall be printed in or next to this statement for placement of such
a checkmark.
   However, this subdivision does not apply if the application contains
the disclosures provided for in this title.
   (h) This title does not apply to any application form or written
advertisement or an open-end credit card account where the credit to be
extended will be secured by a lien on real or personal property or both
real and personal property.
   (i) This title does not apply to any person who is subject to Article
10.5 (commencing with Sec. 1810.20) of Chapter 1 of Title 2.
   SEC. 4. Section 1748.22 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   1748.22. (a) On and after October 1, 1987, issuers of charge cards
shall clearly and conspicuously disclose in any charge card application
form or preapproved written solicitation for a charge card mailed to a
consumer who resides in this state to apply for a charge card, whether or
not the charge card issuer is located in this state, other than an application
form or solicitation included in a magazine, newspaper, or other
publication distributed by someone other than the charge card issuer, the
following information:
   (1) Any fee or charge assessed for or which may be assessed for the
issuance or renewal of the charge card, expressed as an annualized
 2908                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 375 ]
amount. The fee or charge required to be disclosed pursuant to this
paragraph shall be denominated as an ‘‘annual fee.’’
   (2) The charge card does not permit the charge cardholder to defer
payment of charges incurred by the use of the charge card upon receipt
of a periodic statement of charges from the charge card issuer.
   (3) Any fee that may be assessed for an extension of credit to a charge
cardholder where the extension of credit is made by the charge card
issuer, and is not a credit sale and where the charge cardholder receives
the extension of credit in the form of cash or where the charge cardholder
obtains the extension of credit through the use of a preprinted check,
draft, or similar credit device provided by the charge card issuer to obtain
an extension of credit. This fee shall be denominated as a ‘‘cash advance
fee’’ in the disclosure required by this paragraph.
   (b) A charge card issuer shall be conclusively presumed to have
complied with the disclosure requirements of subdivision (a) if the table
set out in subdivision (b) of Section 1748.11 is completed with the
applicable terms offered by the charge card issuer in a clear and
conspicuous manner and the completed table in subdivision (b) of
Section 1748.11 is then provided to the person invited to apply for the
charge card as a part of or in material which accompanies the charge card
application or written advertisement which invites a person to apply for
a charge card.
   The charge card issuer shall include as part of table set out in
subdivision (b) of Section 1748.11 the following sentences in the boxes
or in a footnote outside of the boxes that relate to the interest rate
disclosure: ‘‘This is a charge card which does not permit the charge
cardholder to pay for purchases made using this charge card in
installments. All charges made by a person to whom the charge card is
issued are due and payable upon the receipt of a periodic statement of
charges by the charge cardholder.’’
   The inclusion or exclusion of an expiration date with table set out in
subdivision (b) of Section 1748.11 or the use of footnotes in the boxes
of the table to set out the information required to be disclosed by this
section outside of the boxes of the table set out in subdivision (b) of
Section 1748.11 shall not affect the conclusive presumption of
compliance pursuant to this subdivision. If a charge card issuer does not
offer or require one of the selected attributes of credit cards in the table
set out in subdivision (b) of Section 1748.11 the charge card issuer shall
employ the phrase in the appropriate box or in the appropriate footnote
‘‘Not offered’’ or ‘‘Not required’’ or a substantially similar phrase
without losing the conclusive presumption of compliance with the
requirements of subdivision (a). If one of the selected attributes of charge
cards required to be disclosed pursuant to subdivision (a) is not
applicable to the charge card issuer, the charge card issuer may employ
[Ch. 375 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2909

in the appropriate box or in the appropriate footnote outside of the box
in the table set out in subdivision (b) of Section 1748.11 the phrase ‘‘Not
applicable’’ or a substantially similar phrase without losing the
conclusive presumption of compliance with the requirements of
subdivision (a).
   (c) Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit
a charge card issuer from disclosing additional terms, conditions, or
information, whether or not relating to the disclosures required under
this section by subdivision (a) or in connection with the disclosure
provided in subdivision (b), in conjunction with the disclosures required
by this section.
   (d) If the charge card issuer offers to the charge cardholder any
program or service under which the charge cardholder may elect to
access open-end credit, the charge card issuer shall provide to the charge
cardholder, before the charge cardholder has the right to access that
credit, the initial disclosure statement required by Regulation Z, as
defined in subdivision (c) of Section 1748.10.
   (e) All charge card application forms distributed in this state on or
after October 1, 1987, other than by mail, shall contain a statement in
substantially the following form:
   ‘‘If you wish to receive disclosure of the terms of this credit card,
pursuant to the Areias Charge Card Full Disclosure Act of 1986, check
here and return to the address on this application.’’
   A box shall be printed in or next to this statement for placing such a
checkmark.
   However, this subdivision does not apply if the application contains
the disclosures provided for in this title.
   SEC. 5. Section 1788 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   1788. This title may be cited as the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection
Practices Act.
   SEC. 6. Section 1810.20 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   1810.20. This article shall be known and may be cited as the ‘‘Areias
Retail Installment Account Full Disclosure Act of 1986.’’
   SEC. 7. Section 1810.21 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   1810.21. (a) Any application form or preapproved written
solicitation for a credit card issued in connection with a retail installment
account which is mailed on or after October 1, 1987, to a retail buyer
residing in this state by or on behalf of a retail seller, whether or not the
retail seller is located in this state, other than an application form or
solicitation included in a magazine, newspaper, or other publication
distributed by someone other than the retail seller, shall contain or be
accompanied by either of the following disclosures:
   (1) A disclosure of each of the following, if applicable:
 2910                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 375 ]
   (A) Any periodic rate or rates that will be used to determine the
finance charge imposed on the balance due under the terms of a retail
installment account, expressed as an annual percentage rate or rates.
   (B) Any membership or participation fee that will be imposed for
availability of a retail installment account in connection with which a
credit card is issued expressed as an annualized amount.
   (C) If the retail seller provides a period during which the retail buyer
may repay the full balance reflected on a billing statement which is
attributable to purchases of goods or services from the retail seller
without the imposition of additional finance charges, the retail seller
shall either disclose the minimum number of days of that period,
calculated from the closing date of the prior billing cycle to the date
designated in the billing statement sent to the retail buyer as the date by
which that payment must be received to avoid additional finance
charges, or describe the manner in which the period is calculated. For
purposes of this section, the period shall be referred to as the ‘‘free
period’’ or ‘‘free-ride period.’’ If the retail seller does not provide such
a period for purchases, the disclosure shall so indicate.
   (2) A disclosure that satisfies the initial disclosure statement
requirements of Regulation Z (12 C.F.R. 226.6).
   (b) In the event that an unsolicited application form is mailed or
otherwise delivered to retail buyers in more than one state, the
requirements of subdivision (a) shall be satisfied if on the application
form or the soliciting material there is a notice that credit terms may vary
from state to state and which provides either the disclosures required by
subdivision (a) or an address or phone number for the customer to use
to obtain the disclosure. The notice shall be in boldface type no smaller
than the largest type used in the narrative portion, excluding headlines,
of the material soliciting the application. Any person responding to the
notice shall be given the disclosures required by subdivision (a).
   (c) A retail seller need not present the disclosures required by
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) in chart form or use any specific
terminology, except as expressly provided in this section. The following
chart shall not be construed in any way as a standard by which to
determine whether a retail seller who elects not to use the chart has
provided the required disclosures in a manner which satisfies paragraph
(1) of subdivision (a). However, disclosures shall be conclusively
presumed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a)
if a chart with captions substantially as follows is completed with the
applicable terms offered by the retail seller, or if the retail seller presents
the applicable terms in tabular, list, or narrative format using
terminology substantially similar to the captions included in the
following chart:
[Ch. 375 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2911

   THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS PROVIDED PURSUANT TO THE
   AREIAS RETAIL INSTALLMENT ACCOUNT FULL DISCLOSURE ACT
                           OF 1986:
   CREDIT CARD TERMS VARY AMONG RETAIL SELLERS—SELECTED
     TERMS FOR PURCHASES UNDER THIS RETAIL INSTALLMENT
                  ACCOUNT ARE SET OUT BELOW



        PERIODIC
           RATES                ANNUAL                 FREE–RIDE
         (as APRs)               FEES                    PERIOD




   (d) For purpose of this section, ‘‘Regulation Z’’ has the meaning
attributed to it under Section 1802.18, and all of the terms used in this
section have the same meaning as attributed to them in federal
Regulation Z (12 C.F.R. Sec. 226.1 et seq.).
   (e) Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit
a retail seller from disclosing additional terms, conditions, or
information, whether or not relating to the disclosures required under
this section, in conjunction with the disclosures required by this section.
Notwithstanding subdivision (g) of Section 1748.11, a retail seller that
complies with the requirements of Section 1748.11 shall be deemed to
have complied with the requirements of this section.
   (f) If a retail seller is required under federal law to make any
disclosure of the terms applicable to a retail installment account in
connection with application forms or solicitations, the retail seller shall
be deemed to have complied with the requirements of paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) with respect to those application forms or solicitations
if the retail seller complies with the federal disclosure requirement.
   (g) If the disclosure required by this section does not otherwise appear
on an application form or an accompanying retail installment agreement
distributed in this state on or after October 1, 1987, other than by mail,
 2912                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 375 ]
the application form shall include a statement in substantially the
following form:
  ‘‘If you wish to receive disclosure of the terms of this retail installment
account, pursuant to the Areias Retail Installment Account Full
Disclosure Act of 1986, check here and return to the address on this
form.’’
  A box shall be printed in or next to this statement for placing such a
checkmark.
  (h) This article does not apply to (1) any application form or
preapproved written solicitation for a retail installment account credit
card where the credit to be extended will be secured by a lien on real or
personal property, or both real and personal property, (2) any application
form or written solicitation which invites a person or persons to apply
for a retail installment account credit card and which is included as part
of a catalog which is sent to one or more persons by a creditor in order
to facilitate a credit sale of goods offered in the catalog, (3) any
advertisement which does not invite, directly or indirectly, an
application for a retail installment account credit card, and (4) any
application form or written advertisement included in a magazine,
newspaper, or other publication distributed in more than one state by
someone other than the creditor.
  SEC. 8. Section 22 of the Financial Code is amended to read:
  22. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, Chapter 10
(commencing with Section 10000) of Division 2 shall be known and
may be cited as the Vuich-Calderon Financial Institutions Act of 1986.
  SEC. 9. Section 16265 of the Government Code is amended to read:
  16265. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
‘‘Bergeson-Costa-Nielsen County Revenue Stabilization Act of 1987.’’
  SEC. 10. Section 76219 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
  76219. (a) The Courthouse Construction Fund established in Los
Angeles County pursuant to Section 76100 shall be known as the
Courthouse Construction Fund.
  (b) All courtroom construction in the County of Los Angeles which
utilizes moneys from the Courthouse Construction Fund or moneys
borrowed and owed against the Courthouse Construction Fund shall be
within the boundaries of the San Fernando Valley Statistical Area and
the Los Cerritos Municipal Court District, until the time that the County
of Los Angeles has spent a total of at least forty-three million dollars
($43,000,000) on courthouse construction within the San Fernando
Valley Statistical Area and at least eight million dollars ($8,000,000)
within the Los Cerritos Municipal Court District for the Bellflower
Courthouse.
[Ch. 375 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2913

   (c) All courtroom construction in the County of Los Angeles which
utilizes moneys from the Courthouse Construction Fund or moneys
borrowed against the Courthouse Construction Fund shall be within the
boundaries of the San Fernando Valley Statistical Area, within the
boundaries of the Los Cerritos Municipal Court District, within the
boundaries of the East Los Angeles Municipal Court District, within the
Downey Municipal Court District, within the community of Hollywood,
or within the West Los Angeles Branch of the Los Angeles Municipal
Court District, until the time that the County of Los Angeles has fulfilled
the requirements of subdivision (b) and has additionally spent at least
sixteen million five hundred thousand dollars ($16,500,000) on
courthouse construction within the East Los Angeles Municipal Court
District, has spent at least ten million dollars ($10,000,000) on
courthouse construction within the Downey Municipal Court District,
has commenced construction on a courthouse with at least six
courtrooms in the West San Fernando Valley, has commenced
construction on a courthouse with at least two courtrooms in the
community of Hollywood, and has commenced construction on a
courthouse for the West Los Angeles Branch of the Los Angeles
Municipal Court District.
   (d) All courtroom construction in the County of Los Angeles which
utilizes moneys from the Courthouse Construction Fund or moneys
borrowed against the Courthouse Construction Fund shall be within the
boundaries of the San Fernando Valley Statistical Area, within the
boundaries of the Los Cerritos Municipal Court District, within the
boundaries of the East Los Angeles Municipal Court District, within the
Downey Municipal Court District, within the community of Hollywood,
within the West Los Angeles Branch of the Los Angeles Municipal
Court District, within the Pasadena Judicial District, within the
Southeast Municipal Court District, within the South Bay Judicial
District, within the Santa Monica Judicial District, within the Antelope
Valley Judicial District, or within the Long Beach Judicial District until
the time that the County of Los Angeles has fulfilled the requirements
of subdivisions (b) and (c), and has commenced construction of new
facilities or the expansion of existing facilities for the municipal courts
in the Pasadena Judicial District, the north and south branches of the
Southeast Municipal Court District, and the South Bay Judicial District,
has commenced construction on a courthouse for the superior court with
at least 18 courtrooms in the North Hollywood Redevelopment Project
Area of the City of Los Angeles or immediately adjacent thereto, and has
commenced construction of new facilities for the superior and municipal
courts in the Santa Monica Judicial District, the Antelope Valley Judicial
District, and the Long Beach Judicial District.
 2914                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 375 ]
   (e) For purposes of this section, the San Fernando Valley Statistical
Area includes all land within the San Fernando Valley Statistical Area
(as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 11093) as well as the City of San
Fernando, the City of Hidden Hills, and the unincorporated areas of Los
Angeles County located west of the City of Los Angeles, east and south
of the Ventura County line, and north of a line extended westerly from
the southern boundary of the San Fernando Valley Statistical Area (as
defined in subdivision (c) of Section 11093).
   (f) The moneys of the Courthouse Construction Fund together with
any interest earned thereon shall be payable only for courtroom
construction and land acquisition as authorized in subdivision (b) and,
after the requirement of subdivision (b) has been met, shall be payable
only for courtroom construction and land acquisition as authorized in
subdivision (c) and, after the requirements of subdivisions (b) and (c)
have been met, shall be payable only for courtroom construction and
land acquisition as authorized in subdivision (d).
   (g) Deposits into the fund shall continue through and including either
(1) the 25th year after the initial calendar year in which the surcharge is
selected or (2) whatever period of time is necessary to repay any
borrowings made by the county to pay for construction provided for in
this section, whichever time is longer.
   (h) The resolution adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the County
of Los Angeles on September 2, 1980, stating that the provisions of
Chapter 578 of the Statutes of 1980 are necessary to the establishment
of adequate courtroom facilities in the County of Los Angeles shall be
deemed a resolution stating that the provisions of this section are
necessary to the establishment of adequate courtroom facilities in the
county, and shall satisfy the requirements of this section.
   SEC. 11. Section 76245 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   76245. (a) The fund established in Shasta County pursuant to
Section 76200 shall be known as the Statham Courthouse Construction
Fund.
   (b) The fund established in Shasta County pursuant to Section 76101
shall be known as the Statham Criminal Justice Facilities Construction
Fund.
   SEC. 12. Section 1067.05 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
   1067.05. (a) A nonprofit legal entity to be known as the California
Life and Health Insurance Guarantee Association shall exist as a result
of the merger of the Seastrand Health Insurance Guaranty Association
with and into the California Life Insurance Guaranty Association
pursuant to Section 1067.055. All member insurers shall be and remain
members of the association as a condition of their authority to transact
insurance in this state. The association shall perform its functions under
[Ch. 375 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2915

the plan of operation established and approved under Section 1067.09
and shall exercise its powers through a board of directors established
under Section 1067.06. For purposes of administration and assessment,
the association shall maintain the following three accounts:
   (1) The life insurance account.
   (2) The annuity account.
   (3) The health insurance account.
   (b) The association shall come under the immediate supervision of
the commissioner and shall be subject to the applicable provisions of the
insurance laws of this state. Meetings or records of the association may
be opened to the public upon majority vote of the board of directors of
the association.
   SEC. 13. Section 1067.055 of the Insurance Code is amended to
read:
   1067.055. In order to provide for the merger of the Seastrand Health
Insurance Guaranty Association with and into the California Life
Insurance Guaranty Association, the following shall apply:
   (a) Notwithstanding the repeal of the California Life Insurance
Guaranty Association Act and the Seastrand Health Insurance Guaranty
Association Act, the Seastrand Health Insurance Guaranty Association
shall, effective immediately prior to that repeal, be merged with and into
the California Life Insurance Guaranty Association, which shall then be
known as the California Life and Health Insurance Guarantee
Association.
   (b) Notwithstanding the repeal of the California Life Insurance
Guaranty Association Act and the Seastrand Health Insurance Guaranty
Association Act, but subject to the last sentence of this subdivision, all
of the following shall apply:
   (1) The association shall succeed, without other transfer, to all the
rights, powers, privileges, assets, and property of each of the California
Life Insurance Guaranty Association and the Seastrand Health Insurance
Guaranty Association, which for the purposes of this section shall be
referred collectively as the merging associations. The association shall
be subject to all debts, obligations, and liabilities of each merging
association in the same manner as if the association had itself incurred
them, in each case under the law in effect prior to the effective date of
this article, as those rights, powers, privileges, obligations, debts, and
liabilities may be amended and restated in this article, including, without
limitation, the extension of coverage with respect to unallocated
contracts as provided in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (b) of Section 1067.02, and in each case with respect to
member insurers that became impaired insurers or insolvent insurers
prior to the effective date of this article and after October 1, 1990.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the association shall
 2916                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 375 ]
succeed to (A) all collected, uncollected, or unbilled assessments of the
merging associations, (B) all cash, bank accounts, and accrued interest
of the merging associations, (C) all rights, powers, privileges, and
obligations of the merging associations under any contracts or
commitments of the merging association, (D) all subrogations,
assignments, and creditor rights and interests of the merging
associations, and (E) all rights, powers, privileges, and obligations of
each of the trusts established on December 31, 1993, by each of the
merging associations as settlor.
   (2) All rights of creditors and all liens upon the property of each of
the merging associations shall be preserved unimpaired, provided that
the liens upon property of a merging association shall be limited to the
property affected thereby immediately prior to the effective date of this
article.
   (3) Any action or proceeding pending by or against a merging
association may be prosecuted to judgment, which shall bind the
association, or the association may be proceeded against or be
substituted in its place.
   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subdivision, all debts,
obligations, and liabilities of a merging association that were to be paid
out of a specified account of the merging association shall be paid solely
out of the assets of that merging association that were available to that
merging association to pay those debts and liabilities, including, without
limitation, collected, uncollected, or unbilled assessments, and any and
all subrogation, assignment, and creditor rights, or out of assets in the
same type of account of the association.
   (c) Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this article:
   (1) It is the intent of this section to preserve rights, powers, privileges,
assets, property, debts, obligations, and liabilities of each of the merging
associations, and not to provide contractholders and policyholders, or
their respective payees, beneficiaries, or assignees, with duplicative
rights, powers, privileges, assets, or property.
   (2) Accordingly, no contractholder and policyholder, and no
contractholder’s or policyholder’s payee, beneficiary, or assignee, shall
be entitled to (A) a recovery from the association that is duplicative of
a previous recovery from either of the merging associations, or the trust
established by either merging association, or (B) a recovery from the
association on account of a claim against either of the merging
associations where the association is liable with respect to a claim under
the same policy or contract under this article.
   SEC. 14. Section 11628 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
   11628. (a) No admitted insurer, licensed to issue and issuing motor
vehicle liability policies as defined in Section 16450 of the Vehicle
Code, shall fail or refuse to accept an application for that insurance, to
[Ch. 375 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2917

issue that insurance to an applicant therefor, or issue or cancel that
insurance under conditions less favorable to the insured than in other
comparable cases, except for reasons applicable alike to persons of every
race, language, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, or the same
geographic area; nor shall race, language, color, religion, national origin,
ancestry, or location within a geographic area of itself constitute a
condition or risk for which a higher rate, premium, or charge may be
required of the insured for that insurance.
   As used in this section ‘‘geographic area’’ means a portion of this state
of not less than 20 square miles defined by description in the rating
manual of an insurer or in the rating manual of a rating bureau of which
the insurer is a member or subscriber. In order that geographic areas used
for rating purposes may reflect homogeneity of loss experience, a record
of loss experience for the geographic area shall include the breakdown
of actual loss experience statistics by ZIP Code area (as designated by
the United States Postal Service) within each geographic area for family
owned private passenger motor vehicles and lightweight commercial
motor vehicles, under 11/2-ton load capacity, used for local service or
retail delivery, normally within a 50-mile radius of garaging, and which
are not part of a fleet of five or more motor vehicles under one ownership.
A record of loss experience for the geographic area, including that
statistical data by ZIP Code area, shall be submitted annually to the
commissioner for examination by each insurer licensed to issue and
issuing motor vehicle liability policies, motor vehicle physical damage
policies, or both. Loss experience shall include separate loss data for
each type of coverage, including liability or physical damage coverage,
underwritten. That report shall include the insurer’s statewide loss ratio,
loss adjustment expense ratio, expense ratio, and combined ratio on its
assigned-risk business. An insurer may satisfy its obligation to report
statistical data under this subdivision by providing its loss experience
data and statewide expense ratio and combined ratio on its assigned-risk
business to a rating or advisory organization for submission to the
commissioner. This data shall be made available to the public by the
commissioner annually after examination. However, the data shall be
released in aggregate form by ZIP Code in order that no individual
insurer’s loss experience for any specific geographic area be revealed.
Differentiation in rates between geographical areas shall not constitute
unfair discrimination.
   All information reported to the department pursuant to this
subdivision shall be confidential.
   As used in this section, (1) ‘‘language’’ means the inability to speak,
read, write, or comprehend the English language, (2) ‘‘dependents’’ shall
include, but not be limited to, issue regardless of generation, and (3)
‘‘spouse’’ shall be determined without regard to current marital status.
 2918                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 375 ]
   (b) The commissioner may require insurers with combined ratios on
statewide assigned-risk business that are 10 percent above the mean
combined ratio for all plan participants to also report the following:
   (1) The reason for the excessive ratio.
   (2) A plan for reducing the ratio, and when the reduction can be
expected to occur. The commissioner may require insurers subject to this
subdivision to provide periodic reports on the progress in reducing the
combined ratio.
   (c) No admitted insurer, licensed to issue and issuing motor vehicle
liability insurance policies as defined in Section 16450 of the Vehicle
Code, shall fail or refuse to accept an application for that insurance,
refuse to issue that insurance to an applicant therefor, or cancel that
insurance solely for the reason that the applicant for that insurance or any
insured is employed in a specific occupation, or is on active duty service
in the Armed Forces of the United States.
   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an insurer from:
   (1) Considering the occupation of the applicant or insured as a
condition or risk for which a higher rate or discounted rate may be
required or offered for coverage in the course and scope of his or her
occupation.
   (2) Charging a deviated rate to any classification of risks involving
a specific occupation, or grouping thereof, if the rate meets the
requirements of Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 1850) of Part 2 of
Division 1 and is based upon actuarial data which demonstrates a
significant actual historical differential between past losses or expenses
attributable to the specific occupation, or grouping thereof, and the past
losses or expenses attributable to other classification of risks. For
purposes of compiling that actuarial data for a specific occupation or
grouping thereof, a person shall be deemed employed in the occupation
in which that data is compiled if: (A) the majority of his or her
employment during the previous year was in the occupation, or (B) the
majority of his or her aggregate earnings for the immediate preceding
three-year period were derived from the occupation, or (C) the person is
a member in good standing of a union which is an authorized collective
bargaining agent for persons engaged in the occupation.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to include in the definition
of ‘‘occupation’’ any status or activity which does not result in
remuneration for work done or services performed, or self-employment
in a business operated out of an applicant’s or insured’s place of
residence or persons engaged in the renting, leasing, selling,
repossessing, rebuilding, wrecking, or salvaging of motor vehicles.
   (d) Nothing in this section shall limit or restrict the ability of an
insurer to refuse to accept an application for or refuse to issue or cancel
such insurance for the reason that it is a commercial vehicle or based
[Ch. 375 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2919

upon the consideration of a vehicle’s size, weight, design, or intended
use.
   (e) It is the intent of the Legislature that actuarial data by occupation
may be examined for credibility by the commissioner on the same basis
as any other automobile insurance data which he or she is empowered
to examine.
   (f) (1) Except as provided in Article 4 (commencing with Section
11620), nothing in this section or in Article 10 (commencing with
Section 1861.01) of Chapter 9 of Part 2 of Division 1 or in any other
provision of this code, shall prohibit an insurer from limiting the
issuance or renewal of insurance as defined in subdivision (a) of Section
660 to persons who engage in, or have formerly engaged in,
governmental or military service or segments of categories thereof, and
their spouses, dependents, and former dependents or spouses.
   (2) The term ‘‘military service’’ includes, but is not limited to, officer
and warrant officer candidates, cadets or midshipmen at a service
academy, cadets or midshipmen in advance Reserve Officer Training
Corps programs or on Reserve Officer Training Corps program
scholarships, National Guard officer candidates, students in
government-sponsored precommissioning programs, and foreign
military officers while on temporary duty in the United States.
   (g) This section shall be known and may be cited as the ‘‘Rosenthal
Auto Insurance Nondiscrimination Law.’’
   SEC. 15. Section 1656.2 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   1656.2. The department shall prepare and publish a printed
summary describing the penalties for noncompliance with Section
16000, which shall be included with each motor vehicle registration,
registration renewal, and transfer of registration and with each driver’s
license and license renewal. The printed summary may contain, but is
not limited to, the following wording:

     ‘‘IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT ENFORCEMENT OF
CALIFORNIA’S COMPULSORY FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
                       LAW


     The McAlister Financial Responsibility Act requires every driver
  to maintain proof of valid automobile liability insurance, bond, cash
  deposit, or self-insurance which has been approved by the Department
  of Motor Vehicles.
     You must provide proof of financial responsibility after you are
  cited by a peace officer for a traffic violation. The act requires that you
  provide the officer with the name of your insurer and the policy
  identification number. Your insurer will provide written evidence of
 2920                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 376 ]
  this number. The back of your vehicle registration form contains a
  space for writing this information. Failure to prove your financial
  responsibility can result in fines of up to two hundred forty dollars
  ($240) and loss of your driver’s license. Falsification of proof can
  result in fines of up to five hundred dollars ($500) or 30 days in jail,
  or both.
     Under existing law, if you are involved in an accident that results
  in damages over five hundred dollars ($500) or in any injury or fatality,
  you must file a report of the accident with the Department of Motor
  Vehicles within 10 days of the accident. If you fail to file a report or
  fail to provide evidence of financial responsibility on the report, your
  driving privilege will be suspended for one year. Your suspension
  notice will notify you of the department’s action and of your right to
  a hearing. Your suspension notice will also inform you that if you
  request a hearing, it must be conducted within 30 days of your written
  request, and that a decision is to be rendered within 15 days of the
  conclusion of the hearing.’’

  SEC. 16.     Section 3 of Chapter 569 of the Statutes of 1974 is
repealed.



                             CHAPTER 376

   An act relating to school facilities, and declaring the urgency thereof,
to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, the sale of
certain real property, commonly known as 520 Capitol Mall,
Sacramento, California, by the Sacramento City Unified School District
shall be subject solely to the provisions set forth in this act and shall not
be subject to the provisions of Article 2 (commencing with Section
17230) of Chapter 1 of Part 10.5 of the Education Code, Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 17385) of Part 10.5 of the Education Code,
Article 8 (commencing with Section 54220) of Chapter 5 of Part 1 of
Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code, or Article 7 (commencing
with Section 65400) of Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the
Government Code.
[Ch. 376 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2921

   SEC. 2. The sale of real property, commonly known as 520 Capitol
Mall, Sacramento, California, shall be subject to all of the following
procedures:
   (a) The Sacramento City Unified School District has solicited
offerings in accordance with all of the following:
   (1) The notice of the property being offered was published in a
newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which the
district is situated.
   (2) A comprehensive offering memorandum and marketing analysis
setting forth terms for offers was sent to all respondents as well as
targeted potential buyers.
   (3) On May 19, 2000, offers were received.
   (4) On May 19, 2000, the bids were opened and a highest bidder
meeting the terms of the offer was designated.
   (b) Before ordering the sale of 520 Capitol Mall, Sacramento,
California property to the person or entity designated as the highest
bidder by subdivision (a), the governing board of the Sacramento City
Unified School District, in a regular open meeting, by a two-thirds vote
of its members, shall adopt a resolution declaring its intention to sell 520
Capitol Mall, Sacramento, California. The resolution shall describe the
property proposed to be sold in such a manner as to identify it, the
activities and procedures to solicit offers set forth in subdivision (a), and
shall specify the minimum price and the terms upon which it shall be sold
and the commission, or rate thereof, if any, which the board will pay to
a licensed real estate broker out of the proceeds. The resolution shall fix
a time and place for the receipt of any additional written offers and shall
set a time not less than three weeks thereafter for a public meeting of the
governing board to be held at its regular place of meeting, at which the
superintendent of the Sacramento City Unified School District shall
make all of the offers public and shall recommend to the governing board
acceptance of the highest offer.
   (c) The Sacramento City Unified School District shall comply with
Section 17469 of the Education Code for public notice and posting of the
adoption of the resolution.
   (d) The governing board of the Sacramento City Unified School
District at the time and place designated in the resolution described in
subdivision (b) shall accept the highest offer as recommended by the
superintendent or reject all offers. The final acceptance of the highest
offer or rejection of all of the offers may be made at any adjourned
session of the same meeting within the 10 days next following.
   SEC. 3. The Legislature finds and declares that because of a unique
situation existing in the Sacramento Area regarding the sale of real
property, commonly known as 520 Capitol Mall, Sacramento,
California, by the Sacramento City Unified School District, a general
 2922                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 377 ]
law, within the meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California
Constitution, cannot be made applicable.
  SEC. 4. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to avoid an extended transition period into new facilities that
would impair the Sacramento City Unified School District’s ability to
safely operate its schools, it is necessary that this act take effect
immediately.



                             CHAPTER 377

   An act to add Section 1986.1 to the Code of Civil Procedure, relating
to evidence.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1986.1 is added to the Code of Civil
Procedure, to read:
   1986.1. (a) No testimony or other evidence given by a journalist
under subpoena in a civil or criminal proceeding may be construed as a
waiver of the immunity rights provided by subdivision (b) of Section 2
of Article I of the California Constitution.
   (b) Because important constitutional rights of a third-party witness
are adjudicated when rights under subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article
I of the California Constitution are asserted, except in exigent
circumstances a journalist who is subpoenaed in any civil or criminal
proceeding shall be given at least five days’ notice by the party issuing
the subpoena that his or her appearance will be required.
   (c) If a trial court holds a journalist in contempt of court in a criminal
proceeding notwithstanding subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article I of
the California Constitution, the court shall set forth findings, either in
writing or on the record, stating at a minimum, why the information will
be of material assistance to the party seeking the evidence, and why
alternate sources of the information are not sufficient to satisfy the
defendant’s right to a fair trial under the Sixth Amendment to the United
States Constitution and Section 15 of Article I of the California
Constitution.
[Ch. 378 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2923

   (d) As used in this section, ‘‘journalist’’ means the persons specified
in subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article I of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 378

  An act relating to the Rim of the Valley Trail.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (a) Marjorie Feinberg originated the concept of the 50-mile Rim of
the Valley Trail as a student, developing the idea through a master’s
degree thesis in which she proposed a specific route.
   (b) Over the next 25 years, she worked to guarantee acquisition of the
land and development of the trail. She traveled to every meeting of the
Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy as well as any other group in
which the trail would be discussed, to be available for comment and
information. She organized support groups for the trail in every portion
of the San Fernando Valley and surrounding towns.
   (c) Marjorie Feinberg has received numerous commendations for her
work on the Rim of the Valley Trail, including a Certificate of Honor
from Los Angeles Beautiful, commendations from the City of Los
Angeles and Mayor Bradley, a Certificate of Recognition from the
Assembly of the State of California, and a posthumous Outstanding
Public Service Award from California State University, Northridge.
   (d) Marjorie Feinberg died on February 2, 1999. Her one wish during
her illness was to live to see the completion of the Rim of the Valley Trail.
   (e) It is an appropriate memorial to name the trail the ‘‘Marge
Feinberg Rim of the Valley Trail’’ to acknowledge the fact that, without
her tireless efforts, the Rim of the Valley Trail would never have been
completed.
   SEC. 1.5. The Rim of the Valley Trail shall be known as the Marge
Feinberg Rim of the Valley Trail. The Santa Monica Mountains
Conservancy is requested to determine the cost of erecting appropriate
plaques and markers showing the special designation, and upon
receiving donations from nonstate sources covering that cost, to erect
those plaques and markers.
 2924                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 379 ]
                             CHAPTER 379

 An act to amend Sections 31470.11 and 31470.12 of the Government
Code, relating to welfare fraud investigators and administrators.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 31470.11 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  31470.11. Notwithstanding Section 31470.2, all welfare fraud
investigators and administrators in counties of the 16th class, as
described by Sections 28020 and 28037, as amended by Chapter 1204
of the Statutes of 1971, shall be ineligible for safety membership, unless
and until the board of supervisors shall elect, by resolution adopted by
a majority vote, to make those investigators and administrators eligible.
  SEC. 3. Section 31470.12 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
  31470.12. Child support investigators and administrators in
counties of the 16th class, as described by Section 28020 and 28037, as
amended by Chapter 1204 of the Statutes of 1971, are eligible.
  This section shall not be operative in any county until such time as the
board of supervisors shall elect, by resolution adopted by a majority
vote, to make this section applicable in the county.



                             CHAPTER 380

  An act to amend Sections 719 and 725 of, and to add Sections 702.5
and 735.2 to, the Harbors and Navigation Code, relating to yacht and
ship brokers.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 702.5 is added to the Harbors and Navigation
Code, to read:
  702.5. Any declaration, license, or other record electronically
generated or transmitted pursuant to this article shall meet the
requirements of a ‘‘record’’ under Title 2.5 (commencing with Section
1633.1) of Part 2 of Division 3 of the Civil Code.
[Ch. 380 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2925

   SEC. 2. Section 719 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   719. (a) A person shall be deemed qualified to submit an
application for a broker’s license if, as shown on the department’s
records, the person meets all of the following requirements:
   (1) Is at least 18 years of age.
   (2) Has not been cited for a violation of this article within the
preceding two years.
   (3) Possesses a working knowledge and understanding of the
principles of the yacht brokerage business and profession.
   (4) Either has been employed within five years preceding his or her
application as a California licensed salesperson for at least one year, has
been licensed as a California broker within five years preceding his or
her application, has owned and operated a marine business selling new
or used yachts for a minimum of three continuous years, or has been
employed as a broker or a yacht salesperson in another state where that
employment was a primary occupation for a minimum of three
continuous years immediately preceding application for a broker’s
license in California. Proof of employment as a broker in another state
or as an employee of a marine business selling new or used yachts in
California shall be in the form of all of the following:
   (A) State, if applicable, and federal income tax returns, or a proof of
earning statement made by the applicant under penalty of perjury, for the
three-year period preceding the filing of the application in California.
   (B) If bonded, a statement issued by the applicant’s bonding company
that no action has been taken against the bond for fraud or gross
misrepresentation for the period for which the bond has been issued.
   (C) A copy of all business permits, issued by any state, county, or city
agency, which, if applicable, includes the fictitious business name
(‘‘dba’’ or ‘‘doing business as’’) under which the applicant conducted a
yacht or ship brokerage business or a marine business selling new or used
yachts in California for the three-year period preceding application for
a California broker’s license.
   (D) If the applicant conducts a yacht or ship brokerage business in
another state that requires broker or salesperson licensing, evidence of
a current license issued by that state.
   (b) If the applicant is a partnership, then one of the partners of the
applicant shall have the foregoing qualifications.
   (c) If the applicant is a corporation, then the officer or officers of the
corporation to be designated for a license as provided in this article shall
have the foregoing qualifications.
   SEC. 3. Section 725 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
 2926                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 381 ]
   725. Temporary licenses may be issued to salespersons under the
following conditions:
   (a) The licenses shall be issued for a period not to exceed 60 days and
only one license shall be issued to each applicant.
   (b) An application shall be filed for a temporary license and for a
permanent license and at the same time the applicant shall pay all the
prescribed fees.
   (c) The application shall be in the form and upon the conditions
required by the department as provided in this article with respect to a
permanent salesperson’s license.
   (d) On or before the expiration date of the temporary license, the
licensee shall take a written examination for a permanent license. If,
without a valid excuse, the licensee fails to appear for the examination
at the time prescribed, the examination fee shall be forfeited. In the event
of failure to pass the required examination, the department shall notify
the applicant, may suggest further study, and upon payment of fees, shall
schedule a reexamination.
   (e) The applicant shall be at least 18 years of age.
   SEC. 4. Section 735.2 is added to the Harbors and Navigation Code,
to read:
   735.2. The department shall accept any electronic record or
electronic or digital signature created, generated, sent, communicated,
received, or stored by electronic means on or after January 1, 2000. A
‘‘digital signature’’ means a signature that complies with the regulations
adopted by the Secretary of State relating to digital signatures.



                             CHAPTER 381

   An act to amend Section 25620 of the Business and Professions Code,
relating to alcoholic beverages.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 25620 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   25620. (a) Any person possessing any can, bottle, or other
receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage that has been opened, or a
seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed, in any
city, county, or city and county owned park or other city, county, or city
and county owned public place, or any recreation and park district, or any
[Ch. 382 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2927

regional park or open-space district shall be guilty of an infraction if the
city, county, or city and county has enacted an ordinance that prohibits
the possession of those containers in those areas or the consumption of
alcoholic beverages in those areas.
   (b) This section does not apply where the possession is within
premises located in a park or other public place for which a license has
been issued pursuant to this division.
   (c) This section does not apply when an individual is in possession
of an alcoholic beverage container for the purpose of recycling or other
related activity.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 382

  An act to add and repeal Section 4519.7 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, relating to human services.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 4519.7 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
  4519.7. (a) Any regional center employee shall not be liable for
civil damages on account of an injury or death resulting from an
employee’s act or omission where the act or omission was the result of
the exercise of the discretion vested in him or her, in good faith, in
carrying out the intent of this division, except for acts or omissions of
gross negligence or acts or omissions giving rise to a claim under Section
3294 of the Civil Code. This section shall not be applied to provide
immunity from liability for any criminal act.
  (b) This section is not intended to change, alter, or affect the liability
of regional centers, including, but not limited to, the vicarious liability
of a regional center due to a negligent employee.
 2928                      STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 383 ]
   (c) A regional center employee, when participating in filing a
complaint or providing information as required by law regarding a
consumer’s health, safety, or well-being, or participating in a judicial
proceeding resulting therefrom, shall be presumed to be acting in good
faith, and unless the presumption is rebutted, shall be immune from any
liability, civil or criminal, and shall be immune from any penalty,
sanction, or restriction that might be incurred or imposed. The
presumption established by this subdivision is a presumption affecting
the burden of producing evidence.
   (d) This section shall apply only to acts or omissions that occur on or
after January 1, 2001.
   (e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2006, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.



                             CHAPTER 383

  An act to add Article 5.7 (commencing with Section 66057) to Chapter
2 of Part 40 of the Education Code, relating to public postsecondary
education.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Article 5.7 (commencing with Section 66057) is
added to Chapter 2 of Part 40 of the Education Code, to read:

            Article 5.7.   Year-Round Academic Programs

   66057. (a) The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (1) The future economic vitality of California will depend on the
state’s ability to educate its citizens and to help them develop the work
and social skills needed to compete with workers of other nations and
states in our global economy.
   (2) Ensuring that California’s colleges and universities can
accommodate a tidal wave of new students, as well as enable those from
diverse backgrounds to achieve success in their college careers, will
require a variety of strategies.
   (3) The Legislative Analyst’s Office (LAO) has reported that most
campuses of the University of California, the California State
[Ch. 384 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           2929

University, and the California Community Colleges will soon exceed
their current capacities.
   (4) The LAO has identified year-round operation as a cost-efficient
strategy to address future enrollment growth, by avoiding capital
expenditure for instructional space, such as classrooms, class
laboratories, study space in libraries, and other selected student support
service facilities.
   (5) Year-round operation also increases student access to high
demand campuses, and allows students to accelerate their progress to
degrees.
   (b) Summer session fees at all campuses of the University of
California and the California State University shall not exceed the fees
charged per credit unit for any other academic term, if the state provides
funding to offset any revenue losses that may occur due to the difference
between the state university fee and fees charged for self-supporting
academic programs.
   (c) In recognition of the differing circumstances on the various
campuses throughout the state, the University of California and the
California State University shall retain the flexibility to implement
year-round operation differently on individual campuses.



                             CHAPTER 384

   An act to add Section 23399.4 to the Business and Professions Code,
relating to alcoholic beverages.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 23399.4 is added to the Business and
Professions Code, to read:
  23399.4. (a) A licensee under a winegrower’s license may apply to
the department for a certified farmers’ market sales permit. A certified
farmers’ market sales permit shall authorize the licensee, a member of
the licensee’s family, or an employee of the licensee to sell wine
produced and bottled by the winegrower entirely from grapes grown by
the winegrower at a certified farmers’ market at any place in the state
approved by the department. The permit may be issued for up to 12
months but shall not be valid for more than one day a week at any single
specified certified farmers’ market location. A winegrower may hold
more than one certified farmers’ market sales permit. The department
 2930                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 385 ]
shall notify the city, county, or city and county and applicable law
enforcement agency where the certified farmers’ market is to be held of
the issuance of the permit. A ‘‘certified farmers’ market’’ means a
location operated in accordance with Chapter 10.5 (commencing with
Section 47000) of Division 17 of the Food and Agricultural Code, and
the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (b) The licensed winegrower eligible for the certified farmers’ market
sales permit shall not sell more than 5,000 gallons of wine annually
pursuant to all certified farmers’ market sales permits held by any single
winegrower. The licensed winegrower shall report total certified
farmers’ market wine sales to the department on an annual basis. The
report may be included within the annual report of production submitted
to the department, or pursuant to any regulation as may be prescribed by
the department.
   (c) The fee for any permit issued pursuant to this section shall be forty
dollars ($40).
   (d) All money collected as fees pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in the Alcohol Beverage Control Fund as provided in Section
25761.



                             CHAPTER 385

  An act to amend Sections 1525, 1528, 1580, 2852, 8610.14, 10503,
and 10711 of, and to add Article 5 (commencing with Section 1590) to
Chapter 5 of Division 2 of, the Fish and Game Code, and to amend
Sections 5001.65, 5003.1, 5019.50, 5019.53, 5019.56, 5019.59,
5019.62, 5019.65, 5019.71, and 5019.74 of, to add Sections 538,
5001.4, and 5019.80 to, and to add Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
36600) to Division 27 of, the Public Resources Code, relating to marine
resources, and making an appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1525 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
   1525. For the purposes of propagating, feeding and protecting birds,
mammals, and fish, and establishing wildlife management areas or
public shooting grounds the department, with the approval of the
commission, may do all of the following:
[Ch. 385 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           2931

   (a) Accept, on behalf of the state, donations of birds, mammals, and
fish, and of money given or appropriated. Those donations shall be used
for the purposes for which they are accepted, and, as nearly as may be,
for any purpose indicated by the donor.
   (b) Acquire, by purchase, lease, rental or otherwise, and occupy,
develop, maintain, use and administer, land, or land and nonmarine
water, or land and nonmarine water rights, suitable for state game farms,
wildlife management areas, or public shooting grounds.
   SEC. 2. Section 1528 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   1528. Lands, or lands and water, acquired for public shooting
grounds, state marine (estuarine) recreational management areas, or
wildlife management areas shall be operated on a nonprofit basis by the
department. Multiple recreational use of wildlife management areas is
desirable and that use shall be encouraged by the commission. Except
for hunting and fishing purposes, only minimum facilities to permit
other forms of multiple recreational use, such as camping, picnicking,
boating, or swimming, shall be provided. Except as provided in Section
1765, and to defray the costs associated with multiple use, the
commission may determine and fix the amount of, and the department
shall collect, fees for any use privileges. However, tours by organized
youth and school groups are exempt from the payment of those fees.
Only persons holding valid hunting licenses may apply for or obtain
shooting permits for public shooting grounds, state marine (estuarine)
recreational management areas, or wildlife management areas.
   SEC. 3. Section 1580 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   1580. The Legislature hereby declares that the policy of the state is
to protect threatened or endangered native plants, wildlife, or aquatic
organisms or specialized habitat types, both terrestrial and nonmarine
aquatic, or large heterogeneous natural gene pools for the future use of
mankind through the establishment of ecological reserves. For the
purpose of establishing those ecological reserves, the department, with
the approval of the commission, may obtain, accept on behalf of the
state, acquire, or control, by purchase, lease, easement, gift, rental,
memorandum of understanding, or otherwise, and occupy, develop,
maintain, use, and administer land, or land and nonmarine water, or land
and nonmarine water rights, suitable for the purpose of establishing
ecological reserves. Any property obtained, accepted, acquired, or
controlled by the department pursuant to this article may be designated
by the commission as an ecological reserve. The commission may adopt
regulations for the occupation, utilization, operation, protection,
enhancement, maintenance, and administration of ecological reserves.
 2932                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 385 ]
The ecological reserves shall not be classified as wildlife management
areas pursuant to Section 1504 and shall be exempt from Section 1504.
  SEC. 4. Article 5 (commencing with Section 1590) is added to
Chapter 5 of Division 2 of the Fish and Game Code, to read:

  Article 5.   Classification of Marine Managed Areas with Harvest
                               Restrictions

   1590. The commission may designate, delete, or modify state
marine (estuarine) recreational management areas established by the
commission for hunting purposes, state marine (estuarine) reserves , and
state marine (estuarine) conservation areas, as delineated in subdivision
(a) of Section 36725 of the Public Resources Code. The commission
shall consult with, and secure concurrence from, the State Park and
Recreation Commission prior to modifying or deleting marine
(estuarine) reserves and marine (estuarine) conservation areas
designated by the State Park and Recreation Commission. The
commission shall not delete or modify state marine (estuarine)
recreational management areas designated by the State Park and
Recreation Commission.
   1591. (a) The Marine Managed Areas Improvement Act (Chapter
7 (commencing with Section 36600) of Division 27 of the Public
Resources Code) establishes a uniform classification system for state
marine managed areas and is incorporated herein by reference. Any
proposals for marine protected areas made after January 1, 2002, shall
follow the guidelines set forth in that act. Pursuant to Section 36750 of
the Public Resources Code, all marine protected areas in existence and
not reclassified in accordance with the Marine Life Protection Act
(Chapter 10.5 (commencing with Section 2850) of Division 3) on
January 1, 2002, shall be reclassified by the State Interagency
Coordinating Committee established pursuant to Section 36800 of the
Public Resources Code into one of the following classifications:
   (1) State marine (estuarine) reserve.
   (2) State marine (estuarine) park.
   (3) State marine (estuarine) conservation area.
   (b) State marine (estuarine) recreational management areas
established by the commission for hunting purposes, state marine
(estuarine) reserves, and state marine (estuarine) conservation areas
shall be designated, deleted, or modified by the commission pursuant to
that act. The restrictions and allowable uses applicable to those areas are
as set forth in that act.
   SEC. 5. Section 2852 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
[Ch. 385 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2933

   2852. The following definitions govern the construction of this
chapter:
   (a) ‘‘Adaptive management,’’ with regard to marine protected areas,
means a management policy that seeks to improve management of
biological resources, particularly in areas of scientific uncertainty, by
viewing program actions as tools for learning. Actions shall be designed
so that, even if they fail, they will provide useful information for future
actions, and monitoring and evaluation shall be emphasized so that the
interaction of different elements within marine systems may be better
understood.
   (b) ‘‘Biogeographical regions’’ refers to the following oceanic or near
shore areas, seaward from the mean high tide line or the mouth of coastal
rivers, with distinctive biological characteristics, unless the master plan
team establishes an alternative set of boundaries:
   (1) The area extending south from Point Conception.
   (2) The area between Point Conception and Point Arena.
   (3) The area extending north from Point Arena.
   (c) ‘‘Marine protected area’’ (MPA) means a named, discrete
geographic marine or estuarine area seaward of the mean high tide line
or the mouth of a coastal river, including any area of intertidal or subtidal
terrain, together with its overlying water and associated flora and fauna
that has been designated by law, administrative action, or voter initiative
to protect or conserve marine life and habitat. An MPA includes marine
life reserves and other areas that allow for specified commercial and
recreational activities, including fishing for certain species but not
others, fishing with certain practices but not others, and kelp harvesting,
provided that these activities are consistent with the objectives of the
area and the goals and guidelines of this chapter. MPAs are primarily
intended to protect or conserve marine life and habitat, and are therefore
a subset of marine managed areas (MMAs), which are broader groups
of named, discrete geographic areas along the coast that protect,
conserve, or otherwise manage a variety of resources and uses, including
living marine resources, cultural and historical resources, and
recreational opportunities.
   (d) ‘‘Marine life reserve,’’ for the purposes of this chapter, means a
marine protected area in which all extractive activities, including the
taking of marine species, and, at the discretion of the commission and
within the authority of the commission, other activities that upset the
natural ecological functions of the area, are prohibited. While, to the
extent feasible, the area shall be open to the public for managed
enjoyment and study, the area shall be maintained to the extent
practicable in an undisturbed and unpolluted state.
   SEC. 6. Section 8610.14 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
 2934                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 385 ]
  8610.14. (a) Prior to January 1, 1994, the commission shall
establish four new ecological reserves in ocean waters along the
mainland coast. Each ecological reserve shall have a surface area of at
least two square miles. The commission shall restrict the use of these
ecological reserves to scientific research relating to the management and
enhancement of marine resources, including, but not limited to,
scientific research as it relates to sportfishing and commercial fishing.
  Recreational uses, including, but not limited to, hiking, walking,
viewing, swimming, diving, surfing, and transient boating are not in
conflict with this section.
  (b) Prior to establishing the four ecological reserves, the commission
shall conduct a public hearing at each of the recommended sites or at the
nearest practicable location.
  (c) On and after January 1, 2002, the four ecological reserves
established pursuant to subdivision (a) shall be called state marine
reserves, unless otherwise reclassified pursuant to Section 2855, and
shall become part of the state system of marine managed areas.
  SEC. 7. Section 10503 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
  10503. For the purposes of propagating, feeding, and protecting
birds, mammals, fish, and amphibia the commission may do all of the
following:
  (a) Accept, on behalf of the state, donations of any interest in lands
within any refuge.
  (b) Accept, on behalf of the state, from any person owning and in
possession of patented lands, except lands that are covered and
uncovered by the ordinary daily tide of the Pacific Ocean, the right to
preserve and protect all birds, mammals, fish, and amphibia on the
patented lands.
  (c) Accept, on behalf of the state, donations of birds, mammals, fish,
and amphibia, and of money given or appropriated. Those donations
shall be used for the purposes for which they are accepted, and, as nearly
as may be, for any purpose indicated by the donor.
  (d) Acquire, by purchase, lease, rental, or otherwise, and occupy,
develop, maintain, use, and administer land, or land and nonmarine
water, or land and nonmarine water rights, suitable for state game farms
or game refuges.
  SEC. 8. Section 10711 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
  10711. The commission may close for the taking of clams not less
than eight land miles of pismo clam bearing beaches within San Luis
Obispo County as a clam refuge, but not more than 50 percent of any
individual pismo clam bearing beach or beaches may be so closed at any
[Ch. 385 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2935

time. The commission may from time to time vary the location of the
closed and open portions of those beaches.
   Before the commission closes, opens, or varies the location of the
closed and open portions of pismo clam bearing beaches, one or more
members of the commission shall hold in the county to be affected a
public hearing, notice of which has been published at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation, printed, and published in that county.
The commission may determine which newspaper will be most likely to
give notice to the inhabitants of the county, and its determination shall
be final and conclusive. The commission may authorize any employee
of the department in its place to hold the hearings, in which event a copy
of a transcript of all proceedings taken or had at the hearing shall be
furnished to each commissioner at least five days before any regulation
is made by the commission.
   SEC. 9. Section 538 is added to the Public Resources Code, to read:
   538. The commission may designate, delete, or modify state marine
(estuarine) reserves, state marine (estuarine) parks, state marine
(estuarine) conservation areas, state marine (estuarine) cultural
preservation areas, and state marine (estuarine) recreational
management areas, as delineated in subdivision (b) of Section 36725.
The commission may not designate, delete, or modify a state marine
(estuarine) reserve, state marine (estuarine) park, or state marine
(estuarine) conservation area without the concurrence of the Fish and
Game Commission on any proposed restrictions upon, or change in, the
use of living marine resources.
   SEC. 10. Section 5001.4 is added to the Public Resources Code, to
read:
   5001.4. The department may manage state marine (estuarine)
reserves, state marine (estuarine) parks, state marine (estuarine)
conservation areas, state marine (estuarine) cultural preservation areas,
state marine (estuarine) recreational management areas and, if requested
by the State Water Resources Control Board, state water quality
protection areas. Department authority over units within the state park
system shall extend to units of the state MMAs system that are managed
by the department.
   SEC. 11. Section 5001.65 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5001.65. Commercial exploitation of resources in units of the state
park system is prohibited. However, slant or directional drilling for oil
or gas with the intent of extracting deposits underlying the Tule Elk State
Reserve in Kern County is permissible in accordance with Section 6854.
Commercial fishing is permissible, unless otherwise restricted, in state
marine (estuarine) conservation areas, state marine (estuarine) cultural
 2936                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 385 ]
preservation areas, and state marine (estuarine) recreational
management areas.
   Qualified institutions and individuals shall be encouraged to conduct
nondestructive forms of scientific investigation within state park system
units, upon receiving prior approval of the director.
   The taking of mineral specimens for recreational purposes from state
beaches, state recreation areas, or state vehicular recreation areas is
permitted upon receiving prior approval of the director.
   SEC. 12. Section 5003.1 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5003.1. The Legislature finds and declares that it is in the public
interest to permit hunting, fishing, swimming, trails, camping,
campsites, and rental vacation cabins in certain state recreation areas, or
portions thereof, when it is found by the State Park and Recreation
Commission that such multiple use of state recreation areas would not
threaten the safety and welfare of other state recreation area users.
Hunting shall not be permitted in any unit now in the state park system
and officially opened to the public on or before June 1, 1961, or in any
unit hereafter acquired and designated by the commission as a state park,
state marine (estuarine) reserve, state marine (estuarine) park, state
reserve, state marine (estuarine) conservation area, or state marine
(estuarine) cultural preservation area, and may only be permitted in new
recreational areas and state marine (estuarine) recreational management
areas that are developed for that use.
   Whenever hunting or fishing is permitted in a state recreation area or
state marine (estuarine) recreational management area, and whenever
fishing is permitted in a state park, state marine (estuarine) park, state
marine (estuarine) cultural preservation area, or state marine (estuarine)
conservation area, the Department of Fish and Game shall enforce
hunting and fishing laws and regulations as it does elsewhere in the state.
   SEC. 13. Section 5019.50 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5019.50. All units that are or shall become a part of the state park
system, except those units or parts of units designated by the Legislature
as wilderness areas pursuant to Chapter 1.3 (commencing with Section
5093.30), or where subject to any other provision of law, including
Section 5019.80 and Article 1 (commencing with Section 36600) of
Chapter 7 of Division 27, shall be classified by the State Park and
Recreation Commission into one of the categories specified in this
article. Classification of state marine (estuarine) reserves, state marine
(estuarine) parks, and state marine (estuarine) conservation areas,
requires the concurrence of the Fish and Game Commission for
restrictions to be placed upon the use of living marine resources.
[Ch. 385 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            2937

   SEC. 14. Section 5019.53 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5019.53. State parks consist of relatively spacious areas of
outstanding scenic or natural character, oftentimes also containing
significant historical, archaeological, ecological, geological, or other
similar values. The purpose of state parks shall be to preserve
outstanding natural, scenic, and cultural values, indigenous aquatic and
terrestrial fauna and flora, and the most significant examples of
ecological regions of California, such as the Sierra Nevada, northeast
volcanic, great valley, coastal strip, Klamath-Siskiyou Mountains,
southwest mountains and valleys, redwoods, foothills and low coastal
mountains, and desert and desert mountains.
   Each state park shall be managed as a composite whole in order to
restore, protect, and maintain its native environmental complexes to the
extent compatible with the primary purpose for which the park was
established.
   Improvements undertaken within state parks shall be for the purpose
of making the areas available for public enjoyment and education in a
manner consistent with the preservation of natural, scenic, cultural, and
ecological values for present and future generations. Improvements may
be undertaken to provide for recreational activities including, but not
limited to, camping, picnicking, sightseeing, nature study, hiking, and
horseback riding, so long as those improvements involve no major
modification of lands, forests, or waters. Improvements that do not
directly enhance the public’s enjoyment of the natural, scenic, cultural,
or ecological values of the resource, which are attractions in themselves,
or which are otherwise available to the public within a reasonable
distance outside the park, shall not be undertaken within state parks.
   State parks may be established in the terrestrial or nonmarine aquatic
(lake or stream) environments of the state.
   SEC. 15. Section 5019.56 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5019.56. State recreation units consist of areas selected, developed,
and operated to provide outdoor recreational opportunities. The units
shall be designated by the commission by naming, in accordance with
Article 1 (commencing with Section 5001) and this article relating to
classification.
   In the planning of improvements to be undertaken within state
recreation units, consideration shall be given to compatibility of design
with the surrounding scenic and environmental characteristics.
   State recreation units may be established in the terrestrial or
nonmarine aquatic (lake or stream) environments of the state and shall
be further classified as one of the following types:
 2938                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 385 ]
   (a) State recreation areas, consisting of areas selected and developed
to provide multiple recreational opportunities to meet other than purely
local needs. The areas shall be selected for their having terrain capable
of withstanding extensive human impact and for their proximity to large
population centers, major routes of travel, or proven recreational
resources such as manmade or natural bodies of water. Areas containing
ecological, geological, scenic, or cultural resources of significant value
shall be preserved within state wildernesses, state reserves, state parks,
or natural or cultural preserves, or, for those areas situated seaward of the
mean high tide line, shall be designated state marine (estuarine) reserves,
state marine (estuarine) parks, state marine (estuarine) conservation
areas, or state marine (estuarine) cultural preservation areas.
   Improvements may be undertaken to provide for recreational
activities, including, but not limited to, camping, picnicking,
swimming, hiking, bicycling, horseback riding, boating, waterskiing,
diving, winter sports, fishing, and hunting.
   Improvements to provide for urban or indoor formalized recreational
activities shall not be undertaken within state recreation areas.
   (b) Underwater recreation areas, consisting of areas in the nonmarine
aquatic (lake or stream) environment selected and developed to provide
surface and subsurface water-oriented recreational opportunities, while
preserving basic resource values for present and future generations.
   (c) State beaches, consisting of areas with frontage on the ocean, or
bays designed to provide swimming, boating, fishing, and other
beach-oriented recreational activities. Coastal areas containing
ecological, geological, scenic, or cultural resources of significant value
shall be preserved within state wildernesses, state reserves, state parks,
or natural or cultural preserves, or, for those areas situated seaward of the
mean high tide line, shall be designated state marine (estuarine) reserves,
state marine (estuarine) parks, state marine (estuarine) conservation
areas, or state marine (estuarine) cultural preservation areas.
   (d) Wayside campgrounds, consisting of relatively small areas
suitable for overnight camping and offering convenient access to major
highways.
   SEC. 16. Section 5019.59 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5019.59. Historical units, to be named appropriately and
individually, consist of nonmarine areas established primarily to
preserve objects of historical, archaeological, and scientific interest, and
archaeological sites and places commemorating important persons or
historic events. The areas should be of sufficient size, where possible,
to encompass a significant proportion of the landscape associated with
the historical objects. The only facilities that may be provided are those
required for the safety, comfort, and enjoyment of the visitors, such as
[Ch. 385 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2939

access, parking, water, sanitation, interpretation, and picnicking. Upon
approval by the commission, lands outside the primary historic zone
may be selected or acquired, developed, or operated to provide camping
facilities within appropriate historical units. Upon approval by the State
Park and Recreation Commission, an area outside the primary historic
zone may be designated as a recreation zone to provide limited
recreational opportunities that will supplement the public’s enjoyment
of the unit. Certain agricultural, mercantile, or other commercial
activities may be permitted if those activities are a part of the history of
the individual unit and any developments retain or restore historical
authenticity. Historical units shall be named to perpetuate the primary
historical theme of the individual units.
   SEC. 17. Section 5019.62 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5019.62. State seashores consist of relatively spacious coastline
areas with frontage on the ocean, or on bays open to the ocean, including
water areas landward of the mean high tide line and seasonally connected
to the ocean, possessing outstanding scenic or natural character and
significant recreational, historical, archaeological, or geological values.
   The purpose of state seashores shall be to preserve outstanding
natural, scenic, cultural, ecological, and recreational values of the
California coastline as an ecological region and to make possible the
enjoyment of coastline and related recreational activities which are
consistent with the preservation of the principal values and which
contribute to the public enjoyment, appreciation, and understanding of
those values.
   Improvements undertaken within state seashores shall be for the
purpose of making the areas available for public enjoyment, recreation,
and education in a manner consistent with the perpetuation of their
natural, scenic, cultural, ecological, and recreational value.
Improvements which do not directly enhance the public enjoyment of
the natural, scenic, cultural, ecological, or recreational values of the
seashore, or which are attractions in themselves, shall not be undertaken.
   SEC. 18. Section 5019.65 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5019.65. State reserves consist of areas embracing outstanding
natural or scenic characteristics of statewide significance. The purpose
of a state reserve is to preserve its native ecological associations, unique
faunal or floral characteristics, geological features, and scenic qualities
in a condition of undisturbed integrity. Resource manipulation shall be
restricted to the minimum required to negate the deleterious influence
of man.
   Improvements undertaken shall be for the purpose of making the areas
available, on a day use basis, for public enjoyment and education in a
 2940                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 385 ]
manner consistent with the preservation of their natural features. Living
and nonliving resources contained within state reserves shall not be
disturbed or removed for other than scientific or management purposes.
   State reserves may be established in the terrestrial or nonmarine
aquatic (lake or stream) environments of the state.
   SEC. 19. Section 5019.71 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5019.71. Natural preserves consist of distinct nonmarine areas of
outstanding natural or scientific significance established within the
boundaries of other state park system units. The purpose of natural
preserves shall be to preserve such features as rare or endangered plant
and animal species and their supporting ecosystems, representative
examples of plant or animal communities existing in California prior to
the impact of civilization, geological features illustrative of geological
processes, significant fossil occurrences or geological features of
cultural or economic interest, or topographic features illustrative of
representative or unique biogeographical patterns. Areas set aside as
natural preserves shall be of sufficient size to allow, where possible, the
natural dynamics of ecological interaction to continue without
interference, and to provide, in all cases, a practicable management unit.
Habitat manipulation shall be permitted only in those areas found by
scientific analysis to require manipulation to preserve the species or
associations that constitute the basis for the establishment of the natural
preserve.
   SEC. 20. Section 5019.74 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5019.74. Cultural preserves consist of distinct nonmarine areas of
outstanding cultural interest established within the boundaries of other
state park system units for the purpose of protecting such features as
sites, buildings, or zones which represent significant places or events in
the flow of human experience in California. Areas set aside as cultural
preserves shall be large enough to provide for the effective protection of
the prime cultural resources from potentially damaging influences, and
to permit the effective management and interpretation of the resources.
Within cultural preserves, complete integrity of the cultural resources
shall be sought, and no structures or improvements that conflict with that
integrity shall be permitted.
   SEC. 21. Section 5019.80 is added to the Public Resources Code,
to read:
   5019.80. (a) The Marine Managed Areas Improvement Act
(Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 36600) of Division 27)
establishes a uniform classification system for state marine managed
areas and is incorporated herein by reference. Any proposals for marine
managed areas made after January 1, 2002, shall follow the guidelines
[Ch. 385 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2941

set forth in that act. Pursuant to Section 36750, existing marine areas
within units of the state park system that have not been reclassified in
accordance with the Marine Life Protection Act (Chapter 10.5
(commencing with Section 2850) of Division 3 of the Fish and Game
Code) on January 1, 2002, shall be reclassified by the State Interagency
Coordinating Committee into one of the following classifications:
   (1) State marine (estuarine) reserve.
   (2) State marine (estuarine) park.
   (3) State marine (estuarine) conservation area.
   (4) State marine (estuarine) cultural preservation area.
   (5) State marine (estuarine) recreational management area.
   (b) The process for establishing, deleting, or modifying state marine
(estuarine) reserves, state marine (estuarine) parks, state marine
(estuarine) conservation areas, state marine (estuarine) cultural
preservation areas, and state marine (estuarine) recreational
management areas shall be established pursuant to that act. The
restrictions and allowable uses applicable to those areas are as set forth
in that act.
   SEC. 22. Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 36600) is added to
Division 27 of the Public Resources Code, to read:

     CHAPTER 7.      MARINE MANAGED AREAS IMPROVEMENT ACT

                     Article 1.   General Provisions

  36600. This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as the Marine
Managed Areas Improvement Act.
  36601. (a) The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
  (1) California’s extraordinary ocean and coastal resources provide a
vital asset to the state and nation. These resources are important to public
health and well-being, ecological health, and ocean-dependent
industries.
  (2) The ocean ecosystem is inextricably connected to the land, with
coastal development, water pollution, and other human activities
threatening the health of marine habitat and the biological diversity
found in California’s ocean waters. New technologies and demands have
encouraged the expansion of fishing and other activities to formerly
inaccessible marine areas that once recharged nearby fisheries. As a
result, ecosystems throughout the state’s ocean waters are being altered,
often at a rapid rate.
  (3) California’s marine managed areas (MMAs), such as refuges,
reserves, and state reserves, are one of many tools for resource managers
to use for protecting, conserving, and managing the state’s valuable
marine resources. MMAs can offer many benefits, including protecting
 2942                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 385 ]
habitats, species, cultural resources, and water quality; enhancing
recreational opportunities; and contributing to the economy through
such things as increased tourism and property values. MMAs may also
benefit fisheries management by protecting representative habitats and
reducing extractive uses.
   (4) The array of state MMAs in California is the result of over 50
years of designations through legislative, administrative, and statewide
ballot initiative actions, which has led to 18 classifications and
subclassifications of these areas.
   (5) A State Interagency Marine Managed Areas Workgroup was
convened by the Resources Agency to address this issue, bringing
together for the first time all of the state agencies with jurisdiction over
these areas. This group’s report indicates that California’s state MMAs
have evolved on a case-by-case basis, without conforming to any plan
for establishing MMAs in the most effective way or in a manner which
ensures that the most representative or unique areas of the ocean and
coastal environment are included.
   (6) The report further states that California’s MMAs do not comprise
an organized system, as the individual sites are not designated,
classified, or managed in a systematic manner. Many of these areas lack
clearly defined purposes, effective management measures, and
enforcement.
   (7) To some, this array of MMAs creates the illusion of a
comprehensive system of management, while in reality, it falls short of
its potential to protect, conserve, and manage natural, cultural, and
recreational resources along the California coast. Without a properly
designed and coordinated system of MMAs, it is difficult for agencies
to meet management objectives, such as maintaining biodiversity,
providing education and outreach, and protecting marine resources.
   (8) Agency personnel and the public are often confused about the
laws, rules, and regulations that apply to MMAs, especially those
adjacent to a terrestrial area set aside for management purposes. Lack of
clarity about the manner in which the set of laws, rules, and regulations
for the array of MMAs interface and complement each other limits
public and resource managers’ ability to understand and apply the
regulatory structure.
   (9) Designation of sites and subsequent adoption of regulations often
occur without adequate consideration being given to overall
classification goals and objectives. This has contributed to fragmented
management, poor compliance with regulations, and a lack of effective
enforcement.
   (10) Education and outreach related to state MMAs is limited and
responsibility for these activities is distributed across many state
agencies. These factors hamper the distribution of information to the
[Ch. 385 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2943

public regarding the benefits of MMAs and the role they can play in
protecting ocean and coastal resources.
   (11) There are few coordinated efforts to identify opportunities for
public/private partnerships or public stewardship of MMAs or to
provide access to general information and data about ocean and coastal
resources within California’s MMAs.
   (12) Ocean and coastal scientists and managers generally know far
less about the natural systems they work with than their terrestrial
counterparts. Understanding natural and human-induced factors that
affect ocean ecosystem health, including MMAs, is fundamental to the
process of developing sound management policies.
   (13) Research in California’s MMAs can provide managers with a
wealth of knowledge regarding habitat functions and values, species
diversity, and complex physical, biological, chemical, and
socioeconomic processes that affect the health of marine ecosystems.
That information can be useful in determining the effectiveness of
particular sites or classifications in achieving stated goals.
   (b) With the single exception of state estuaries, it is the intent of the
Legislature that the classifications currently available for use in the
marine and estuarine environments of the state shall cease to be used and
that a new classification system shall be established, with a mission,
statement of objectives, clearly defined designation guidelines, specific
classification goals, and a more scientifically-based process for
designating sites and determining their effectiveness. The existing
classifications may continue to be used for the terrestrial and freshwater
environments of the state.
   (c) Due to the interrelationship between land and sea, benefits can be
gained from siting a portion of the state’s marine managed areas adjacent
to, or in close proximity to, terrestrial protected areas. To maximize the
benefits that can be gained from having connected protected areas,
whenever an MMA is adjacent to a terrestrial protected area, the
managing agencies shall coordinate their activities to the greatest extent
possible to achieve the objectives of both areas.
   36602. The following definitions govern the construction of this
chapter:
   (a) ‘‘Committee’’ is the State Interagency Coordinating Committee
established pursuant to Section 36800.
   (b) ‘‘Designating entity’’ is the Fish and Game Commission, State
Park and Recreation Commission, or State Water Resources Control
Board, each of which has the authority to designate specified state
marine managed areas.
   (c) ‘‘Managing agency’’ is the Department of Fish and Game or the
Department of Parks and Recreation, each of which has the authority to
manage specified state marine managed areas.
 2944                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 385 ]
   (d) ‘‘Marine managed area’’ (MMA) is a named, discrete geographic
marine or estuarine area along the California coast designated by law or
administrative action, and intended to protect, conserve, or otherwise
manage a variety of resources and their uses. The resources and uses may
include, but are not limited to, living marine resources and their habitats,
scenic views, water quality, recreational values, and cultural or
geological resources. General areas that are administratively established
for recreational or commercial fishing restrictions, such as seasonal or
geographic closures or size limits, are not included in this definition.
MMAs include the following classifications:
  (1) State marine (estuarine) reserve, as defined in subdivision (a) of
Section 36700.
  (2) State marine (estuarine) park, as defined in subdivision (b) of
Section 36700.
  (3) State marine (estuarine) conservation area, as defined in
subdivision (c) of Section 36700.
  (4) State marine (estuarine) cultural preservation area, as defined in
subdivision (d) of Section 36700.
  (5) State marine (estuarine) recreational management area, as defined
in subdivision (e) of Section 36700.
  (6) State water quality protection areas, as defined in subdivision (f)
of Section 36700.
  (e) ‘‘Marine protected area’’ (MPA), consistent with the Marine Life
Protection Act (Chapter 10.5 (commencing with Section 2850) of
Division 3 of the Fish and Game Code) is a named, discrete geographic
marine or estuarine area seaward of the mean high tide line or the mouth
of a coastal river, including any area of intertidal or subtidal terrain,
together with its overlying water and associated flora and fauna that has
been designated by law or administrative action to protect or conserve
marine life and habitat. MPAs are primarily intended to protect or
conserve marine life and habitat, and are therefore a subset of marine
managed areas (MMAs). MPAs include the following classifications:
  (1) State marine (estuarine) reserve, as defined in subdivision (a) of
Section 36700.
  (2) State marine (estuarine) park, as defined in subdivision (b) of
Section 36700.
  (3) State marine (estuarine) conservation area, as defined in
subdivision (c) of Section 36700.
  36620. The mission of the state MMA system is to ensure the
long-term ecological viability and biological productivity of marine
ecosystems and to preserve cultural resources in the coastal sea, in
recognition of their intrinsic value and for the benefit of current and
future generations. In support of this mission, the Legislature finds and
declares that there is a need to reexamine and redesign California’s array
[Ch. 385 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2945

of MMAs, to establish and manage a system using science and clear
public policy directives to achieve all of the following objectives:
  (a) Conserve representative or outstanding examples of marine
habitats, biodiversity, ecosystems, and significant natural and cultural
features or sites.
  (b) Support and promote marine research, education, and
science-based management.
  (c) Help ensure sustainable uses of marine resources.
  (d) Provide and enhance opportunities for public enjoyment of
natural and cultural marine resources.

Article 2.   Classifications, Designations, Restrictions, and Allowable
                                  Uses

   36700. Six classifications for designating managed areas in the
marine and estuarine environments are hereby established as described
in this section, to become effective January 1, 2002. Where the term
‘‘marine (estuarine)’’ is used, it means that either the word ‘‘marine’’ or
‘‘estuarine’’ is to be used, as appropriate for the geographic area being
designated. A geographic area may be designated under more than one
classification.
   (a) A ‘‘state marine (estuarine) reserve’’ is a nonterrestrial marine or
estuarine area that is designated so the managing agency may achieve
one or more of the following:
   (1) Protect or restore rare, threatened, or endangered native plants,
animals, or habitats in marine areas.
   (2) Protect or restore outstanding, representative, or imperiled marine
species, communities, habitats, and ecosystems.
   (3) Protect or restore diverse marine gene pools.
   (4) Contribute to the understanding and management of marine
resources and ecosystems by providing the opportunity for scientific
research in outstanding, representative, or imperiled marine habitats or
ecosystems.
   (b) A ‘‘state marine (estuarine) park’’ is a nonterrestrial marine or
estuarine area that is designated so the managing agency may provide
opportunities for spiritual, scientific, educational, and recreational
opportunities, as well as one or more of the following:
   (1) Protect or restore outstanding, representative, or imperiled marine
species, communities, habitats, and ecosystems.
   (2) Contribute to the understanding and management of marine
resources and ecosystems by providing the opportunity for scientific
research in outstanding representative or imperiled marine habitats or
ecosystems.
 2946                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 385 ]
  (3) Preserve cultural objects of historical, archaeological, and
scientific interest in marine areas.
  (4) Preserve outstanding or unique geological features.
  (c) A ‘‘state marine (estuarine) conservation area’’ is a nonterrestrial
marine or estuarine area that is designated so the managing agency may
achieve one or more of the following:
  (1) Protect or restore rare, threatened, or endangered native plants,
animals, or habitats in marine areas.
  (2) Protect or restore outstanding, representative, or imperiled marine
species, communities, habitats, and ecosystems.
  (3) Protect or restore diverse marine gene pools.
  (4) Contribute to the understanding and management of marine
resources and ecosystems by providing the opportunity for scientific
research in outstanding, representative, or imperiled marine habitats or
ecosystems.
  (5) Preserve outstanding or unique geological features.
  (6) Provide for sustainable living marine resource harvest.
  (d) A ‘‘state marine (estuarine) cultural preservation area’’ is a
nonterrestrial marine or estuarine area designated so the managing
agency may preserve cultural objects or sites of historical,
archaeological, or scientific interest in marine areas.
  (e) A ‘‘state marine (estuarine) recreational management area’’ is a
nonterrestrial marine or estuarine area designated so the managing
agency may provide, limit, or restrict recreational opportunities to meet
other than exclusively local needs while preserving basic resource
values for present and future generations.
  (f) A ‘‘state water quality protection area’’ is a nonterrestrial marine
or estuarine area designated to protect marine species or biological
communities from an undesirable alteration in natural water quality,
including, but not limited to, areas of special biological significance that
have been designated by the State Water Resources Control Board
through its water quality control planning process.
  36710. The following classifications may not be inconsistent with
United States military activities deemed mission critical by the United
States military:
  (a) In a state marine (estuarine) reserve, it is unlawful to injure,
damage, take, or possess any living geological, or cultural marine
resource, except under a permit or specific authorization from the
managing agency for research, restoration, or monitoring purposes.
While, to the extent feasible, the area shall be open to the public for
managed enjoyment and study, the area shall be maintained to the extent
practicable in an undisturbed and unpolluted state. Access and use for
activities such as walking, swimming, boating, and diving may be
restricted to protect marine resources. Research, restoration, and
[Ch. 385 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2947

monitoring may be permitted by the managing agency. Educational
activities and other forms of nonconsumptive human use may be
permitted by the designating entity or managing agency in a manner
consistent with the protection of all marine resources.
   (b) In a state marine (estuarine) parks, it is unlawful to injure,
damage, take, or possess any living or nonliving marine resource for
commercial exploitation purposes. Any human use that would
compromise protection of the species of interest, natural community or
habitat, or geological, cultural, or recreational features, may be restricted
by the designating entity or managing agency. All other uses are allowed,
including scientific collection with a permit, research, monitoring, and
public recreation, including recreational harvest, unless otherwise
restricted. Public use, enjoyment, and education are encouraged, in a
manner consistent with protecting resource values.
   (c) In a state marine (estuarine) conservation area, it is unlawful to
injure, damage, take, or possess any living, geological, or cultural
marine resource for commercial or recreational purposes, or a
combination of commercial and recreational purposes, that the
designating entity or managing agency determines would compromise
protection of the species of interest, natural community, habitat, or
geological features. The designating entity or managing agency may
permit research, education, and recreational activities, and certain
commercial and recreational harvest of marine resources.
   (d) In a state marine (estuarine) cultural preservation area, it is
unlawful to damage, take, or possess any cultural marine resource.
Complete integrity of the cultural resources shall be sought, and no
structure or improvements that conflict with that integrity shall be
permitted. No other use is restricted.
   (e) In a state marine (estuarine) recreational management area, it is
unlawful to perform any activity that, as determined by the designating
entity or managing agency, would compromise the recreational values
for which the area may be designated. Recreational opportunities may
be protected, enhanced, or restricted, while preserving basic resource
values of the area. No other use is restricted.
   (f) In a state water quality protection area, point source waste and
thermal discharges shall be prohibited or limited by special conditions.
Nonpoint source pollution shall be controlled to the extent practicable.
No other use is restricted.
   36725. (a) The Fish and Game Commission may designate, delete,
or modify state marine (estuarine) recreational management areas
established by the commission for hunting purposes, state marine
(estuarine) reserves, and state marine (estuarine) conservation areas. The
Fish and Game Commission shall consult with, and secure concurrence
from, the State Park and Recreation Commission prior to modifying or
 2948                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 385 ]
deleting state marine (estuarine) reserves and state marine (estuarine)
conservation areas designated by the State Park and Recreation
Commission. The Fish and Game Commission shall not delete or
modify state marine (estuarine) recreational management areas
designated by the State Park and Recreation Commission.
   (b) The State Park and Recreation Commission may designate,
delete, or modify state marine (estuarine) reserves, state marine
(estuarine) parks, state marine (estuarine) conservation areas, state
marine (estuarine) cultural preservation areas, and state marine
(estuarine) recreational management areas. The State Park and
Recreation Commission may not designate, delete, or modify a state
marine (estuarine) reserve, state marine (estuarine) park, or state marine
(estuarine) conservation area without the concurrence of the Fish and
Game Commission on any proposed restrictions upon, or change in, the
use of living marine resources.
   (c) If an unresolved conflict exists between the Fish and Game
Commission and the State Park and Recreation Commission regarding
a state marine (estuarine) reserve, state marine (estuarine) park, or state
marine (estuarine) conservation area, the Secretary of the Resources
Agency may reconcile the conflict.
   (d) The State Water Resources Control Board may designate, delete,
or modify state water quality protection areas.
   (e) The Fish and Game Commission, State Park and Recreation
Commission, and State Water Resources Control Board each may
restrict or prohibit recreational uses and other human activities in the
MMAs for the benefit of the resources therein, except in the case of
restrictions on the use of living marine resources. Pursuant to this
section, and consistent with Section 2860 of the Fish and Game Code,
the Fish and Game Commission may regulate commercial and
recreational fishing and any other taking of marine species in MMAs.
   (f) (1) The Department of Fish and Game may manage state marine
(estuarine) reserves, state marine (estuarine) conservation areas, state
marine (estuarine) recreational management areas established for
hunting purposes and, if requested by the State Water Resources Control
Board, state water quality protection areas.
   (2) The Department of Parks and Recreation may manage state
marine (estuarine) reserves, state marine (estuarine) parks, state marine
(estuarine) conservation areas, state marine (estuarine) cultural
preservation areas, and state marine (estuarine) recreational
management areas. Department authority over units within the state park
system shall extend to units of the state MMAs system that are managed
by the department.
   (3) The State Water Resources Control Board and the California
regional water quality control boards may take appropriate actions to
[Ch. 385 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2949

protect state water quality protection areas. The State Water Resources
Control Board may request the Department of Fish and Game or the
Department of Parks and Recreation to take appropriate management
action.
   36750. Any MMA in existence on January 1, 2002, that has not been
reclassified in accordance with the Marine Life Protection Act (Chapter
10.5 (commencing with Section 2850) of Division 3 of the Fish and
Game Code), shall be reclassified under the classification system
described in Section 36700 by January 1, 2003, based upon the
management purpose and level of resource protection at each site on
January 1, 2002. Upon the reclassification of existing sites, but no later
than January 1, 2003, the use of all other classifications shall cease for
the marine and estuarine environments of the state, though the
classifications may continue to be used for the terrestrial and freshwater
environments where applicable. The reclassification process shall be the
responsibility of the State Interagency Coordinating Committee
established pursuant to Section 36800, and shall occur to the extent
feasible in conjunction and consistent with the MMA master planning
process created pursuant to the Marine Life Protection Act (Chapter 10.5
(commencing with Section 2850) of Division 3 of the Fish and Game
Code).
   36800. The Secretary of the Resources Agency shall establish and
chair the State Interagency Coordinating Committee, whose members
are representatives from those state agencies, departments, boards,
commissions, and conservancies with jurisdiction or management
interests over marine managed areas, including, but not limited to, the
Department of Fish and Game, Department of Parks and Recreation,
California Coastal Commission, State Water Resources Control Board,
and State Lands Commission. The Secretary of the Resources Agency
shall designate additional members of the committee. The committee
shall review proposals for new or amended MMAs to ensure that the
minimum required information is included in the proposal, to determine
those state agencies that should review the proposal, and to ensure
consistency with other such designations in the state. The committee
shall also serve to ensure the proper and timely routing of site proposals,
review any proposed site-specific regulations for consistency with the
state system as a whole, and conduct periodic reviews of the statewide
system to evaluate whether it is meeting the mission and statement of
objectives.
   36850. Designation guidelines based on the classification goals
adopted for the state system of MMAs shall be developed jointly by the
appropriate managing agencies in cooperation with the committee on or
before January 1, 2002. These guidelines shall be used to provide a
general sense of requirements for designating a site in any particular
 2950                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 385 ]
classification, and may include characteristics such as uniqueness of the
area or resource, biological productivity, special habitats, cultural or
recreational values, and human impacts to the area. These designation
guidelines shall be provided on a standard set of instructions for each
classification.
   36870. On or before January 1, 2002, the committee shall establish
a standard set of instructions for each classification to guide
organizations and individuals in submitting proposals for designating
specific sites or networks of sites. On or before January 1, 2003, the
relevant site proposal guidelines shall be adopted by each designating
entity.
   (a) At a minimum, each proposal shall include the following elements
for consideration for designation as an MMA:
   (1) Name of individual or organization proposing the designation.
   (2) Contact information for the individual or organization, including
contact person.
   (3) Proposed classification.
   (4) Proposed site name.
   (5) Site location.
   (6) Need, purpose, and goals for the site.
   (7) Justification for the manner in which the proposed site meets the
designation criteria for the proposed classification.
   (8) A general description of the proposed site’s pertinent biological,
geological, and cultural resources.
   (9) A general description of the proposed site’s existing recreational
uses, including fishing, diving, boating, and waterfowl hunting.
   (b) The following elements, if not included in the original proposal,
shall be added by the proposed managing agency in cooperation with the
individual or organization making the proposal, prior to a final decision
regarding designation:
   (1) A legal description of the site boundaries and a boundary map.
   (2) A more detailed description of the proposed site’s pertinent
biological, geological, cultural, and recreational resources.
   (3) Estimated funding needs and proposed source of funds.
   (4) A plan for meeting enforcement needs, including on-site staffing
and equipment.
   (5) A plan for evaluating the effectiveness of the site in achieving
stated goals.
   (6) Intended educational and research programs.
   (7) Estimated economic impacts of the site, both positive and
negative.
   (8) Proposed mechanisms for coordinating existing regulatory and
management authority, if any exists, within the area.
[Ch. 385 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            2951

   (9) An evaluation of the opportunities for cooperative state, federal,
and local management, where the opportunities may exist.
   36900. Individuals or organizations may submit a proposal to
designate an MMA directly through the committee or an appropriate
designating entity. Proposals submitted to a designating entity shall be
forwarded to the committee to initiate the review process. Proposals for
designating, deleting, or modifying MMAs may be submitted to the
committee or a designating entity at any time. The committee and
scientific review panel established pursuant to subdivision (b) shall
annually consider and promptly act upon proposals until an MPA master
plan is adopted pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 2859 of the Fish
and Game Code, and thereafter, no less than once every three years.
Upon adoption of a statewide MPA plan, subsequent site proposals
determined by the committee to be consistent with that plan shall be
eligible for a simplified and cursory review of not more than 45 days.
   (a) The committee shall review proposals to ensure that the minimum
required information is included in the proposal, to determine those state
agencies that should review the proposal, and to ensure consistency with
other designations of that type in the state. After initial review by the
coordinating committee and appropriate agencies, the proposal shall be
forwarded to a scientific review panel established pursuant to
subdivision (b).
   (b) The Secretary of the Resources Agency shall establish a scientific
review panel, with statewide representation and direction from the
committee, to evaluate proposals for technical and scientific validity,
including consideration of such things as site design criteria, location,
and size. This panel, to the extent practical, shall be the same as the
master plan team used in the process set forth in the Marine Life
Protection Act (Chapter 10.5 (commencing with Section 2850) of
Division 3 of the Fish and Game Code). Members shall maintain
familiarity with the types and effectiveness of MMAs used in other parts
of the world for potential application to California. Members shall be
reimbursed reasonable costs to participate in the activities of the panel.
Where feasible, advice shall be sought from the appropriate federal
agencies and existing regional or statewide marine research panels and
advisory groups. After review by the scientific review panel, the
committee shall forward the proposal and any recommendations to the
appropriate designating entity for a public review process.
   (c) Designating entities shall establish a process that provides for
public review and comment in writing and through workshops or
hearings, consistent with the legal mandates applicable to designating
entities. All input provided by the committee and scientific review panel
shall be made available to the public during this process. Outreach shall
be made to the broadest ocean and coastal constituency possible, and
 2952                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 386 ]
shall include commercial and sport fishing groups, conservation
organizations, waterfowl groups and other recreational interests,
academia, the general public, and all levels of government.
  (d) This process does not replace the need to obtain the appropriate
permits or reviews of other government agencies with jurisdiction or
permitting authority.
  (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed as altering or impeding
the process identified under the Marine Life Protection Act (Chapter
10.5 (commencing with Section 2850) of Division 3 of the Fish and
Game Code) or the actions of the master plan team described in that act.
  SEC. 23. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 386

  An act to amend Sections 6400, 6402, 6403, 6404, and 6405 of the
Business and Professions Code, relating to legal document and unlawful
detainer assistants, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect
immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6400 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   6400. (a) ‘‘Unlawful detainer assistant’’ means any individual who
for compensation renders assistance or advice in the prosecution or
defense of an unlawful detainer claim or action, including any
bankruptcy petition that may affect the unlawful detainer claim or action.
   (b) ‘‘Unlawful detainer claim’’ means a proceeding, filing, or action
affecting rights or liabilities of any person that arises under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 1159) of Title 3 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil
Procedure and that contemplates an adjudication by a court.
   (c) ‘‘Legal document assistant’’ means:
[Ch. 386 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2953

   (1) Any person who is not exempted under Section 6401 and who
provides, or assists in providing, or offers to provide, or offers to assist
in providing, for compensation, any self-help service to a member of the
public who is representing himself or herself in a legal matter, or who
holds himself or herself out as someone who offers that service or has
that authority. This paragraph shall not apply to any individual whose
assistance consists merely of secretarial or receptionist services.
   (2) A corporation, partnership, association, or other entity that
employs or contracts with any person not exempted under Section 6401
who, as part of his or her responsibilities, provides, or assists in
providing, or offers to provide, or offers to assist in providing, for
compensation, any self-help service to a member of the public who is
representing himself or herself in a legal matter or holds himself or
herself out as someone who offers that service or has that authority. This
paragraph shall not apply to an individual whose assistance consists
merely of secretarial or receptionist services.
   (d) ‘‘Self-help service’’ means all of the following:
   (1) Completing legal documents in a ministerial manner, selected by
a person who is representing himself or herself in a legal matter, by
typing or otherwise completing the documents at the person’s specific
direction.
   (2) Providing general published factual information that has been
written or approved by an attorney, pertaining to legal procedures, rights,
or obligations to a person who is representing himself or herself in a legal
matter, to assist the person in representing himself or herself. This
service in and of itself, shall not require registration as a legal document
assistant.
   (3) Making published legal documents available to a person who is
representing himself or herself in a legal matter.
   (4) Filing and serving legal forms and documents at the specific
direction of a person who is representing himself or herself in a legal
matter.
   (e) ‘‘Compensation’’ means money, property, or anything else of
value.
   (f) A legal document assistant, including any legal document
assistant employed by a partnership or corporation, shall not provide any
self-help service for compensation after January 1, 2000, unless the legal
document assistant is registered in the county in which his or her
principal place of business is located and in any other county in which
he or she performs acts for which registration is required.
   (g) A legal document assistant shall not provide any kind of advice,
explanation, opinion, or recommendation to a consumer about possible
legal rights, remedies, defenses, options, selection of forms, or
 2954                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 386 ]
strategies. A legal document assistant shall complete documents only in
the manner prescribed by paragraph (1) of subdivision (d).
   (h) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2003, or
the date the director suspends the requirements of this chapter applicable
to legal document assistants pursuant to Section 6416, whichever first
occurs, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that
is enacted before that date, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Section 6402 of the Business and Professions Code, as
amended by Section 8 of Chapter 1079 of the Statutes of 1998, is
amended to read:
   6402. A legal document assistant or unlawful detainer assistant
shall be registered pursuant to this chapter by the county clerk in the
county in which his or her principal place of business is located (deemed
primary registration), and in any other county in which he or she
performs acts for which registration is required (deemed secondary
registration). Any registration in a county other than the county of the
person’s place of business shall state the person’s principal place of
business and provide proof that the registrant has satisfied the bonding
requirement of Section 6405. No person who has been disbarred or
suspended from the practice of law pursuant to Article 6 (commencing
with Section 6100) of Chapter 4 shall, during the period of any
disbarment or suspension, register as a legal document assistant or
unlawful detainer assistant. The Department of Consumer Affairs shall,
by July 1, 1999, develop the application that shall be completed by a
person for purposes of registration as a legal document assistant. The
application shall specify the types of proof that the applicant shall
provide to the county clerk in order to demonstrate the qualification and
requirements of Section 6402.1.
   This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2003, or the
date the director suspends the requirements of this chapter applicable to
legal document assistants pursuant to Section 6416, whichever first
occurs, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that
is enacted before that date, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 3. Section 6402 of the Business and Professions Code, as
added by Section 9 of Chapter 1079 of the Statutes of 1998, is amended
to read:
   6402. An unlawful detainer assistant shall be registered pursuant to
this chapter by the county clerk in the county in which his or her principal
place of business is located (deemed primary registration), and in any
other county in which he or she performs acts for which registration is
required (deemed secondary registration). Any registration in a county
other than the county of the person’s place of business shall state the
person’s principal place of business and provide proof that the registrant
has satisfied the bonding requirement of Section 6405. No person who
[Ch. 386 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            2955

has been disbarred or suspended from the practice of law pursuant to
Article 6 (commencing with Section 6100) of Chapter 4 shall, during the
period of any disbarment or suspension, register as an unlawful detainer
assistant.
   This section shall become operative January 1, 2003, or the date the
director suspends the requirements of this chapter applicable to legal
document assistants pursuant to Section 6416, whichever first occurs.
   SEC. 4. Section 6403 of the Business and Professions Code, as
added by Chapter 1079 of the Statutes of 1998, is amended to read:
   6403. (a) The application for registration of a natural person shall
contain all of the following statements about the applicant:
   (1) Name, age, address, and telephone number.
   (2) Whether he or she has been convicted of a felony, or of a
misdemeanor under Section 6126 or 6127.
   (3) Whether he or she has been held liable in a civil action by final
judgment or consented to the entry of a stipulated judgment, if the action
alleged fraud, or the use of untrue or misleading representations, or the
use of an unfair, unlawful, or deceptive business practice.
   (4) Whether this is a primary or secondary registration. If it is a
secondary registration, the county in which primary registration is filed.
   (b) The application for registration of a partnership or corporation
shall contain all of the following statements about the applicant:
   (1) The names, ages, addresses, and telephone numbers of the general
partners or officers.
   (2) Whether the general partners or officers have ever been convicted
of a felony.
   (3) Whether the general partners or officers have ever been held liable
in a civil action by final judgment or have consented to the entry of a
stipulated judgment. If the action alleged fraud, whether it involved the
use of untrue or misleading representations, or the use of an unfair,
unlawful, or deceptive business practice.
   (4) Whether this is a primary or secondary registration. If it is a
secondary registration, the county in which primary registration is filed.
   (c) This section shall become operative January 1, 2003, or the date
the director suspends the requirements of this chapter applicable to legal
document assistants pursuant to Section 6416, whichever first occurs.
   SEC. 5. Section 6403 of the Business and Professions Code, as
amended by Chapter 1079 of the Statutes of 1998, is amended to read:
   6403. (a) The application for registration of a natural person shall
contain all of the following statements about the applicant:
   (1) Name, age, address, and telephone number.
   (2) Whether he or she has been convicted of a felony, or of a
misdemeanor under Section 6126 or 6127.
 2956                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 386 ]
   (3) Whether he or she has been held liable in a civil action by final
judgment or entry of a stipulated judgment, if the action alleged fraud,
or the use of an untrue or misleading representation, or the use of an
unfair, unlawful, or deceptive business practice.
   (4) Whether he or she has ever been convicted of a misdemeanor
violation of this chapter.
   (5) Whether he or she has had a civil judgment entered against him
or her in an action arising out of the applicant’s negligent, reckless, or
willful failure to properly perform his or her obligation as a legal
document assistant or unlawful detainer assistant.
   (6) Whether he or she has had a registration revoked pursuant to
Section 6413.
   (7) Whether this is a primary or secondary registration. If it is a
secondary registration, the county in which primary registration is filed.
   (b) The application for registration of a natural person shall be
accompanied by the display of personal identification, such as a
California driver’s license, birth certificate, or other identification
acceptable to the county clerk to adequately determine the identity of the
applicant.
   (c) The application for registration of a partnership or corporation
shall contain all of the following statements about the applicant:
   (1) The names, ages, addresses, and telephone numbers of the general
partners or officers.
   (2) Whether the general partners or officers have ever been convicted
of a felony, or a misdemeanor under Section 6126 or 6127.
   (3) Whether the general partners or officers have ever been held liable
in a civil action by final judgment or entry of a stipulated judgment, if
the action alleged fraud, or the use of an untrue or misleading
representation, or the use of an unfair, unlawful, or deceptive business
practice.
  (4) Whether the general partners or officers have ever been convicted
of a misdemeanor violation of this chapter.
  (5) Whether the general partners or officers have had a civil judgment
entered against them in an action arising out of a negligent, reckless, or
willful failure to properly perform the obligations of a legal document
assistant or unlawful detainer assistant.
  (6) Whether the general partners or officers have ever had a
registration revoked pursuant to Section 6413.
  (7) Whether this is a primary or secondary registration. If it is a
secondary registration, the county in which primary registration is filed.
  (d) The applications made under this section shall be made under
penalty of perjury.
  (e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2003, or
the date the director suspends the requirements of this chapter applicable
[Ch. 386 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2957

to legal document assistants pursuant to Section 6416, whichever first
occurs, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that
is enacted before that date, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 6. Section 6404 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   6404. An applicant shall pay a fee of one hundred seventy-five
dollars ($175) to the county clerk at the time he or she files an application
for initial registration, including a primary or secondary registration, or
renewal of registration. An additional fee of ten dollars ($10) shall be
paid to the county clerk for each additional identification card.
   SEC. 7. Section 6405 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   6405. (a) (1) An application for a certificate of registration by an
individual shall be accompanied by a bond of twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000) executed by a corporate surety qualified to do business
in this state and conditioned upon compliance with this chapter. The total
aggregate liability on the bond shall be limited to twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000). An application for secondary registration shall meet
all of the requirements of this subdivision, except that in place of posting
another original bond or cash deposit, the applicant shall include a
certified copy of the bond or cash deposit posted in the county in which
the applicant filed the primary registration.
   (2) An application for a certificate of registration by a partnership or
corporation shall be accompanied by a bond of twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000) executed by a corporate surety qualified to do business
in this state and conditioned upon compliance with this chapter. The total
aggregate liability on the bond shall be limited to twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000). An application for a certificate of registration by a
person employed by a partnership or corporation shall be accompanied
by a bond of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only if the
partnership or corporation has not posted a bond of twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000) as required by this subdivision. An application for
secondary registration shall meet all of the requirements of this
subdivision, except that in place of posting another original bond or cash
deposit, the applicant shall include a certified copy of the bond or cash
deposit posted in the county in which the applicant filed the primary
registration.
   (3) The bond may be terminated pursuant to Section 995.440 of, and
Article 13 (commencing with Section 996.310) of Chapter 2 of Title 14
of Part 2 of, the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (b) The county clerk shall, upon filing of the bond, deliver the bond
forthwith to the county recorder for recording. The recording fee
specified in Section 27361 of the Government Code shall be paid by the
 2958                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 386 ]
registrant. The fee may be paid to the county clerk who shall transmit it
to the recorder.
   (c) The fee for filing, canceling, revoking, or withdrawing the bond
is seven dollars ($7).
   (d) The county recorder shall record the bond and any notice of
cancellation, revocation, or withdrawal of the bond, and shall thereafter
mail the instrument, unless specified to the contrary, to the person named
in the instrument and, if no person is named, to the party leaving it for
recording. The recording fee specified in Section 27361 of the
Government Code for notice of cancellation, revocation, or withdrawal
of the bond shall be paid to the county clerk, who shall transmit it to the
county recorder.
   (e) In lieu of the bond required by subdivision (a), a registrant may
deposit twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in cash with the county
clerk.
   (f) If the certificate is revoked, the bond or cash deposit shall be
returned to the bonding party or depositor subject to subdivision (g) and
the right of a person to recover against the bond or cash deposit under
Section 6412.
   (g) The county clerk may retain a cash deposit until the expiration of
three years from the date the registrant has ceased to do business, or three
years from the expiration or revocation date of the registration, in order
to ensure there are no outstanding claims against the deposit. A judge of
a municipal or superior court may order the return of the deposit prior
to the expiration of three years upon evidence satisfactory to the judge
that there are no outstanding claims against the deposit.
   (h) The bond required by this section shall be in favor of the State of
California for the benefit of any person who is damaged as a result of the
violation of this chapter or by the fraud, dishonesty, or incompetency of
an individual, partnership, or corporation registered under this chapter.
The bond required by this section shall also indicate the name of the
county in which it will be filed.
   SEC. 7.5. Section 6405 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   6405. (a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), an application
for a certificate of registration by an individual shall be accompanied by
a bond of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) executed by a
corporate surety qualified to do business in this state and conditioned
upon compliance with this chapter. The total aggregate liability on the
bond shall be limited to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000). An
application for secondary registration shall meet all of the requirements
of this subdivision, except that in place of posting another original bond
or cash deposit, the applicant shall include a certified copy of the bond
[Ch. 386 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2959

or cash deposit posted in the county in which the applicant filed the
primary registration.
   (2) An application for a certificate of registration by a partnership or
corporation shall be accompanied by a bond of twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000) executed by a corporate surety qualified to do business
in this state and conditioned upon compliance with this chapter. The total
aggregate liability on the bond shall be limited to twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000). An application for a certificate of registration by a
person employed by a partnership or corporation shall be accompanied
by a bond of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) only if the
partnership or corporation has not posted a bond of twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000) as required by this subdivision. An application for
secondary registration shall meet all of the requirements of this
subdivision, except that in place of posting another original bond or cash
deposit, the applicant shall include a certified copy of the bond or cash
deposit posted in the county in which the applicant filed the primary
registration.
   (3) A legal document assistant who files an application for a
certificate of registration in the County of Riverside, who limits his or
her practice to that county, and who limits his or her practice solely to
assisting either party in a small claims court action, may, in lieu of
providing a bond of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), provide a
bond of five thousand dollars ($5,000) executed by a corporate surety
qualified to do business in this state and conditioned upon compliance
with this chapter. The total aggregate liability on the bond shall be
limited to five thousand dollars ($5,000). An application for a certificate
of registration accompanied by a bond of five thousand dollars ($5,000)
as authorized by this paragraph shall indicate that the legal document
assistant limits his or her practice solely to assisting parties in small
claims actions.
   (4) The bond may be terminated pursuant to Section 995.440 of, and
Article 13 (commencing with Section 996.310) of Chapter 2 of Title 14
of Part 2 of, the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (b) The county clerk shall, upon filing of the bond, deliver the bond
forthwith to the county recorder for recording. The recording fee
specified in Section 27361 of the Government Code shall be paid by the
registrant. The fee may be paid to the county clerk, who shall transmit
it to the recorder.
   (c) The fee for filing, canceling, revoking, or withdrawing the bond
is seven dollars ($7).
   (d) The county recorder shall record the bond and any notice of
cancellation, revocation, or withdrawal of the bond, and shall thereafter
mail the instrument, unless specified to the contrary, to the person named
in the instrument and, if no person is named, to the party leaving it for
 2960                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 386 ]
recording. The recording fee specified in Section 27361 of the
Government Code for notice of cancellation, revocation, or withdrawal
of the bond shall be paid to the county clerk, who shall transmit it to the
county recorder.
   (e) In lieu of the bond required by subdivision (a), a registrant may
deposit twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or five thousand dollars
($5,000), as applicable, in cash with the county clerk.
   (f) If the certificate is revoked, the bond or cash deposit shall be
returned to the bonding party or depositor subject to subdivision (g) and
the right of a person to recover against the bond or cash deposit under
Section 6412.
   (g) The county clerk may retain a cash deposit until the expiration of
three years from the date the registrant has ceased to do business, or three
years from the expiration or revocation date of the registration, in order
to ensure there are no outstanding claims against the deposit. A judge of
a municipal or superior court may order the return of the deposit prior
to the expiration of three years upon evidence satisfactory to the judge
that there are no outstanding claims against the deposit.
   (h) The bond required by this section shall be in favor of the State of
California for the benefit of any person who is damaged as a result of the
violation of this chapter or by the fraud, dishonesty, or incompetency of
an individual, partnership, or corporation registered under this chapter.
The bond required by this section shall also indicate the name of the
county in which it will be filed.
   SEC. 8. Section 7.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
6405 of the Business and Professions Code proposed by both this bill
and SB 1927. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted
and become effective on or before January 1, 2001, but this bill becomes
operative first, (2) each bill amends Section 6405 of the Business and
Professions Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 1927, in which
case Section 6405 of the Business and Professions Code, as amended by
Section 7 of this bill, shall remain operative only until the operative date
of SB 1927, at which time Section 7.5 of this bill shall become operative.
   SEC. 9. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   This act would prevent legal document and unlawful detainer
assistants from incurring bond costs associated with registering in
counties in which they practice but do not maintain a principal place of
business and would further the protection of consumers by requiring that
bonds filed in connection with this registration procedure be in favor of
the State of California for the benefit of persons damaged by specified
acts of these registrants. In order to provide at the earliest possible time
[Ch. 387 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           2961

that consumers receive greater protection and registrants be relieved of
the hardship of bonding expenses in multiple jurisdictions, it is
necessary that this act take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 387

   An act to amend Section 21083.7 of the Public Resources Code,
relating to environmental impact reports, and declaring the urgency
thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 21083.7 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
   21083.7. (a) In the event that a project requires both an
environmental impact report prepared pursuant to the requirements of
this division and an environmental impact statement prepared pursuant
to the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969,
the lead agency shall, whenever possible, use the environmental impact
statement as such environmental impact report as provided in Section
21083.5.
   (b) In order to implement this section, each lead agency to which this
section is applicable shall do both of the following, as soon as possible:
   (1) Consult with the federal agency required to prepare such
environmental impact statement.
   (2) Notify the federal agency required to prepare the environmental
impact statement regarding any scoping meeting for the proposed
project.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local
agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees,
or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
Government Code.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
 2962                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 388 ]
  In order to expedite the process by which the environmental quality
of the projects is assessed as soon as possible, it is necessary that this
measure take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 388

  An act to amend Sections 391, 5521.5, 6432, 7072, 7655, 8022, 8101,
8150.5, 8150.7, 8394.5, 8411, 8412, 8550.5, 8552.8, 11019, 12002.3,
12006.6, 12009, and 12157 of, to amend and renumber Section 6439 of,
and to repeal Sections 6433, 6434, 6435, 6436, 6437, 6438, 8150.8,
8150.9, 8151, 8152, 8410, 8413, 8414, 8415, and 8664.65 of, the Fish
and Game Code, relating to commercial fishing, and making an
appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 391 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
   391. The department may exchange or release to any appropriate
federal, state, or local agency or agencies in other states, for purposes of
law enforcement, any information collected or maintained by the
department under any provision of this code or any regulation adopted
pursuant to this code.
   SEC. 2. Section 5521.5 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   5521.5. (a) In addition to the moratorium imposed by Section 5521,
and notwithstanding any other provision of law, it is unlawful to take
abalone for commercial purposes in District 6, 7, 16, 17, or 19A, in
District 10 north of Point Lobos, or in District 20 between Southeast
Rock and the extreme westerly end of Santa Catalina Island.
   (b) There shall be a rebuttable presumption, affecting the burden of
producing evidence, that a person who is required to obtain a license
pursuant to Section 7145 and who takes or possesses more than 12
individual abalone possesses the abalone for commercial purposes.
   SEC. 2.1. Section 6432 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   6432. The department shall work cooperatively with the State Lands
Commission and the State Water Resources Control Board to implement
the Ballast Water Management Program established pursuant to
[Ch. 388 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               2963

Division 36 (commencing with Section 71200) of the Public Resources
Code.
   SEC. 2.2. Section 6433 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 2.3. Section 6434 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 2.4. Section 6435 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 6436 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 2.6. Section 6437 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 2.7. Section 6438 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 2.8. Section 6439 of the Fish and Game Code is amended and
renumbered to read:
   6433. This article shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2004,
and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2.9. Section 7072 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   7072. (a) Fishery management plans shall form the primary basis
for managing California’s sport and commercial marine fisheries.
   (b) Fishery management plans shall be based on the best scientific
information that is available, on other relevant information that the
department possesses, or on such scientific information or other relevant
information that can be obtained without substantially delaying the
preparation of the plan.
   (c) To the extent that conservation and management measures in a
fishery management plan either increase or restrict the overall harvest in
a fishery, fishery management plans shall allocate those increases or
restrictions fairly among recreational and commercial sectors
participating in the fishery.
   (d) Consistent with Article 17 (commencing with Section 8585), the
commission shall adopt a fishery management plan for the nearshore
fishery on or before January 1, 2002, if funds are appropriated for that
purpose in the annual Budget Act or pursuant to any other law.
   SEC. 3. Section 7655 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   7655. (a) It is the policy of the State of California that the state be
represented on the Pacific Fishery Management Council by
representatives of those fisheries directly subject to the fishery
management plans of the council. Special emphasis shall be made on the
nominations and appointments to the Pacific Fishery Management
Council for a California commercial salmon troll fisherman. In addition
to a commercial salmon troll fisherman, in order to assure a balanced
representation on the Pacific Fishery Management Council,
nominations shall also include representatives from the seafood
processing industry, the commercial passenger carrying fishing
industry, the groundfish fishery, and the coastal pelagic species fishery.
 2964                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 388 ]
   (b) When the Governor nominates persons for any seat on the Pacific
Fishery Management Council, those individuals shall be knowledgeable
of California’s fishery resources and its fishing industry and needs.
Further, the nominations shall be made after consultation with fishery
organizations whose members are directly affected by the actions of the
council.
   SEC. 4. Section 8022 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8022. (a) The receipts, reports, or other records filed with the
department pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section 7700) to
Article 7.5 (commencing with Section 8040), inclusive, and the
information contained therein, shall, except as otherwise provided in this
section, be confidential, and the records shall not be public records.
Insofar as possible, the information contained in the records shall be
compiled or published as summaries, so as not to disclose the individual
record or business of any person.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the department may
release the confidential information described in subdivision (a) to any
federal agency responsible for fishery management activities, provided
the information is used solely for the purposes of enforcing fishery
management provisions and provided the information will otherwise
remain confidential. The department may also release this information
in accordance with Section 391 or pursuant to a court order.
   SEC. 4.5. Section 8101 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8101. (a) Any licensed fisherman shall be eligible for inclusion
during the initial year of a limited entry fishery which is established by
statute that becomes operative after January 1, 1982, or by regulation
that becomes operative after January 1, 1999, regardless of the
prescribed conditions for entry into the fishery, if the fisherman presents
to the department satisfactory evidence that he or she has been licensed
as a California commercial fisherman for at least 20 years and has
participated in the fishery for at least one of those 20 years, with
qualifying participation in the fishery to be determined by the
commission based on landings or other appropriate criteria.
   (b) Fishermen who have established eligibility to participate in a
limited entry fishery under this section are subject to conditions of
continuing eligibility established by statute or regulation if those
fishermen desire to maintain their eligibility.
   SEC. 5. Section 8150.5 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8150.5. (a) Sardines may not be taken or possessed on any boat,
barge, or vessel except pursuant to Section 8150.7.
[Ch. 388 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2965

   (b) This section does not prohibit the possession or use of sardines
imported into this state under a bill of lading identifying the country of
origin.
   (c) Imported sardines may be used for dead bait under regulations
adopted by the commission.
   SEC. 6. Section 8150.7 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8150.7. It is the intent of the Legislature that the sardine resource be
managed with the objective of maximizing the sustained harvest. The
department shall manage the sardine resource in conformance with the
federal fishery regulations as recommended by the Pacific Fishery
Management Council and as adopted by the Secretary of Commerce.
   SEC. 7. Section 8150.8 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 8. Section 8150.9 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 9. Section 8151 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 10. Section 8152 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 10.5. Section 8394.5 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
   8394.5. The fee for the permit issued pursuant to Section 8394 is
three hundred thirty dollars ($330). This permit fee does not apply to the
holder of a valid drift gill net shark and swordfish permit required under
Article 16 (commencing with Section 8560) of Chapter 2.
   SEC. 11. Section 8410 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 12. Section 8411 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8411. The department shall manage the Pacific mackerel resource
in conformance with the federal fishery regulations as recommended by
the Pacific Fishery Management Council and as adopted by the
Secretary of Commerce.
   SEC. 13. Section 8412 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8412. Pacific mackerel may be taken under a revocable
nontransferable permit issued by the department to boat owners or
operators under conditions prescribed by the department.
   SEC. 14. Section 8413 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 15. Section 8414 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 16. Section 8415 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 17. Section 8550.5 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8550.5. (a) A herring net permit granting the privilege to take
herring with nets for commercial purposes shall be issued to licensed
commercial fishermen, subject to regulations adopted under Section
8550, as follows:
 2966                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 388 ]
   (1) To any resident of this state to use gill nets, upon payment of a fee
of two hundred sixty-five dollars ($265).
   (2) To any nonresident to use gill nets, upon payment of a fee of one
thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (b) The commission shall not require a permit for a person to be a
crewmember on a vessel taking herring pursuant to this article.
   SEC. 18. Section 8552.8 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8552.8. (a) For purposes of this article, the experience points for a
person engaged in the herring roe fishery shall be based on the number
of years holding a commercial fishing license and the number of years
having served as a crewmember in the herring roe fishery, and
determined by the sum of both of the following:
   (1) One point for each year in the previous 12 years (prior to the
current license year) that the person has held a commercial fishing
license issued pursuant to Section 7852, not to exceed a maximum of 10
points.
   (2) Five points for one year of service as a paid crewmember in the
herring roe fishery, as determined pursuant to Section 8559, three points
for a second year of service as a paid crewmember, and two points for
a third year as a paid crewmember, beginning with the 1978–79 herring
fishing season, not to exceed a maximum of 10 points.
   (b) The department shall maintain a list of all individuals possessing
the maximum of 20 experience points and of all those persons holding
two points or more, grouped in a list by number of points. The list shall
be maintained annually and shall be available from the department to all
pointholders and to all herring permittees. All pointholders are
responsible for providing the department with their current address and
for verifying points credited to them by the department.
   (c) A herring permittee may use the department’s list and rely upon
that list in making offers for transfer of his or her permit until the date
of the annual distribution of the new list. On and after the date of the
annual revision of the list, the permittee shall use the new list.
   (d) The point provisions in this section are for purposes of sale of a
permit or transfer to a partner of a coowned permit.
   SEC. 19. Section 8664.65 of the Fish and Game Code is repealed.
   SEC. 20. Section 11019 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   11019. The following constitutes Fish and Game District 11:
   The waters and tidelands of San Francisco Bay to high-water mark
bounded as follows: Beginning at the extreme westerly point of Point
Bonita; thence in a direct line to the extreme westerly point of Point
Lobos; thence around the shore line of San Francisco Bay to the foot of
Powell Street; thence in a direct line northwesterly to Peninsula Point,
[Ch. 388 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2967

the most southerly extremity of Belvedere Island; thence in a direct line
westerly to the easternmost point of the ferry dock at Sausalito; thence
southerly and westerly around the shore of San Francisco Bay to the
point of beginning.
   SEC. 21. Section 12002.3 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
   12002.3. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a
violation of Section 7121 for the sale, purchase, or receipt of fish taken
by a person required to be licensed pursuant to Section 7145 is
punishable by a fine of not less than two thousand dollars ($2,000) or
more than seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500), except as
provided in subdivisions (b) and (c).
   (b) If the violation in question involved the illegal sale or purchase of
abalone taken by a person required to be licensed pursuant to Section
7145, the violation is punishable by a fine of not less than fifteen
thousand dollars ($15,000) or more than forty thousand dollars
($40,000).
   (c) If the violation in question involved a person who knowingly
purchased or received for commercial purposes, fish taken by a person
required to be licensed pursuant to Section 7145, the violation is
punishable by a fine of not less than seven thousand five hundred dollars
($7,500) or more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000).
   SEC. 22. Section 12006.6 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
   12006.6. Notwithstanding Section 12000 or 12002.8, and in
addition to Section 12009, and notwithstanding the type of fishing
license or permit held, if any person is convicted of a violation of Section
5521 or 5521.5, and the offense occurs in an area closed to the taking of
abalone for commercial purposes, and the person takes or possesses
more than 12 abalone at one time or more than 100 abalone during a
calendar year, that person shall be punished by all of the following:
   (a) A fine of not less than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) or more
than forty thousand dollars ($40,000).
   (b) The court shall order the department to permanently revoke, and
the department shall permanently revoke, the commercial fishing license
and any commercial fishing permits of that person. The person punished
under this subdivision shall not, thereafter, be eligible for any license or
permit to take or possess fish for sport or commercial purposes,
including, but not limited to, a commercial fishing license or a sport
fishing or sport ocean fishing license. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the commercial license or permit of a person arrested
for a violation punishable under this section may not be sold, transferred,
loaned, leased, or used as security for any financial transaction until
disposition of the charges is final.
 2968                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 388 ]
   (c) Any vessel, diving or other fishing gear or apparatus, or vehicle
used in the commission of an offense punishable under this section shall
be seized, and shall be ordered forfeited in the same manner prescribed
for nets or traps used in violation of this code, as described in Article 3
(commencing with Section 8630) of Chapter 3, or in the manner
prescribed in Section 12157.
   (d) Not less than 50 percent of the revenue deposited in the Fish and
Game Preservation Fund from fines and forfeitures collected pursuant
to this section shall be allocated for the support of the Special Operations
Unit of the Wildlife Protection Division of the department and used for
law enforcement purposes.
   SEC. 23. Section 12009 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   12009. (a) Notwithstanding Section 12000, and except as provided
in Section 12006.6, the punishment for a violation of any provision of
Section 5521 or 5521.5, or any regulation adopted pursuant thereto, or
of Section 7121 involving abalone, is a fine of not less than fifteen
thousand dollars ($15,000) or more than forty thousand dollars
($40,000) and imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed
one year. The court shall permanently revoke any commercial fishing
license, commercial fishing permit, or sport fishing license issued by the
department. Any vessel, diving or other fishing gear or apparatus, or
vehicle used in the commission of an offense punishable under this
section, may be seized and may be ordered forfeited by the court
pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 12157. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the commercial license of any person arrested for a
violation punishable under this section may not be sold, transferred,
loaned, or leased, or used as security for any financial transaction until
disposition of the charges is final.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the money collected
from any fine or forfeiture imposed or collected for the taking of abalone
for any purpose other than for profit in violation of this article or any
other provision of law shall be deposited as follows:
   (1) One-half in the Abalone Restoration and Preservation Account.
   (2) One-half in the county treasury of the county in which the
violation occurred.
   SEC. 24. Section 12157 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   12157. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), the judge before
whom any person is tried for a violation of any provision of this code,
or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, may, upon the conviction of the
person tried, order the forfeiture of any device or apparatus that is
designed to be, or is capable of being, used to take birds, mammals, fish,
[Ch. 388 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2969

reptiles, or amphibia and that was used in committing the offense
charged.
  (b) The judge shall, if the offense is punishable under Section 12008
of this code or under subdivision (c) of Section 597 of the Penal Code,
order the forfeiture of any device or apparatus that is used in committing
the offense, including, but not limited to, any vehicle that is used or
intended for use in delivering, importing, or exporting any unlawfully
taken, imported, or purchased species.
  (c) (1) The judge may, for conviction of a violation of either of the
following offenses, order forfeiture of any device or apparatus that is
used in committing the offense, including, but not limited to, any vehicle
used or intended for use in committing the offense:
  (A) Section 2000 relating to deer, elk, antelope, feral pigs, European
wild boars, black bears, and brown or cinnamon bears.
  (B) Any offense that involves the sale, purchase, or possession of
abalone for commercial purposes.
  (2) In considering an order of forfeiture under this subdivision, the
court shall take into consideration the nature, circumstances, extent, and
gravity of the prohibited act committed, the degree of culpability of the
violator, the property proposed for forfeiture, and other criminal or civil
penalties imposed on the violator under other provisions of law for that
offense. The court shall impose lesser forfeiture penalties under this
subdivision for those acts that have little significant effect upon natural
resources or the property of another and greater forfeiture penalties for
those acts that may cause serious injury to natural resources or the
property of another, as determined by the court. In determining whether
or not to order forfeiture of a vehicle, the court shall, in addition to any
other relevant factor, consider whether the defendant is the owner of the
vehicle and whether the owner of the vehicle had knowledge of the
violation.
  (3) It is the intent of the Legislature that forfeiture not be ordered
pursuant to this subdivision for minor or inadvertent violations of
Section 2000, as determined by the court.
  (d) Any device or apparatus ordered forfeited shall be sold, used, or
destroyed by the department.
  (e) (1) The proceeds from all sales under this section, after payment
of any valid liens on the forfeited property, shall be paid into the Fish and
Game Preservation Fund.
  (2) A lien in which the lienholder is a conspirator is not a valid lien
for purposes of this subdivision.
  (f) The provisions in this section authorizing or requiring a judge to
order the forfeiture of a device or apparatus also apply to the judge,
referee, or traffic hearing officer in a juvenile court action brought under
Section 258 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
 2970                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 389 ]
   (g) For purposes of this section, a plea of nolo contendere or no
contest, or forfeiture of bail, constitutes a conviction.
   (h) Neither the disposition of the criminal action other than by
conviction nor the discretionary refusal of the judge to order forfeiture
upon conviction impairs the right of the department to commence
proceedings to order the forfeiture of fish nets or traps pursuant to
Section 8630.
   SEC. 25. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 389

   An act to amend Section 1357 of the Health and Safety Code, relating
to small employer health care coverage.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1357 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   1357. As used in this article:
   (a) ‘‘Dependent’’ means the spouse or child of an eligible employee,
subject to applicable terms of the health care plan contract covering the
employee, and includes dependents of guaranteed association members
if the association elects to include dependents under its health coverage
at the same time it determines its membership composition pursuant to
subdivision (o).
   (b) ‘‘Eligible employee’’ means either of the following:
   (1) Any permanent employee who is actively engaged on a full-time
basis in the conduct of the business of the small employer with a normal
workweek of at least 30 hours, at the small employer’s regular places of
business, who has met any statutorily authorized applicable waiting
period requirements. The term includes sole proprietors or partners of a
partnership, if they are actively engaged on a full-time basis in the small
employer’s business and included as employees under a health care plan
[Ch. 389 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2971

contract of a small employer, but does not include employees who work
on a part-time, temporary, or substitute basis. It includes any eligible
employee as defined in this paragraph who obtains coverage through a
guaranteed association. Employees of employers purchasing through a
guaranteed association shall be deemed to be eligible employees if they
would otherwise meet the definition except for the number of persons
employed by the employer. Permanent employees who work at least 20
hours but not more than 29 hours are deemed to be eligible employees
if all four of the following apply:
   (A) They otherwise meet the definition of an eligible employee
except for the number of hours worked.
   (B) The employer offers the employees health coverage under a
health benefit plan.
   (C) All similarly situated individuals are offered coverage under the
health benefit plan.
   (D) The employee must have worked at least 20 hours per normal
workweek for at least 50 percent of the weeks in the previous calendar
quarter. The health care service plan may request any necessary
information to document the hours and time period in question,
including, but not limited to, payroll records and employee wage and tax
filings.
   (2) Any member of a guaranteed association as defined in subdivision
(o).
   (c) ‘‘In force business’’ means an existing health benefit plan contract
issued by the plan to a small employer.
   (d) ‘‘Late enrollee’’ means an eligible employee or dependent who
has declined enrollment in a health benefit plan offered by a small
employer at the time of the initial enrollment period provided under the
terms of the health benefit plan and who subsequently requests
enrollment in a health benefit plan of that small employer, provided that
the initial enrollment period shall be a period of at least 30 days. It also
means any member of an association that is a guaranteed association as
well as any other person eligible to purchase through the guaranteed
association when that person has failed to purchase coverage during the
initial enrollment period provided under the terms of the guaranteed
association’s plan contract and who subsequently requests enrollment in
the plan, provided that the initial enrollment period shall be a period of
at least 30 days. However, an eligible employee, any other person
eligible for coverage through a guaranteed association pursuant to
subdivision (o), or dependent shall not be considered a late enrollee if
any of the following is applicable:
   (1) The individual meets all of the following requirements:
 2972                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 389 ]
   (A) He or she was covered under another employer health benefit plan
or no share-of-cost Medi-Cal coverage at the time the individual was
eligible to enroll.
   (B) He or she certified at the time of the initial enrollment that
coverage under another employer health benefit plan or no share-of-cost
Medi-Cal coverage was the reason for declining enrollment, provided
that, if the individual was covered under another employer health plan,
the individual was given the opportunity to make the certification
required by this subdivision and was notified that failure to do so could
result in later treatment as a late enrollee.
   (C) He or she has lost or will lose coverage under another employer
health benefit plan as a result of termination of employment of the
individual or of a person through whom the individual was covered as
a dependent, change in employment status of the individual or of a
person through whom the individual was covered as a dependent,
termination of the other plan’s coverage, cessation of an employer’s
contribution toward an employee or dependent’s coverage, death of the
person through whom the individual was covered as a dependent, legal
separation, divorce, or loss of no share-of-cost Medi-Cal coverage.
   (D) He or she requests enrollment within 30 days after termination of
coverage or employer contribution toward coverage provided under
another employer health benefit plan.
   (2) The employer offers multiple health benefit plans and the
employee elects a different plan during an open enrollment period.
   (3) A court has ordered that coverage be provided for a spouse or
minor child under a covered employee’s health benefit plan.
   (4) (A) In the case of an eligible employee as defined in paragraph
(1) of subdivision (b), the plan cannot produce a written statement from
the employer stating that the individual or the person through whom the
individual was eligible to be covered as a dependent, prior to declining
coverage, was provided with, and signed, acknowledgment of an explicit
written notice in boldface type specifying that failure to elect coverage
during the initial enrollment period permits the plan to impose, at the
time of the individual’s later decision to elect coverage, an exclusion
from coverage for a period of 12 months as well as a six-month
preexisting condition exclusion, unless the individual meets the criteria
specified in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).
   (B) In the case of an association member who did not purchase
coverage through a guaranteed association, the plan cannot produce a
written statement from the association stating that the association sent
a written notice in boldface type to all potentially eligible association
members at their last known address prior to the initial enrollment period
informing members that failure to elect coverage during the initial
enrollment period permits the plan to impose, at the time of the
[Ch. 389 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2973

member’s later decision to elect coverage, an exclusion from coverage
for a period of 12 months as well as a six-month preexisting condition
exclusion unless the member can demonstrate that he or she meets the
requirements of subparagraphs (A), (C), and (D) of paragraph (1) or
paragraph (2) or (3).
  (C) In the case of an employer or person who is not a member of an
association, was eligible to purchase coverage through a guaranteed
association, and did not do so, and would not be eligible to purchase
guaranteed coverage unless purchased through a guaranteed association,
the employer or person can demonstrate that he or she meets the
requirements of subparagraphs (A), (C), and (D) of paragraph (1), or
paragraph (2) or (3), or that he or she recently had a change in status that
would make him or her eligible and that application for enrollment was
made within 30 days of the change.
  (5) The individual is an employee or dependent who meets the criteria
described in paragraph (1) and was under a COBRA continuation
provision and the coverage under that provision has been exhausted. For
purposes of this section, the definition of ‘‘COBRA’’ set forth in
subdivision (e) of Section 1373.621 shall apply.
  (6) The individual is a dependent of an enrolled eligible employee
who has lost or will lose his or her no share-of-cost Medi-Cal coverage
and requests enrollment within 30 days after notification of this loss of
coverage.
  (7) The individual is an eligible employee who previously declined
coverage under an employer health benefit plan and who has
subsequently acquired a dependent who would be eligible for coverage
as a dependent of the employee through marriage, birth, adoption, or
placement for adoption, and who enrolls for coverage under that
employer health benefit plan on his or her behalf, and on behalf of his
or her dependent within 30 days following the date of marriage, birth,
adoption, or placement for adoption, in which case the effective date of
coverage shall be the first day of the month following the date the
completed request for enrollment is received in the case of marriage, or
the date of birth, or the date of adoption or placement for adoption,
whichever applies. Notice of the special enrollment rights contained in
this paragraph shall be provided by the employer to an employee at or
before the time the employee is offered an opportunity to enroll in plan
coverage.
  (8) The individual is an eligible employee who has declined coverage
for himself or herself or his or her dependents during a previous
enrollment period because his or her dependents were covered by
another employer health benefit plan at the time of the previous
enrollment period. That individual may enroll himself or herself or his
or her dependents for plan coverage during a special open enrollment
 2974                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 389 ]
opportunity if his or her dependents have lost or will lose coverage under
that other employer health benefit plan. The special open enrollment
opportunity shall be requested by the employee not more than 30 days
after the date that the other health coverage is exhausted or terminated.
Upon enrollment, coverage shall be effective not later than the first day
of the first calendar month beginning after the date the request for
enrollment is received. Notice of the special enrollment rights contained
in this paragraph shall be provided by the employer to an employee at
or before the time the employee is offered an opportunity to enroll in plan
coverage.
   (e) ‘‘New business’’ means a health care service plan contract issued
to a small employer that is not the plan’s in force business.
   (f) ‘‘Preexisting condition provision’’ means a contract provision that
excludes coverage for charges or expenses incurred during a specified
period following the employee’s effective date of coverage, as to a
condition for which medical advice, diagnosis, care, or treatment was
recommended or received during a specified period immediately
preceding the effective date of coverage.
   (g) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ means:
   (1) Any individual or group policy, contract, or program that is
written or administered by a disability insurer, health care service plan,
fraternal benefits society, self-insured employer plan, or any other entity,
in this state or elsewhere, and that arranges or provides medical, hospital,
and surgical coverage not designed to supplement other private or
governmental plans. The term includes continuation or conversion
coverage but does not include accident only, credit, coverage for onsite
medical clinics, disability income, Medicare supplement, long-term
care, dental, vision, coverage issued as a supplement to liability
insurance, insurance arising out of a workers’ compensation or similar
law, automobile medical payment insurance, or insurance under which
benefits are payable with or without regard to fault and that is statutorily
required to be contained in any liability insurance policy or equivalent
self-insurance.
   (2) The federal Medicare program pursuant to Title XVIII of the
Social Security Act.
   (3) The medicaid program pursuant to Title XIX of the Social
Security Act.
   (4) Any other publicly sponsored program, provided in this state or
elsewhere, of medical, hospital, and surgical care.
   (5) 10 U.S.C.A. Chapter 55 (commencing with Section 1071)
(Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services
(CHAMPUS)).
   (6) A medical care program of the Indian Health Service or of a tribal
organization.
[Ch. 389 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            2975

   (7) A state health benefits risk pool.
   (8) A health plan offered under 5 U.S.C.A. Chapter 89 (commencing
with Section 8901) (Federal Employees Health Benefits Program
(FEHBP)).
   (9) A public health plan as defined in federal regulations authorized
by Section 2701(c)(1)(I) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended
by Public Law 104-191, the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996.
   (10) A health benefit plan under Section 5(e) of the Peace Corps Act
(22 U.S.C.A. Sec. 2504(e)).
   (11) Any other creditable coverage as defined by subdivision (c) of
Section 2701 of Title XXVII of the federal Public Health Services Act
(42 U.S.C. Sec. 300gg(c)).
   (h) ‘‘Rating period’’ means the period for which premium rates
established by a plan are in effect and shall be no less than six months.
   (i) ‘‘Risk adjusted employee risk rate’’ means the rate determined for
an eligible employee of a small employer in a particular risk category
after applying the risk adjustment factor.
   (j) ‘‘Risk adjustment factor’’ means the percentage adjustment to be
applied equally to each standard employee risk rate for a particular small
employer, based upon any expected deviations from standard cost of
services. This factor may not be more than 120 percent or less than 80
percent until July 1, 1996. Effective July 1, 1996, this factor may not be
more than 110 percent or less than 90 percent.
   (k) ‘‘Risk category’’ means the following characteristics of an
eligible employee: age, geographic region, and family composition of
the employee, plus the health benefit plan selected by the small
employer.
   (1) No more than the following age categories may be used in
determining premium rates:
   Under 30
   30–39
   40–49
   50–54
   55–59
   60–64
   65 and over
   However, for the 65 and over age category, separate premium rates
may be specified depending upon whether coverage under the plan
contract will be primary or secondary to benefits provided by the federal
Medicare program pursuant to Title XVIII of the federal Social Security
Act.
   (2) Small employer health care service plans shall base rates to small
employers using no more than the following family size categories:
 2976                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 389 ]
   (A) Single.
   (B) Married couple.
   (C) One adult and child or children.
   (D) Married couple and child or children.
   (3) (A) In determining rates for small employers, a plan that operates
statewide shall use no more than nine geographic regions in the state,
have no region smaller than an area in which the first three digits of all
its ZIP Codes are in common within a county, and divide no county into
more than two regions. Plans shall be deemed to be operating statewide
if their coverage area includes 90 percent or more of the state’s
population. Geographic regions established pursuant to this section
shall, as a group, cover the entire state, and the area encompassed in a
geographic region shall be separate and distinct from areas encompassed
in other geographic regions. Geographic regions may be noncontiguous.
   (B) (i) In determining rates for small employers, a plan that does not
operate statewide shall use no more than the number of geographic
regions in the state that is determined by the following formula: the
population, as determined in the last federal census, of all counties that
are included in their entirety in a plan’s service area divided by the total
population of the state, as determined in the last federal census,
multiplied by nine. The resulting number shall be rounded to the nearest
whole integer. No region may be smaller than an area in which the first
three digits of all its ZIP Codes are in common within a county and no
county may be divided into more than two regions. The area
encompassed in a geographic region shall be separate and distinct from
areas encompassed in other geographic regions. Geographic regions
may be noncontiguous. No plan shall have less than one geographic area.
   (ii) If the formula in clause (i) results in a plan that operates in more
than one county having only one geographic region, then the formula in
clause (i) shall not apply and the plan may have two geographic regions,
provided that no county is divided into more than one region.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a plan to establish
a new service area or to offer health coverage on a statewide basis,
outside of the plan’s existing service area.
   (l) ‘‘Small employer’’ means either of the following:
   (1) Any person, firm, proprietary or nonprofit corporation,
partnership, public agency, or association that is actively engaged in
business or service, that, on at least 50 percent of its working days during
the preceding calendar quarter or preceding calendar year, employed at
least two, but no more than 50, eligible employees, the majority of whom
were employed within this state, that was not formed primarily for
purposes of buying health care service plan contracts, and in which a
bona fide employer-employee relationship exists. In determining
whether to apply the calendar quarter or calendar year test, a health care
[Ch. 389 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2977

service plan shall use the test that ensures eligibility if only one test
would establish eligibility. However, for purposes of subdivisions (a),
(b), and (c) of Section 1357.03, the definition shall include employers
with at least three eligible employees until July 1, 1997, and two eligible
employees thereafter. In determining the number of eligible employees,
companies that are affiliated companies and that are eligible to file a
combined tax return for purposes of state taxation shall be considered
one employer. Subsequent to the issuance of a health care service plan
contract to a small employer pursuant to this article, and for the purpose
of determining eligibility, the size of a small employer shall be
determined annually. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this
article, provisions of this article that apply to a small employer shall
continue to apply until the plan contract anniversary following the date
the employer no longer meets the requirements of this definition. It
includes any small employer as defined in this paragraph who purchases
coverage through a guaranteed association, and any employer
purchasing coverage for employees through a guaranteed association.
   (2) Any guaranteed association, as defined in subdivision (n), that
purchases health coverage for members of the association.
   (m) ‘‘Standard employee risk rate’’ means the rate applicable to an
eligible employee in a particular risk category in a small employer
group.
   (n) ‘‘Guaranteed association’’ means a nonprofit organization
comprised of a group of individuals or employers who associate based
solely on participation in a specified profession or industry, accepting for
membership any individual or employer meeting its membership
criteria, and that (1) includes one or more small employers as defined in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (l), (2) does not condition membership
directly or indirectly on the health or claims history of any person, (3)
uses membership dues solely for and in consideration of the membership
and membership benefits, except that the amount of the dues shall not
depend on whether the member applies for or purchases insurance
offered to the association, (4) is organized and maintained in good faith
for purposes unrelated to insurance, (5) has been in active existence on
January 1, 1992, and for at least five years prior to that date, (6) has
included health insurance as a membership benefit for at least five years
prior to January 1, 1992, (7) has a constitution and bylaws, or other
analogous governing documents that provide for election of the
governing board of the association by its members, (8) offers any plan
contract that is purchased to all individual members and employer
members in this state, (9) includes any member choosing to enroll in the
plan contracts offered to the association provided that the member has
agreed to make the required premium payments, and (10) covers at least
1,000 persons with the health care service plan with which it contracts.
 2978                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 390 ]
The requirement of 1,000 persons may be met if component chapters of
a statewide association contracting separately with the same carrier
cover at least 1,000 persons in the aggregate.
   This subdivision applies regardless of whether a contract issued by a
plan is with an association or a trust formed for, or sponsored by, an
association to administer benefits for association members.
   For purposes of this subdivision, an association formed by a merger
of two or more associations after January 1, 1992, and otherwise meeting
the criteria of this subdivision shall be deemed to have been in active
existence on January 1, 1992, if its predecessor organizations had been
in active existence on January 1, 1992, and for at least five years prior
to that date and otherwise met the criteria of this subdivision.
   (o) ‘‘Members of a guaranteed association’’ means any individual or
employer meeting the association’s membership criteria if that person is
a member of the association and chooses to purchase health coverage
through the association. At the association’s discretion, it also may
include employees of association members, association staff, retired
members, retired employees of members, and surviving spouses and
dependents of deceased members. However, if an association chooses to
include these persons as members of the guaranteed association, the
association shall make that election in advance of purchasing a plan
contract. Health care service plans may require an association to adhere
to the membership composition it selects for up to 12 months.
   (p) ‘‘Affiliation period’’ means a period that, under the terms of the
health care service plan contract, must expire before health care services
under the contract become effective.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 390

  An act to amend Section 71000 of the Education Code, relating to
community colleges.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]
[Ch. 390 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           2979

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 71000 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
  71000. There is in the state government a Board of Governors of the
California Community Colleges, consisting of 16 voting members and
one nonvoting member, appointed by the Governor, as follows:
  (a) Thirteen members, each appointed with the advice and consent of
two-thirds of the membership of the Senate to six-year staggered terms.
Two of these members shall be current or former elected members of
local community college district governing boards.
  (b) (1) (A) One voting student member, and one nonvoting student
member, who exercise their duties in accordance with the procedure set
forth in paragraph (3).
  (B) These students shall be enrolled in a community college with a
minimum of five semester units, or its equivalent, at the time of the
appointment and throughout the period of their terms, or until a
replacement has been named. A student member shall be enrolled in a
community college at least one semester prior to his or her appointment,
and shall meet and maintain the minimum standards of scholarship
prescribed for community college students.
  (C) Each student member shall be appointed from a list of names of
at least three persons submitted to the Governor by the California
Student Association of Community Colleges.
  (2) The term of office of one student member of the board shall
commence on July 1 of an even-numbered year and expire on June 30
two years thereafter. The term of office of the other student member of
the board shall commence on July 1 of an odd-numbered year and expire
on June 30 two years thereafter. Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a
student member who graduates from his or her college on or after
January 1 of the second year of his or her term of office may serve the
remainder of the term.
  (3) During the first year of a student member’s term, a student
member shall be a member of the board and may attend all meetings of
the board and its committees. At these meetings, a student member may
fully participate in discussion and debate, but may not vote. During the
second year of a student member’s term, a student member may exercise
the same right to attend meetings of the board, and its committees, and
shall have the same right to vote as the members appointed pursuant to
subdivisions (a) and (c).
  (4) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), if a student member resigns from
office or a vacancy is otherwise created in that office during the second
year of a student member’s term, the remaining student member shall
immediately assume the office created by the vacancy and all of the
 2980                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 391 ]
participation privileges of the second-year student member, including
the right to vote, for the remainder of that term of office.
  (c) Two tenured faculty members from a community college, who
shall be appointed for two-year terms. The Governor shall appoint each
faculty member from a list of names of at least three persons furnished
by the Academic Senate of the California Community Colleges. Each
seat designated as a tenured faculty member seat shall be filled by a
tenured faculty member from a community college pursuant to this
section and Section 71003.



                             CHAPTER 391

  An act to add Section 13952.1 to the Water Code, relating to water, and
declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13952.1 is added to the Water Code, to read:
   13952.1. (a) Notwithstanding Section 13951, the South Tahoe
Public Utility District may provide recycled water only to prevent the
destruction of its Luther Pass recycled water pump station from a
catastrophic fire if all of the following conditions are met:
   (1) The district submits an engineering report to the Lahontan
Regional Board and the State Department of Health Services, as required
by that regional board and that department.
   (2) The Lahontan Regional Board, the State Department of Health
Services, and the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency authorize the use of
recycled water, and the specified area or areas in the immediate vicinity
of the pump station where that recycled water may be used, only to
prevent the destruction of the district’s Luther Pass recycled water pump
station from a catastrophic fire.
   (3) The fire incident commander authorizes the use of the recycled
water to prevent the destruction of the district’s Luther Pass recycled
water pump station from a catastrophic fire, as authorized pursuant to
this section.
   (b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘catastrophic fire’’ means a
condition exists that will result in severe harm to life, property, and the
environment if the use of recycled water as authorized pursuant to this
section is not used, and all other methods to extinguish the fire have been
exhausted.
[Ch. 392 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            2981

   SEC. 2. The Legislature finds and declares that a special law is
necessary and that a general law cannot be made applicable within the
meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution
because of the recycled water export requirements to which the South
Tahoe Public Utility District is subject.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to prevent the possible destruction of the Luther Pass recycled
water pump facility from a catastrophic fire at the earliest possible time,
it is necessary for this act to take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 392

  An act to add Chapter 8.6 (commencing with Section 1360) to
Division 6 of the Military and Veterans Code, relating to veterans.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 8.6 (commencing with Section 1360) is added
to Division 6 of the Military and Veterans Code, to read:

           CHAPTER 8.6.       VETERANS MEMORIAL REGISTRY

   1360. The Department of Veterans Affairs shall establish a
statewide Veterans Memorial Registry. The registry shall provide the
location and condition of all known veterans memorials in California.
The department may seek the assistance and cooperation of the Golden
State Museum, State Archives, Secretary of State, Department of
Information Technology, Department of Parks and Recreation, and other
appropriate agencies, including agencies with expertise in historical
sites.
   1361. The Veterans Memorial Registry shall be made available on
the web site of the Department of Veterans Affairs. The department shall
provide the geographically referenced information in a readily
accessible format that permits members of the public to submit
 2982                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 393 ]
information on memorials to the registry, which shall be updated on a
regular basis.



                             CHAPTER 393

  An act to amend Sections 473.1, 473.2, 473.3, 473.5, 7801, 7810,
7815.5, 18602, and 18613 of, and to repeal Sections 473.16 and 473.17
of, the Business and Professions Code, and to repeal Section 1 of Chapter
78 of the Statutes of 1997, relating to professions and vocations.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 473.1 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   473.1. This division shall apply to all of the following:
   (a) Every board, as defined in Section 22, that is scheduled to become
inoperative and to be repealed on a specified date as provided by the
specific act relating to the board.
   (b) The Bureau for Postsecondary and Vocational Education. For
purposes of this division, ‘‘board’’ includes the bureau.
   SEC. 2. Section 473.16 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 473.17 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 473.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   473.2. All boards to which this division applies shall, with the
assistance of the Department of Consumer Affairs, prepare an analysis
and submit a report to the Joint Legislative Sunset Review Committee
no later than 22 months before that board shall become inoperative. The
analysis and report shall include, at a minimum, all of the following:
   (a) A comprehensive statement of the board’s mission, goals,
objectives and legal jurisdiction in protecting the health, safety, and
welfare of the public.
   (b) The board’s enforcement priorities, complaint and enforcement
data, budget expenditures with average- and median-costs per case, and
case aging data specific to post and preaccusation cases at the Attorney
General’s office.
   (c) The board’s fund conditions, sources of revenues, and expenditure
categories for the last four fiscal years by program component.
[Ch. 393 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            2983

   (d) The board’s description of its licensing process including the time
and costs required to implement and administer its licensing
examination, ownership of the license examination, relevancy and
validity of the licensing examination, and passage rate and areas of
examination.
   (e) The board’s initiation of legislative efforts, budget change
proposals, and other initiatives it has taken to improve its legislative
mandate.
   SEC. 5. Section 473.3 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   473.3. (a) Prior to the termination, continuation, or reestablishment
of any board or any of the board’s functions, the Joint Legislative Sunset
Review Committee shall, during the interim recess preceding the date
upon which a board becomes inoperative, hold public hearings to receive
testimony from the Director of Consumer Affairs, the board involved,
and the public and regulated industry. In that hearing, each board shall
have the burden of demonstrating a compelling public need for the
continued existence of the board or regulatory program, and that its
licensing function is the least restrictive regulation consistent with the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (b) In addition to subdivision (a), in the year 2002 and every four
years thereafter, the committee shall hold a public hearing to receive
testimony from the Director of Consumer Affairs, the Bureau for Private
Postsecondary and Vocational Education, private postsecondary
educational institutions regulated by the bureau, and students of those
institutions. In those hearings, the bureau shall have the burden of
demonstrating a compelling public need for the continued existence of
the bureau and its regulatory program, and that its function is the least
restrictive regulation consistent with the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   SEC. 6. Section 473.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   473.5. The Joint Legislative Sunset Review Committee shall report
its findings and preliminary recommendations to the department for its
review, and, within 90 days of receiving the report, the department shall
report its findings and recommendations to the Joint Legislative Sunset
Review Committee during the next year of the regular session that
follows the hearings described in Section 473.3. The committee shall
then meet to vote on final recommendations. A final report shall be
completed by the committee and made available to the public and the
Legislature. The report shall include final recommendations of the
department and the committee and whether each board or function
scheduled for repeal shall be terminated, continued, or reestablished, and
whether its functions should be revised. If the committee or the
 2984                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 393 ]
department deems it advisable, the report may include proposed bills to
carry out its recommendations.
  SEC. 7. Section 7801 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7801. ‘‘Board,’’ as used in this chapter, means the Board for
Geologists and Geophysicists. Any reference in any law or regulation to
the State Board of Registration for Geologists and Geophysicists shall
be deemed to refer to the Board for Geologists and Geophysicists.
  SEC. 8. Section 7810 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7810. The Board for Geologists and Geophysicists is within the
department and is subject to the jurisdiction of the department. Except
as provided in this section, the board shall consist of eight members, five
of whom shall be public members, two of whom shall be geologists, and
one of whom shall be a geophysicist.
  Each member shall hold office until the appointment and qualification
of the member’s successor or until one year has elapsed from the
expiration of the term for which the member was appointed, whichever
occurs first. Vacancies occurring prior to the expiration of the term shall
be filled by appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term.
  Each appointment shall be for a four-year term expiring June 1 of the
fourth year following the year in which the previous term expired. No
person shall serve as a member of the board for more than two
consecutive terms.
  The Governor shall appoint three of the public members and the three
members qualified as provided in Section 7811. The Senate Committee
on Rules and the Speaker of the Assembly shall each appoint a public
member, and their initial appointment shall be made to fill, respectively,
the first and second public member vacancies that occurred on or after
January 1, 1983.
  At the time the first vacancy is created by the expiration of the term
of a public member appointed by the Governor, the board shall be
reduced to consist of seven members, four of whom shall be public
members, two of whom shall be geologists, and one of whom shall be
a geophysicist. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the term of
that member shall not be extended for any reason, except as provided in
this section.
  This section shall become inoperative on July 1, 2005, and, as of
January 1, 2006, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that becomes
operative on or before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends the dates on
which it becomes inoperative and is repealed. The repeal of this section
renders the board subject to the review required by Division 1.2
(commencing with Section 473).
[Ch. 393 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           2985

  SEC. 9. Section 7815.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7815.5. The board may appoint a person exempt from civil service
who shall be designated as an executive officer and who shall exercise
the powers and perform the duties delegated by the board and vested in
him or her by this chapter.
  This section shall become inoperative on July 1, 2005, and, as of
January 1, 2006, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which
becomes effective on or before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends the
dates on which it becomes inoperative and is repealed.
  SEC. 10. Section 18602 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  18602. Except as provided in this section, there is in the Department
of Consumer Affairs the State Athletic Commission, which consists of
eight members. Six members shall be appointed by the Governor, one
member shall be appointed by the Senate Rules Committee, and one
member shall be appointed by the Speaker of the Assembly.
  The members of the commission appointed by the Governor are
subject to confirmation by the Senate pursuant to Section 1322 of the
Government Code.
  No person who is licensed under this chapter as a promoter, manager,
or judge may be appointed or reappointed to, or serve on, the
commission.
  Upon the first expiration of the term of a member appointed by the
Governor, the commission shall be reduced to seven members.
Notwithstanding any provision of law, the term of that member shall not
be extended for any reason.
  This section shall become inoperative on July 1, 2005, and as of
January 1, 2006, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which
becomes operative on or before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends the
dates on which it becomes inoperative and is repealed. The repeal of this
section renders the commission subject to the review required by
Division 1.2 (commencing with Section 473).
  SEC. 11. Section 18613 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  18613. The commission shall appoint an executive officer and fix
his or her compensation. The executive officer shall carry out the duties
prescribed by this chapter and additional duties as may be delegated by
the commission. The commission may employ in accordance with
Section 154 other personnel as may be necessary for the administration
of this chapter.
  This section shall become inoperative on July 1, 2005, and, as of
January 1, 2006, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which
 2986                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 394 ]
becomes effective on or before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends the
dates on which it becomes inoperative and is repealed.
  SEC. 12. Section 1 of Chapter 78 of the Statutes of 1997 is repealed.



                              CHAPTER 394

 An act to amend Sections 1126, 1180.3, and 1181 of the Harbors and
Navigation Code, relating to bay pilots.
              [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                     Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1126 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   1126. (a) Every person who does not hold a license as a pilot or as
an inland pilot issued pursuant to this division, and who pilots any vessel
into or out of any harbor or port of the Bay of San Francisco, San Pablo,
or Suisun, or who acts as a pilot for ship movements or special operations
upon the waters of any of those bays, is guilty of a misdemeanor. In
addition to the fines or other penalties provided by law, the court may
order that person to pay to the pilot who is entitled to pilot the vessel the
amount of pilotage fees collected. No fees shall be paid for pilotage if
a state-licensed pilot refuses to join the vessel under paragraph (5) of
subdivision (c).
   (b) Any person may also be enjoined from engaging in the pilotage
prescribed by subdivision (a) by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (c) This section does not apply to any of the following persons:
   (1) The master of a vessel who has relieved the pilot to ensure the safe
operation of the vessel, but only from the point where the pilot is relieved
to the closest safe berth or anchorage, or the high seas if closer than a safe
berth or anchorage.
   (2) Persons piloting vessels pursuant to the valid regulatory authority
of the Port of Sacramento or the Port of Stockton.
   (3) Persons piloting vessels sailing under an enrollment, as specified
in Section 1127.
   (4) Persons piloting vessels pursuant to Section 1179.
   (5) Persons piloting vessels when a state-licensed pilot refuses to join
the vessel. However, a vessel may not hire a pilot not licensed by the state
until a representative of the vessel notifies the port agent or his or her
designee that the vessel will hire a pilot not licensed by the state unless
a state-licensed pilot offers to join the vessel immediately. The port agent
[Ch. 394 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2987

or his or her designee shall notify the executive director of the board or
his or her designee that this paragraph applies.
   (d) The exemption set forth in paragraph (5) of subdivision (c) does
not apply in instances where a state licensed pilot refuses to join a vessel
because of suspected safety violations concerning that vessel’s pilot
hoists or pilot ladders.
   SEC. 2. Section 1180.3 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   1180.3. (a) The board shall establish an incident review committee,
which shall be composed of one public member of the board and the
executive director. The board shall delegate to the incident review
committee the responsibility to review all reports of misconduct or
navigational incidents involving pilots or inland pilots or other matters
for which a license issued by the board may be revoked or suspended.
This subdivision does not apply to an incident involving a pilot or inland
pilot aboard a vessel of less than 300 gross tons unless a pilot or inland
pilot is required by law.
   (b) The incident review committee, with the assistance of one or more
investigators, shall investigate the incident, misconduct, or other matter
and prepare a written report. The incident review committee may call
witnesses and request additional information if the incident review
committee considers it necessary to conduct a complete investigation.
In performing their duties, the members of the incident review
committee and its investigators shall act fairly and impartially and shall
treat all matters developed or maintained as required by law. The
members of the incident review committee and the investigators shall
not discuss any investigation with the board or any member of the board
until the matter has been finally disposed of by the incident review
committee or final action has been taken by the board, as appropriate.
The board shall specify, by regulation, the information to be contained
in the report, which shall include, but need not be limited to, the
following information relating to the incident, misconduct, or other
matter:
   (1) The name of the vessel, date, location, and identification of the
pilot or inland pilot.
   (2) A description of the weather and sea conditions.
   (3) An illustration and description of the incident, misconduct, or
other matter under investigation.
   (4) An estimate of the damages, if any.
   (5) The names of the witnesses providing information relating to the
incident, misconduct, or other matter under investigation.
   (6) The nature and extent of any injuries.
 2988                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 394 ]
   (7) A summary of any prior investigations of incidents, misconduct,
or other matters involving the same pilot or inland pilot designated
pursuant to paragraph (1).
   (8) Any relevant correspondence or records from the United States
Coast Guard relating to the incident, misconduct, or other matter under
investigation.
   (9) A historical record of the actions taken in the investigation and the
action taken pursuant to Section 1180.6.
   (10) A summary of the factual background of the incident,
misconduct, or other matter investigated.
   (11) The following information that is not a part of the public record:
   (A) The report from the pilot or inland pilot.
   (B) The confidential report of the investigator.
   (c) Unless an accusation for suspension or revocation of the pilot’s or
inland pilot’s license is served on the pilot or inland pilot as provided in
Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of
Title 2 of the Government Code, the incident review committee shall
present the completed investigation report to the board at the first
monthly meeting of the board after the completion of the report. Unless
an extension is granted by the board, the report shall be presented within
90 days of the date of the incident, misconduct, or other matter
investigated.
   (d) The record of the investigation prepared pursuant to subdivision
(b) and the final disposition of the incident, misconduct, or other matter
shall be retained in the records of the board for 10 years after the
completion of the investigation and, except for the items listed in
paragraph (11) of subdivision (b), shall be a public record.
   SEC. 3. Section 1181 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   1181. The license of a pilot or inland pilot may be revoked or
suspended before its expiration only for reasons of misconduct, which
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   (a) Neglect, for 30 days after it becomes due, to render an account to
the board of all money received for pilotage.
   (b) Neglect, for 30 days after it becomes due, to pay over to the board
the percentage of all pilotage money received, as set by the board.
   (c) Rendering to the board a false account of pilotage received.
   (d) Absence from duty for more than one month at any one time
without leave granted by the board, unless sickness or personal injury
causes the absence. This subdivision does not apply to inland pilots.
   (e) Refusing to exhibit the pilot or inland pilot license when requested
to do so by the master of any vessel boarded.
   (f) Intoxication or being under the influence of any substance or
combination of substances which so affects the nervous system, brain,
[Ch. 395 ]                    STATUTES OF 2000                                      2989

or muscles as to impair, to an appreciable degree, the ability to conduct
the duties of a pilot or inland pilot while on duty.
   (g) Negligently, ignorantly, or willfully running any vessel on shore,
or otherwise rendering it liable to damage, or otherwise causing injury
to persons or damage to property. However, this subdivision does not
apply to a vessel of less than 300 gross tons unless a pilot or inland pilot
is required by law.
   (h) Willful violation of the rules and regulations adopted by the board
for the government of pilots or inland pilots.
   (i) Inability to comply with the standards of health or physical
condition requisite to the duties of a pilot or inland pilot, but in that case
the burden of proving compliance with these standards is upon the
licensee, unless prior to the hearing the licensee takes and passes those
tests or examinations required by the board.
   SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                                  CHAPTER 395

  An act to add Section 1352.5 to the Fish and Game Code, relating to
property acquisition, and making an appropriation therefor.
                [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                      Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

  I am signing Assembly Bill 398, which establishes the San Francisco Baylands
Restoration Program Account in the State Wildlife Restoration Fund and appropriates
General Fund revenues to the Account for the purpose of acquiring and restoring San
Francisco Bay wetlands and habitat which may include the Cargill Salt property.
  However, in signing this measure, I am reducing the appropriation from $30 million to
$25 million. I feel that this appropriation is sufficient to show the State’s good faith in
working with the federal government to make a joint purchase of these historic wetlands
upon completion of an independent appraisal.
                                                               GRAY DAVIS, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
 2990                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 395 ]
   (a) It is desirable to restore and enhance large areas in the San
Francisco Bay area to sustain diverse and healthy communities of fish
and wildlife resources, to improve the water quality of the San Francisco
Bay, and to provide increased recreational and educational
opportunities.
   (b) The Baylands Ecosystem Habitat Goals Report (Goals Report),
published in 1999 by a group of 100 scientists and resource managers,
details the types, amounts, and distribution of wetlands and related
habitats needed to sustain a healthy San Francisco Bay ecosystem. To
achieve the recommendations of the Goals Report, it will be necessary
to undertake a historic effort of the large-scale acquisition and
restoration of properties throughout the Bay area. For example, the
recommendations of the Goals Report for the South Bay subregion
identify acquisition and restoration of the Cargill Salt ponds as a
necessary step to sustain and recover populations of several endangered
species and to improve the overall condition of the Bay’s fish and
wildlife resources.
   SEC. 2. Section 1352.5 is added to the Fish and Game Code, to read:
   1352.5. (a) The San Francisco Baylands Restoration Program
Account is hereby established within the Wildlife Restoration Fund, as
provided for by Section 19632 of the Business and Professions Code, for
the purpose of acquiring and restoring wetlands and lands that may be
enhanced to support wetlands in the San Francisco Bay area in order to
achieve the objectives of the Baylands Ecosystem Habitat Goals Report
(Goals Report).
   (b) Funds in the account may be expended by the board to acquire any
lands identified in the Goals Report that are available for acquisition
subject to the following conditions:
   (1) The purchase price shall not exceed the fair market value of the
property, as determined by an appraisal conducted pursuant to Section
1348.2. The appraisal shall also consider and describe all the specific
requirements and restrictions of relevant state and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, the McAteer-Petris Act (Title 7.2
(commencing with Section 66600) of the Government Code), related to
the property value and development potential of lands considered for
acquisition in the shoreline band of the San Francisco Bay area.
   (2) The board has determined any of the following:
   (A) Funds are available to implement the recommendations and
objectives of the Goals Report for a significant portion of the property
to be acquired by the board.
   (B) Sufficient funding and authority exists for the long-term
maintenance of all levees and dikes and all other land-use management
requirements necessary to avoid environmental degradation for the
property proposed to be acquired by the board.
[Ch. 396 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           2991

   (C) The property to be acquired by the board has no unique long-term
maintenance requirements or has no land-use management requirements
necessary to avoid environmental degradation.
   (3) If the board determines to acquire all or a portion of the Cargill
property, a matching federal appropriation for the acquisition of the
Cargill property shall be deposited into an account solely for the
acquisition of the Cargill property or a portion thereof.
   (4) The board has consulted with the State Coastal Conservancy and
determined that the proposed acquisition is consistent with most of the
goals of the San Francisco Bay Area Conservancy Program, as described
in Section 31162 of the Public Resources Code.
   (5) The acquisition of the property will not result in any liability to
the state for the cleanup of hazardous materials.
   (c) ‘‘Cargill property,’’ for purposes of this section, means all
property owned by the Cargill Salt Division that Cargill proposes to sell
to the state and federal governments.
   SEC. 3. The Controller shall transfer the sum of thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000) from the General Fund to the San Francisco
Baylands Restoration Program Account. This amount is hereby
appropriated from that account to the Wildlife Conservation Board for
expenditure to implement the recommendations and objectives of the
Baylands Ecosystem Habitat Goals Report, as described in Section 1. If
the board determines to purchase the Cargill property, the balance of the
purchase price shall be provided by a combination of state and local
funds.



                             CHAPTER 396

  An act to amend Sections 63.6, 668.1, and 668.2 of, and to add Section
668.3 to, the Harbors and Navigation Code, relating to boating.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 63.6 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
  63.6. (a) (1) On or before January 15 of each odd-numbered year,
the director shall make a report to the commission, the Legislature, and
the Governor covering the operations of the department for the preceding
biennium.
 2992                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 396 ]
   (2) With respect to Article 5 (commencing with Section 76), the
report shall include all of the following:
   (A) The total amount of loans made in each of the two fiscal years
immediately preceding the preparation and submission of the report.
   (B) For each recipient of a loan during each of the two fiscal years
immediately preceding the preparation and submission of the report, the
recipient’s name, the location of the marina for which the loan was made,
and the amount of the loan.
   (C) The financial status of each loan.
   (D) Any legislative recommendations.
   (3) The report shall also include the status of the department’s
activities related to the monitoring of rates pursuant to Section 71.4 and
subdivision (d) of Section 76.7.
   (4) The report shall also include an evaluation of the public
participation in the personal watercraft education course developed by
the department pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 668.3 and a
determination of the effect of the course on personal watercraft safety in
California.
   (b) The department shall also make any special reports that are
requested by the Secretary of Resources or the Governor.
   SEC. 2. Section 668.1 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   668.1. (a) Any person convicted of a violation of subdivision (b),
(c), (d), (e), or (f) of Section 655 of this code, or of Section 655.2, 655.6,
658, or 658.5 of this code, or of Section 191.5 of the Penal Code,
pertaining to a mechanically propelled vessel but not to manipulating
any water skis, an aquaplane, or similar device, when the conviction
resulted from the operation of a vessel, shall be ordered by the court to
complete and pass a boating safety course approved by the department
pursuant to Section 668.3.
   (b) Any person who has been ordered by the court to complete and
pass a boating safety course pursuant to this section shall submit to the
court proof of completion and passage of the course within seven months
of the time of his or her conviction. The proof shall be in a form that has
been approved by the department and that provides for the ability to
submit the form to the court through the United States Postal Service.
If the person who has been required to complete and pass a boating safety
course is under 18 years of age, the court may require that the person
obtain parental consent to enroll in the course. If the person does not
complete and pass the boating safety course, the court may extend the
period for completion or impose another penalty as prescribed by statute.
   (c) The department shall adopt regulations to carry out this section,
including approval of boating safety education courses, as specified in
Section 668.3, prescribing the forms for proof of completion and
[Ch. 397 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             2993

passage, approval of testing to indicate appropriate mastery of the course
subject matter, and setting forth any fees to be charged to course
participants, which fees shall not exceed the expenses associated with
providing the course.
   SEC. 3. Section 668.2 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   668.2. The department may grant funds from the Harbors and
Watercraft Revolving Fund to local public agencies, nonprofit
organizations, and colleges and universities for scholarship funding
relating to boating safety education, to finance the purchase of vessels
and related safety equipment for use in boating safety education classes,
and to provide voluntary personal watercraft education course materials
developed by the department pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
668.3 in those situations where the department determines the course
would not otherwise be available to a significant number of personal
watercraft operators. The department shall adopt regulations necessary
to implement this section.
   SEC. 4. Section 668.3 is added to the Harbors and Navigation Code,
to read:
   668.3. (a) For the purposes of Section 668.1, the department shall
approve boating safety courses that it determines provides the course
taker with information that effectively educates the course taker as to the
basic rules of California waterways, the proper and safe manner to
operate recreational vessels, and actions that can be taken to avoid
boating-related environmental pollution.
   (b) The department shall develop a personal watercraft education
course that provides the course taker with information that effectively
educates the course taker as to the basic rules of California waterways,
the proper and safe manner to operate personal watercraft, and actions
that can be taken to avoid personal watercraft-related environmental
pollution. The course shall be voluntary and shall be made available to
groups, individuals, and clubs. The course shall be made available on the
department’s website and may be made available in other formats, as
determined by the department. The department shall consult with the
California State Sheriff’s Association in developing the course and
making it available on the Internet.



                            CHAPTER 397

 An act to amend Section 40703 of, and to add Section 39702.5 to, the
Health and Safety Code, relating to air pollution.
 2994                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 397 ]
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 39702.5 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
   39702.5. (a) The state board, in consultation with the advisory
committee established pursuant to subdivision (e), shall investigate and
provide a report to the Legislature by January 1, 2002, on all of the
following matters with regard to emissions abatement equipment
required by the San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control
District with respect to primarily seasonal sources from steam
generators, boilers, process heaters, furnaces, and dehydrators that are
subject to BACT and BARCT requirements:
   (1) The average useful life of emissions abatement equipment
utilized to meet ‘‘best available control technology’’ (BACT), as defined
in Section 40405, or ‘‘best available retrofit control technology’’
(BARCT), as defined in Section 40406. This assessment shall be based
on projections provided by the district, the experience of source
operators, and representations made by manufacturers of the equipment.
   (2) The implications of imposing additional requirements on
emission sources already controlled to BACT and BARCT levels,
accounting for the costs of, and the emission reductions attributable to,
previous BACT and BARCT controls.
   (3) The average, actual, and historical costs, for a representative
number of sources of steam generators, boilers, process heaters,
furnaces, and dehydrators that are subject to BACT and BARCT
requirements of complying with those requirements, and a comparison
of those costs to estimates utilized by the district in the development of
those requirements.
   (4) The implications of applying incremental cost effectiveness
thresholds to sources that are subject to BACT and BARCT
requirements, and the implications of applying these thresholds for the
development of future BACT and BARCT requirements.
   (b) The investigation required by this section shall include only the
sources of oxides of nitrogen (NOx) controlled by BACT and BARCT
requirements in the district described in subdivision (a).
   (c) The report required by subdivision (a) shall take into account air
quality and public health considerations, as well as factors such as
growth, interbasin transport of air pollutants from other regions, and
other factors deemed appropriate by the state board. The report shall also
specifically take into account the operation of seasonal sources, safety
issues, energy efficiency, capital costs, operational and maintenance
[Ch. 397 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              2995

costs, and the implications of potential catastrophic events on sources.
The state board shall also consider any other factors deemed appropriate
by the advisory committee appointed pursuant to subdivision (e). The
advisory board, if it deems appropriate, may recommend that the state
board also consider including stationary internal combustion engines in
the report, if the advisory board also determines that the inclusion of
stationary internal combustion engines would not significantly expand
the scope of the report.
   (d) The state board shall have the final determination of the scope of
the investigation and the report required by this section.
   (e) The state board shall appoint an advisory committee to assist the
state board in, and to provide advice on, the investigation conducted and
the report prepared pursuant to subdivision (a). To the extent practicable,
this advisory committee shall include representatives from all of the
following:
   (1) The district.
   (2) Environmental organizations.
   (3) Stationary source related organizations.
   (4) Seasonal stationary source related organizations.
   (5) Agricultural interests.
   (6) A representative of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency shall be invited to participate.
   (7) Any other entity or organization the state board deems
appropriate.
   (f) The principal purpose of the report required by subdivision (a) is
to provide a basis for evaluating the cost effectiveness, safety, and related
matters associated with air pollution control technologies in the San
Joaquin Valley.
   SEC. 2. Section 40703 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   40703. In adopting any regulation, the district shall consider,
pursuant to Section 40922, and make available to the public, its findings
related to the cost effectiveness of a control measure, as well as the basis
for the findings and the considerations involved. A district shall make
reasonable efforts, to the extent feasible within existing budget
constraints, to make specific reference to the direct costs expected to be
incurred by regulated parties, including businesses and individuals.
   SEC. 3. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
 2996                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 398 ]
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 398

 An act to amend Sections 651 and 658.3 of the Harbors and
Navigation Code, relating to vessels.
             [Approved by Governor September 8, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 651 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   651. As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly requires a
different meaning:
   (a) ‘‘Alcohol’’ means any form or derivative of ethyl alcohol
(ethanol).
   (b) ‘‘Alcohol concentration’’ means either grams of alcohol per 100
milliliters of blood or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.
   (c) ‘‘Associated equipment’’ means any of the following, excluding
radio equipment:
   (1) Any system, part, or component of a boat as originally
manufactured or any similar part or component manufactured or sold for
replacement, repair, or improvement of the system, part, or component.
   (2) Any accessory or equipment for, or appurtenance to, a boat.
   (3) Any marine safety article, accessory, or equipment intended for
use by a person on board a boat.
   (d) ‘‘Boat’’ means any vessel that is any of the following:
   (1) Manufactured or used primarily for noncommercial use.
   (2) Leased, rented, or chartered to another for the latter’s
noncommercial use.
   (3) Engaged in the carrying of six or fewer passengers, including
those for-hire vessels carrying more than three passengers while using
inland waters of the state that are not declared navigable by the United
States Coast Guard.
   (4) Commercial vessels required to be numbered pursuant to Section
9850 of the Vehicle Code.
  (e) ‘‘Chemical test’’ means a test that analyzes an individual’s breath,
blood, or urine, for evidence of drug or alcohol use.
   (f) ‘‘Controlled substance’’ means controlled substance as defined in
Section 11007 of the Health and Safety Code.
[Ch. 398 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                2997

   (g) ‘‘Department’’ means the Department of Boating and Waterways.
   (h) ‘‘Director’’ means the Director of Boating and Waterways.
   (i) ‘‘Drug’’ means any substance or combination of substances other
than alcohol that could so affect the nervous system, brain, or muscles
of a person as to impair to an appreciable degree his or her ability to
operate a vessel in the manner that an ordinarily prudent person, in full
possession of his or her faculties, using reasonable care, would operate
a similar vessel under like conditions.
   (j) ‘‘Intoxicant’’ means any form of alcohol, drug, or combination
thereof.
   (k) ‘‘Legal owner’’ is a person holding the legal title to a vessel under
a conditional sale contract, the mortgagee of a vessel, or the renter or
lessor of a vessel to the state, or to any county, city, district, or political
subdivision of the state, under a lease, lease-sale, or rental-purchase
agreement that grants possession of the vessel to the lessee for a period
of 30 consecutive days or more.
   (l) ‘‘Manufacturer’’ means any person engaged in any of the
following:
   (1) The manufacture, construction, or assembly of boats or associated
equipment.
   (2) The manufacture or construction of components for boats and
associated equipment to be sold for subsequent assembly.
   (3) The importation into this state for sale of boats, associated
equipment, or components thereof.
   (m) ‘‘Marine employer’’ means the owner, managing operator,
charterer, agent, master, or person in charge of a vessel other than a
recreational vessel.
   (n) ‘‘Motorboat’’ means any vessel propelled by machinery, whether
or not the machinery is the principal source of propulsion, but shall not
include a vessel that has a valid marine document issued by the United
States Coast Guard or any federal agency successor thereto.
   (o) ‘‘Operator’’ means the person on board who is steering the vessel
while underway.
   (p) ‘‘Owner’’ is a person having all the incidents of ownership,
including the legal title, of a vessel whether or not that person lends,
rents, or pledges the vessel; the person entitled to the possession of a
vessel as the purchaser under a conditional sale contract; or the
mortgagor of a vessel. ‘‘Owner’’ does not include a person holding legal
title to a vessel under a conditional sale contract, the mortgagee of a
vessel, or the renter or lessor of a vessel to the state or to any county, city,
district, or political subdivision of the state under a lease, lease-sale, or
rental-purchase agreement that grants possession of the vessel to the
lessee for a period of 30 consecutive days or more.
 2998                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 398 ]
   (q) ‘‘Passenger’’ means every person carried on board a vessel other
than any of the following:
   (1) The owner or his or her representative.
   (2) The operator.
   (3) Bona fide members of the crew engaged in the business of the
vessel who have contributed no consideration for their carriage and who
are paid for their services.
   (4) Any guest on board a vessel that is being used exclusively for
pleasure purposes who has not contributed any consideration, directly
or indirectly, for his or her carriage.
   (r) ‘‘Person’’ means an individual, partnership, firm, corporation,
limited liability company, association, or other entity, but does not
include the United States, the state, or a municipality or subdivision
thereof.
   (s) ‘‘Personal watercraft’’ means a vessel 13 feet in length or less,
propelled by machinery, that is designed to be operated by a person
sitting, standing, or kneeling on the vessel, rather than in the
conventional manner of sitting or standing inside the vessel.
   (t) ‘‘Recreational vessel’’ means a vessel that is being used only for
pleasure.
   (u) ‘‘Registered owner’’ is the person registered by the Department
of Motor Vehicles as the owner of the vessel.
   (v) ‘‘Special-use area’’ means all or a portion of a waterway that is set
aside for specified uses or activities to the exclusion of other
incompatible uses or activities.
   (w) ‘‘State’’ means a state of the United States, the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the
District of Columbia.
   (x) ‘‘State of principal use’’ means the state on which waters a vessel
is used or intended to be used most during a calendar year.
   (y) ‘‘Undocumented vessel’’ means any vessel that is not required to
have, and does not have, a valid marine document issued by the United
States Coast Guard or any federal agency successor thereto.
   (z) ‘‘Use’’ means operate, navigate, or employ.
   (aa) ‘‘Vessel’’ includes every description of watercraft used or
capable of being used as a means of transportation on water, except either
of the following:
   (1) A seaplane on the water.
   (2) A watercraft specifically designed to operate on a permanently
fixed course, the movement of which is restricted to a fixed track or arm
to which the watercraft is attached or by which the watercraft is
controlled.
   (bb) ‘‘Water skis, an aquaplane, or a similar device’’ includes all
forms of water skiing, barefoot skiing, skiing on skim boards, knee
[Ch. 398 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             2999

boards, or other contrivances, parasailing, ski kiting, or any activity
where a person is towed behind or alongside a boat.
   (cc) ‘‘Waters of this state’’ means any waters within the territorial
limits of this state.
   SEC. 2. Section 658.3 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   658.3. (a) No person shall operate a motorboat, sailboat, or vessel
that is 26 feet or less in length unless every person on board who is 11
years of age or less is wearing a type I, II, III, or V Coast Guard-approved
personal flotation device while that motorboat, sailboat, or vessel is
underway.
   (b) Subdivision (a) does not apply to a person operating a sailboat on
which a person who is 11 years of age or less is restrained by a harness
tethered to the vessel, or to a person operating a vessel on which a person
who is 11 years of age or less is in an enclosed cabin.
   (c) Any person on board a personal watercraft or any person being
towed behind a vessel on water skis, an aquaplane, or similar device shall
wear a type I, II, III, or V Coast Guard-approved personal flotation
device.
   (1) This subdivision does not apply to a person aboard a personal
watercraft or a person being towed behind a vessel on water skis, if that
person is a performer engaged in a professional exhibition, or preparing
to participate or participating in an official regatta, marine parade,
tournament, or exhibition.
   (2) In lieu of wearing a Coast Guard-approved personal flotation
device of a type described in this subdivision, any person engaged in
slalom skiing on a marked course or any person engaged in barefoot,
jump, or trick water skiing may elect to wear a wetsuit designed for the
activity and labeled by the manufacturer as a water ski wetsuit. A Coast
Guard-approved personal flotation device of a type described in this
subdivision shall be carried in the tow vessel for each skier electing to
wear a water ski wetsuit pursuant to this paragraph.
   (d) Subdivisions (a) and (c) do not apply to a person operating a
motorboat, sailboat, or vessel if the operator is reacting to an emergency
rescue situation.
   (e) The following definitions govern the construction of this section:
   (1) ‘‘Enclosed cabin’’ means a space on board a vessel that is
surrounded by bulkheads and covered by a roof.
   (2) ‘‘Operate a motorboat, sailboat, or vessel’’ means to be in control
or in charge of a motorboat, sailboat, or vessel while it is underway.
   (3) ‘‘Underway’’ means all times except when the motorboat,
sailboat, or vessel is anchored, moored, or aground.
   (f) A violation of this section is an infraction punishable as provided
in subdivision (a) of Section 668.
 3000                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 399 ]
  SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 399

  An act to amend Section 1202.5 of the Penal Code, relating to fines.
             [Approved by Governor September 10, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1202.5 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   1202.5. (a) In any case in which a defendant is convicted of any of
the offenses enumerated in Section 211, 215, 459, 470, 484, 487, 488,
or 594, the court shall order the defendant to pay a fine of ten dollars
($10) in addition to any other penalty or fine imposed. If the court
determines that the defendant has the ability to pay all or part of the fine,
the court shall set the amount to be reimbursed and order the defendant
to pay that sum to the county in the manner in which the court believes
reasonable and compatible with the defendant’s financial ability. In
making a determination of whether a defendant has the ability to pay, the
court shall take into account the amount of any other fine imposed upon
the defendant and any amount the defendant has been ordered to pay in
restitution.
   (b) (1) All fines collected pursuant to this section shall be held in
trust by the county collecting them, until transferred to the local law
enforcement agency to be used exclusively for the jurisdiction where the
offense took place. All moneys collected shall implement, support, and
continue local crime prevention programs.
   (2) All amounts collected pursuant to this section shall be in addition
to, and shall not supplant funds received for crime prevention purposes
from other sources.
[Ch. 400 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3001

   (c) As used in this section, ‘‘law enforcement agency’’ includes, but
is not limited to, police departments, sheriffs departments, and probation
departments.



                             CHAPTER 400

  An act to amend Section 12021 of the Penal Code, relating to firearms.
             [Approved by Governor September 10, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12021 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   12021. (a) (1) Any person who has been convicted of a felony
under the laws of the United States, of the State of California, or any
other state, government, or country, or of an offense enumerated in
subdivision (a), (b), or (d) of Section 12001.6, or who is addicted to the
use of any narcotic drug, who owns or has in his or her possession or
under his or her custody or control any firearm is guilty of a felony.
   (2) Any person who has two or more convictions for violating
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 417 and who owns or has in
his or her possession or under his or her custody or control any firearm
is guilty of a felony.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), any person who has been
convicted of a felony or of an offense enumerated in Section 12001.6,
when that conviction results from certification by the juvenile court for
prosecution as an adult in an adult court under Section 707 of the Welfare
and Institutions Code, who owns or has in his or her possession or under
his or her custody or control any firearm is guilty of a felony.
   (c) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (a) or paragraph (2) of this
subdivision, any person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor
violation of Section 71, 76, 136.1, 136.5, or 140, subdivision (d) of
Section 148, Section 171b, 171c, 171d, 186.28, 240, 241, 242, 243,
244.5, 245, 245.5, 246, 246.3, 247, 273.5, 273.6, 417, 417.1, 417.2,
417.6, 422, 626.9, 646.9, 12023, or 12024, subdivision (b) or (d) of
Section 12034, Section 12040, subdivision (b) of Section 12072,
subdivision (a) of former Section 12100, Section 12220, 12320, or
12590, or Section 8100, 8101, or 8103 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, any firearm-related offense pursuant to Sections 871.5 and 1001.5
of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or of the conduct punished in
paragraph (3) of subdivision (g) of Section 12072, and who, within 10
years of the conviction, owns, or has in his or her possession or under
 3002                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 400 ]
his or her custody or control, any firearm is guilty of a public offense,
which shall be punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not
exceeding one year or in the state prison, by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that imprisonment and fine. The
court, on forms prescribed by the Department of Justice, shall notify the
department of persons subject to this subdivision. However, the
prohibition in this paragraph may be reduced, eliminated, or conditioned
as provided in paragraph (2) or (3).
   (2) Any person employed as a peace officer described in Section
830.1, 830.2, 830.31, 830.32, 830.33, or 830.5 whose employment or
livelihood is dependent on the ability to legally possess a firearm, who
is subject to the prohibition imposed by this subdivision because of a
conviction under Section 273.5, 273.6, or 646.9, may petition the court
only once for relief from this prohibition. The petition shall be filed with
the court in which the petitioner was sentenced. If possible, the matter
shall be heard before the same judge that sentenced the petitioner. Upon
filing the petition, the clerk of the court shall set the hearing date and
shall notify the petitioner and the prosecuting attorney of the date of the
hearing. Upon making each of the following findings, the court may
reduce or eliminate the prohibition, impose conditions on reduction or
elimination of the prohibition, or otherwise grant relief from the
prohibition as the court deems appropriate:
   (A) Finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the petitioner is
likely to use a firearm in a safe and lawful manner.
   (B) Finds that the petitioner is not within a prohibited class as
specified in subdivision (a), (b), (d), (e), or (g) or Section 12021.1, and
the court is not presented with any credible evidence that the petitioner
is a person described in Section 8100 or 8103 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code.
   (C) Finds that the petitioner does not have a previous conviction
under this subdivision no matter when the prior conviction occurred.
   In making its decision, the court shall consider the petitioner’s
continued employment, the interest of justice, any relevant evidence,
and the totality of the circumstances. The court shall require, as a
condition of granting relief from the prohibition under this section, that
the petitioner agree to participate in counseling as deemed appropriate
by the court. Relief from the prohibition shall not relieve any other
person or entity from any liability that might otherwise be imposed. It
is the intent of the Legislature that courts exercise broad discretion in
fashioning appropriate relief under this paragraph in cases in which relief
is warranted. However, nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to
require courts to grant relief to any particular petitioner. It is the intent
of the Legislature to permit persons who were convicted of an offense
[Ch. 400 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3003

specified in Section 273.5, 273.6, or 646.9 to seek relief from the
prohibition imposed by this subdivision.
   (3) Any person who is subject to the prohibition imposed by this
subdivision because of a conviction of an offense prior to that offense
being added to paragraph (1), may petition the court only once for relief
from this prohibition. The petition shall be filed with the court in which
the petitioner was sentenced. If possible, the matter shall be heard before
the same judge that sentenced the petitioner. Upon filing the petition, the
clerk of the court shall set the hearing date and notify the petitioner and
the prosecuting attorney of the date of the hearing. Upon making each
of the following findings, the court may reduce or eliminate the
prohibition, impose conditions on reduction or elimination of the
prohibition, or otherwise grant relief from the prohibition as the court
deems appropriate:
   (A) Finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the petitioner is
likely to use a firearm in a safe and lawful manner.
   (B) Finds that the petitioner is not within a prohibited class as
specified in subdivision (a), (b), (d), (e), or (g) or Section 12021.1, and
the court is not presented with any credible evidence that the petitioner
is a person described in Section 8100 or 8103 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code.
   (C) Finds that the petitioner does not have a previous conviction
under this subdivision, no matter when the prior conviction occurred.
   In making its decision, the court may consider the interest of justice,
any relevant evidence, and the totality of the circumstances. It is the
intent of the Legislature that courts exercise broad discretion in
fashioning appropriate relief under this paragraph in cases in which relief
is warranted. However, nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to
require courts to grant relief to any particular petitioner.
   (4) Law enforcement officials who enforce the prohibition specified
in this subdivision against a person who has been granted relief pursuant
to paragraph (2) or (3), shall be immune from any liability for false arrest
arising from the enforcement of this subdivision unless the person has
in his or her possession a certified copy of the court order that granted
the person relief from the prohibition. This immunity from liability shall
not relieve any person or entity from any other liability that might
otherwise be imposed.
   (d) Any person who, as an express condition of probation, is
prohibited or restricted from owning, possessing, controlling, receiving,
or purchasing a firearm and who owns, or has in his or her possession
or under his or her custody or control, any firearm but who is not subject
to subdivision (a) or (c) is guilty of a public offense, which shall be
punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year or
in the state prison, by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000),
 3004                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 400 ]
or by both that imprisonment and fine. The court, on forms provided by
the Department of Justice, shall notify the department of persons subject
to this subdivision. The notice shall include a copy of the order of
probation and a copy of any minute order or abstract reflecting the order
and conditions of probation.
   (e) Any person who (1) is alleged to have committed an offense listed
in subdivision (b) of Section 707 of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
an offense described in subdivision (b) of Section 1203.073, or any
offense enumerated in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c), and (2) is
subsequently adjudged a ward of the juvenile court within the meaning
of Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code because the person
committed an offense listed in subdivision (b) of Section 707 of the
Welfare and Institutions Code, an offense described in subdivision (b)
of Section 1203.073, or any offense enumerated in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (c) shall not own, or have in his or her possession or under
his or her custody or control, any firearm until the age of 30 years. A
violation of this subdivision shall be punishable by imprisonment in a
county jail not exceeding one year or in the state prison, by a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that imprisonment
and fine. The juvenile court, on forms prescribed by the Department of
Justice, shall notify the department of persons subject to this
subdivision. Notwithstanding any other law, the forms required to be
submitted to the department pursuant to this subdivision may be used to
determine eligibility to acquire a firearm.
   (f) Subdivision (a) shall not apply to a person who has been convicted
of a felony under the laws of the United States unless either of the
following criteria is satisfied:
   (1) Conviction of a like offense under California law can only result
in imposition of felony punishment.
   (2) The defendant was sentenced to a federal correctional facility for
more than 30 days, or received a fine of more than one thousand dollars
($1,000), or received both punishments.
   (g) (1) Every person who purchases or receives, or attempts to
purchase or receive, a firearm knowing that he or she is subject to a
protective order as defined in Section 6218 of the Family Code, Section
136.2, or a temporary restraining order or injunction issued pursuant to
Section 527.6 or 527.8 of the Code of Civil Procedure, is guilty of a
public offense, which shall be punishable by imprisonment in a county
jail not exceeding one year or in the state prison, by a fine not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that imprisonment and fine.
This subdivision does not apply unless the copy of the restraining order
personally served on the person against whom the restraining order is
issued contains a notice in bold print stating (1) that the person is
prohibited from purchasing or receiving or attempting to purchase or
[Ch. 400 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3005

receive a firearm and (2) specifying the penalties for violating this
subdivision, or a court has provided actual verbal notice of the firearm
prohibition and penalty as provided in Section 6304 of the Family Code.
   (2) Every person who owns or possesses a firearm knowing that he
or she is prohibited from owning or possessing a firearm by the
provisions of a protective order as defined in Section 6218 of the Family
Code, Section 136.2 of the Penal Code, or a temporary restraining order
or injunction issued pursuant to Section 527.6 or 527.8 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, is guilty of a public offense, which shall be punishable
by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, by a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that imprisonment
and fine. This subdivision does not apply unless a copy of the restraining
order personally served on the person against whom the restraining order
is issued contains a notice in bold print stating (1) that the person is
prohibited from owning or possessing or attempting to own or possess
a firearm and (2) specifying the penalties for violating this subdivision,
or a court has provided actual verbal notice of the firearm prohibition and
penalty as provided in Section 6304 of the Family Code.
   (3) Judicial Council shall provide notice on all protective orders that
the respondent is prohibited from owning, possessing, purchasing, or
receiving a firearm while the protective order is in effect and that the
firearm shall be relinquished to the local law enforcement agency for that
jurisdiction or sold to a licensed gun dealer, and that proof of surrender
or sale shall be filed within a specified time of receipt of the order. The
order shall also state on its face the expiration date for relinquishment.
   (4) If probation is granted upon conviction of a violation of this
subdivision, the court shall impose probation consistent with the
provisions of Section 1203.097.
   (h) (1) A violation of subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) is justifiable
where all of the following conditions are met:
   (A) The person found the firearm or took the firearm from a person
who was committing a crime against him or her.
   (B) The person possessed the firearm no longer than was necessary
to deliver or transport the firearm to a law enforcement agency for that
agency’s disposition according to law.
   (C) If the firearm was transported to a law enforcement agency, it was
transported in accordance with paragraph (18) of subdivision (a) of
Section 12026.2.
   (D) If the firearm is being transported to a law enforcement agency,
the person transporting the firearm has given prior notice to the law
enforcement agency that he or she is transporting the firearm to the law
enforcement agency for disposition according to law.
 3006                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 400 ]
   (2) Upon the trial for violating subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e), the
trier of fact shall determine whether the defendant was acting within the
provisions of the exemption created by this subdivision.
   (3) The defendant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that he or she comes within the provisions of the exemption
created by this subdivision.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 12021 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   12021. (a) (1) Any person who has been convicted of a felony
under the laws of the United States, of the State of California, or any
other state, government, or country, or of an offense enumerated in
subdivision (a), (b), or (d) of Section 12001.6, or who is addicted to the
use of any narcotic drug, who owns or has in his or her possession or
under his or her custody or control any firearm is guilty of a felony.
   (2) Any person who has two or more convictions for violating
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 417 and who owns or has in
his or her possession or under his or her custody or control any firearm
is guilty of a felony.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), any person who has been
convicted of a felony or of an offense enumerated in Section 12001.6,
when that conviction results from certification by the juvenile court for
prosecution as an adult in an adult court under Section 707 of the Welfare
and Institutions Code, who owns or has in his or her possession or under
his or her custody or control any firearm is guilty of a felony.
   (c) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (a) or paragraph (2) of this
subdivision, any person who has been convicted of a misdemeanor
violation of Section 71, 76, 136.1, 136.5, or 140, subdivision (d) of
Section 148, Section 171b, 171c, 171d, 186.28, 240, 241, 242, 243,
244.5, 245, 245.5, 246, 246.3, 247, 273.5, 273.6, 417, 417.1, 417.2,
417.6, 422, 626.9, 646.9, 12023, or 12024, subdivision (b) or (d) of
Section 12034, Section 12040, subdivision (b) of Section 12072,
subdivision (a) of former Section 12100, Section 12220, 12320, or
12590, or Section 8100, 8101, or 8103 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, any firearm-related offense pursuant to Sections 871.5 and 1001.5
of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or of the conduct punished in
paragraph (3) of subdivision (g) of Section 12072, and who, within 10
years of the conviction, owns, or has in his or her possession or under
his or her custody or control, any firearm is guilty of a public offense,
which shall be punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not
exceeding one year or in the state prison, by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that imprisonment and fine. The
court, on forms prescribed by the Department of Justice, shall notify the
department of persons subject to this subdivision. However, the
prohibition in this paragraph may be reduced, eliminated, or conditioned
as provided in paragraph (2) or (3).
[Ch. 400 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3007

   (2) Any person employed as a peace officer described in Section
830.1, 830.2, 830.31, 830.32, 830.33, or 830.5 whose employment or
livelihood is dependent on the ability to legally possess a firearm, who
is subject to the prohibition imposed by this subdivision because of a
conviction under Section 273.5, 273.6, or 646.9, may petition the court
only once for relief from this prohibition. The petition shall be filed with
the court in which the petitioner was sentenced. If possible, the matter
shall be heard before the same judge that sentenced the petitioner. Upon
filing the petition, the clerk of the court shall set the hearing date and
shall notify the petitioner and the prosecuting attorney of the date of the
hearing. Upon making each of the following findings, the court may
reduce or eliminate the prohibition, impose conditions on reduction or
elimination of the prohibition, or otherwise grant relief from the
prohibition as the court deems appropriate:
   (A) Finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the petitioner is
likely to use a firearm in a safe and lawful manner.
   (B) Finds that the petitioner is not within a prohibited class as
specified in subdivision (a), (b), (d), (e), or (g) or Section 12021.1, and
the court is not presented with any credible evidence that the petitioner
is a person described in Section 8100 or 8103 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code.
   (C) Finds that the petitioner does not have a previous conviction
under this subdivision no matter when the prior conviction occurred.
   In making its decision, the court shall consider the petitioner’s
continued employment, the interest of justice, any relevant evidence,
and the totality of the circumstances. The court shall require, as a
condition of granting relief from the prohibition under this section, that
the petitioner agree to participate in counseling as deemed appropriate
by the court. Relief from the prohibition shall not relieve any other
person or entity from any liability that might otherwise be imposed. It
is the intent of the Legislature that courts exercise broad discretion in
fashioning appropriate relief under this paragraph in cases in which relief
is warranted. However, nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to
require courts to grant relief to any particular petitioner. It is the intent
of the Legislature to permit persons who were convicted of an offense
specified in Section 273.5, 273.6, or 646.9 to seek relief from the
prohibition imposed by this subdivision.
   (3) Any person who is subject to the prohibition imposed by this
subdivision because of a conviction of an offense prior to that offense
being added to paragraph (1), may petition the court only once for relief
from this prohibition. The petition shall be filed with the court in which
the petitioner was sentenced. If possible, the matter shall be heard before
the same judge that sentenced the petitioner. Upon filing the petition, the
clerk of the court shall set the hearing date and notify the petitioner and
 3008                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 400 ]
the prosecuting attorney of the date of the hearing. Upon making each
of the following findings, the court may reduce or eliminate the
prohibition, impose conditions on reduction or elimination of the
prohibition, or otherwise grant relief from the prohibition as the court
deems appropriate:
   (A) Finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the petitioner is
likely to use a firearm in a safe and lawful manner.
   (B) Finds that the petitioner is not within a prohibited class as
specified in subdivision (a), (b), (d), (e), or (g) or Section 12021.1, and
the court is not presented with any credible evidence that the petitioner
is a person described in Section 8100 or 8103 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code.
   (C) Finds that the petitioner does not have a previous conviction
under this subdivision, no matter when the prior conviction occurred.
   In making its decision, the court may consider the interest of justice,
any relevant evidence, and the totality of the circumstances. It is the
intent of the Legislature that courts exercise broad discretion in
fashioning appropriate relief under this paragraph in cases in which relief
is warranted. However, nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to
require courts to grant relief to any particular petitioner.
   (4) Law enforcement officials who enforce the prohibition specified
in this subdivision against a person who has been granted relief pursuant
to paragraph (2) or (3), shall be immune from any liability for false arrest
arising from the enforcement of this subdivision unless the person has
in his or her possession a certified copy of the court order that granted
the person relief from the prohibition. This immunity from liability shall
not relieve any person or entity from any other liability that might
otherwise be imposed.
   (d) Any person who, as an express condition of probation, is
prohibited or restricted from owning, possessing, controlling, receiving,
or purchasing a firearm and who owns, or has in his or her possession
or under his or her custody or control, any firearm but who is not subject
to subdivision (a) or (c) is guilty of a public offense, which shall be
punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year or
in the state prison, by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000),
or by both that imprisonment and fine. The court, on forms provided by
the Department of Justice, shall notify the department of persons subject
to this subdivision. The notice shall include a copy of the order of
probation and a copy of any minute order or abstract reflecting the order
and conditions of probation.
   (e) Any person who (1) is alleged to have committed an offense listed
in subdivision (b) of Section 707 of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
an offense described in subdivision (b) of Section 1203.073, or any
offense enumerated in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c), and (2) is
[Ch. 400 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3009

subsequently adjudged a ward of the juvenile court within the meaning
of Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code because the person
committed an offense listed in subdivision (b) of Section 707 of the
Welfare and Institutions Code, an offense described in subdivision (b)
of Section 1203.073, or any offense enumerated in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (c) shall not own, or have in his or her possession or under
his or her custody or control, any firearm until the age of 30 years. A
violation of this subdivision shall be punishable by imprisonment in a
county jail not exceeding one year or in the state prison, by a fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that imprisonment
and fine. The juvenile court, on forms prescribed by the Department of
Justice, shall notify the department of persons subject to this
subdivision. Notwithstanding any other law, the forms required to be
submitted to the department pursuant to this subdivision may be used to
determine eligibility to acquire a firearm.
   (f) Subdivision (a) shall not apply to a person who has been convicted
of a felony under the laws of the United States unless either of the
following criteria is satisfied:
   (1) Conviction of a like offense under California law can only result
in imposition of felony punishment.
   (2) The defendant was sentenced to a federal correctional facility for
more than 30 days, or received a fine of more than one thousand dollars
($1,000), or received both punishments.
   (g) (1) Every person who purchases or receives, or attempts to
purchase or receive, a firearm knowing that he or she is subject to a
protective order as defined in Section 6218 of the Family Code, Section
136.2, or a temporary restraining order or injunction issued pursuant to
Section 527.6 or 527.8 of the Code of Civil Procedure, is guilty of a
public offense, which shall be punishable by imprisonment in a county
jail not exceeding one year or in the state prison, by a fine not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that imprisonment and fine.
This subdivision does not apply unless the copy of the restraining order
personally served on the person against whom the restraining order is
issued contains a notice in bold print stating (1) that the person is
prohibited from purchasing or receiving or attempting to purchase or
receive a firearm and (2) specifying the penalties for violating this
subdivision, or a court has provided actual verbal notice of the firearm
prohibition and penalty as provided in Section 6304 of the Family Code.
   (2) Every person who possesses a firearm knowing that he or she is
prohibited from possessing a firearm by the provisions of a protective
order as defined in Section 6218 of the Family Code, Section 136.2 of
the Penal Code, or a temporary restraining order or injunction issued
pursuant to Section 527.6 or 527.8 of the Code of Civil Procedure, is
guilty of a public offense, which shall be punishable by imprisonment
 3010                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 400 ]
in a county jail not exceeding one year, by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that imprisonment and fine. This
subdivision does not apply unless a copy of the restraining order
personally served on the person against whom the restraining order is
issued contains a notice in bold print stating (1) that the person is
prohibited from possessing or attempting to possess a firearm and (2)
specifying the penalties for violating this subdivision, or a court has
provided actual verbal notice of the firearm prohibition and penalty as
provided in Section 6304 of the Family Code.
   (3) The Judicial Council shall provide notice on all protective orders
that the respondent is prohibited from possessing, purchasing, or
receiving a firearm while the protective order is in effect and that the
firearm shall be relinquished to the local law enforcement agency for that
jurisdiction or sold to a licensed gun dealer, and that proof of surrender
or sale shall be filed within a specified time of receipt of the order. The
order shall also state on its face the expiration date for relinquishment.
   (4) If probation is granted upon conviction of a violation of this
subdivision, the court shall impose probation consistent with the
provisions of Section 1203.097.
   (h) (1) A violation of subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) is justifiable
where all of the following conditions are met:
   (A) The person found the firearm or took the firearm from a person
who was committing a crime against him or her.
   (B) The person possessed the firearm no longer than was necessary
to deliver or transport the firearm to a law enforcement agency for that
agency’s disposition according to law.
   (C) If the firearm was transported to a law enforcement agency, it was
transported in accordance with paragraph (18) of subdivision (a) of
Section 12026.2.
   (D) If the firearm is being transported to a law enforcement agency,
the person transporting the firearm has given prior notice to the law
enforcement agency that he or she is transporting the firearm to the law
enforcement agency for disposition according to law.
   (2) Upon the trial for violating subdivision (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e), the
trier of fact shall determine whether the defendant was acting within the
provisions of the exemption created by this subdivision.
   (3) The defendant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence that he or she comes within the provisions of the exemption
created by this subdivision.
   SEC. 2. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
12021 of the Penal Code proposed by both this bill and SB 31. It shall
only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective
on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section 12021 of the
[Ch. 401 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3011

Penal Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 31, in which case Section
1 of this bill shall not become operative.
  SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 401

  An act to amend Section 14601.9 of the Vehicle Code, relating to
vehicles.
             [Approved by Governor September 10, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 14601.9 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
  14601.9. (a) The district attorney of the County of Alameda, Kern,
Los Angeles, Orange, Placer, Sacramento, San Joaquin, San Luis
Obispo, or Santa Barbara, with the approval of the board of supervisors,
may establish a pilot program for persons who plead guilty or no contest
or who are found guilty of a violation of Section 14601, 14601.1, or
14601.3. The district attorney may conduct the program or contract with
a private entity to conduct the program.
  (b) Subject to the approval of the court, a person who pleads guilty
or no contest to a violation of, or is convicted of a violation of, Section
14601, 14601.1, or 14601.3 may enter into a written agreement with the
district attorney of a county described in subdivision (a). If the court
determines that the particular case is appropriate for referral to the
program described in this section, the judge may make an order directing
the person to comply with the terms of the agreement. Participation in
the program shall be in lieu of imposing a jail sentence under Section
14601, 14601.1, or 14601.3. The agreement shall require the person to
complete all of the following elements within 60 days or within the term
of the maximum jail sentence allowed under Section 14601, 14601.1, or
14601.3, whichever period is longer:
 3012                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 401 ]
   (1) A home detention program utilizing an electronic monitoring
program and equipment that meets acceptable standards as described in
Section 1203.016 of the Penal Code, for not less than the minimum jail
sentence, and not more than the maximum jail sentence, provided under
Section 14601, 14601.1, or 14601.3, as applicable. The electronic
monitoring program described in this paragraph shall be provided under
the auspices of the district attorney or his or her designee. The court may
allow a person to attend school, work, or other specified activities while
on electronic monitoring.
   (2) One or more classes conducted by the district attorney or by a
private entity under contract with the district attorney. The class or
classes, at a minimum, shall provide instruction on all of the following:
   (A) The requirements imposed under Section 14601, 14601.1, or
14601.3, including, but not limited to, the penalties for violating those
provisions.
   (B) Available transportation alternatives for persons who do not have
a valid driver’s license.
   (C) The procedure for regaining the privilege to drive.
   (c) No statement, or information procured from a statement, made by
the person in connection with the determination of his or her eligibility
for the program, and no statement, or information procured from a
statement, made by the person, subsequent to the granting of the
program or while participating in the program, and no information
contained in any report made with respect thereto, and no statement or
other information concerning the person’s participation in the program
is admissible in any action or proceeding.
   (d) The court may impose any fine allowed under Section 14601,
14601.1, or 14601.3 upon a person who is ordered to participate in the
program.
   (e) (1) The district attorney may recover fees for the program from
participants or may provide for recovery of fees from participants by a
private entity operating the program under contract.
   (2) The recoverable fees described in this subdivision shall be
charged to the participant in accordance with a fee schedule that has been
approved by the board of supervisors or the district attorney, or designee
of the district attorney. The fees charged for the program may be
modified or waived by the district attorney or designee at any time based
on the present or changing financial position of the participant. No
person shall be denied participation in the program due to an inability
to pay for the program.
   (f) Not later than December 31, 2003, the district attorney of every
county that elects to participate in the pilot program specified in
subdivision (a) shall prepare and submit a report to the Legislature
concerning that county’s participation in the program.
[Ch. 402 ]                   STATUTES OF 2000                                     3013

  (g) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2004, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends that date.



                                 CHAPTER 402

  An act to amend Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, to add
Sections 22508.6, 22717.5, and 22801.5 to the Education Code, to
amend Sections 18670, 19175, 19582, 19816.20, 19876.5, 20395,
20405.1, 21159, 21160, 21161, 21195, and 22825.01 of, to add Sections
19576.6, 20309.5, and 20407.5 to, and to repeal Section 22754.2 of, the
Government Code, and to amend Section 10295 of the Public Contract
Code, relating to state employees, making an appropriation therefor, and
declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
               [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                      Secretary of State September 11, 2000.]

  On this date I have signed AB 649 with a reduction.
  This bill would appropriate funding for various programs agreed to during collective
bargaining. However, the appropriation in this bill for the special fund deficiency is in
excess of the amount needed to fund the employee compensation increases agreed to
through collective bargaining. Therefore, I am reducing the special fund appropriation
contained in this bill by $17,000,000 to reflect the actual amount needed to fund the
employee compensation increases. The revised appropriation shall be $30,600,000.
                                                            GRAY DAVIS, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
  1094.5. (a) Where the writ is issued for the purpose of inquiring
into the validity of any final administrative order or decision made as the
result of a proceeding in which by law a hearing is required to be given,
evidence is required to be taken, and discretion in the determination of
facts is vested in the inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or officer, the
case shall be heard by the court sitting without a jury. All or part of the
record of the proceedings before the inferior tribunal, corporation, board,
or officer may be filed with the petition, may be filed with respondent’s
points and authorities, or may be ordered to be filed by the court. Except
when otherwise prescribed by statute, the cost of preparing the record
shall be borne by the petitioner. Where the petitioner has proceeded
pursuant to Section 68511.3 of the Government Code and the Rules of
Court implementing that section and where the transcript is necessary to
 3014                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 402 ]
a proper review of the administrative proceedings, the cost of preparing
the transcript shall be borne by the respondent. Where the party seeking
the writ has proceeded pursuant to Section 1088.5, the administrative
record shall be filed as expeditiously as possible, and may be filed with
the petition, or by the respondent after payment of the costs by the
petitioner, where required, or as otherwise directed by the court. If the
expense of preparing all or any part of the record has been borne by the
prevailing party, the expense shall be taxable as costs.
   (b) The inquiry in such a case shall extend to the questions whether
the respondent has proceeded without, or in excess of jurisdiction;
whether there was a fair trial; and whether there was any prejudicial
abuse of discretion. Abuse of discretion is established if the respondent
has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the order or decision
is not supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.
   (c) Where it is claimed that the findings are not supported by the
evidence, in cases in which the court is authorized by law to exercise its
independent judgment on the evidence, abuse of discretion is established
if the court determines that the findings are not supported by the weight
of the evidence. In all other cases, abuse of discretion is established if
the court determines that the findings are not supported by substantial
evidence in the light of the whole record.
   (d) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), in cases arising from private
hospital boards or boards of directors of districts organized pursuant to
The Local Hospital District Law, Division 23 (commencing with
Section 32000) of the Health and Safety Code or governing bodies of
municipal hospitals formed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with
Section 37600) or Article 8 (commencing with Section 37650) of
Chapter 5 of Division 3 of Title 4 of the Government Code, abuse of
discretion is established if the court determines that the findings are not
supported by substantial evidence in the light of the whole record.
However, in all cases in which the petition alleges discriminatory actions
prohibited by Section 1316 of the Health and Safety Code, and the
plaintiff makes a preliminary showing of substantial evidence in support
of that allegation, the court shall exercise its independent judgment on
the evidence and abuse of discretion shall be established if the court
determines that the findings are not supported by the weight of the
evidence.
   (e) Where the court finds that there is relevant evidence that, in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, could not have been produced or that
was improperly excluded at the hearing before respondent, it may enter
judgment as provided in subdivision (f) remanding the case to be
reconsidered in the light of that evidence; or, in cases in which the court
is authorized by law to exercise its independent judgment on the
[Ch. 402 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3015

evidence, the court may admit the evidence at the hearing on the writ
without remanding the case.
   (f) The court shall enter judgment either commanding respondent to
set aside the order or decision, or denying the writ. Where the judgment
commands that the order or decision be set aside, it may order the
reconsideration of the case in the light of the court’s opinion and
judgment and may order respondent to take such further action as is
specially enjoined upon it by law, but the judgment shall not limit or
control in any way the discretion legally vested in the respondent.
   (g) Except as provided in subdivision (h), the court in which
proceedings under this section are instituted may stay the operation of
the administrative order or decision pending the judgment of the court,
or until the filing of a notice of appeal from the judgment or until the
expiration of the time for filing the notice, whichever occurs first.
However, no such stay shall be imposed or continued if the court is
satisfied that it is against the public interest. The application for the stay
shall be accompanied by proof of service of a copy of the application on
the respondent. Service shall be made in the manner provided by Title
5 (commencing with Section 405) of Part 2 or Chapter 5 (commencing
with Section 1010) of Title 14 of Part 2. If an appeal is taken from a denial
of the writ, the order or decision of the agency shall not be stayed except
upon the order of the court to which the appeal is taken. However, in
cases where a stay is in effect at the time of filing the notice of appeal,
the stay shall be continued by operation of law for a period of 20 days
from the filing of the notice. If an appeal is taken from the granting of
the writ, the order or decision of the agency is stayed pending the
determination of the appeal unless the court to which the appeal is taken
shall otherwise order. Where any final administrative order or decision
is the subject of proceedings under this section, if the petition shall have
been filed while the penalty imposed is in full force and effect, the
determination shall not be considered to have become moot in cases
where the penalty imposed by the administrative agency has been
completed or complied with during the pendency of the proceedings.
   (h) (1) The court in which proceedings under this section are
instituted may stay the operation of the administrative order or decision
of any licensed hospital or any state agency made after a hearing required
by statute to be conducted under the Administrative Procedure Act, as
set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of
Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, conducted by the agency
itself or an administrative law judge on the staff of the Office of
Administrative Hearings pending the judgment of the court, or until the
filing of a notice of appeal from the judgment or until the expiration of
the time for filing the notice, whichever occurs first. However, the stay
shall not be imposed or continued unless the court is satisfied that the
 3016                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 402 ]
public interest will not suffer and that the licensed hospital or agency is
unlikely to prevail ultimately on the merits. The application for the stay
shall be accompanied by proof of service of a copy of the application on
the respondent. Service shall be made in the manner provided by Title
5 (commencing with Section 405) of Part 2 or Chapter 5 (commencing
with Section 1010) of Title 14 of Part 2.
   (2) The standard set forth in this subdivision for obtaining a stay shall
apply to any administrative order or decision of an agency that issues
licenses pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the
Business and Professions Code or pursuant to the Osteopathic Initiative
Act or the Chiropractic Initiative Act. With respect to orders or decisions
of other state agencies, the standard in this subdivision shall apply only
when the agency has adopted the proposed decision of the administrative
law judge in its entirety or has adopted the proposed decision but reduced
the proposed penalty pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 11517 of the
Government Code; otherwise the standard in subdivision (g) shall apply.
   (3) If an appeal is taken from a denial of the writ, the order or decision
of the hospital or agency shall not be stayed except upon the order of the
court to which the appeal is taken. However, in cases where a stay is in
effect at the time of filing the notice of appeal, the stay shall be continued
by operation of law for a period of 20 days from the filing of the notice.
If an appeal is taken from the granting of the writ, the order or decision
of the hospital or agency is stayed pending the determination of the
appeal unless the court to which the appeal is taken shall otherwise order.
Where any final administrative order or decision is the subject of
proceedings under this section, if the petition shall have been filed while
the penalty imposed is in full force and effect, the determination shall not
be considered to have become moot in cases where the penalty imposed
by the administrative agency has been completed or complied with
during the pendency of the proceedings.
   (i) Any administrative record received for filing by the clerk of the
court may be disposed of as provided in Sections 1952, 1952.2, and
1952.3.
   (j) Effective January 1, 1996, this subdivision shall apply to state
employees in State Bargaining Unit 5. This subdivision shall apply to
state employees in State Bargaining Unit 8. For purposes of this section,
the court is not authorized to review any disciplinary decisions reached
pursuant to Section 19576.1 or 19576.5 of the Government Code.
   (k) This section shall not apply to state employees in State Bargaining
Unit 11 disciplined or rejected on probation for positive drug test results
who expressly waive appeal to the State Personnel Board and invoke
arbitration proceedings pursuant to a State Bargaining Unit 11 collective
bargaining agreement.
   SEC. 2. Section 22508.6 is added to the Education Code, to read:
[Ch. 402 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3017

   22508.6. (a) Any person who is a member of the Defined Benefit
Program and who subsequently became employed and continues to be
employed by the state to perform service that requires membership in the
Public Employees’ Retirement System and who meets the requirements
of subdivision (b) may elect to have that state service subject to coverage
by the Defined Benefit Program and excluded from coverage by the
Public Employees’ Retirement System.
   (b) (1) Only a person who has achieved program vesting shall be
eligible to make the election under this section.
   (2) A person is eligible to make the election if he or she left
employment with a school district, county superintendent of schools, or
community college district and began employment with the state within
30 days without any intervening employment and that change in
employment occurred on or after July 1, 1991, and prior to the effective
date of this section.
   (3) A person is eligible to make the election if, at the time of the
election, he or she is a member of the Public Employees’ Retirement
System subject to Second Tier benefits and is one of the following:
   (A) Represented by a State Bargaining Unit that has agreed by a
memorandum of understanding to become subject to Section 20309.5 of
the Government Code.
   (B) Excluded from the definition of ‘‘state employee’’ in subdivision
(c) of Section 3513 of the Government Code, but performing,
supervising, or managing work similar to work performed by employees
described in subparagraph (A).
   (C) In a position not covered by civil service and in the executive
branch of government, but performing, supervising, or managing work
similar to work performed by employees described in subparagraph (A).
   (c) The election under this section shall be made in writing to each
system within 90 days after the effective date of this section or within
60 days after the eligible member is notified by the system of his or her
right to make the election, whichever is later. The member’s election
shall be effective on the day following the date on which the election is
received by the Public Employees’ Retirement System.
   (d) If the election is made, the state service performed from and after
the date of the election shall be considered creditable service for
purposes of this part and the provisions of Section 22801.5 shall be
applicable with respect to service performed prior to that date.
   SEC. 3. Section 22717.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   22717.5. (a) A member shall be credited at service retirement for
each day of accumulated and unused leave of absence for education for
which full salary is allowed on the member’s final day of employment
with the state.
 3018                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 402 ]
   (b) The amount of service credit to be granted shall be 0.004 years of
service for each unused day of educational leave credit.
   (c) When the member has made application for service retirement
under this part, the employer shall certify to the board, within 30 days
following the effective date of the member’s service retirement, the
number of days of accumulated and unused leave of absence for
education that the member was entitled to on the final day of
employment. The board may assess a penalty on delinquent reports.
   (d) This section shall apply to eligible state employees in state
bargaining units that have agreed to this section in a memorandum of
understanding, or as authorized by the Director of the Department of
Personnel Administration for classifications of state employees that are
excluded from the definition of ‘‘state employee’’ by paragraph (c) of
Section 3513 of the Government Code.
   (e) The provisions of this section shall be effective for eligible
members who retire directly from state employment on or after January
1, 2000.
   SEC. 4. Section 22801.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   22801.5. (a) A member who elects pursuant to Section 22508.6 to
have his or her state service subject to coverage by the Defined Benefit
Program shall receive additional service credit for the time spent subject
to coverage by the Public Employees’ Retirement System between July
1, 1991, and the effective date of the election.
   (b) A member described in subdivision (a) shall pay all contributions
with respect to his or her state service as a member of the Public
Employees’ Retirement System at the contribution rate for additional
service credit, adopted by the board as a plan amendment, in effect at the
time of the election. Contributions shall be made in a lump sum or in not
more than 120 monthly installments. Payment shall be made or shall
commence within 120 days after the date of the election. No installment,
except the final installment, shall be less than twenty-five dollars ($25).
The member shall not be credited with any service pursuant to this
section until the contributions have been paid in full.
   (c) If the member is employed to perform creditable service at the
time of the election, the contributions shall be based upon the
compensation earnable in the current school year or either of the two
immediately preceding school years, whichever is highest.
   (d) If the member is not employed to perform creditable service at the
time of the election, the contributions shall be based upon the
compensation earnable in the last school year of credited service or either
of the two immediately preceding school years, whichever is highest.
   (e) The total amount of contributions due from the member under
subdivision (b) shall be reduced by the amount received from the Public
Employees’ Retirement System pursuant to Section 20309.5 of the
[Ch. 402 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3019

Government Code. Under no circumstances shall the assets received
from the Public Employees’ Retirement System, pursuant to that
section, be allocated or awarded to individual members or their spouses
or beneficiaries.
   SEC. 5. Section 18670 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   18670. (a) The board may hold hearings and make investigations
concerning all matters relating to the enforcement and effect of this part
and rules prescribed under this part. It may inspect any state institution,
office, or other place of employment affected by this part to ascertain
whether this part and the board rules are obeyed.
   The board shall make investigations and hold hearings at the direction
of the Governor or the Legislature or upon the petition of an employee
or a citizen concerning the enforcement and effect of this part and to
enforce the observance of Article VII of the Constitution and of this part
and the rules made under this part.
   (b) Effective January 1, 1996, this subdivision shall apply only to
state employees in State Bargaining Unit 5. For purposes of subdivision
(a), any discipline, as defined by Section 19576.1, is not subject to either
a board investigation or hearing. Board review shall be limited to
acceptance or rejection of discipline imposed pursuant to Section
19576.1.
   (c) This subdivision shall apply only to state employees in State
Bargaining Unit 8. For the purposes of subdivision (a), any discipline,
as defined by the memorandum of understanding or Section 19576.5, is
not subject to either a board investigation or hearing.
   (d) This subdivision shall apply only to state employees in State
Bargaining Unit 11 who have been disciplined or rejected on probation
for positive drug test results and who expressly waive appeal to the State
Personnel Board and invoke arbitration proceedings pursuant to a
collective bargaining agreement. For purposes of subdivision (a) and in
the context of positive drug test results, any discipline, as defined by the
memorandum of understanding, and rejections on probation are not
subject to either a board investigation or a hearing.
   SEC. 6. Section 19175 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   19175. The board at the written request of a rejected probationer,
filed within 15 calendar days of the effective date of rejection, may
investigate with or without a hearing the reasons for rejection. After
investigation, the board may do any of the following:
   (a) Affirm the action of the appointing power.
   (b) Modify the action of the appointing power.
   (c) Restore the name of the rejected probationer to the employment
list for certification to any position within the class; provided, that his
or her name shall not be certified to the agency by which he or she was
 3020                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 402 ]
rejected, except with the concurrence of the appointing power of that
agency.
   (d) Restore him or her to the position from which he or she was
rejected, but this shall be done only if the board determines, after a
hearing, that there is no substantial evidence to support the reason or
reasons for rejection, or that the rejection was made in fraud or bad faith.
At the hearing, the rejected probationer shall have the burden of proof.
Subject to rebuttal by the rejected probationer, it shall be presumed that
the rejection was free from fraud and bad faith and that the statement of
reasons therefor in the notice of rejection is true.
   (e) Effective January 1, 1996, this section shall not apply to state
employees in State Bargaining Unit 5.
   (f) Except as provided in subdivision (g), this section shall not apply
to state employees in State Bargaining Unit 11 who have been rejected
on probation for positive drug test results and who expressly waive
appeal to the State Personnel Board and invoke arbitration proceedings
pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement.
   (g) Whenever a written request is made under this section by a
probationer in State Bargaining Unit 11 who has been rejected for
positive drug test results and the memorandum of understanding for
employees in State Bargaining Unit 11 has expired, the state employer
shall follow the appeal procedures contained in the expired
memorandum of understanding for state employees in State Bargaining
Unit 11 until a successor agreement is negotiated between the
Department of Personnel Administration and the exclusive
representative.
   SEC. 7. Section 19576.6 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   19576.6. This section shall apply only to state employees in State
Bargaining Unit 11 who have been disciplined for positive drug test
results and who expressly waive appeal to the State Personnel Board and
invoke arbitration proceedings pursuant to a collective bargaining
agreement.
   (a) Notwithstanding Section 19576, the State Personnel Board shall
not have the authority stated in subdivision (a) of that section.
   (b) Whenever an answer is filed by an employee and the
memorandum of understanding for employees in State Bargaining Unit
11 has expired, the state employer shall follow the appeal procedures
contained in the expired memorandum of understanding for state
employees in State Bargaining Unit 11 until a successor agreement is
negotiated between the Department of Personnel Administration and the
exclusive representative.
   (c) Notwithstanding any other law or rule, if the provisions of this
section are in conflict with the provisions of the memorandum of
understanding reached pursuant to Section 3517.5, the memorandum of
[Ch. 402 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3021

understanding shall be controlling without further legislative action,
except that if the provisions of the memorandum of understanding
require the expenditure of funds, the provisions shall not become
effective unless approved by the Legislature in the annual Budget Act.
   SEC. 8. Section 19582 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   19582. (a) Hearings may be held by the board, or by any authorized
representative, but the board shall render the decision that in its
judgment is just and proper.
   During a hearing, after the appointing authority has completed the
opening statement or the presentation of evidence, the employee,
without waiving his or her right to offer evidence in the event the motion
is not granted, may move for a dismissal of the charges.
   If it appears that the evidence presented supports the granting of the
motion as to some but not all of the issues involved in the action, the
board or the authorized representative shall grant the motion as to those
issues and the action shall proceed as to the issues remaining. Despite
the granting of the motion, no judgment shall be entered prior to a final
determination of the action on the remaining issues, and shall be subject
to final review and approval by the board.
   (b) If a contested case is heard by an authorized representative, he or
she shall prepare a proposed decision in a form that may be adopted as
the decision in the case. A copy of the proposed decision shall be filed
by the board as a public record and furnished to each party within 10 days
after the proposed decision is filed with the board. The board itself may
adopt the proposed decision in its entirety, may remand the proposed
decision, or may reduce the adverse action set forth therein and adopt the
balance of the proposed decision.
   (c) If the proposed decision is not remanded or adopted as provided
in subdivision (b), each party shall be notified of the action, and the
board itself may decide the case upon the record, including the transcript,
with or without taking any additional evidence, or may refer the case to
the same or another authorized representative to take additional
evidence. If the case is so assigned to an authorized representative, he or
she shall prepare a proposed decision as provided in subdivision (b) upon
the additional evidence and the transcript and other papers that are part
of the record of the prior hearing. A copy of the proposed decision shall
be furnished to each party. The board itself shall decide no case provided
for in this subdivision without affording the parties the opportunity to
present oral and written argument before the board itself. If additional
oral evidence is introduced before the board itself, no board member may
vote unless he or she heard the additional oral evidence.
   (d) In arriving at a decision or a proposed decision, the board or its
authorized representative may consider any prior suspension or
 3022                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 402 ]
suspensions of the appellant by authority of any appointing power, or
any prior proceedings under this article.
   (e) The decision shall be in writing and contain findings of fact and
the adverse action, if any. The findings may be stated in the language of
the pleadings or by reference thereto. Copies of the decision shall be
served on the parties personally or by mail.
   (f) This section shall not apply to minor discipline, as defined in a
memorandum of understanding or by Section 19576.5, for state
employees in State Bargaining Unit 8.
   (g) This section shall not apply to state employees in State Bargaining
Unit 11 who have been disciplined for positive drug test results and who
expressly waive appeal to the State Personnel Board and invoke
arbitration proceedings pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement.
   SEC. 9. Section 19816.20 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   19816.20. Notwithstanding Section 18717, this section shall apply
to state employees in state bargaining units that have agreed to these
provisions in a memorandum of understanding between the state
employer and the recognized employee organization, as defined in
Section 3513, state employees who are excluded from the definition of
‘‘state employee’’ in paragraph (c) of Section 3513, and officers or
employees of the executive branch of state government who are not
members of the civil service.
   (a) The department shall determine which classes or positions meet
the elements of the criteria for the state safety category of membership
in the Public Employees’ Retirement System. An employee
organization or employing agency requesting a determination from the
department shall provide the department with information and written
argument supporting the request.
   (b) The department may use the determination findings in subsequent
negotiations with the exclusive representatives.
   (c) The department shall not approve safety membership for any class
or position that has not been determined to meet all of the following
criteria:
   (1) In addition to the defined scope of duties assigned to the class or
position, the member’s ongoing responsibility includes:
   (A) The protection and safeguarding of the public and of property.
   (B) The control or supervision of, or a regular, substantial contact
with one of the following:
   (i) Inmates or youthful offenders in adult or youth correctional
facilities.
   (ii) Patients in state mental facilities that house Penal Code offenders.
   (iii) Clients charged with a felony who are in a locked and controlled
treatment facility of a developmental center.
[Ch. 402 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3023

   (2) The conditions of employment require that the member be
capable of responding to emergency situations and provide a level of
service to the public such that the safety of the public and of property is
not jeopardized.
   (d) For classes or positions that are found to meet this criteria, the
department may agree to provide safety membership by a memorandum
of understanding reached pursuant to Section 3517.5 if the affected
employees are subject to collective bargaining, or by departmental
approval for state employees who are either excluded from the definition
of ‘‘state employee’’ in subdivision (c) of Section 3513 or are officers
or employees of the executive branch of state government who are not
members of the civil service. The department shall notify the retirement
system of its determination, as prescribed in Section 20405.1.
   (e) The department shall provide the Legislature an annual report that
lists the classes or positions which were found to be eligible for safety
membership under this section.
   SEC. 10. Section 19876.5 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   19876.5. State employees in state bargaining units 1, 4, 15, 18, and
20 who suffer a job-related injury or illness and become eligible for
vocational rehabilitation under Section 139.5 of the Labor Code on or
after January 1, 1993, shall first be subject to an evaluation to determine
what type of state employment can be performed. The evaluation shall
include vocational rehabilitation when deemed appropriate, based on a
medical evaluation and previous experience. Disability benefits shall be
contingent on the employee’s agreement to cooperate and participate in
a reasonable and appropriate vocational rehabilitation plan necessary to
continue state employment. This section shall not apply to any
job-related or job-incurred injury or illness that occurs on or after
January 1, 2000.
   SEC. 11. Section 20309.5 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   20309.5. (a) Any person who is a member of the Defined Benefit
Program of the State Teachers’ Retirement Plan and who subsequently
became employed, on or after July 1, 1991, and who continues to be
employed by the state to perform service that requires membership in the
Public Employees’ Retirement System under Section 21071 and who
meets the requirements of subdivision (b) of Section 22508.6 of the
Education Code may elect to have his or her state service subject to
coverage by the Defined Benefit Program of the State Teachers’
Retirement Plan and excluded from coverage by the Public Employees’
Retirement System.
   (b) Upon an election being made pursuant to subdivision (a), the
Public Employees’ Retirement System shall transfer to the Teachers’
Retirement Fund an amount equal to the actuarial accrued liability of the
 3024                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 402 ]
system for the service rendered by the person making the election on or
after July 1, 1991, to the date of the election, inclusive. The actuarial
accrued liability shall be calculated based on the actuarial assumptions
of the system for the most recently completed actuarial valuation as of
the date of the election.
   SEC. 12. Section 20395 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   20395. ‘‘State peace officer/firefighter member’’ means all
members who are full-time permanent employees represented in
Corrections Unit No. 6, Protective Services and Public Safety Unit No.
7, and Firefighters Unit No. 8 and are employed in class titles that are
designated as peace officer as defined in Chapter 4.5 (commencing with
Section 830) of Title 3 of Part 2 of the Penal Code or are firefighters
whose principal duties consist of active firefighting/fire suppression.
   A member who is employed in a position that is reclassified from state
miscellaneous to state peace officer/firefighter pursuant to this section,
may make an irrevocable election in writing to remain subject to the
miscellaneous service retirement benefit and the normal rate of
contribution by filing a notice of the election with the board within 90
days of notification by the board. A member who so elects shall be
subject to the reduced benefit factors specified in Section 21353 or
21354.1, as applicable, only for service also included in the federal
system.
   SEC. 13. Section 20405.1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   20405.1. Notwithstanding Section 20405, this section shall apply to
state employees in state bargaining units that have agreed to these
provisions in a memorandum of understanding between the state
employer and the recognized employee organization, as defined in
Section 3513, state employees who are excluded from the definition of
‘‘state employee’’ by subdivision (c) of Section 3513, and officers or
employees of the executive branch of state government who are not
members of the civil service.
   (a) On and after the effective date of this section, state safety members
shall also include officers and employees whose classifications or
positions are found to meet the state safety criteria prescribed in Section
19816.20, provided the Department of Personnel Administration agrees
to their inclusion. For employees covered by a collective bargaining
agreement, the effective date of safety membership shall be the date on
which the department and the employees’ exclusive representative reach
agreement by memorandum of understanding pursuant to Section
3517.5. For employees not covered by a collective bargaining
agreement, the Department of Personnel Administration shall determine
the effective date of safety membership.
[Ch. 402 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3025

   (b) The department shall notify the board as new classes or positions
become eligible for state safety membership, as specified in subdivision
(a), and specify how service prior to the effective date shall be credited.
   (c) The department shall prepare and submit to the Legislature an
annual report that contains the classes or positions that are eligible for
state safety membership under this section.
   (d) Any person designated as a state safety member pursuant to this
section may elect, within 90 days of notification by the board, to remain
subject to the miscellaneous or industrial service retirement benefit and
contribution rate by filing an irrevocable election with the board. A
member who so elects shall be subject to the reduced benefit factors
specified in Section 21076, 21353, or 21354.1, as applicable, only for
service also included in the federal system.
   SEC. 14. Section 20407.5 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   20407.5. (a) Notwithstanding Section 20407, any person
designated as a state safety member pursuant to Section 20407 who
elected to remain subject to the miscellaneous service retirement benefit
and contribution rate as provided in that section may elect instead to be
subject to the state safety service retirement benefit and contribution
rate.
   (b) This section shall apply to those officers and employees of the
State Department of Mental Health described in Section 20407 who are
represented by State Bargaining Unit 18 and who became safety
members effective January 1, 1998, when the Napa State Hospital and
the Metropolitan State Hospital were designated as forensic facilities.
   (c) This section shall also apply to any member who is excluded from
the definition of state employee in subdivision (c) of Section 3513 and
who is directly associated with employees represented by State
Bargaining Unit 18.
   (d) The election provided under this section shall be filed with the
board by the member within 90 days after notification by the board that
the member has the right to elect to be subject to the state safety member
service retirement formula and contribution rates. If the election is not
made by the member, he or she shall remain subject to the miscellaneous
service retirement benefit and contribution rate.
   SEC. 15. Section 21159 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21159. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a state
member shall not be retired for industrial disability for an illness or
injury that occurs on or after January 1, 1993, unless the member is
incapacitated for the performance of duty in any employment with the
state employer and the disability is of permanent or extended and
uncertain duration, as determined by the Department of Personnel
Administration. This section shall only apply to state safety, state
 3026                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 402 ]
industrial, and state miscellaneous members employed in any state
bargaining units for which a memorandum of understanding has been
agreed to by the state employer and the recognized employee
organization to become subject to this section. The Director of the
Department of Personnel Administration may adopt rules regarding job
placement and other related activities necessary for the administration
of this section and Section 21195.
   (b) A state member who, because of the enactment of this section is
no longer eligible to retire for industrial disability and accepts alternate
employment with the state in which the compensation is less than that
received in the position held at the time of the illness or injury, shall,
upon certification of the Department of Personnel Administration to the
board, become entitled to benefits under the partial disability retirement
program set forth in Section 21160.
   (c) The employee shall have the right of appeal to the Department of
Personnel Administration regarding: (1) the requirement to participate
or (2) the exclusion from participating in the program described in this
section and Section 21160.
   (d) For all other disputes relative to this section and Section 21160,
the employee shall seek administrative remedy from his or her
appointing power through the departmental complaint process.
   (e) The appointing power of the affected employee shall reimburse
the Department of Personnel Administration for any costs associated
with the administration of this provision.
   (f) This section shall not apply to any job-related or job-incurred
illness or injury that occurs on or after January 1, 2000.
   SEC. 16. Section 21160 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21160. (a) Any state member who is subject to Section 21159 and
does not qualify for industrial disability retirement under this part, or is
reinstated from industrial disability retirement pursuant to Section
21195, and accepts another job in state service, shall be paid a partial
disability retirement program benefit payment from this system in an
amount, to be calculated by the Department of Personnel Administration
and certified to the board, that, when added to the salary earned by the
employee in the current state position, would be equal to the state salary
earned by the member at the time of becoming unable to perform the
duties of his or her previous position. This supplemental payment shall
not result in the member being deemed to be retired.
   (b) The partial disability retirement program benefit payments made
under this section shall be paid for by the state employer in the same
manner as all other state retirement benefits are funded.
   (c) This section shall not apply to any job-related or job-incurred
illness or injury that occurs on or after January 1, 2000.
[Ch. 402 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3027

   SEC. 17. Section 21161 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21161. (a) A partial disability retirement program is established by
Section 21160 for state employees subject to Section 21159. The
benefits paid under this program shall be paid pursuant to Sections
21159 and 21160 and shall not be considered compensation for purposes
of Section 20630.
   (b) This section shall not apply to any job-related or job-incurred
illness or injury that occurs on or after January 1, 2000.
   SEC. 18. Section 21195 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21195. (a) Notwithstanding any other section in Article 6
(commencing with Section 21150) or in this article, the Department of
Personnel Administration may reinstate a person who has retired for
industrial disability pursuant to Section 21410, within 12 months after
the effective date of retirement, if it has identified an available position
with duties that the employee is able to perform. Upon reinstatement, the
person shall become entitled to benefits under the partial disability
retirement program pursuant to Section 21160.
   (b) This section shall not apply to any job-related or job-incurred
illness or injury that occurs on or after January 1, 2000.
   SEC. 19. Section 22754.2 of the Government Code, as added by
Chapter 91 of the Statutes of 1998, is repealed.
   SEC. 20. Section 22825.01 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   22825.01. (a) As used in this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
   (1) A ‘‘rural area’’ means an area in which there is no board-approved
health maintenance organization plan available for enrollment by state
employees or annuitants who live in the area.
   (2) ‘‘Coinsurance’’ means the provision of a medical plan design in
which the plan or insurer and state employee or annuitant share the cost
of hospital or medical expenses at a specified ratio.
   (3) A ‘‘deductible’’ means the annual amount of out-of-pocket
medical expenses that state employees or annuitants must pay before the
insurer or self-funded plan begins paying for expenses.
   (4) ‘‘Department’’ means the Department of Personnel
Administration.
   (5) ‘‘Program’’ means the Rural Health Care Equity Program.
   (b) (1) The Rural Health Care Equity Program is hereby established
for the purpose of funding the subsidization and reimbursement of
premium costs, deductibles, coinsurance, and other out-of-pocket health
care costs, which would otherwise be covered if the state employee or
annuitant was enrolled in a board-approved health maintenance
 3028                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 402 ]
organization plan, paid by employees and annuitants living in rural
areas, as authorized by this section. The program shall be administered
by the department or by a third-party administrator approved by the
department in a manner consistent with all applicable state and federal
laws. The board shall determine the rural area for each subsequent fiscal
year at the same meeting when the board approves premiums for health
maintenance organizations.
   (2) Separate accounts shall be maintained within the program for (A)
employees, as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 3513; (B) excluded
employees, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 3527; and (C)
annuitants as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 22754.
   (c) Moneys in the Rural Health Care Equity Program shall be
allocated to the separate accounts as follows:
   (1) As the employer’s contribution with respect to each employee, as
defined in subdivision (c) of Section 3513, who lives in a rural area and
who is otherwise eligible, an amount to be determined through the
collective bargaining process.
   (2) As the employer’s contribution with respect to each excluded
employee, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 3527, who lives in a
rural area and who is otherwise eligible, an amount equal to, but not to
exceed, the amount given to eligible state employees, as defined in
subdivision (c) of Section 3513, who live in a rural area.
   (3) As the employer’s contribution with respect to each annuitant, as
defined in subdivision (e) of Section 22754, who lives in a rural area, is
not a Medicare participant, and who is otherwise eligible, an amount not
to exceed five hundred dollars ($500) per year.
   (4) As to the state’s contribution with respect to each state annuitant,
as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 22754 who lives in a rural area,
participates in a board-approved, Medicare-coordinated health plan,
participates in a board-approved health plan, and is otherwise eligible,
an amount equal to the Medicare Part B premiums incurred by the
annuitant, not to exceed seventy-five dollars ($75) per month. The state
shall not reimburse for penalty amounts.
   (5) As to an employee who enters state service or leaves state service
during a fiscal year, contributions for the employee shall be made on a
pro rata basis. A similar computation shall be used for anyone entering
or leaving the bargaining unit, including a person who enters the
bargaining unit by promotion in mid-fiscal year.
   (d) Each fund of the State Treasury, other than the General Fund, shall
reimburse the General Fund for any sums allocated pursuant to
subdivision (c) for employees whose compensation is paid from that
fund. That reimbursement shall be accomplished using the following
methodology:
[Ch. 402 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3029

   (1) On or before December 1 of each year, the Department of
Personnel Administration shall provide a listing of active state
employees who participated in the Rural Health Care Equity Program in
the immediately preceding fiscal year to each employing department.
   (2) On or before January 15 of each year, every department that
employed an active state employee identified by the Department of
Personnel Administration as a participant in the Rural Health Care
Equity Program shall provide the Department of Personnel
Administration with a listing of the funds used to pay each employee’s
salary, along with the proportion of each active state employee’s salary
attributable to each fund.
   (3) Using the information provided by the employing departments,
the Department of Personnel Administration shall compile a listing of
Rural Health Care Equity Program payments attributable to each fund.
On or before February 15 of each year, the Department of Personnel
Administration shall transmit this list to the Department of Finance.
   (4) The Department of Finance shall certify to the Controller the
amount to be transferred from the unencumbered balance of each fund
to the General Fund.
   (5) The Controller shall transfer to the General Fund from the
unencumbered fund balance of each impacted fund the amount specified
by the Department of Finance.
   (6) To ensure the equitable allocation of costs, the Director of the
Department of Personnel Administration or the Director of Finance may
require an audit of departmental reports.
   (e) For any sums allocated pursuant to subdivision (c) for annuitants,
funds, other than the General Fund, shall be charged a fair share of the
state’s contribution in accordance with the provisions of Article 2
(commencing with Section 11270) of Chapter 3 of Part 1 of Division 3
of Title 2. On or before July 31 of each year, the Department of Personnel
Administration shall provide the Department of Finance with the total
costs allocated pursuant to subdivision (c) for annuitants in the
immediately preceding fiscal year. The reported costs shall not include
expenses that have been incurred but not claimed as of July 31.
   (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to the
availability of funds, moneys within the Rural Health Care Equity
Program shall be disbursed for the benefit of an employee who lives in
a rural area and who is otherwise eligible. The disbursements shall,
where there is no board-approved health maintenance organization plan
available in an area that is open for enrollment for the employee, (1)
subsidize the preferred provider plan premiums for the employee, by an
amount equal to the difference between the weighted average of
board-approved health maintenance organization premiums and the
lowest board-approved preferred provider plan premium available under
 3030                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 402 ]
this part and (2) reimburse the employee for a portion or all of his or her
incurred deductibles, coinsurances, and other out-of-pocket
health-related expenses, that would otherwise be covered if the
employee were enrolled in a board-approved health maintenance
organization plan.
   These subsidies and reimbursements shall be provided according to
a plan determined by the department, which may include, but is not
limited to, a supplemental insurance plan, a medical reimbursement
account, or a medical spending account plan.
   (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to the
availability of funds, moneys within the Rural Health Care Equity
Program shall be disbursed for the benefit of eligible annuitants, as
defined in subdivision (e) of Section 22754, who live in rural areas and
who are otherwise eligible. The disbursements shall, where there is no
board-approved health maintenance organization plan available and
open to enrollment by the annuitant, either (1) reimburse the annuitant
if he or she is not a Medicare participant, for some or all of his or her
deductibles, not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500) per fiscal year, or
(2) reimburse Medicare Part B premiums incurred by the annuitant, not
to exceed seventy-five dollars ($75) per month, exclusive of penalties.
These reimbursements shall be provided by the department.
   The state shall not reimburse for penalty amounts.
   (h) Any moneys remaining in any account of the program at the end
of any fiscal year shall remain in the account for use in subsequent fiscal
years until the account is terminated. Moneys remaining in any account
of the program upon termination, after payment of all outstanding
expenses and claims incurred prior to the date of termination, shall be
deposited in the General Fund.
   (i) The Legislature finds and declares that the Rural Health Care
Equity Program is established for the exclusive benefit of employees,
annuitants, and family members.
   (j) This section shall cease to be operative on January 1, 2005, or on
such earlier date as the board makes a formal determination that HMOs
are no longer the most cost-effective health care plans offered by the
board.
   SEC. 21. Section 10295 of the Public Contract Code is amended to
read:
   10295. (a) All contracts entered into by any state agency for (1) the
acquisition of goods or elementary school textbooks, (2) services,
whether or not the services involve the furnishing or use of goods or are
performed by an independent contractor, (3) the construction, alteration,
improvement, repair, or maintenance of property, real or personal, or (4)
the performance of work or services by the state agency for or in
cooperation with any person, or public body, are void unless and until
[Ch. 402 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3031

approved by the department. Every contract shall be transmitted with all
papers, estimates, and recommendations concerning it to the department
and, if approved by the department, shall be effective from the date of
the approval.
   (b) This section applies to any state agency that by general or specific
statute is expressly or impliedly authorized to enter into transactions
referred to in this section.
   (c) This section does not apply to the following:
   (1) Any transaction entered into by the Trustees of the California
State University or by a department under the State Contract Act or the
California State University Contract Law.
   (2) Any contract of a type specifically mentioned and authorized to
be entered into by the Department of Transportation under Section
14035 or 14035.5 of the Government Code, Sections 99316 to 99319,
inclusive, of the Public Utilities Code, or the Streets and Highways
Code.
   (3) Any contract entered into by the Department of Transportation
that is not funded by money derived by state tax sources but, rather, is
funded by money derived from federal or local tax sources.
   (4) Any contract entered into by the Department of Personnel
Administration for state employee benefits, occupational health and
safety, training services, or combination thereof.
   (5) Any contract let by the Legislature.
   (6) Any contract entered into under the authority of Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 11770) of Part 3 of Division 2 of the
Insurance Code.
   SEC. 21.5. Section 10295 of the Public Contract Code is amended
to read:
   10295. (a) All contracts entered into by any state agency for (1) the
acquisition of goods or elementary school textbooks, (2) services,
whether or not the services involve the furnishing or use of goods or are
performed by an independent contractor, (3) the construction, alteration,
improvement, repair, or maintenance of property, real or personal, or (4)
the performance of work or services by the state agency for or in
cooperation with any person, or public body, are void unless and until
approved by the department. Every contract shall be transmitted with all
papers, estimates, and recommendations concerning it to the department
and, if approved by the department, shall be effective from the date of
the approval.
   (b) This section applies to any state agency that by general or specific
statute is expressly or impliedly authorized to enter into transactions
referred to in this section.
   (c) This section does not apply to the following:
 3032                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 402 ]
   (1) Any transaction entered into by the Trustees of the California
State University, by the Board of Governors of the California
Community Colleges, or by a department under the State Contract Act
or the California State University Contract Law.
   (2) Any contract of a type specifically mentioned and authorized to
be entered into by the Department of Transportation under Section
14035 or 14035.5 of the Government Code, Sections 99316 to 99319,
inclusive, of the Public Utilities Code, or the Streets and Highways
Code.
   (3) Any contract entered into by the Department of Transportation
that is not funded by money derived by state tax sources but, rather, is
funded by money derived from federal or local tax sources.
   (4) Any contract entered into by the Department of Personnel
Administration for state employee benefits, occupational health and
safety, training services, or combination thereof.
   (5) Any contract let by the Legislature.
   (6) Any contract entered into under the authority of Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 11770) of Part 3 of Division 2 of the
Insurance Code.
   SEC. 22. The Legislature hereby declares its intent that Sections
19876.5, 21159, 21160, 21161, and 21195 of the Government Code, as
amended by this act, shall be given retroactive effect to January 1, 2000.
   SEC. 23. The sum of sixty-five million four hundred fourteen
thousand two hundred eighty-eight dollars ($65,414,288) is hereby
appropriated as follows:
   (a) Five million dollars ($5,000,000) from the General Fund to the
Controller for allocation to the Work and Family Fund, a continuously
appropriated fund, for expenditure by the Department of Personnel
Administration for the purposes of establishing and maintaining work
and family programs for state employees. These programs may include,
but are not limited to, financial assistance to aid in the development of
child care centers administered by either nonprofit corporations formed
by state employees or child care providers, or to provide grants,
subsidies, or both grants and subsidies for child care and elder care.
Other programs may include enhancement or supplementation of
existing employee assistance program services and other work and
family programs.
   (b) Forty-seven million six hundred thousand dollars ($47,600,000)
from unallocated special funds for expenditure in the 1999–2000 fiscal
year in augmentation and for the purposes of state employee
compensation as provided in Item 9800-001-0494 of Section 2.00 of the
Budget Act of 1999 (Chapter 50, Statutes of 1999).
   (c) Twelve million six hundred thirty-nine thousand two hundred
eighty-eight dollars ($12,639,288) from the General Fund to the
[Ch. 403 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3033

Department of Personnel Administration for the purpose of funding the
Rural Health Care Equity Program, as established by Section 22825.01
of the Government Code, as added by Chapter 743 of the Statutes of
1999.
   The funds appropriated pursuant to this subdivision shall be used for
the subsidization and reimbursement of premium costs, deductibles,
coinsurance, and other out-of-pocket health care costs of active state
employees and annuitants living in rural areas. The funds appropriated
by this subdivision shall be available for expenditure until January 1,
2005.
   (d) The sum of one hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($175,000)
from the General Fund in augmentation of Item 8380-001-0001 of
Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 1999 (Chapter 50 of the Statutes of
1999). The funds appropriated pursuant to this subdivision shall be used
to contract with a third-party administrator to provide recordkeeping
services for the Rural Health Care Equity Program, as established by
Section 22825.01 of the Government Code, as added by Chapter 743 of
the Statutes of 1999.
   SEC. 24. Section 21.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 10295 of the Public Contract Code proposed by both this bill and
AB 1441. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, but this bill becomes
operative first, (2) each bill amends Section 10295 of the Public Contract
Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after AB 1441, in which case Section
10295 of the Public Contract Code, as amended by Section 21 of this bill,
shall remain operative only until the operative date of AB 1441, at which
time Section 21.5 of this bill shall become operative.
   SEC. 25. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order that the provisions of this act relating to state employees may
become effective at the earliest possible time, it is necessary that this act
go into immediate effect.



                             CHAPTER 403

  An act to amend Section 66021.2 of, to add Sections 69514.5,
69547.5, and 69547.9 to, to add Chapter 1.7 (commencing with Section
69430) to Part 42 of, and to repeal Article 3 (commencing with Section
69530) of Chapter 2 of Part 42 of, the Education Code, relating to student
 3034                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 403 ]
financial aid, making an appropriation therefor, and declaring the
urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. This act shall be known, and may be cited, as the
Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal Grant Act.
   SEC. 2. (a) The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (1) The California 1960 Master Plan for Higher Education
established a structure for the organization of a world-class
postsecondary system of education that utilizes the strength and capacity
of the California community colleges in the training of lower division
students in vocational programs and courses for transfer to higher
institutions, undergraduate programs in the liberal arts, sciences, and
teacher preparation at the California State University, partnerships with
the independent colleges, and the undergraduate and professional
schools, graduate training, and research at the University of California.
   (2) A cornerstone of the Master Plan was a promise that the state
would ensure all qualified students access to a quality higher education.
The drafters of the Master Plan reaffirmed a long established principle
that the state colleges and the University of California be tuition free to
all residents of the state. Over the past four decades this policy evolved
into a promise of affordability for all qualified students using a balance
of fees and financial aid for low-income students.
   (3) California reflects the ethnic and cultural diversity of today’s
world. Evidence of this change is most pronounced within our public
elementary and secondary education system. As California enters the
21st century, there is no single group that represents a majority of
elementary and secondary enrollment. These changing demographics
present great challenges and great opportunities. California must invest
in higher education and in the future of its young people so they can
acquire skills and knowledge to compete and lead the nation and the
world.
   (4) The Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal Grant Act
makes access and affordability a guarantee to every qualified student. It
reaffirms the basic tenets of the 1960 Master Plan for Higher Education
by guaranteeing a Cal Grant award to every student who is financially
and academically eligible to receive one. Students with financial need
and academic merit will no longer wonder whether they will be one of
the relatively few students selected to receive a Cal Grant award each
year.
[Ch. 403 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3035

   (5) At a time when California is insisting on improved performance
and accountability from all students in the public elementary and
secondary school system, it is important to follow through on the state’s
commitment to the capable graduates of high schools so they can pursue
a quality higher education, especially when their families have limited
financial means.
   (6) The Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal Grant Act
removes poverty as a barrier to access to the opportunities of a higher
education for all academically successful students and provides an
opportunity to enroll and complete a higher education and take on the
challenges presented by the Information Age and the ever-changing,
technology-driven economy of the 21st century.
   (7) The Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal Grant Act takes
an historic step in putting California at the forefront of the nation in
providing access to all academically qualified students with financial
need who are pursuing the dream of a higher education. With the
enactment of this measure California will keep faith with its
decades-long promise to make higher education available and affordable
to every qualified student who deserves a chance to aim high and
succeed.
   (b) It is the intent of the Legislature, in enacting this act, to sunset the
Cal Grant Program established pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with
Section 69530) of Chapter 2 of Part 42 of the Education Code and to
establish the Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal Grant Act,
commencing with the 2001–02 academic year.
   SEC. 3. Section 66021.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   66021.2. Consistent with the state’s historic commitment to provide
educational opportunity by ensuring both student access to and selection
of an institution of higher education for students with financial need, the
long-term policy of the Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal
Grant Program established pursuant to Chapter 1.7 (commencing with
Section 69430) of Part 42 shall be as follows:
   (a) Commencing with the 2001–02 academic year and every year
thereafter, an applicant for a Cal Grant A or B award shall receive an
award that is not in excess of the financial need amount determined by
the Student Aid Commission pursuant to Section 69432.9 if he or she
complies with all of the following requirements:
   (1) Demonstrates financial need under the criteria adopted pursuant
to Section 69432.9.
   (2) Attains a grade point average, as defined in Section 69432.7,
meeting the requirements of Chapter 1.7 (commencing with Section
69430) of Part 42.
   (3) Complies with each of the eligibility criteria applicable to the type
of Cal Grant award for which he or she is applying.
 3036                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 403 ]
   (b) (1) The maximum Cal Grant A award for a student attending the
University of California or the California State University shall equal the
mandatory systemwide fees in each of those segments.
   (2) The maximum Cal Grant B award for a student to which this
subdivision is applicable shall equal the mandatory systemwide fees in
the segment attended by the student, except for community college
students who receive waivers from the Board of Governors of the
California Community Colleges, plus the access award calculated as
specified in Article 3 (commencing with Section 69435) of Chapter 1.7
of Part 42, except that in the first year of enrollment in a qualifying
institution, the maximum award shall be only for the amount of the
access award.
   (c) The maximum Cal Grant awards for students attending nonpublic
institutions shall be as follows:
   (1) The maximum Cal Grant A award shall equal the tuition award
level established in the Budget Act of 2000, or the amount as adjusted
in subsequent annual budget acts.
   (2) The maximum Cal Grant B award shall equal the amount of the
tuition award as established in the Budget Act of 2000, or the amount as
adjusted in subsequent annual budget acts, plus the amount of the access
costs specified in Section 69435, except that, in the first year of
enrollment in a qualifying institution, the maximum award shall be only
for the amount of the access award.
   (d) Commencing with the 2000–01 academic year, and each
academic year thereafter, the Cal Grant C award shall be utilized only for
occupational or technical training.
   (e) Commencing with the 2000–01 academic year, and each
academic year thereafter, the Cal Grant T award shall be used only for
one academic year of full-time attendance in a program of professional
preparation that has been approved by the California Commission on
Teacher Credentialing.
   (f) An institution of higher education in this state that participates in
the Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal Grant Program shall
not reduce its level of per capita need-based institutional financial aid to
undergraduate students, excluding loans, below the total level awarded
in the 2000–01 academic year.
   (g) The implementation of the policy set forth in this section shall
maintain a balance between the state’s policy goals of ensuring student
access to and selection of an institution of higher education for students
with financial need and academic merit.
   (h) It is the policy of the State of California that the
Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos          Cal      Grant      Program
supplement the federal Pell Grant program.
[Ch. 403 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3037

  (i) An award under the Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal
Grant Program shall not guarantee admission to an institution of higher
education or admission to a specific campus or program.
  SEC. 4. Chapter 1.7 (commencing with Section 69430) is added to
Part 42 of the Education Code, to read:

  CHAPTER 1.7.     ORTIZ-PACHECO-POOCHIGIAN-VASCONCELLOS CAL
                          GRANT PROGRAM

                    Article 1.   General Provisions

   69430. This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as the
Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal Grant Program.
   69431. There           is        hereby         established        the
Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal Grant Program, which
may also be referred to as the Cal Grant Program.
   69432. (a) Cal Grant Program awards shall be known as ‘‘Cal Grant
A Entitlement Awards,’’ ‘‘Cal Grant B Entitlement Awards,’’
‘‘California Community College Transfer Entitlement Awards,’’
‘‘Competitive Cal Grant A and B Awards,’’ ‘‘Cal Grant C Awards,’’ and
‘‘Cal Grant T Awards.’’
   (b) Maximum award amounts for students at independent institutions
and for Cal Grant C and T awards shall be identified in the annual Budget
Act. Maximum award amounts for Cal Grant A and B awards for
students attending public institutions shall be referenced in the annual
Budget Act.
   69432.5. The Budget required by the California Constitution to be
submitted by the Governor at each Regular Session of the Legislature
shall take into consideration the amount of federal grant funds for
student financial aid.
   69432.7. As used in this chapter, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (a) An ‘‘academic year’’ is July 1 to June 30, inclusive. The starting
date of a session shall determine the academic year in which it is
included.
   (b) ‘‘Access costs’’ means living expenses and expenses for
transportation, supplies, and books.
   (c) ‘‘Award year’’ means one academic year, or the equivalent, of
attendance at a qualifying institution.
   (d) ‘‘College grade point average’’ and ‘‘community college grade
point average’’ mean a grade point average calculated on the basis of all
college work completed, except for nontransferable units and courses
not counted in the computation for admission to a California public
institution of higher education that grants a baccalaureate degree.
 3038                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 403 ]
   (e) ‘‘Commission’’ means the Student Aid Commission.
   (f) ‘‘Enrollment status’’ means part-time status or full-time status.
   (1) Part-time, for purposes of Cal Grant eligibility, is defined as 6 to
11 semester units, inclusive, or the equivalent.
   (2) Full-time, for purposes of Cal Grant eligibility, is defined as 12
or more semester units or the equivalent.
   (g) ‘‘Expected family contribution,’’ with respect to an applicant
shall be determined using the federal methodology pursuant to
subdivision (a) of Section 69506 (as established by Title IV of the federal
Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. Secs. 1070 et
seq.)) and applicable rules and regulations adopted by the commission.
   (h) ‘‘High school grade point average’’ means a grade point average
calculated on a 4.0 scale, using all academic coursework, for the
sophomore year, the summer following the sophomore year, the junior
year, and the summer following the junior year, excluding physical
education, reserve officer training corps (ROTC), and remedial courses,
and computed pursuant to regulations of the commission. However, for
high school graduates who apply after their senior year, ‘‘high school
grade point average’’ includes senior year coursework.
   (i) ‘‘Instructional program of not less than one academic year’’ means
a program of study that results in the award of an associate or
baccalaureate degree or certificate requiring at least 24 semester units or
the equivalent, or that results in eligibility for transfer from a community
college to a baccalaureate degree program.
   (j) ‘‘Instructional program of not less than two academic years’’
means a program of study that results in the award of an associate or
baccalaureate degree requiring at least 48 semester units or the
equivalent, or that results in eligibility for transfer from a community
college to a baccalaureate degree program.
   (k) ‘‘Maximum household income and asset levels’’ means the
applicable household income and household asset levels for participants
in the Cal Grant Program, as defined and adopted in regulations by the
commission for the 2001–02 academic year, which shall be set pursuant
to the following income and asset ceiling amounts:

                CAL GRANT PROGRAM INCOME CEILINGS


                                        Cal Grant A,
                                          C, and T           Cal Grant B
Dependent and Independent students with dependents*
Family Size
    Six or more                         $74,100                $40,700
    Five                                $68,700                $37,700
[Ch. 403 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                                3039

     Four                                  $64,100            $33,700
     Three                                 $59,000            $30,300
     Two                                   $57,600            $26,900

Independent
    Single, no dependents                  $23,500            $23,500
    Married                                $26,900            $26,900
*Applies to independent students with dependents other than a spouse.

                CAL GRANT PROGRAM ASSET CEILINGS

                                        Cal Grant A,
                                         C, and T           Cal Grant B

Dependent**                                $49,600            $49,600
Independent                                $23,600            $23,600
**Applies to independent students with dependents other than a spouse.
   The commission shall annually adjust the maximum household
income and asset levels based on the percentage change in the cost of
living within the meaning of paragraph (1) of subdivision (e) of Section
8 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   (l) ‘‘Qualifying institution’’ means any of the following:
   (1) Any California private or independent postsecondary educational
institution that participates in the Pell Grant program and in at least two
of the following federal campus-based student aid programs:
   (A) Federal Work-Study.
   (B) Perkins Loan Program.
   (C) Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program.
   (2) Any nonprofit institution headquartered and operating in
California that certifies to the commission that 10 percent of the
institution’s operating budget, as demonstrated in an audited financial
statement, is expended for the purposes of institutionally funded student
financial aid in the form of grants, that demonstrates to the commission
that it has the administrative capacity to administer the funds, that is
accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges, and that
meets any other state-required criteria adopted by regulation, by the
commission in consultation with the Department of Finance. A
regionally accredited institution that was deemed qualified by the
commission to participate in the Cal Grant Program for the 2000–01
academic year shall retain its eligibility as long as it maintains its
existing accreditation status.
   (3) Any California public postsecondary educational institution.
 3040                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 403 ]
   (m) ‘‘Satisfactory academic progress’’ means those criteria required
by applicable federal standards published in Title 34 of the Code of
Federal Regulations. The commission may adopt regulations defining
‘‘satisfactory academic progress’’ in a manner that is consistent with
those federal standards.
   69432.8. The commission may determine that an advance payment
is essential to ensure that funds provided pursuant to this chapter to assist
students to enroll in postsecondary education are available at the time
students enroll. Upon making that determination, the commission may,
on the basis of institutional academic calendars, advance, per term to
authorized postsecondary educational institutions, the funds for eligible
students who have indicated they will attend those institutions, less an
amount based on historical claim enrollment attrition information. Each
institution shall disburse the funds in accordance with the provisions set
forth in the institutional agreement between the commission and the
institution.
   69432.9. (a) A Cal Grant applicant shall submit a complete official
financial aid application pursuant to Section 69433 and applicable
regulations adopted by the commission.
   (b) Financial need shall be determined using the federal financial
need methodology pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 69506 and
applicable regulations adopted by the commission, and as established by
Title IV of the Federal Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. Secs.
1070 et seq., as amended). The calculation of financial need shall be
consistent with the commission’s methodology for financial need for the
2000–01 academic year.
   (1) ‘‘Expected family contribution,’’ with respect to an applicant
shall be determined using the federal methodology pursuant to
subdivision (a) of Section 69506 (as established by Title IV of the federal
Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. Secs. 1070 et
seq.)) and applicable rules and regulations adopted by the commission.
   (2) Financial need is defined as the difference between the student’s
cost of attendance as determined by the commission and the expected
family contribution. The calculation of financial need shall be consistent
with the commission’s methodology for determining financial need for
the 2000–01 academic year as established by Title IV of the federal
Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. Secs. 1070 et
seq.).
   (3) (A) The minimum financial need required for receipt of an initial
Cal Grant A or Cal Grant C award shall be not less than the maximum
annual award value for the applicable institution, plus an additional one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) of financial need.
   (B) The minimum financial need required for receipt of an initial Cal
Grant B award shall be no less than seven hundred dollars ($700).
[Ch. 403 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3041

   (c) The commission shall require that a grade point average be
submitted for all Cal Grant A and B applicants, except for those
permitted to provide test scores in lieu of a grade point average. The
commission shall require that each report of a grade point average
include a certification, executed under penalty of perjury, by a school
official, that the grade point average reported is accurately reported. The
certification shall include a statement that it is subject to review by the
commission or its designee. The commission shall adopt regulations that
establish a grace period for receipt of the grade point average and any
appropriate corrections, and that set forth the circumstances under which
a student may submit a specified test score designated by the
commission, by regulation, in lieu of submitting a qualifying grade point
average. It is the intent of the Legislature that high schools and
institutions of higher education certify the grade point averages of their
students in time to meet the application deadlines imposed by this
chapter.
   69433. (a) (1) A Cal Grant Program award shall be based upon the
financial need of the applicant, and shall not exceed the calculated
financial need for any individual applicant. The minimum level of
financial need of each applicant shall be determined by the commission
pursuant to Section 69432.9. The commission may provide renewal
awards.
   (2) A student attending a nonpublic institution shall receive a renewal
award for tuition or fees, or both, in an amount not to exceed the
maximum allowable award amount that was in effect in the year in which
the student first received a new award.
   (b) A Cal Grant award authorized pursuant to this chapter shall be
defined as a full-time equivalent grant. An award to a part-time student
shall be a fraction of a full-time grant, as determined by the commission.
   (c) (1) The commission shall prescribe the use of standardized
student financial aid applications for California. These applications shall
be simple in nature, and collect common data elements required by the
federal government and those elements needed to meet the objectives of
state-funded and institutional financial aid programs.
   (2) The applications prescribed in paragraph (1) shall be utilized for
the Cal Grant Program, all other programs funded by the state or a public
institution of postsecondary education (except for the Financial
Assistance Program of the Board of Governors of the California
Community Colleges authorized by Chapter 1118 of the Statutes of
1987, for which a simplified application designed for that sole purpose
may be used), and all federal programs administered by a public
postsecondary education institution.
   (3) Supplemental application information may be utilized if the
information is essential to accomplishing the objectives of individual
 3042                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 403 ]
programs. All supplemental application information used for the
purposes of commission-administered programs shall be subject to
approval by the commission, and applications shall be identical for
programs with similar objectives, as determined by the commission.
   (4) Public postsecondary institutions are encouraged to use, but may
decide whether to use, the standard applications for funds provided by
private donors.
   (5) The Legislature finds and declares that it is in the best interest of
students that all postsecondary education institutions in California
participating in federal and state-funded financial aid programs accept
the standard applications prescribed by the commission.
   (d) Nothing in this chapter shall prevent an individual public
postsecondary institution from processing, with its own staff and fiscal
resources, the standard financial aid applications specified in
subdivision (c) for student aid programs for which it has legal
responsibility.
   (e) The commission may enter into contracts with a public agency or
a private entity to improve the processing and distribution of grants,
fellowships, and loans through the use of electronic networks and
unified data bases.
   69433.5. (a) Only a resident of California, as determined by the
commission pursuant to Part 41 (commencing with Section 68000), is
eligible for an initial Cal Grant award. The recipient shall remain eligible
for award renewal only if he or she is a California resident, in attendance,
and making satisfactory academic progress at a qualifying institution, as
determined by the commission.
   (b) A part-time student shall not be discriminated against in the
selection of Cal Grant Program award recipients, and an award to a
part-time student shall be approximately proportional to the time the
student spends in the instructional program, as determined by the
commission. A first-time Cal Grant Program award recipient who is a
part-time student shall be eligible for a full-time renewal award if he or
she becomes a full-time student.
   (c) Cal Grant Program awards shall be awarded without regard to
race, religion, creed, sex, or age.
   (d) No applicant shall receive more than one type of Cal Grant
Program award concurrently. Except as provided in Section 69440, no
applicant shall:
   (1) Receive one or a combination of Cal Grant Program awards in
excess of the amount equivalent to the award level for a total of four years
of full-time attendance in an undergraduate program, except as provided
in Section 69433.6.
   (2) Have obtained a baccalaureate degree prior to receiving a Cal
Grant Program award, except as provided in Section 69440.
[Ch. 403 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3043

   (e) A Cal Grant Program award, except as provided in Section 69440,
may only be used for educational expenses of a program of study leading
directly to an undergraduate degree or certificate, or for expenses of
undergraduate coursework in a program of study leading directly to a
first professional degree, but for which no baccalaureate degree is
awarded.
   (f) Commencing in 1999, the commission shall, for students who
accelerate college attendance, increase the amount of award proportional
to the period of additional attendance resulting from attendance in
classes that fulfill requirements or electives for graduation during
summer terms, sessions, or quarters. In the aggregate, the total amount
a student may receive in a four-year period may not be increased as a
result of accelerating his or her progress to a degree by attending summer
terms, sessions, or quarters.
   (g) The commission shall notify Cal Grant award recipients of the
availability of funding for the summer term, session, or quarter through
prominent notice in financial aid award letters, materials, guides,
electronic information, and other means that may include, but not
necessarily be limited to, surveys, newspaper articles, or attachments to
communications from the commission and any other published
documents.
   (h) The commission may require, by the adoption of rules and
regulations, the production of reports, accounting, documents, or other
necessary statements from the award recipient and the college or
university of attendance pertaining to the use or application of the award.
   (i) A Cal Grant Program award may be utilized only at a qualifying
institution.
   69433.6. (a) Cal Grant A awards and Cal Grant B awards may be
renewed for a total of the equivalent of four years of full-time attendance
in an undergraduate program provided that financial need continues to
exist. Commencing with the 2001–02 academic year, the total number
of years of eligibility for grants pursuant to this section shall be based
on the student’s educational level in his or her course of study as
designated by the institution of attendance when the recipient initially
receives payment for a grant.
   (b) For a student enrolled in an institutionally prescribed five-year
undergraduate program, Cal Grant A awards and Cal Grant B awards
may be renewed for a total of five years of full-time attendance, provided
that financial need continues to exist.
   (c) (1) A Cal Grant Program award recipient who has completed a
baccalaureate degree, and who has been admitted to and is enrolled in
a program of professional teacher preparation at an institution approved
by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing is eligible for,
but not entitled to, renewal of a Cal Grant Program award for an
 3044                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 403 ]
additional year of full-time attendance, if financial need continues to
exist.
   (2) Payment for an additional year is limited to only those courses
required for an initial teaching authorization. An award made under this
subdivision may not be used for other courses.
   (d) A student’s Cal Grant renewal eligibility shall not have lapsed
more than 15 months prior to the payment of an award for purposes of
this section.
   69433.7. The commission shall adopt regulations necessary to
implement this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
commission may adopt emergency regulations pursuant to Section
11346.1 of the Government Code in order to ensure that the program
enacted by this chapter may function in its first academic year.
   69433.8. An award under this chapter does not guarantee admission
to an institution of higher education or admission to a specific campus
or program.
   69433.9. To be eligible to receive a Cal Grant award under this
chapter, a student shall be all of the following:
   (a) A citizen of the United States, or an eligible noncitizen, as defined
for purposes of financial aid programs under Title IV of the federal
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. Secs. 1070 et seq., as from
time to time amended).
   (b) In compliance with all applicable Selective Service registration
requirements.
   (c) Not incarcerated.
   (d) Not in default on any student loan within the meaning of Section
69507.5.
   (e) For purposes of Article 2 (commencing with Section 69434),
Article 3 (commencing with Section 69435), and Article 4 (commencing
with Section 69436), at the time of high school graduation or its
equivalent, be a resident of California.

             Article 2.   Cal Grant A Entitlement Program

   69434. (a) Commencing with the 2001–02 academic year, and each
academic year thereafter, a Cal Grant A award shall be used only for
tuition or student fees, or both, in a for-credit instructional program with
a length of not less than two academic years. Each student who meets the
Cal Grant A qualifications as set forth in this article shall be guaranteed
an award. The amount of any individual award is dependent on the cost
of tuition or fees, or both, at the qualifying institution at which the
student is enrolled. For each applicant, the award amount shall not
exceed the calculated financial need.
[Ch. 403 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3045

   (b) Pursuant to Section 66021.2, any California resident is entitled to
a Cal Grant A award, and the commission shall allocate that award, if all
of the following criteria are met:
   (1) The student has submitted, pursuant to Section 69432.9, a
complete financial aid application, submitted or postmarked no later
than March 2 of the academic year of high school graduation or its
equivalent for the award year immediately following the academic year
of high school graduation or its equivalent, or no later than March 2 of
the academic year following high school graduation or its equivalent for
the second award year following the year of high school graduation or
its equivalent.
   (2) The student demonstrates financial need pursuant to Section
69433.
   (3) The student attains a high school grade point average of at least
3.0 on a four-point scale.
   (4) The student’s household has an income and asset level that does
not exceed the level for Cal Grant A recipients set forth in Section
69432.7.
   (5) The student is pursuing an undergraduate academic program of
not less than two academic years that is offered by a qualifying
institution.
   (6) The student is enrolled at least part-time.
   (7) The student meets the general Cal Grant eligibility requirements
set forth in Article 1 (commencing with Section 69430).
   (c) A student who meets the Cal Grant A Entitlement Program criteria
specified in this article shall receive a Cal Grant A award for tuition or
fees, or both, pursuant to Section 66021.2.
   69434.5. An individual selected for a Cal Grant A award who
enrolls in a California community college may elect to have the award
held in reserve for him or her for a period not to exceed two academic
years, except that the commission may extend the period in which his or
her award may be held in reserve for up to three academic years if, in the
commission’s judgment, the rate of academic progress has been as rapid
as could be expected for the personal and financial conditions that the
student has encountered. The commission shall, in this case, hold the
award in reserve for the additional year. Upon receipt of a request to
transfer the award to a tuition or fee charging qualifying institution, the
individual will be eligible to receive the Cal Grant A award previously
held in reserve if, at the time of the request, he or she meets all of the
requirements of this article. Upon receipt of the request, the commission
shall reassess the financial need of the award recipient. The commission
may prescribe the forms and procedures to be utilized for the purposes
of this section. A recipient’s years of eligibility for payment of benefits
 3046                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 403 ]
shall be based upon his or her grade level at the time the award is
transferred to the tuition or fee charging qualifying institution.

             Article 3.   Cal Grant B Entitlement Program

   69435. (a) (1) Commencing with the 2001–02 academic year, and
each academic year thereafter, a Cal Grant B award shall be used only
for tuition, student fees, and access costs in a for-credit instructional
program that is not less than one academic year in length.
   (2) The commission shall award access grants in a student’s first
academic year. In subsequent years, the award shall include an additional
amount to pay tuition or fees, or both, to attend college at a public or
private four-year college or university or other qualifying institution for
all Cal Grant B awards pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (b) of
Section 66021.2. In no event shall the total award in any year exceed the
applicant’s calculated financial need.
   (3) Not more than 2 percent of new Cal Grant B recipients enrolling
for the first time in an institution of postsecondary education shall be
eligible for payments for tuition or fees, or both, in their first academic
year of attendance. The commission shall adopt regulations specifying
the criteria used to determine which applicants, if any, receive both
tuition and fees plus the access grant in the first year of enrollment.
Priority shall be given to students with the lowest expected family
contribution pursuant to Section 69432.7 and the highest level of
academic merit.
   (b) An award for access costs under this article shall be in an annual
amount not to exceed one thousand five hundred fifty-one dollars
($1,551). This amount may be adjusted in the annual Budget Act.
   69435.3. (a) Any California resident is entitled to receive a Cal
Grant B award, and the commission shall allocate that award pursuant
to Section 66021.2, if all of the following criteria are met:
   (1) The student has submitted, pursuant to Section 69432.9, a
complete financial aid application, submitted or postmarked no later
than March 2 of the academic year of high school graduation or its
equivalent for the award year immediately following the academic year
of high school graduation or its equivalent, or no later than March 2 of
the academic year following high school graduation or its equivalent for
the second award year following the year of high school graduation or
its equivalent.
   (2) The student demonstrates financial need pursuant to Section
69433.
   (3) The student attains a high school grade point average of at least
2.0 on a four-point scale.
[Ch. 403 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3047

  (4) The student’s household has an income and asset level that does
not exceed the level for Cal Grant B recipients as set forth in Section
69432.7.
  (5) The student is pursuing an undergraduate academic program of
not less than one academic year that is offered by a qualifying institution.
  (6) The student is enrolled at least part-time.
  (7) The student meets the general Cal Grant eligibility requirements
set forth in Article 1 (commencing with Section 69430).
  (b) A student whose household income does not exceed the
maximum household income and asset levels, as set forth in Section
69432.7, for a Cal Grant B award shall receive access costs and tuition
and fees pursuant to Section 66021.2.

    Article 4.   California Community College Transfer Cal Grant
                          Entitlement Program

   69436. (a) Commencing with the 2001–02 academic year, and each
academic year thereafter, a student who was not awarded a Cal Grant A
or B award pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section 69434) or
Article 3 (commencing with Section 69435) at the time of his or her high
school graduation but, at the time of transfer from a California
community college to a qualifying baccalaureate program, meets all of
the criteria set forth in subdivision (b), shall be entitled to a Cal Grant
A or B award.
   (b) Any California resident transferring from a California community
college to a qualifying institution that offers a baccalaureate degree is
entitled to receive, and the commission shall award, a Cal Grant A or B
depending on the eligibility determined pursuant to subdivision (c), if
all of the following criteria are met:
   (1) A complete official financial aid application has been submitted
or postmarked pursuant to Section 69432.9, no later than the March 2 of
the year immediately preceding the award year.
   (2) The student demonstrates financial need pursuant to Section
69433.
   (3) The student has earned a community college grade point average
of at least 2.4 on a 4.0 scale and is eligible to transfer to a qualifying
institution that offers a baccalaureate degree.
   (4) The student’s household has an income and asset level not
exceeding the limits set forth in Section 69432.7.
   (5) The student is pursuing a baccalaureate degree that is offered by
a qualifying institution.
   (6) He or she is enrolled at least part-time.
   (7) The student meets the general Cal Grant eligibility requirements
set forth in Article 1 (commencing with Section 69430).
 3048                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 403 ]
   (8) The student meets the federal definition of a dependent student,
as set forth in Section 152 of Title 26 of the United States Code, with the
exception of:
   (A) A student who is an orphan or a ward of the court and who will
not be 24 years old or older by December 31 of the award year.
   (B) A student who is a veteran of the United States Armed Forces and
who will not be 24 years old or older by December 31 of the award year.
   (C) A student who is a married person and who will not be 24 years
old or older by December 31 of the award year.
   (D) A student who will not be 24 years old or older by December 31
of the award year and who has dependents other than a spouse.
   (E) A student who will not be 24 years old or older by December 31
of the award year and for whom a financial aid administrator makes
documented determination of independence by reason of other unusual
circumstances.
   (9) A student who graduated from a California high school or its
equivalent during or after the 2001–02 academic year.
   (c) The amount and type of the award pursuant to this article shall be
determined as follows:
   (1) For applicants with income and assets at or under the Cal Grant
A limits, the award amount shall be the amount established pursuant to
Article 2 (commencing with Section 69434).
   (2) For applicants with income and assets at or under the Cal Grant
B limits, the award amount shall be the amount established pursuant to
Article 3 (commencing with Section 69435).
   69436.5. A participating qualifying institution shall report to the
commission annually as to the number of students determined to be
independent pursuant to subparagraph (E) of paragraph (8) of
subdivision (b) of Section 69436 and the reasons therefor.

         Article 5.   Competitive Cal Grant A and B Awards

  69437. (a) Commencing with the 2001–02 academic year, and each
academic year thereafter, there shall be established the Competitive Cal
Grant A and B award program for students who did not receive a Cal
Grant A or B entitlement award pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with
Section 69434), Article 3 (commencing with Section 69435), or Article
4 (commencing with Section 69436). Awards made under this section
are not entitlements. The submission of an application by a student under
this section shall not entitle that student to an award. The selection of
students under this article shall be determined pursuant to subdivision
(c) and other relevant criteria established by the commission.
  (b) A total of 22,500 Cal Grant A and B awards shall be granted
annually under this article on a competitive basis for applicants who
[Ch. 403 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3049

meet the general eligibility criteria established in Article 1 (commencing
with Section 69430) and the priorities established by the commission
pursuant to subdivision (c).
   (1) Fifty percent of the awards referenced in this subdivision are
available to all students, including California community college
students, who meet the financial need and academic requirements
established pursuant to this article. A student enrolling at a qualifying
baccalaureate degree granting institution shall apply by the March 2
deadline. A California community college student is eligible to apply at
the March 2 or the September 2 deadline.
   (2) Fifty percent of the awards referenced in this subdivision are
reserved for students who will be enrolled at a California community
college. The commission shall establish a second application deadline
of September 2 for community college students to apply for these awards
effective with the fall term or semester of the 2001–02 academic year.
   (3) If any awards are not distributed pursuant to paragraphs (1) and
(2) upon initial allocation of the awards under this article, the
commission shall make awards to as many eligible students as possible,
beginning with the students with the lowest expected family
contribution and highest academic merit, consistent with the criteria
adopted by the commission pursuant to subdivision (c), as practicable
without exceeding an annual cumulative total of 22,500 awards.
   (c) (1) On or before February 1, 2001, acting pursuant to a public
hearing process that is consistent with the Bagley-Keene Open Meeting
Act (Article 9 (commencing with Section 11120) of Chapter 1 of Part 1
of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code), the commission shall
establish selection criteria for Cal Grant A and B awards under the
competitive program that give special consideration to disadvantaged
students, taking into consideration those financial, educational, cultural,
language, home, community, environmental, and other conditions that
hamper a student’s access to, and ability to persist in, postsecondary
education programs.
   (2) Additional consideration shall be given to each of the following:
   (A) Students who graduated from high school or its equivalent prior
to the 2000–01 academic year. This subparagraph shall not be applicable
after the 2004–05 academic year.
   (B) Students pursuing Cal Grant B awards who reestablish their grade
point averages.
   (C) Students who did not receive awards pursuant to Article 2
(commencing with Section 69434), Article 3 (commencing with Section
69435), or Article 4 (commencing with Section 69436).
   (d) All other students who meet the eligibility requirements pursuant
to Article 1 (commencing with Section 69430) are eligible to compete
for an award pursuant to this article.
 3050                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 403 ]
   69437.3. (a) The commission shall utilize the standardized student
financial aid application described in Section 69432.9.
   (b) An official financial aid application shall be submitted pursuant
to Section 69432.9, submitted or postmarked no later than March 2, or
September 2 for students enrolled at a community college.
   (c) A student shall be enrolled at least part-time.
   69437.5. Cal Grant A and B awards shall be used only for the
purposes set forth in Article 2 (commencing with Section 69434) and
Article 3 (commencing with Section 69435), respectively.
   69437.6. (a) An applicant competing for an award under this article
shall meet all the requirements of Article 1 (commencing with Section
69430).
   (b) To compete for a competitive Cal Grant A Award, an applicant
shall, at a minimum, meet all of the requirements of Article 2
(commencing with Section 69434), with the exception of paragraph (1)
of subdivision (b) of Section 69434.
   (c) To compete for a competitive Cal Grant B Award, an applicant
shall, at a minimum, meet all of the requirements of Article 3
(commencing with Section 69435). However, in lieu of meeting the
grade point average requirements of paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of
Section 69435.3, a student may reestablish his or her grade point average
by completing at least 16 cumulative units of credit for academic
coursework at an accredited California community college, as defined
by the commission, by regulation, with at least a 2.0 community college
grade point average.
   (d) To compete for a competitive California Community College
Transfer Cal Grant Award, an applicant shall, at a minimum, meet the
requirements of Article 4 (commencing with Section 69436), with the
exception of paragraph (8) of subdivision (b) of Section 69436.
   (e) All other competitors shall, at a minimum, comply with all of the
requirements of subdivision (b) of Section 69432.9.
   (f) An individual selected for a Cal Grant A award who enrolls in a
California community college may elect to have the award held in
reserve for him or her for a period not to exceed two academic years,
except that the commission may extend the period in which his or her
award may be held in reserve for up to three academic years if, in the
commission’s judgment, the rate of academic progress has been as rapid
as could be expected for the personal and financial conditions that the
student has encountered. The commission shall, in this case, hold the
award in reserve for the additional year. Upon receipt of a request to
transfer the award to a tuition or fee charging qualifying institution, the
individual will be eligible to receive the Cal Grant A award previously
held in reserve if, at the time of the request, he or she meets all of the
requirements of this article. Upon receipt of the request the commission
[Ch. 403 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3051

shall reassess the financial need of the award recipient. The commission
may prescribe the forms and procedures to be utilized for the purposes
of this section. A recipient’s years of eligibility for payment of benefits
shall be based upon his or her grade level at the time the award is
transferred to the tuition or fee charging qualifying institution. Any
award so held in reserve shall only be counted once toward the 22,500
awards authorized by this article.
   69437.7. After two award cycles, the commission shall review the
competitive grant program and its priorities to gain a better
understanding of early participation patterns and to determine the initial
level of program effectiveness. The commission shall report these
findings to the Legislature and the Governor by December 31, 2003, and
each year thereafter.

                   Article 6.   Cal Grant C Program

   69439. (a) Commencing with the 2001–02 academic year, and each
academic year thereafter, a Cal Grant C award shall be utilized only for
occupational or technical training in a course of not less than four
months. There shall be the same number of Cal Grant C awards each year
as were made in the 2000–01 fiscal year. The maximum award amount
and the total amount of funding shall be determined each year in the
annual Budget Act.
   (b) ‘‘Occupational or technical training’’ means that phase of
education coming after the completion of a secondary school program
and leading toward recognized occupational goals approved by the
commission.
   (c) The commission may use criteria it deems appropriate in selecting
students with occupational talents to receive grants for occupational or
technical training.
   (d) The Cal Grant C recipients shall be eligible for renewal of their
grants until they have completed their occupational or technical training
in conformance with terms prescribed by the commission. In no case
shall the grants exceed two calendar years.
   (e) Cal Grant C awards shall be for institutional fees, charges, and
other costs including tuition, plus training-related costs, such as special
clothing, local transportation, required tools, equipment, supplies, and
books. In determining the amount of grants and training-related costs,
the commission shall take into account other state and federal programs
available to the applicant.
   (f) Cal Grant C awards shall be awarded in areas of occupational or
technical training as determined by the commission after consultation
with appropriate state and federal agencies.
 3052                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 403 ]
                   Article 7.   Cal Grant T Program

   69440. (a) Commencing with the 2001–02 academic year, and each
academic year thereafter, Cal Grant T awards shall be used only for
tuition and student fees for a maximum of one academic year of full-time
attendance in a program of professional preparation that has been
approved by the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing.
There shall be a minimum of 3,000 new Cal Grant T awards each year.
The maximum award amount, and the total amount of funding, shall be
determined each year in the annual Budget Act. As a condition of
receiving a Cal Grant T award, a recipient shall teach for one year in a
low-performing school, as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 44765,
for each two thousand dollar ($2,000) incentive provided through the
Cal Grant T Program, for a period not to exceed four years. Any recipient
who fails to meet his or her teaching obligation shall repay the Cal Grant
T award.
   (b) The commission shall allocate Cal Grant T awards using
academic criteria or criteria related to past performance similar to that
used in awarding Cal Grant A awards for the 2000–01 academic year.
   SEC. 5. Section 69514.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   69514.5. (a) The Community College Student Financial Aid
Outreach Program is hereby established. The commission shall, in
consultation with the office of the Chancellor of the California
Community Colleges, develop and administer this program for the
purpose of providing financial aid training to high school and
community college counselors and advisors who work with students
planning to attend or attending a community college. This training shall
also address the specific needs of all of the following:
   (1) Community college students intending to transfer to a four-year
institution of higher education.
   (2) Foster youth.
   (3) Students with disabilities.
   (b) The program shall provide specialized information on financial
aid opportunities available to community college students, with a
particular focus on students who plan to transfer to a four-year college
or university. The commission shall work in collaboration with the
Chancellor of the California Community Colleges and other segments
of higher education to develop and distribute this specialized
information to assist community college students who are planning to
transfer to a four-year college or university. Each year, the program shall
offer financial aid workshops for high school and community college
counselors, targeted for students planning to attend a community college
or to transfer from a community college to a four-year institution of
higher education. The program shall assist community college
[Ch. 403 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3053

counselors in conducting student and family workshops that provide
general information about financial aid and technical assistance in
completing financial aid forms.
   (c) The program shall concentrate its efforts on high schools and
community colleges that are located in geographic areas that have a high
percentage of low-income families.
   SEC. 6. Section 69547.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   69547.5. Commencing on January 1, 2001, this article shall be
applicable only to students who have received an award pursuant to this
article on or before December 31, 2000.
   SEC. 7. Section 69547.9 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   69547.9. This article shall remain in effect only until January 1,
2010, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that
is enacted before January 1, 2010, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 8. The Student Aid Commission shall annually report to the
Legislature         and         the        Governor          on         the
Ortiz-Pacheco-Poochigian-Vasconcellos Cal Grant Program from its
inception on both of the following:
   (a) The number of Cal Grant applicants and new and continuing
recipients each year. This data shall include at a minimum the following
information about recipients: educational level, grade point average,
segment of attendance, number of community college transfer students.
   (b) A longitudinal component that measures student persistence and
graduation rates over time.
   SEC. 9. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director of
Finance may authorize the augmentation, from the Special Fund for
Economic Uncertainties established pursuant to Section 16418 of the
Government Code, of the annual amount appropriated for the purpose
of making Cal Grant awards pursuant to Chapter 1.7 (commencing with
Section 69430) of Part 42 of the Education Code, as necessary to fully
fund the number of awards required to be granted by that chapter. No
augmentation may be authorized under this section sooner than 30 days
after the Director of Finance provides written notice of the proposed
augmentation to the Chairperson of the Joint Legislative Budget
Committee and the chairpersons of the committees in each house that
consider appropriations, nor sooner than whatever lesser time those
persons, or their designees, may in each instance determine.
   SEC. 10. (a) The sum of one million five hundred thousand dollars
($1,500,000) is hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the
Student Aid Commission for expenditure, without regard to fiscal year,
for support costs related to the administration of this act.
   (b) The expenditure of the funds appropriated in subdivision (a) is
subject to approval of a work plan by the Department of Finance, once
 3054                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 404 ]
30-day written notification has been given to the Chairperson of the Joint
Legislative Budget Committee, or his or her designee.
   (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any deficiency
request submitted by the Student Aid Commission and recommended by
the Director of Finance, pursuant to Section 27.00 of the Budget Act of
2000, for the purposes of implementing this act, shall be considered to
be for unanticipated expenses incurred in the operation of existing
programs, and shall be subject to any other pertinent provisions of
Section 27.00 of the Budget Act of 2000.
   (d) In order to ensure proper planning for administration of this act,
it is the intent of the Legislature that the Department of Finance consider
a Spring Finance Letter from the Student Aid Commission for inclusion
in the Budget Bill for the 2001–02 fiscal year for the purposes of
requesting funds to comply with this act in the 2001–02 fiscal year.
   (e) No funds provided pursuant to this section shall be expended for
information technology projects prior to approval by the Department of
Finance and the Department of Information Technology of a Feasibility
Study Report or a Special Project Report, as applicable.
   SEC. 11. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order for this act to take effect in time to apply to high school seniors
who graduate in the 2000–01 academic year, it is necessary that it take
effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 404

  An act to amend Sections 42239.2 and 69981 of, to add Sections
42239.15 and 99223 to, to add Chapter 17 (commencing with Section
53081) to Part 28 of, and to add Article 20 (commencing with Section
69995) to Chapter 2 of Part 42 of, the Education Code, relating to
education, making an appropriation therefor, and declaring the urgency
thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1.        Section 42239.15 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
[Ch. 404 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3055

   42239.15. (a) For the 2000–01 fiscal year and each fiscal year
thereafter, each school district and charter school shall be eligible for
reimbursement for hours of pupil attendance claimed for intensive
algebra instruction academies offered pursuant to Chapter 17
(commencing with Section 53081) of Part 28 in an amount up to 6
percent of the total enrollment in grades 7 and 8 of the school district or
charter school for the prior fiscal year multiplied by 120 hours,
multiplied by the hourly rate for the current fiscal year determined
pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 42239. This amount shall be
provided in addition to the amount provided pursuant to Section 42239.
   (b) When expending funds received pursuant to this section, a school
district shall give first priority for the purpose specified in paragraph (1)
of subdivision (d) of Section 53082.
   SEC. 2. Section 42239.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   42239.2. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
Superintendent of Public Instruction shall allocate a minimum of six
thousand seven hundred sixty-six dollars ($6,766) for supplemental
summer school programs established pursuant to Article 1 (commencing
with Section 53025) of Chapter 16 of Part 28, from funds appropriated
therefor, in each school district that, for the prior fiscal year, maintained
less than 500 units of average daily attendance and that offers at least
1,500 hours of supplemental summer school instruction. A school
district that, for the prior fiscal year, maintained less than 500 units of
average daily attendance that offers less than 1,500 hours of
supplemental summer school offerings shall receive a proportionate
reduction in its allocation.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Superintendent
of Public Instruction shall allocate a minimum of six thousand seven
hundred sixty-six dollars ($6,766) for Intensive Algebra Instructional
Academies established pursuant to Section 53081, from funds
appropriated therefor, in each school district that, for the prior fiscal year,
maintained less than 333 units of average daily attendance for pupils in
grades 7 and 8 and that offers at least 1,500 hours of intensive algebra
instruction. A school district that, for the prior fiscal year, maintained
less than 333 units of average daily attendance for pupils in grades 7 and
8 and that offers less than 1,500 hours of Intensive Algebra Instructional
Academy offerings shall receive a proportionate reduction in its
allocation.
   (c) Minimum allocations for supplemental summer school programs
required pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (b) shall be adjusted for
inflation in the 2000–01 fiscal year, and each fiscal year thereafter, in
accordance with Section 42238.1.
   (d) For purposes of this section a charter school is a schoolsite and is
not a school district.
 3056                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 404 ]
  SEC. 3. Chapter 17 (commencing with Section 53081) is added to
Part 28 of the Education Code, to read:

     CHAPTER 17.     INTENSIVE ALGEBRA INSTRUCTION ACADEMIES
                              PROGRAM

   53081. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
Intensive Algebra Instruction Academies Program.
   53082. (a) A school district or charter school that maintains grade
7 or 8, or both, may operate a program that provides multiple, intensive
opportunities for pupils in either of these grades to practice skills in
prealgebra, algebra, or both. Funding for the program established
pursuant to this chapter shall be provided pursuant to Section 42239.15.
   (b) As a condition of receiving funding for this program, a school
district or charter school in which one or more teachers participate in the
program authorized by Section 99223 is required to offer instruction as
described in subdivision (a), to be provided by the teachers attending that
program. These school districts and charter schools shall offer this
instruction only after those teachers have completed the program
authorized by Section 99223. Nothing in this subdivision shall be
interpreted as precluding teachers in these school districts who have not
participated in the program authorized by Section 99223 from providing
instruction as described in subdivision (a).
   (c) Pupils shall remain eligible for participation in the program
established pursuant to this chapter for three calendar months after
completing grade 8.
   (d) The purposes of the program established by this chapter include,
but are not limited to, both of the following:
   (1) To provide pupils who are experiencing difficulty learning
prealgebra and algebra with increased instructional opportunities.
   (2) To provide stimulating and enriching opportunities for pupils to
increase their prealgebra and algebra skills.
   (e) (1) Instruction provided pursuant to this program shall include all
of the following components:
   (A) Mathematics principles generally used in a prealgebra course or
an introductory algebra course.
   (B) Ongoing diagnostic techniques that inform teaching and
assessment.
   (C) Early intervention techniques.
   (2) Instruction provided pursuant to this chapter shall be consistent
with state-adopted academic content standards and with the curriculum
framework on mathematics adopted by the State Board of Education for
kindergarten and grades 1 to 12, inclusive.
[Ch. 404 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3057

   53083. (a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), intensive
prealgebra and algebra instruction provided pursuant to this chapter shall
be offered four hours per day for six continuous weeks during the
summer or when school is not regularly in session.
   (2) Due to facilities constraints or for other educational reasons, a
school district may offer intensive prealgebra and algebra instruction
before school, after school, on Saturdays, or during intersession, or in a
combination of summer school, after school, Saturday, or intersession
instruction.
   (b) Instruction provided pursuant to this chapter shall fulfill the
requirements of subdivision (a) of Section 44830 and of Section 44831.
   (c) Notwithstanding Section 49550 or any other provision of law, a
school district that operates a program pursuant to this chapter is not
required to provide a meal or snack to pupils participating in the
program.
   53084. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall provide for
an evaluation of the program established pursuant to this chapter on or
before November 1, 2002. If funds are needed for this purpose, it is the
intent of the Legislature that funds be appropriated for this purpose in the
annual Budget Act.
   SEC. 4. Section 69981 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   69981. (a) There is hereby created an instrumentality of the State
of California to be known as the Golden State Scholarshare Trust.
   (b) The purposes, powers, and duties of the trust are vested in, and
shall be exercised by, the board.
   (c) The board, in the capacity of trustee, shall have the power and
authority to do all of the following:
   (1) Sue and be sued.
   (2) Make and enter into contracts necessary for the administration of
the scholarshare trust.
   (3) Adopt a corporate seal and change and amend it from time to time.
   (4) Cause moneys in the program fund to be held and invested and
reinvested.
   (5) Enter into agreements with any institution of higher education or
any federal or other state agency or other entity as required for the
effectuation of its rights and duties.
   (6) Accept any grants, gifts, appropriation, and other moneys from
any unit of federal, state, or local government or any other person, firm,
partnership, or corporation for deposit to the administrative fund or the
program fund. Except as otherwise provided in Section 69982, the trust
may not accept any contribution by any nonpublic entity, person, firm,
partnership, or corporation that is not designated for a specified
beneficiary.
 3058                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 404 ]
  (7) Enter into participation agreements with participants, as set forth
in Section 69983.
  (8) Make payments to institutions of higher education pursuant to
participation agreements on behalf of beneficiaries.
  (9) Make refunds to participants upon the cancellation of
participation agreements pursuant to the provisions, limitations, and
restrictions set forth in this article.
  (10) Appoint a program administrator and determine the duties of the
program administrator and other staff as necessary and set their
compensation. The board may authorize the program administrator to
enter into contracts on behalf of the board.
  (11) Make provisions for the payment of costs of administration and
operation of the scholarshare trust.
  (12) Carry out the duties and obligations of the scholarshare trust
pursuant to this article and have any and all other powers as may be
reasonably necessary for the effectuation of the purposes, objectives, and
provisions of this article pertaining to the scholarshare trust, as set forth
in Section 69982.
  (d) The board shall adopt regulations as it deems necessary to
implement this article and Article 20 (commencing with Section 69995)
consistent with the federal Internal Revenue Code and regulations issued
pursuant to that code to ensure that this program meets all criteria for
federal tax-deferral or tax-exempt benefits, or both.
  SEC. 5. Article 20 (commencing with Section 69995) is added to
Chapter 2 of Part 42 of the Education Code, to read:

            Article 20.    Governor’s Scholarship Programs

   69995. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this article
to encourage high school pupils to study hard and master the California
academic content standards adopted by the State Board of Education and
to excel in mathematics and the sciences.
   (b) The Scholarshare Investment Board, known hereafter as ‘‘the
board,’’ unless otherwise specified, shall administer the programs
authorized by this article, including the adoption of rules and regulations
as provided by subdivision (d) of Section 69981, and in so doing shall
cooperate with the State Department of Education, the Treasurer’s
office, the Controller, the college board, private test publishing
companies, and other entities necessary to ensure the accurate and timely
identification and reporting of award recipients, granting of awards, and
administration of these programs. The State Department of Education
shall ensure that the contract with the test publisher selected pursuant to
Section 60642 reflects the reporting requirements of this article and that
the publisher meets those requirements.
[Ch. 404 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3059

   (c) The definitions in Section 69980 apply to this article.
   (d) To be eligible for an award pursuant to the programs authorized
by this article, a pupil shall meet all of the following eligibility criteria:
   (1) Take the achievement test authorized by Section 60640 in grade
9, 10, or 11.
   (2) Attend a California public school for at least one continuous year
prior to the administration of the achievement test specified in paragraph
(1), as evidenced by his or her school records obtained as part of the
process of claiming an award authorized by this article.
   (3) Take both of the following:
   (A) The nationally normed reading and mathematics portions of the
achievement test, as specified by the State Board of Education and
authorized by Section 60640.
   (B) The English/language arts and mathematics portions of the
achievement test authorized by Section 60640 that are augmented and
aligned, pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 60644, with the California
academic content standards, unless otherwise exempted by action of the
State Board of Education.
   (e) Awards made pursuant to this article shall be an entitlement to
pupils identified as qualifying for an award pursuant to this article. The
entity contracted for the assessment authorized by Section 60640 shall
annually provide the board with a digital report of award recipients
pursuant to this section, no later than 30 days after the results of the
assessment authorized by Section 60640 have been made public
pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 60641. Upon receipt of this report,
the board shall deposit a single amount equal to the sum of the amounts
of the awards earned by qualifying pupils into a single account separate
and apart from all participant accounts within the Golden State
Scholarshare Trust in the names of those pupils. Scholarship assets may
not be commingled for investment purposes with participant accounts.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 69991, all assets of the
scholarship account, while part of the Golden State Scholarshare Trust,
are owned by the state until a qualified distribution is made.
   (f) Deposits made to this account shall be invested according to the
guidelines established by the board pursuant to the requirements of state
and federal law. The deposits shall be invested through a guaranteed
funding agreement with an interest rate to be declared annually by the
investment manager, or through another investment determined by the
board to be equally or more secure. For purposes of this section, a
guaranteed funding agreement is an approved investment vehicle for
state-owned scholarship funds.
   (g) Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent any pupil from
seeking private or other funding sources to supplement the amount of
any funds awarded pursuant to this article.
 3060                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 404 ]
   (h) Award recipients shall be informed that the programs authorized
by this article do not guarantee in any way that higher education
expenses will be equal to projections and estimates provided by the
board, nor that the claimant will be guaranteed any of the following:
   (1) Admission to an institution of higher education.
   (2) If admitted, a determination that the award recipient is a resident
for tuition purposes by the institution of higher education.
   (3) Continued attendance at the institution of higher education
following admission.
   (4) Graduation from the institution of higher education.
   (5) Savings sufficient to fully cover all qualified education expenses
of attending an institution of higher education.
   (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of state law, any funds
awarded pursuant to this article shall augment and not supplant student
financial aid from other public sources, inclusive of calculating
eligibility for student financial aid.
   (j) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the awards and
earnings claimed by a recipient pursuant to this article shall be exempt
from state income tax liability.
   (k) To the extent allowed under federal law, any funds awarded
pursuant to this article may not be considered in the federal needs
analysis for student financial aid, as they are an asset of the state until
used for the payment of qualified higher education expenses.
   69996. (a) Awards and the investment earnings accumulated
pursuant to this article shall be available for the payment of qualified
higher education expenses, as defined in subdivisions (g) and (l) of
Section 69980. Pursuant to its authority under subdivision (d) of Section
69981, the board shall adopt rules and regulations to ensure that funds
authorized by this chapter are disbursed directly to the institution of
higher education indicated by an award recipient’s claim form.
   (b) Funds authorized by this article are nontransferable to any other
person or entity and may only be used for the purposes stated herein. No
funds authorized by this article may be pledged as collateral for any loan.
   (c) (1) Awards and their investment earnings invested in the
Scholarshare Trust shall remain assets of, and owned by, the state until
used for the payment of qualified higher education expenses as
authorized by this section, and shall remain invested in the Scholarshare
Trust until they are used for the purposes authorized by this section or
until the recipient achieves the age of 30, whichever occurs first. If, due
to death or disability, an award recipient is unable to attend a
postsecondary educational institution before reaching the age of 30 and
the scholarship funds have not already been used for purposes of this
article, the scholarship funds designated for the recipient shall revert to
the General Fund.
[Ch. 404 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3061

   (2) Any funds, less any applicable penalties, collected pursuant to
Section 529 of the federal Internal Revenue Code not utilized within this
time period shall revert to the General Fund after the payment of any
amount determined to be due the federal government as a result of the
reversion.
   (d) The board shall establish rules and regulations for an award
recipient to claim the funds deposited and accrued in the Scholarshare
Trust in the name of that recipient, including, but not limited to, the claim
process, necessary documentation, deadlines for the claims and the
granting of awards and an appeals procedure, and any forfeiture
procedures.
   (e) The board shall request each award recipient to voluntarily report
personal information, including, but not limited to, ethnicity, gender,
and family income. The board shall compile and retain this information
in a confidential manner so that the personal information of any award
recipient is not publicly disclosed in a manner that may be associated
with particular individuals.
   (f) Within the annual report required pursuant to Section 69989, the
board shall also include, at a minimum, the number of pupils qualifying
for an award pursuant to this article, the number of awards claimed and
disbursed, the rate of return earned by the funds authorized by this article
in the previous five fiscal years, the amount of funds expended pursuant
to this article in the previous five fiscal years, and a list, by high school,
of the number of awards granted pursuant to the program authorized by
this article. To the extent that information is available and can be
disclosed without allowing the information to be associated with
particular individuals, the board shall include information on the
ethnicity, gender, and family income of award recipients.
   69997. (a) The Governor’s Scholars Program is hereby established.
This program shall provide a scholarship of one thousand dollars
($1,000) to each public high school pupil who demonstrates high
academic achievement on the achievement test authorized by Section
60640. Pupils receiving a scholarship pursuant to this section shall be
known as ‘‘Governor’s Scholars.’’
   (b) Until the State Board of Education determines that the English
language arts and mathematics portions of the statewide pupil
achievement test authorized by Section 60640 have been aligned with
the California academic content standards, and the standards aligned test
is both valid and reliable for high stakes purposes, a pupil shall earn a
scholarship pursuant to this section by satisfying either of the following
criteria:
   (1) Attaining a combined score on the reading and mathematics
portions of the nationally normed achievement test adopted by the State
 3062                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 404 ]
Board of Education pursuant to Section 60642 that places him or her in
the top 5 percent of test takers in his or her grade level statewide.
   (2) Attaining a combined score on the nationally normed reading and
mathematics portions of the achievement test adopted by the State Board
of Education pursuant to Section 60642 that places him or her in the top
10 percent of test takers in his or her grade level in the comprehensive
public high school attended by that pupil. When calculating the top 10
percent, the result shall be rounded to the nearest whole integer for the
purpose of determining the number of awards in any high school. If this
calculation results in a number of pupils less than one in any high school,
there shall be one award at that school.
   (c) Pupils earning an award pursuant to subdivision (b) may receive
only one award in any given year. However, a pupil may earn a lifetime
maximum of three awards by meeting the requirements of this section
in each of grades 9, 10, and 11.
   (d) Once the State Board of Education has determined that the
English language arts and mathematics portions of the statewide pupil
achievement test authorized by Section 60640 have been aligned with
the California academic content standards, and the standards aligned test
is both valid and reliable for high stakes purposes, that test shall be used
as the basis for the award of scholarships pursuant to subdivision (a).
   69998. (a) The Governor’s Distinguished Mathematics and
Science Scholars Program is hereby established. This program shall
provide a scholarship of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) for
public high school pupils who demonstrate specified high academic
achievement in mathematics and the sciences. Pupils receiving a
scholarship pursuant to this section shall be known as ‘‘Governor’s
Mathematics and Science Scholars.’’
   (b) In addition to the criteria specified in subdivision (d) of Section
69995, a pupil shall satisfy the following to be eligible to receive a
scholarship pursuant to this section:
   (1) Earn an award pursuant to the program authorized by Section
69997.
   (2) Take an advanced placement calculus examination offered by the
college board.
   (3) Take any one of the advanced placement biology, chemistry, or
physics examinations offered by the college board.
   (4) If the provisions of subdivision (c) apply, then paragraphs (2) and
(3) shall be effective only as specified in subdivision (c).
   (c) (1) If the pupil’s school offers an advanced placement course in
a subject described in subdivision (b), only the advanced placement
examination in that subject shall be allowed for the purposes of
determining eligibility for an award pursuant to this section. If a pupil’s
school does not offer an advanced placement course in a subject
[Ch. 404 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3063

identified in subdivision (b), he or she may take instead the Golden State
Examination, as authorized by Article 5 (commencing with Section
60650) of Chapter 5 of Part 33, in that subject. Should there appear to
be a conflict between this subdivision and any other subdivision related
to this program, this subdivision shall be controlling.
   (2) For the science test, the Golden State Examination in second-year
coordinated science may be used in place of any other Golden State
Examination in science for the purposes of this subdivision.
   (3) For the mathematics test, only the High School Mathematics
Golden State Examination may be used for the purposes of this
subdivision.
   (d) Eligible pupils shall earn a scholarship pursuant to this section by
satisfying all of the following requirements:
   (1) Attaining a score of five, on the advanced placement calculus AB
examination, or attaining a score of four or five on the higher-level
advanced placement calculus BC examination.
   (2) Attaining a score of five on any one of the advanced placement
biology, chemistry, or physics B examinations, or attaining a score of
four or five on either of the advanced placement physics C (mechanics
or electricity and magnetism) examinations.
   (3) If a pupil is eligible for an award pursuant to paragraph (4) of
subdivision (b), he or she must attain a score of six on the appropriate
Golden State Examination, as described in subdivision (c).
   (e) As an alternative to the examination requirements set forth in
subdivisions (b), (c), and (d), a pupil may be eligible to receive a
scholarship pursuant to this section for performance in science and
mathematics examinations that are part of the International
Baccalaureate Program. The State Board of Education shall review and
designate those International Baccalaureate examinations that are
equivalent to the advanced placement tests or Golden State
Examinations for which pupils may receive scholarships pursuant to this
section. The State Board of Education shall also designate the score on
International Baccalaureate examinations that is equivalent to the score
required on advanced placement tests or Golden State Examinations in
order to receive a scholarship.
   (f) The State Board of Education may modify this list of examinations
as necessary to reflect additions and deletions to the series of
examinations offered by the college board for advanced placement
courses. The State Board of Education may also determine the relative
rigor of any new examinations added to the list and whether those
examinations should require a score of four or five if the added
examinations and qualifying scores reflect at least the same level of rigor
as the advanced placement examinations specified in this section.
 3064                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 404 ]
   (g) A pupil may receive a maximum of one award pursuant to the
program established by this section.
   (h) Paragraph (4) of subdivision (b), subdivision (c), and paragraph
(3) of subdivision (d) shall become inoperative, and are repealed as of
December 31, 2001.
   69999. The board may adopt regulations for the purposes of this
article as emergency regulations in accordance with the rulemaking
provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5
(commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of
the Government Code). For the purposes of the Administrative
Procedure Act, including Section 11349.6 of the Government Code, the
adoption of the regulations shall be deemed to be an emergency and
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health and
safety, or general welfare, notwithstanding subdivision (e) of Section
11346.1 of the Government Code. Notwithstanding subdivision (e) of
Section 11346.1 of the Government Code, any regulation adopted
pursuant to this section shall not remain in effect more than one year
unless the board complies with rulemaking provisions of the
Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section
11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code), as
required by subdivision (e) of Section 11346.1 of the Government Code.
   SEC. 6. Section 99223 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   99223. The Regents of the University of California are requested to
jointly develop with the Trustees of the California State University and
the independent colleges and universities, the Algebra Academies
Professional Development Institutes, to be administered by the
university, in partnership with the California State University and with
private, independent universities in California, in accordance with all of
the following criteria:
   (a) In July 2000, the University of California and its institutes’
partners shall commence instruction for 1,000 participants who either
provide direct instruction in prealgebra and algebra to pupils in grades
7 and 8, or supervise beginning teachers of algebra.
   (b) (1) The institutes shall provide instruction for school teams from
each participating school. These school teams may include both
beginning and experienced teachers and the schoolsite administrator.
   (2) Criteria and priority for selection of participating school teams
shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, all of the following:
   (A) Schools whose pupils’ scores on the mathematics portion of the
achievement test authorized by Section 60640 are at or below the 40th
percentile.
   (B) Teams composed of a large percentage of members of their
schools’ mathematics departments, which may include the chair of that
department.
[Ch. 404 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3065

   (C) Schools with high poverty levels, as determined by the
percentage of pupils eligible for free or reduced price meals.
   (D) Schools with a high number of beginning and noncredentialed
teachers.
   (E) Schools that have adopted standards-based materials approved by
the State Board of Education.
   (3) In any fiscal year, if funding is inadequate to accommodate the
participation of all eligible school teams, first priority shall be given to
schools that meet the criteria described in subparagraph (D) of paragraph
(2).
   (c) (1) The institutes shall provide instruction in the teaching of
prealgebra and algebra in a manner consistent with the standard for a
comprehensive mathematics instruction program that is research-based
and shall include all of the following components:
   (A) Instruction in prealgebra and algebra that will enhance the ability
of teachers to prepare pupils for the achievement test authorized pursuant
to Section 60640 and the high school exit examination authorized
pursuant to Section 60850.
   (B) Ongoing diagnostic techniques that inform teaching and
assessment.
   (C) Early intervention techniques for pupils experiencing difficulty
in prealgebra and algebra.
   (2) Instruction provided pursuant to this section shall be consistent
with state-adopted academic content standards and with the curriculum
frameworks on mathematics for kindergarten and grades 1 to 12,
inclusive, that are adopted by the State Board of Education.
   (d) Each participant who satisfactorily completes an institute
authorized by this section shall receive a stipend, commensurate with the
duration of the institute, of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000)
nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000), as determined by the
University of California.
   (e) In order to provide maximum access, the institutes shall be offered
on multiple university and college campuses that are widely distributed
throughout the state. Instruction at the institutes shall consist of an
intensive, sustained training period of no less than 40 hours during the
summer or during an intersession break, and shall be supplemented,
during the following school year, with no fewer than the equivalent of
five additional days of instruction and schoolsite meetings, held on at
least a monthly basis, to focus on the academic progress of that school’s
pupils in prealgebra and algebra.
   (f) Teachers attending the institutes authorized by this section shall,
as a condition of attendance and subsequent to that attendance, serve as
instructors in the program authorized by Chapter 17 (commencing with
Section 53081) of Part 28. These teachers shall continue to receive
 3066                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 404 ]
followup professional development during the same time period they are
providing instruction. Followup professional development during this
time period shall occur outside of instructional time.
   (g) It is the intent of the Legislature that a local education agency or
postsecondary institution that offers an accredited program of
professional preparation consider providing partial and proportional
credit toward satisfaction of mathematics course requirements to an
enrolled candidate who satisfactorily completes an Algebra Academies
Professional Development Institute if the institute has been certified by
the Commission on Teacher Credentialing as meeting mathematics
standards.
   SEC. 7. (a) The sum of one hundred eighteen million dollars
($118,000,000) is hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the
Scholarshare Investment Board for the 2000–01 fiscal year for the
purpose of making scholarship awards pursuant to Article 20
(commencing with Section 69995) of Chapter 2 of Part 42 of the
Education Code. It is the intent of the Legislature that administrative
costs for purposes of the program established by Article 20
(commencing with Section 69995) of Chapter 2 of Part 42 of the
Education Code be funded through the annual Budget Act.
Administrative costs of the program established by Article 20
(commencing with Section 69995) of Chapter 2 of Part 42 of the
Education Code may not be funded through the administrative fund of
the trust established by Article 19 (commencing with Section 69980) of
the Education Code.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director of
Finance may authorize the augmentation, from the Special Fund for
Economic Uncertainties established pursuant to Section 16418 of the
Government Code, of the annual amount appropriated for the purpose
of making scholarship awards pursuant to Article 20 (commencing with
Section 69995) of Chapter 2 of Part 42 of the Education Code, as
necessary to fully fund the number of awards authorized by that article.
No augmentation may be authorized sooner than 30 days after
notification in writing of the Chairperson of the Joint Legislative Budget
Committee and the chairperson of the committee in each house that
considers appropriations, nor sooner than whatever lesser time those
persons, or their designees, may in each instance determine.
   SEC. 8. This act shall become operative only if Senate Bill 1644 of
the 1999–2000 Regular Session is enacted.
   SEC. 9. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
[Ch. 405 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3067

  In order to implement the Budget Act of 2000 with respect to the
public schools and institutions of higher education, it is necessary that
this act take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 405

  An act to amend Section 45023.4 of the Education Code, relating to
teacher salaries, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect
immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 45023.4 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   45023.4. (a) This section shall be known, and may be cited, as the
Jack O’Connell Beginning-Teacher Salary Incentive Program.
Commencing in the 1999–2000 fiscal year the governing board of a
school district, the county superintendent of schools, or the county board
of education may increase, for teachers who meet the requirements of
this subdivision, the salary on its adopted certificated employee salary
schedule as provided in subdivision (b). Any school district that elects
to meet the requirements of this section shall be eligible to receive the
incentive amount provided by subdivision (c). For purposes of this
section, any teacher for whom the governing board, county
superintendent of schools, or county board of education may increase
salaries shall meet all of the following criteria:
   (1) Hold a valid California teaching credential, not including an
emergency permit, intern permit, or waiver.
   (2) Possess a baccalaureate or higher degree.
   (3) Receive a salary paid from the general fund of the district or
county office.
   (b) The governing board, county superintendent of schools, or county
board of education that elects to increase teachers’ salaries as authorized
pursuant to subdivision (a) shall perform the following computations:
   (1) The governing board, county superintendent of schools, or county
board of education shall designate as the lowest salary on the salary
schedule for a certificated employee meeting or exceeding the criteria in
subdivision (a) an amount equal to a minimum annual salary of
thirty-two thousand dollars ($32,000). If this salary change results in
costs to the school district or county office of education that are equal to
 3068                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 405 ]
or greater than the incentive received pursuant to subdivision (c), the
minimum salary shall be thirty-two thousand dollars ($32,000). If this
salary change results in costs to the school districts or county offices of
education that are less than the incentive received, the remainder shall
be used to increase the beginning salary by an amount above thirty-two
thousand dollars ($32,000) which fully applies the incentive received.
   (2) The governing board, county superintendent of schools, or county
board of education shall increase to the annual salary amount in
paragraph (1) the salary of any certificated employee meeting the criteria
in subdivision (a) whose salary on the salary schedule is less than the
amount computed in paragraph (1) and, notwithstanding Section 45028,
shall incorporate that increase into the salary schedule.
   (3) The newly adopted salary schedule shall contain only one cell that
meets the amount set forth in paragraph (1), which most often is the
first-year step of a salary schedule column for certificated personnel who
meet the criteria set forth in subdivision (a). All other salary schedule
cells shall exceed the level set forth in paragraph (1) for personnel that
meet the criteria in subdivision (a).
   (c) In the 1999–2000 fiscal year, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction shall divide the amount appropriated for the purposes of this
section by the 1998–99 second principal apportionment average daily
attendance for all school districts and county offices of education in the
state. Each school district and county office of education that certifies to
the Superintendent of Public Instruction that it is in full compliance with
this section shall receive following that certification an amount equal to
the results of the calculation multiplied by the participating school
district’s or county office’s 1998–99 second principal apportionment
average daily attendance.
   (d) For the 2000–01 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, for
each school district that meets the requirements of subdivision (b), the
Superintendent of Public Instruction shall sum the results of paragraphs
(1) and (2) and add that figure to the total school district revenue limit
computed pursuant to Section 42238.
   (1) Annually increase the statewide average funding rate per unit of
average daily attendance calculated pursuant to subdivision (c) by the
percentage increase computed pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
42238.1 and multiply the resulting product by the school district’s
second period average daily attendance for the prior fiscal year
excluding attendance in regional occupational centers and programs,
adult education programs, and charter schools participating in the
charter school block grant pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with
Section 47633) of Chapter 6 of Part 26.8.
   (2) Annually increase the statewide average funding rate per unit of
average daily attendance calculated pursuant to subdivision (c) by the
[Ch. 405 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3069

percentage increase computed pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
42238.1 and multiply the resulting product by the school district’s
second period average daily attendance for the prior fiscal year in
regional occupational centers and programs, excluding attendance in
charter schools participating in the charter school block grant pursuant
to Article 2 (commencing with Section 47633) of Chapter 6 of Part 26.8.
   (e) For the 2000–01 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, for each
county office of education that meets the requirements of subdivision
(b), the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall add the sum of
paragraphs (1) and (2) to the county office of education revenue limit
computed pursuant to Section 2550.
   (1) Annually increase the statewide average funding rate per unit of
average daily attendance calculated pursuant to subdivision (c) by the
percentage increase identified pursuant to Section 2557 and multiply the
resulting product by the county office of education’s second period
average daily attendance for the prior fiscal year excluding attendance
in regional occupational centers or programs, adult education programs,
and charter schools participating in the charter school block grant
pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section 47633) of Chapter 6 of
Part 26.8.
   (2) Annually increase the statewide average funding rate per unit of
average daily attendance calculated pursuant to subdivision (c) by the
percentage increase identified pursuant to Section 2557 and multiply the
resulting product by the county office of education’s second period
average daily attendance for the prior fiscal year in regional occupational
centers or programs excluding attendance in charter schools
participating in the charter school block grant pursuant to Article 2
(commencing with Section 47633) of Chapter 6 of Part 26.8.
   (f) The adjustment to the school district and county office of
education revenue limit prescribed in subdivisions (d) and (e) shall
continue so long as the increase in the salary schedule made pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (b) is maintained.
   (g) The adjustment made to school district or county office of
education revenue limits pursuant to subdivisions (d) and (e) shall not
be considered part of the base revenue limit for purposes of computing
equalization adjustments or determining other differences in school
funding that are based on the amount of funding received by a school
district or county office of education.
   (h) This section does not prohibit a school district and its employees
from negotiating salary schedules.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
 3070                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 406 ]
  In order to revise the funding formula for the incentive amount
provided to school districts that participate in the Jack O’Connell
Beginning-Teacher Salary Incentive Program at the earliest possible
time it is necessary for this act to take effect immediately.




                            CHAPTER 406

   An act to amend Section 75.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation, to take effect immediately, tax levy.
            [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 75.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   75.5. ‘‘Property’’ means and includes manufactured homes subject
to taxation under Part 13 (commencing with Section 5800) and real
property, other than the following:
   (a) Fixtures that are normally valued as a separate appraisal unit from
a structure.
   (b) Newly created taxable possessory interests, established by
month-to-month agreements in publicly owned real property, having a
full cash value of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or less.
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding Section 2229 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, no appropriation is made by this act and the state shall not
reimburse any local agency for any property tax revenues lost by it
pursuant to this act.
   SEC. 3. This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.



                            CHAPTER 407

  An act relating to land use.
            [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]
[Ch. 407 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3071

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (a) The City of Watsonville continues to experience levels of
unemployment that are greater than surrounding communities, and is
undertaking extensive efforts to increase employment opportunities and
improve educational opportunities for a growing and diversifying
population.
   (b) The County of Santa Cruz contains some of the most productive
agricultural lands in California, and some of the most significant
wetlands and other important environmental resources.
   (c) The City of Watsonville, the County of Santa Cruz, and the
California Coastal Commission have voluntarily entered into a
Memorandum of Understanding, dated June 14, 2000, relating to both
of the following:
   (1) The preservation of agricultural lands, wetlands, environmentally
sensitive habitat areas, and other undeveloped lands westerly of the
city’s incorporated boundaries and within the coastal zone.
   (2) The development of a high school on property commonly known
as the Edwards Property within the westerly incorporated boundaries of
the city.
   (d) The Memorandum of Understanding by and between these
governmental entities provides for a series of actions to be taken by each
entity that will place policies in the city’s and county’s local ordinances
and local coastal plans that will have the effect of deterring future
annexations or other nonagricultural development westerly of the city’s
incorporated boundaries.
   (e) In signing the Memorandum of Understanding, each
governmental entity retains all of its independent authorities and
powers, while also agreeing to adhere to the terms and conditions of the
Memorandum of Understanding.
   (f) The Memorandum of Understanding contains provisions for
amending the Memorandum of Understanding, and by signing the
Memorandum of Understanding, the parties agree to adhere to the
procedures contained therein for any such amendments.
   (g) The Memorandum of Understanding provides that the city shall
require a supermajority of city council members to amend certain local
coastal plan and general plan provisions related to the Memorandum of
Understanding and that the county shall require a supermajority of
members of the board of supervisors to amend local coastal plan and
general plan provisions related to the Memorandum of Understanding.
   (h) The Memorandum of Understanding specifies that the city and the
county will support legislation relative to the Memorandum of
Understanding that will permit any person to petition a court of
 3072                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 408 ]
competent jurisdiction to compel the signatory parties to the
Memorandum of Understanding to comply with the terms of the
Memorandum of Understanding, but that such legislation would not
become operative unless certain actions have occurred.
  SEC. 2. (a) The City of Watsonville, the County of Santa Cruz, and
the California Coastal Commission shall comply with the terms and
conditions of the Memorandum of Understanding dated June 14, 2000,
including, but not limited to, the procedures for amending the
Memorandum of Understanding.
  (b) Any person may petition a court of competent jurisdiction to
require the City of Watsonville, the County of Santa Cruz, or the
California Coastal Commission to comply with the terms of the
Memorandum of Understanding, including any amendments thereto.
  (c) Nothing in this act interferes with the right to pursue any other
legal remedy that any person may have under any other provision of law.
  (d) This section shall not be operative until (1) the City of Watsonville
and the County of Santa Cruz both have housing elements in their
respective general plans certified by the Department of Housing and
Community Development and unless (2) either the City of Watsonville
or the County of Santa Cruz takes any official action to amend or repeal
the supermajority voting requirements as contained in the Memorandum
of Understanding.



                             CHAPTER 408

  An act to amend Section 180050 of the Public Utilities Code, relating
to transportation.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 180050 of the Public Utilities Code is
amended to read:
   180050. A county board of supervisors may create an authority to
operate within the county to carry out this division, or may designate a
transportation planning agency designated pursuant to Section 29532 of
the Government Code or created pursuant to the Fresno County
Transportation Improvement Act pursuant to Division 15 (commencing
with Section 142000), or a county transportation commission created
pursuant to the County Transportation Act (Division 12 (commencing
[Ch. 409 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3073

with Section 130000)) in existence in the county on January 1, 1988, to
serve as an authority.



                             CHAPTER 409

  An act to amend Sections 4790, 4792, 4793, 4794, and 4799.01 of the
Public Resources Code, relating to forest resources.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 4790 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
   4790. The Legislature finds and declares that:
   (a) Forest lands, while often managed to produce wood fiber for
building materials and paper manufacture, also provide public benefits,
including employment opportunities in both rural and urban areas,
renewable energy, protection and enhancement of air, water, and soil
resources, fish and wildlife habitat, and opportunities for aesthetic and
recreational enjoyment.
   (b) Historically, substantial areas of forest land were not reforested or
otherwise managed for optimum production of forest resources
following harvest operations, wildfires, unsuccessful attempts to clear
the land for other uses, or damage by insects, disease, or other natural
catastrophes. As a result, an estimated five million acres of public and
private forest land in the state are producing substantially less forest
resources than their potential. These areas are inadequately stocked with
trees or are occupied by damaged or diseased trees or species of less
value for sawtimber and other forest products. Some lands also have
suffered from or are threatened with depletion by soil erosion. Water
quality and quantity has suffered and fish habitats have also been
adversely affected. In areas where forest regeneration has occurred, the
present forest stand would often produce significantly greater timber
supplies if thinning or other forest improvement investments were made.
   (c) Future demand for timber supplies and other demands for forest
resources are likely to rise substantially. Future supplies of these
renewable resources are presently estimated to decline for a period and
then to recover, but at a rate significantly slower than the rate of increase
in demand.
   (d) Wood waste products and tree or shrub species not normally
utilized to produce building materials can provide opportunities for an
 3074                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 409 ]
alternative means to generate electrical energy or could be converted to
solid, gaseous, or liquid fuels for transport or industrial use. Future
supplies of wood products not usable for building materials, and,
therefore potentially available for energy production, will be increased
if forest resource improvements are made.
   (e) The forest efficiently captures and stores solar energy. Wood
products can be produced with a significantly lower energy cost than
most competing substitutes. This disparity is likely to increase in the
future.
   (f) A relatively small amount of forest land is currently being
reforested, other than pursuant to the stocking requirements of the
Z’berg-Nejedly Forest Practice Act of 1973 (Chapter 8 (commencing
with Section 4511) of Part 2) applicable following timber harvesting.
Obstacles to private investments in reforesting or improving forest lands
include: the extraordinarily long time required for such investments to
produce income; the risk of loss due to fire, insect, or disease; lack of
necessary forestry expertise or knowledge of the potential benefits of
improved forest resource management; the difficulty of transferring
capital invested in forest resource improvements to other investment
opportunities or otherwise using the funds for other needs once the initial
investment has been made; and the fact that some forest resource
investments, including erosion control measures, may not produce any
income recognizable to the landowner.
   (g) Over one-half of the privately owned, commercial forest land in
the state is owned by nonindustrial landowners. Forest resources that can
be provided by these lands will be increasingly important in the future.
Yet the owners of these lands often lack forestry expertise, economic
incentive, or capital needed to make investments to increase present and
future availability of forest resource benefits from their lands.
   (h) Investments in public and private forest land are essential if
adequate future timber supplies are to be available and if the forest
resource system of soil, air, water, and vegetative and animal life is to
be maintained in a productive condition for the future. These
investments will also lessen fire hazards and improve watershed
protection following catastrophic destruction of forests and other
vegetative cover by fire, wind, flood, insects, disease, and other causes.
   (i) Failure to make the necessary investments will lead to higher
prices for increasingly scarce forest products, lower rural and urban
employment in the forest products and related industries and businesses,
and the loss or diminished value of soils and other forest resources.
   (j) Forest resource improvements made pursuant to this chapter serve
a public purpose and will promote the health, welfare, and economic
security of the citizens of the state.
[Ch. 409 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3075

   SEC. 2. Section 4792 of the Public Resources Code is amended to
read:
   4792. In furtherance of the purposes of this chapter, the department
is authorized to enter into agreements and make loans and otherwise
carry out the purposes of this chapter. The forestry assistance program
conducted by the department shall encourage forest resource
improvements and otherwise facilitate good forest land management
through a program of financial, technical, and educational assistance, as
well as through applied research. The purpose of this program shall be
to work cooperatively with private landowners, particularly smaller
nonindustrial landowners, to upgrade the management of their lands,
and, therefore, improve both the productivity of the land and the degree
of protection and enhancement of the forest resource system as a whole.
The department is further authorized to encourage and cooperate with
efforts by the forestry industry and federal government to improve the
management of forest lands within the state, particularly lands owned by
nonindustrial owners, through advisory services or other actions. The
director shall work cooperatively with other private and public entities
and persons, including tree nursery operators, when carrying out this
part.
   SEC. 3. Section 4793 of the Public Resources Code is amended to
read:
   4793. As used in this chapter:
   (a) ‘‘A county with high unemployment’’ means a county with an
annual unemployment rate, as reported by the Employment
Development Department, higher than the mean annual unemployment
rate of ‘‘rate adjustment counties’’ as defined pursuant to the Timber
Yield Tax Law (Part 18.5 (commencing with Section 38101) of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code).
   (b) ‘‘Eligible landowner’’ means any person who meets the
conditions set forth in Sections 4797 and 4799. Where ownership of
forest land and timber is not held by the same person, ‘‘landowner’’
means either the person or persons owning the land or the person or
persons owning the timber.
   (c) ‘‘Fish and wildlife habitat improvements’’ means measures
designed to protect, maintain, or enhance fish and wildlife habitat
including, but not limited to, stream clearance, reestablishment of
desirable vegetation along stream channels and elsewhere, measures to
encourage habitat diversity, restoration of anadromous fisheries, and
forest road repair and upgrading that protect, maintain, or enhance fish
and wildlife habitat.
   (d) ‘‘Followup work’’ means forest resource improvement work
necessary to promote the survival of seed or seedlings planted, or
 3076                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 409 ]
protection or enhancement of other work undertaken, as part of a prior
forest resource improvement project pursuant to this chapter.
   (e) ‘‘Forest land’’ means land at least 10 percent occupied by trees of
any size that are native to California, including native oaks, or formerly
having had that tree cover and not currently zoned for uses incompatible
with forest resource management.
   (f) ‘‘Forest land conservation measures’’ means measures designed
to protect, maintain, or enhance the forest resource system, including
soil and watershed values, diversity of forest species, and protection of
a forest stand from fire. These measures include thinning, shaded fuel
breaks, and other land treatments or forest resource improvement
projects consistent with Section 4794.
   (g) ‘‘Forest land with demonstrated potential for improved forest
resource management’’ means forest land that could produce
significantly greater forest resource benefits if forest resource
improvement work was carried out and that is not managed for uses
incompatible with forest resource management.
   (h) ‘‘Forest resources’’ means those uses and values associated with
forest land, including fish, forage, recreation and aesthetics, soils,
timber, watershed, wilderness, and wildlife.
   (i) ‘‘Forest resource system’’ means the interdependent system of air,
water, solar energy, and forest resources, as defined by subdivision (h).
   (j) ‘‘Forest resource improvement work’’ means the forest resource
improvement measures enumerated in Section 4794 for which
assistance is authorized pursuant to this chapter.
   (k) ‘‘Forest resource improvement project’’ means a project
undertaken pursuant to Section 4795 or a loan made pursuant to Section
4796.
   (l) ‘‘Management plan’’ means a long-term forest and land
management plan submitted to the director pursuant to Section 4799.
   (m) ‘‘Person’’ includes:
   (1) Any private individual, organization, partnership, limited
liability company, or corporation.
   (2) Except for the purposes of Section 4795 and subdivision (a) of
Section 4796, any city, county, or district.
   (n) ‘‘Prevailing rate’’ means the average annual rate earned by the
state on moneys deposited in the Pooled Money Investment Account in
the General Fund.
   (o) ‘‘Reforestation’’ means planting of tree seedlings, cuttings, or
seed.
   (p) ‘‘Restocked’’ means stocking to the degree required by the
Z’berg-Nejedly Forest Practice Act of 1973, Chapter 8 (commencing
with Section 4511) of Part 2.
[Ch. 409 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3077

   (q) ‘‘Small business entity’’ means a business enterprise, including
a landowner, with five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) or less
annual gross revenue.
   (r) ‘‘Smaller nonindustrial landowners’’ means owners of 5,000 acres
or less of forest land.
   (s) ‘‘Uses incompatible with forest resource management’’ means
uses not listed in subdivision (h) of Section 51104 or Section 51111 of
the Government Code by the city or county in which the parcel subject
to a forest resource improvement project lies.
   (t) ‘‘Young growth stand improvement’’ means precommercial
thinning or weeding of young growth stands to provide more growing
space and release of young trees from competing vegetation.
   SEC. 4. Section 4794 of the Public Resources Code is amended to
read:
   4794. (a) Agreements may be entered into and loans may be made
by the director pursuant to this chapter for all of the following purposes:
   (1) Preparation of management plans for forest land.
   (2) Site preparation.
   (3) Planting and costs of seeds and seedlings.
   (4) Young growth stand improvement.
   (5) Forest land conservation measures.
   (6) Fish and wildlife habitat improvement.
   (7) Followup work.
   Consistent with this section, the director shall prepare, and submit to
the board for its review and approval, guidelines further specifying the
scope of forest resource improvement work for which agreements may
be entered into or loans made pursuant to this chapter.
   (b) Proposed forest resource improvement projects may combine
work described in paragraphs (1) to (7), inclusive, of subdivision (a).
Projects shall include work described in paragraphs (1) to (7), inclusive,
of subdivision (a) to be eligible for a cost-sharing agreement signed
pursuant to Section 4795 or a loan made pursuant to Section 4796.
   (c) Projects for forest resource improvement subsequent to
harvesting subject to the Z’berg-Nejedly Forest Practice Act of 1973,
Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 4511) of Part 2, shall not be
eligible for agreements executed pursuant to Section 4795 or loans made
pursuant to Section 4796 of this chapter unless either of the following
occur:
   (1) The land has been restocked and the established forest growth has
subsequently been adversely affected by fire, wind, flood, insects,
disease, or other natural causes.
   (2) The work to be undertaken is not otherwise required to be carried
out pursuant to the Z’berg-Nejedly Forest Practice Act of 1973, Chapter
8 (commencing with Section 4511) of Part 2.
 3078                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 409 ]
   SEC. 5. Section 4799.01 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   4799.01. (a) When allocating available funds among projects
proposed pursuant to this chapter, the director shall select those projects
that, in the judgment of the director, produce the greatest public benefit,
giving consideration to both of the following factors:
   (1) The need for and potential benefits of forest resource
establishment or improvement were the project to be undertaken.
   (2) The need for and potential benefits to long-term production,
maintenance, and enhancement of the forest resource system resulting
from forest land conservation measures, fish and wildlife habitat
improvements, or other work.
   (b) The director shall give increased preference to projects to the
extent that the project applies to forest land that has been substantially
damaged by fire, flood, insects, disease, or other natural causes within
36 months of submission of an application pursuant to this chapter.
   (c) The director shall also give preference to projects to the extent that
each of the following factors are present:
   (1) The project involves a substantial amount of followup work.
   (2) The project or other actions of the landowner would increase
recreational opportunities for the public.
   (3) The forest land to which the project applies is equivalent to site
quality III or better.
   (4) The project would provide relatively more employment
opportunities than other proposed projects.
   (5) The project is located in a county with high unemployment.
   (6) A small business entity will carry out the proposed project.
   (d) Consistent with the criteria set forth in subdivisions (a), (b), and
(c), the director shall prepare and submit to the board proposed
guidelines further specifying the criteria for evaluation and approval of
forest resource improvement projects. The board shall review, approve,
or amend the guidelines that the director shall follow when carrying out
this chapter.
   (e) The director shall establish, in consultation with interested
persons or agencies and with the review and approval of the board,
procedures for the review of proposed forest resource improvement
projects. Those procedures shall insure that department specialists and
other specialists in the areas of water quality, erosion control, and fish
and wildlife protection are integrated into the review of proposed forest
resource improvement projects.
   (f) No allocation of funds pursuant to this chapter shall, in any fiscal
year, exceed the total amount expended during the 1999–2000 fiscal year
until the completion, review, and final approval by the board of an
[Ch. 410 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3079

updated management plan for the Jackson Demonstration State Forest
that complies with applicable state and federal law.



                             CHAPTER 410

  An act to amend Sections 7863, 8276.2, 8276.3, 8279.1, 8280.1,
8280.2, 8280.3, 8280.4, 8280.5, and 8280.6 of, and to add Article 14.5
(commencing with Section 8510) to Chapter 2 of Part 3 of Division 6 of,
the Fish and Game Code, relating to fish, and making an appropriation
therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 7863 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
   7863. This article shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2007,
and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2007, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Section 8276.2 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8276.2. (a) The director may order a delay in the opening of the
Dungeness crab fishery after December 1 in Districts 6, 7, 8, and 9 in any
year. The delay in the opening shall not be later than January 15 of any
year.
   (b) On or about November 1 of each year, the director may authorize
one or more operators of commercial fishing vessels to take and land a
limited number of Dungeness crab for the purpose of quality testing
according to a testing program conducted by, or on behalf of, the Pacific
States Marine Fisheries Commission or an entity approved by the
department. The department shall not approve a testing program unless
it is funded by the entity authorized to conduct the testing program. Crab
taken pursuant to this section shall not be sold; however, any edible
crabmeat recovered from the crabs tested shall not be wasted and may
be used for charitable purposes.
   (c) The director shall order the opening of the Dungeness crab season
in Districts 6, 7, 8, and 9 on December 1 if the quality tests authorized
in subdivision (b) indicate the Dungeness crabs are not soft-shelled or
low quality. The entity authorized to conduct the approved testing
program may test, or cause to be tested, crabs taken for quality and soft
shells pursuant to the approved testing program. If the tests are
 3080                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 410 ]
conducted on or about November 1 and result in a finding that
Dungeness crabs are soft-shelled or low quality, the director shall
authorize a second test to be conducted on or about November 15
pursuant to the approved testing program. If the second test results in a
finding that Dungeness crabs are soft-shelled or low quality, the director
may order the season opening delayed for a period of 15 days and may
authorize a third test to be conducted on or about December 1. If the third
test results in a finding that Dungeness crabs remain soft-shelled or of
low quality, the director may order the season opening delayed for a
period of an additional 15 days and authorize a fourth test to be
conducted. This procedure may continue to be followed, except that no
tests shall be conducted after January 1 for that season, and the season
opening shall not be delayed by the director later than January 15.
   (d) This section shall become inoperative on April 1, 2006, and, as of
January 1, 2007, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2007, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes
inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 8276.3 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8276.3. (a) (1) If there is any delay ordered by the director pursuant
to Section 8276.2 in the opening of the Dungeness crab fishery in
Districts 6, 7, 8, and 9, no vessel shall take or land crab within Districts
6, 7, 8, and 9 during any closure.
   (b) If there is any delay in the opening of the Dungeness crab season
pursuant to Section 8276.2, the opening date in Districts 6, 7, 8, and 9
shall be preceded by a 36-hour gear setting period, as ordered by the
director.
   (c) This section shall become inoperative on April 1, 2006, and, as of
January 1, 2007, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2007, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes
inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 8279.1 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8279.1. (a) No person shall take, possess onboard, or land
Dungeness crab for commercial purposes from any vessel in ocean
waters in District 6, 7, 8, or 9 for 30 days after the opening of the
Dungeness crab fishing season in California, if both of the following
events have occurred:
   (1) The opening of the season has been delayed pursuant to state law
in California.
   (2) The person has taken, possessed onboard, or landed Dungeness
crab for commercial purposes, from ocean waters outside of District 6,
7, 8, or 9, prior to the opening of the season in those districts.
[Ch. 410 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3081

  (b) No person shall take, possess onboard, or land Dungeness crab for
commercial purposes from any vessel in ocean waters south of the border
between Oregon and California for 30 days after the opening of the
Dungeness crab fishing season in California, if both of the following
events have occurred:
  (1) The opening of the season has been delayed pursuant to state law
in California.
  (2) The person has taken, possessed onboard, or landed Dungeness
crab for commercial purposes in Oregon or Washington prior to the
opening of the season in California.
  (c) No person shall take, possess onboard, or land Dungeness crab for
commercial purposes from any vessel in ocean waters north of the border
between Oregon and California for 30 days after the opening of the
Dungeness crab fishing season in Oregon or Washington, if both of the
following events have occurred:
  (1) The opening of the season has been delayed in Oregon or
Washington.
  (2) The person has taken, possessed onboard, or landed Dungeness
crab for commercial purposes in California prior to the opening of the
season in ocean waters off Oregon or Washington.
  (d) No person shall take, possess onboard, or land Dungeness crab for
commercial purposes from any vessel in ocean waters off Washington,
Oregon, or California for 30 days after the opening of the Dungeness
crab fishing season in California, Oregon, or Washington, if both of the
following events have occurred:
  (1) The opening of the season has been delayed in Washington,
Oregon, or California.
  (2) The person has taken, possessed onboard, or landed Dungeness
crab for commercial purposes in either of the two other states prior to the
delayed opening in the ocean waters off any one of the three states.
  (e) A violation of this section shall not constitute a misdemeanor.
Pursuant to Section 7857, the commission shall revoke the Dungeness
crab vessel permit held by any person who violates this section.
  (f) This section shall become inoperative on April 1, 2006, and, as of
January 1, 2007, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2007, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes
inoperative and is repealed.
  SEC. 5. Section 8280.1 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
  8280.1. (a) No person shall use a vessel to take, possess, or land
Dungeness crab for commercial purposes using Dungeness crab traps
authorized pursuant to Section 9011, unless the owner of that vessel has
a Dungeness crab vessel permit for that vessel that has not been
suspended or revoked. This section does not apply to a commercially
 3082                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 410 ]
registered fishing vessel when it is being used solely to assist a permitted
vessel transport or set traps.
   (b) A Dungeness crab vessel permit may be issued only to the
following persons for use on qualifying vessels:
   (1) A person, who has a commercial fishing license issued pursuant
to Section 7852 or Article 7 (commencing with Section 8030) of Chapter
1 that has not been suspended or revoked, who is the owner of a
commercial fishing vessel that has been registered with the department
pursuant to Section 7881 in each of the 1991–92, 1992–93, and 1993–94
permit years and a minimum of four landings in each of three Dungeness
crab seasons in the period from November 1, 1984, to April 1, 1994, have
been made from that vessel. This paragraph includes any person
purchasing a vessel qualifying pursuant to this paragraph.
   (2) A person who has a commercial fishing license issued pursuant
to Section 7852 or Article 7 (commencing with Section 8030) of Chapter
1 that has not been suspended or revoked, who is the owner of a
commercial fishing vessel that has been registered with the department
pursuant to Section 7881 in each of the 1991–92, 1992–93, and 1993–94
permit years and a minimum of four landings in one of the Dungeness
crab seasons in the period from November 1, 1984, to April 1, 1994, have
been made from that vessel in this state as documented by landing
receipts delivered to the department pursuant to Section 8046, who the
department finds to have been unable, due to illness or injury or any other
hardship, to make a minimum of four landings in each of two of the
previous three Dungeness crab seasons, and who, in good faith, intended
to participate in the Dungeness crab fishery in those seasons.
   (3) A person who has a commercial fishing license issued pursuant
to Section 7852 that has not been suspended or revoked, who meets the
requirements of Section 8101, and who, notwithstanding Section 8101,
is, at the time of application, the owner of a fishing vessel that is not
equipped for trawling with a net and that has been registered pursuant
to Section 7881 in each of the 1991–92, 1992–93, and 1993–94 permit
years. Not more than one Dungeness crab vessel permit shall be issued
to any person qualifying under Section 8101 and all permits issued under
Section 8101 shall, notwithstanding paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of
Section 8280.3, be nontransferable. A person qualifying for a permit
under this paragraph shall have participated in the Dungeness crab
fishery on or before March 31, 1994, as documented by landing receipts
that were prepared in that person’s name for not less than four landings
of Dungeness crab taken in a crab trap in a Dungeness crab season and
were delivered to the department pursuant to Section 8046. No person
shall be issued a permit under this paragraph if that person has been
issued a permit under any other provision of this section for another
vessel. For purposes of Section 8101, ‘‘participated in the fishery’’
[Ch. 410 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3083

means made not less than four landings of Dungeness crab taken by traps
in that person’s name in one Dungeness crab season. The department
shall separately identify permits issued pursuant to this paragraph and
those permits shall become immediately null and void upon the death of
the permittee. The department shall not issue or renew any permit under
this paragraph to a person if the person failed to meet the participation
requirements of four landings in one season prior to April 1, 1994, or has
been issued a Dungeness crab permit for a vessel under any other
paragraph of this subdivision.
   (4) A person who has a commercial fishing license issued pursuant
to Section 7852 that has not been suspended or revoked, who meets one
of the following conditions:
   (A) The person held a Dungeness crab permit issued pursuant to
Section 8280 as it read on April 1, 1994, and participated in the
Dungeness crab fishery between November 1, 1984, and April 1, 1994,
and is the owner of a vessel that has been registered with the department
in each of the 1991–92, 1992–93, and 1993–94 permit years but did not
make landings or the department records do not indicate a minimum of
four landings per season for three Dungeness crab seasons from that
vessel or in that person’s name because of a partnership or other working
arrangement where the person was working aboard another vessel
engaged in the Dungeness crab fishery in California.
   (B) The person held a Dungeness crab permit issued under Section
8280 as it read on April 1, 1994, and is the owner of a commercial fishing
vessel that has been registered with the department pursuant to Section
7881 in each of the 1991–92, 1992–93, and 1993–94 permit years and
from which a minimum of four landings utilizing traps were made in at
least one Dungeness crab season in the period between November 1,
1984, and April 1, 1994, and from which either four landings were made
utilizing traps or landings in excess of 10,000 pounds were made
utilizing traps in each of two other Dungeness crab seasons in that same
period, as documented by landing receipts.
   (C) The person held a Dungeness crab vessel permit issued under
Section 8280 as it read on April 1, 1994, or was an officer in a California
corporation that was licensed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with
Section 8030) of Chapter 1 as of April 1, 1994, and began construction
or reconstruction of a vessel on or before January 1, 1992, for the purpose
of engaging in the Dungeness crab fishery, including the purchase of
equipment and gear to engage in that fishery in California. A person may
be issued a permit under this condition only if the person intended in
good faith to participate in the California Dungeness crab fishery, a
denial of a permit would create a financial hardship on that person, and,
for purposes of determining financial hardship, the applicant is a
nonresident and cannot participate with his or her vessel or vessels in the
 3084                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 410 ]
Dungeness crab fishery of another state because of that state’s limited
entry or moratorium on the issuance of permits for the taking of
Dungeness crab.
   (5) A person who has a commercial fishing license issued pursuant
to Section 7852 that has not been suspended or revoked, who held a
Dungeness crab permit issued under Section 8280 as it read on April 1,
1994, who made a minimum of four landings of Dungeness crab taken
by traps in each of three Dungeness crab seasons in the period from
November 1, 1984, to April 1, 1994, in his or her name in this state from
a vessel owned by that person, as documented by landing receipts, who,
between April 1, 1991, and January 1, 1995, purchased, contracted to
purchase, or constructed a vessel, not otherwise qualifying pursuant to
paragraph (1), (2), or (4), who has continuously owned that vessel since
its purchase or construction, and who either (A) has used that vessel for
the taking of Dungeness crab in this state on or before March 31, 1995,
as documented by one or more landing receipts delivered to the
department pursuant to Section 8046, or (B) intended in good faith,
based on evidence that the department and the review panel may require,
including investment in crab gear, to enter that vessel in this state’s
Dungeness crab fishery not later than December 1, 1995. Not more than
one permit may be issued to any one person under this paragraph.
   (6) A person who held a Dungeness crab permit issued under Section
8280 as it read on April 1, 1994, who made a minimum of four landings
utilizing traps in this state in each of three Dungeness crab seasons in the
period between November 1, 1984, and April 1, 1994, in his or her name
from a vessel operated by that person as documented by landing receipts,
who currently does not own a vessel in his or her name, and who has not
sold or transferred a vessel otherwise qualifying for a permit under this
section. A permit may be issued under this paragraph for a vessel not
greater in size than the vessel from which the previous landings were
made, and, in no event, for a vessel of more than 60 feet in overall length,
to be placed on a vessel that the person purchases or contracts for
construction on or before April 1, 1996. A permit issued under this
paragraph shall be nontransferable and shall not be used for a vessel not
owned by that person, and shall be revoked if the person (A) fails to
renew the permit or annually renew his or her commercial fishing license
issued pursuant to Section 7852 or (B) is or becomes the owner of
another vessel permitted to operate in the Dungeness crab fishery
pursuant to this section.
   (c) The department may require affidavits offered under penalty of
perjury from persons applying for permits under subdivision (b) or from
witnesses corroborating the statements of a person applying for a
Dungeness crab vessel permit. Affidavits offered under penalty of
[Ch. 410 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3085

perjury shall be required of an applicant if the department cannot locate
records required to qualify under subdivision (b).
   (d) No person shall be issued a Dungeness crab vessel permit under
this section for any vessel unless that person has a valid commercial
fishing license issued pursuant to Section 7852 that has not been
suspended or revoked.
   (e) Notwithstanding Section 7852.2 or subdivision (e) of Section
8280.2, the department may issue a Dungeness crab vessel permit that
has not been applied for by the application deadline if the department
finds that the failure to apply was a result of a mistake or hardship, as
established by evidence the department may require, the late application
is made not later than October 15, 1995, and payment is made by the
applicant of a late fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250) in addition to
all other fees for the permit.
   (f) The department may waive the requirement that a person own a
commercial fishing vessel that has been registered with the department
pursuant to Section 7881 in each of the 1991–92, 1992–93, and 1993–94
permit years for one of those required years under this section only if the
vessel was registered and used in the California Dungeness crab fishery
during the registration year immediately prior to the year for which the
waiver is sought and was registered and used in the California
Dungeness crab fishery after the year for which the waiver is sought and
if the reason for the failure to register in the year for which the waiver
is sought was due to a death, illness, or injury, or other hardship, as
determined by the review panel, that prevented the vessel from being
registered and operated in the fishery for that registration year.
   (g) If any person submits false information for the purposes of
obtaining a Dungeness crab vessel permit under this section, the
department shall revoke that permit, if issued, revoke the person’s
commercial fishing license that was issued pursuant to Section 7850 for
a period of not less than five years, and revoke the commercial boat
registration for a period of not less than five years of any vessel registered
to that person pursuant to Section 7881 of which that person is the owner.
   (h) This section shall become inoperative on April 1, 2006, and, as of
January 1, 2007, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2007, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes
inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 6. Section 8280.2 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8280.2. (a) The owner of a Dungeness crab vessel, for purposes of
this section, may include a person with a bona fide contract for the
purchase of a vessel who otherwise meets all other qualifications for a
Dungeness crab vessel permit. If a contract is found to be fraudulent or
written or entered into for the purposes of circumventing qualification
 3086                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 410 ]
criteria for the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall be permanently
ineligible for a Dungeness crab vessel permit.
   (b) A Dungeness crab vessel permit shall be issued only to the person
owning the vessel at the time of application for that permit. No person
shall be issued more than one permit for each vessel owned by that
person and qualifying for a permit pursuant to Section 8280.1.
   (c) A Dungeness crab vessel permit shall be issued only to the owner
of a vessel taking crab by traps. No permit shall be issued to the owner
of a vessel using trawl or other nets unless the owner of that vessel
qualifies for a permit pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of
Section 8280.1. No trawl or other net vessel authorized under this code
to take Dungeness crab incidental to the taking of fish in trawl or other
nets shall be required to possess a Dungeness crab vessel permit.
   (d) Dungeness crab vessel permits shall not be combined or otherwise
aggregated for the purpose of replacing smaller vessels in the fishery
with a larger vessel, and a permit shall not be divided or otherwise
separated for the purpose of replacing a vessel in the fishery with two or
more smaller vessels.
   (e) Applications for renewal of all Dungeness crab vessel permits
shall be received by the department, or, if mailed, postmarked, by April
30 of each year. In order for a vessel to retain eligibility, a permit shall
be obtained each year subsequent to the initial permit year and the vessel
shall be registered pursuant to Section 7881. The vessel owner shall have
a valid commercial fishing license issued to that person pursuant to
Section 7852 that has not been suspended or revoked. No minimum
landings of Dungeness crab shall be required annually to be eligible for
a Dungeness crab vessel permit.
   (f) This section shall become inoperative on April 1, 2006, and, as of
January 1, 2007, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2007, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes
inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 8280.3 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8280.3. (a) Notwithstanding Article 9 (commencing with Section
8100) of Chapter 1 and except as provided in this section, a Dungeness
crab vessel permit shall not be transferred.
   (1) The owner of a vessel to whom a Dungeness crab vessel permit
has been issued shall transfer the permit for the use of that vessel upon
the sale of the vessel by the permitholder to the person purchasing the
vessel. Thereafter, upon notice to the department, the person purchasing
the vessel may use the vessel for the taking and landing of Dungeness
crab for any and all of the unexpired portion of the permit year, and that
person is eligible for a permit pursuant to Section 8280.1 for the use of
that vessel in subsequent years. The person purchasing the vessel may
[Ch. 410 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3087

not transfer the permit for use of that vessel in the Dungeness crab fishery
to another replacement vessel during the same permit year.
   (2) The owner of a vessel to whom the Dungeness crab vessel permit
has been issued may transfer the permit to a replacement vessel of
equivalent capacity, except as specified in this section. Thereafter, upon
notice to the department and payment of the transfer fee specified in
Section 8280.6, the replacement vessel may be used for the taking and
landing of Dungeness crab for any and all of the unexpired portion of the
permit year and that person is eligible for a permit pursuant to Section
8280.1 for the use of that replacement vessel in subsequent years.
   The owner of a permitted vessel may transfer the permit to a vessel of
greater capacity that was owned by that person on or before November
15, 1995, not to exceed 10 feet longer in length overall than the vessel
for which the permit was originally issued or to a vessel of greater
capacity purchased after November 15, 1995, not to exceed five feet
longer in length overall than the vessel for which the permit was
originally issued.
   The department, upon recommendation of the Dungeness crab review
panel, may authorize the owner of a permitted vessel to transfer the
permit to a replacement vessel that was owned by that person on or
before April 1, 1996, that does not fish with trawl nets that is greater than
five feet longer in length overall than the vessel for which the permit was
originally issued, if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
   (A) A vessel of a larger size is essential to the owner for participation
in another fishery other than a trawl net fishery.
   (B) The owner held a permit on or before January 1, 1995, for the
fishery for which a larger vessel is needed and has participated in that
fishery.
   (C) The permit for the vessel from which the permit is to be
transferred qualified pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of
Section 8280.1.
   (D) The vessel to which the permit is to be transferred does not exceed
20 feet longer in length overall than the vessel for which the permit was
originally issued and the vessel to which the permit is to be transferred
does not exceed 60 feet in overall length.
   No transfer of a permit to a larger vessel shall be allowed more than
one time. If a permit is transferred to a larger vessel, any Dungeness crab
vessel permit for that permit year or any subsequent permit years for that
larger vessel may not be transferred to another larger vessel. The
department shall not thereafter issue a Dungeness crab vessel permit for
the use of the original vessel from which the permit was transferred,
except that the original vessel may be used to take or land Dungeness
crab after that transfer if its use is authorized pursuant to another
 3088                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 410 ]
Dungeness crab vessel permit subsequently transferred to that vessel
pursuant to this paragraph.
   (3) Upon the written approval of the department, the owner of a vessel
to whom the Dungeness crab vessel permit has been issued may
temporarily transfer the permit to another replacement vessel, for which
use in the Dungeness crab fishery is not permitted pursuant to this
section or Section 8280.1, for a period of not more than six months
during the current permit year if the vessel for which the permit was
issued is seriously damaged, suffers major mechanical breakdown, or is
lost or destroyed, as determined by the department, upon approval of the
director. The owner of the vessel shall submit proof that the department
may reasonably require to establish the existence of the conditions of this
paragraph. Upon approval by the director, the owner of a lost or
destroyed vessel granted a six-month temporary transfer under this
section may be granted an additional six-month extension of the
temporary transfer.
   (4) Upon written approval of the department, the owner of a vessel to
whom the Dungeness crab vessel permit has been issued may retain that
permit upon the sale of that permitted vessel for the purpose of
transferring the permit to another vessel to be purchased by that
individual within one year of the time of sale of the vessel for which the
permit was originally issued if the requirements of this section are
satisfied, including the payment of transfer fees. If the permit is not
transferred to a new vessel owned by the person to whom the vessel
permit was originally issued within one year of the sale of the vessel for
which it was originally issued, or if the person does not retain ownership
of the new vessel to which the permit is transferred for a period of not
less than one year, the permit shall be revoked.
   (5) In the event of the death or incapacity of a permitholder, the permit
shall be transferred, upon application, to the heirs or assigns, or to the
working partner, of the permitholder, together with the transfer of the
vessel for which the permit was issued, and the new owner may continue
to operate the vessel under the permit, renew the permit, or transfer the
permit upon sale of the vessel pursuant to paragraph (1).
   (b) This section shall become inoperative on April 1, 2006, and, as of
January 1, 2007, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2007, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes
inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 8. Section 8280.4 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8280.4. (a) The commission may revoke the commercial fishing
license issued pursuant to Section 7852 of any person owning a fishing
vessel engaging in the taking or landing of Dungeness crab by traps for
which that person has not obtained a Dungeness crab vessel permit, and
[Ch. 410 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3089

the commission may revoke the registration, issued pursuant to Section
7881, for that vessel.
   (b) This section shall become inoperative on April 1, 2006, and, as of
January 1, 2007, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2007, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes
inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 9. Section 8280.5 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8280.5. (a) The director shall convene a Dungeness crab review
panel for the purpose of reviewing applications for Dungeness crab
vessel permits pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (4) of subdivision (b) of
Section 8280.1 and applications for permit transfers pursuant to Section
8280.3 if the department determines that the additional review and
advice of the panel will be helpful in deciding whether to issue a permit
or approve a transfer.
   (b) The panel shall consist of one nonvoting representative of the
department and three public voting members selected by the director to
represent the Dungeness crab fishing industry. One public member shall
be licensed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 8030) of
Chapter 1 and active in Dungeness crab processing in this state. Two
public members shall be licensed pursuant to Section 7852, one from
Sonoma County or a county south of Sonoma County, and one from
Mendocino County or a county north of Mendocino County, and active
in the taking and landing of Dungeness crab in this state. The public
members shall be reimbursed for their necessary and proper expenses to
participate on the panel. A public member shall serve on the panel for
not more than four consecutive years.
   (c) The panel may conduct its review of applications referred to it by
mail or teleconference.
   (d) The panel shall review each application for a permit or permit
transfer referred to it by the department and shall consider all oral and
written evidence presented by the applicant that is pertinent to the
application under review. If the panel recommends issuance of a permit
or approval of the transfer, the department may issue a Dungeness crab
vessel permit pursuant to Section 8280.1 or approve a permit transfer
pursuant to Section 8280.3.
   (e) All appeals of denials of Dungeness crab vessel permits shall be
made to the commission and may be heard by the commission if the
appeal of denial is filed in writing with the commission not later than 90
days from the date of a permit denial. The commission may order the
department to issue a permit upon appeal if the commission finds that
the appellant qualified for a permit under this chapter.
   (f) This section shall become inoperative on April 1, 2006, and, as of
January 1, 2007, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
 3090                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 411 ]
before January 1, 2007, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes
inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 10. Section 8280.6 of the Fish and Game Code is amended to
read:
   8280.6. (a) The department shall charge a fee for each Dungeness
crab vessel permit of two hundred dollars ($200) for a resident of
California and four hundred dollars ($400) for a nonresident of
California.
   (b) The department shall charge a nonrefundable fee of two hundred
dollars ($200) for each transfer of a permit authorized pursuant to
paragraph (2), (4), or (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 8280.3.
   (c) This section shall become inoperative on April 1, 2006, and, as of
January 1, 2007, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2007, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes
inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 10.5. Article 14.5 (commencing with Section 8510) is added
to Chapter 2 of Part 3 of Division 6 of the Fish and Game Code, to read:

                           Article 14.5.   Krill

  8510. (a) It is unlawful to take or land krill of the genus
Thysanoessa or the genus Euphausia for commercial purposes except
under regulations adopted by the commission.
  (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), krill of the genus Thysanoessa
or the genus Euphausia shall not be taken or landed for commercial
purposes before January 1, 2011.
  SEC. 11. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 411

  An act to amend Sections 14400, 14405, 14800, 14860 of, and to
repeal Sections 14864 and 15256 of, the Financial Code, and to amend
Section 1648 of the Insurance Code, relating to financial institutions,
and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
[Ch. 411 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3091
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14400 of the Financial Code is amended to
read:
   14400. (a) The savings capital of a credit union shall consist of the
payments made by members on shares as set forth in the credit union’s
written savings capital structure policy pursuant to Section 14862.
   (b) The equity capital of the credit union shall consist of the credit
union’s regular reserve account, the undivided earnings account, any
appropriated undivided earnings accounts, and other forms of capital
approved by the commissioner.
   SEC. 2. Section 14405 of the Financial Code is amended to read:
   14405. Every credit union may:
   (a) (1) Become a member of any organization or organizations
composed of credit unions, credit associations, chambers of commerce,
or financial institutions.
   (2) Become a member of any nonprofit organization approved by the
board of directors.
   (b) Pay dues and assessments as may be levied upon it by any
organization of which it is a member.
   SEC. 3. Section 14800 of the Financial Code is amended to read:
   14800. (a) Every credit union may admit to membership those
persons qualified for membership upon the occurrence of any of the
following:
   (1) Upon the purchase of a membership in the credit union as
provided in the credit union’s bylaws.
   (2) Upon the payment of an entrance fee established from time to time
by the board of directors.
   (3) Upon the purchase of one or more shares in the credit union as
provided in the credit union’s bylaws.
   (b) No officer, director, committee member, or employee of any credit
union shall approve a person for admission to membership or admit an
applicant for membership in the credit union or extend any benefit or
service of the credit union to any person, unless that person is admitted
to membership in the credit union pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (c) Nothing in subdivisions (a) and (b) shall be construed to limit the
powers of a credit union to engage in joint service programs or business
relationships for the benefit of their members where some incidental
benefit may flow to third parties to the transaction or the authority for
a credit union to engage in joint loan programs pursuant to Section
14959.
 3092                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 411 ]
   (d) Nothing in this section prohibits a credit union from admitting to
membership a corporation in which the credit union holds shares
pursuant to Section 14650 or a corporation formed to provide services
to credit unions or to credit union members in which the credit union
holds shares or a limited liability company formed to provide services
to credit unions or to credit union members in which the credit union
holds membership or economic interests pursuant to Section 14651.
   SEC. 4. Section 14860 of the Financial Code is amended to read:
   14860. Except as provided in this section and Part 2 (commencing
with Section 5100) of Division 5 of the Probate Code, no credit union
shall exercise trust powers except upon qualifying as a trust company
pursuant to Division 1 (commencing with Section 99).
   (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law relating to trusts and
trust authority, subject to the regulations of the commissioner, a credit
union may act as a trustee or custodian, and may receive reasonable
compensation for so acting, under any written trust instrument or
custodial agreement created or organized in the United States which is
a part of a pension plan for its members or groups or organizations of its
members, which qualifies or has qualified for specific tax treatment
under Section 401, 408, 408A, 457, or 530 of the Internal Revenue Code,
Title 26 of the United States Code, or any deferred compensation plan
for the benefit of the credit union’s employees, provided the funds
received pursuant to these plans are invested as provided in Section
16040 of the Probate Code. All funds held by a credit union as trustee
or in a custodial capacity shall be maintained in accordance with
applicable laws and rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of the Treasury, or any other authority
exercising jurisdiction over the trust or custodial accounts. The credit
union shall maintain individual records for each participant or
beneficiary that show in detail all transactions relating to the funds of
each participant or beneficiary.
   The trust instrument or agreement shall provide for the appointment
of a successor trustee or custodian by a person, committee, corporation,
or organization other than the credit union or any person acting in his or
her capacity as a director, employee, or agent of the credit union, upon
notice from the credit union or the commissioner that the credit union
is unwilling or unable to continue to act as trustee or custodian.
   (b) Shares may be issued in a revocable or irrevocable trust subject
to the following:
   (1) When shares are issued in a revocable trust, the settlor shall be a
member of the credit union issuing the shares in his or her own right. If
the trust has joint settlers, who are husband and wife, then only one
settlor need be a member of the credit union.
[Ch. 412 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3093

   (2) When shares are issued in an irrevocable trust, the settlor or the
beneficiary shall be a member of this credit union in his or her own right.
For purposes of this section, shares issued pursuant to a pension plan
authorized by this section shall be treated as an irrevocable trust unless
otherwise indicated in rules and regulations issued by the commissioner.
   (3) This subdivision does not apply to trust accounts established prior
to the effective date of this subdivision.
   SEC. 5. Section 14864 of the Financial Code is repealed.
   SEC. 6. Section 15256 of the Financial Code is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 1648 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
   1648. (a) An unincorporated association or nonprofit corporation
that is not the holder of a certificate of authority issued pursuant to
Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 12160) of Part 5 of Division 2 is
not eligible for a license under this article unless each member thereof
possesses an individual license to transact each class of insurance
authorized by the license or is a natural person named on the license to
transact thereunder.
   (b) This section is not applicable to any nonprofit cemetery company
exempt from the taxes imposed by Part 11 (commencing with Section
23001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code under the
provisions of Section 23701c of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   (c) This section is not applicable to any state chartered credit union,
except that any officer, director, or employee of the credit union who
transacts insurance shall be licensed pursuant to this article.
   SEC. 8. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to ensure the validity of the increasing number of account
agreements or loan agreements entered into through electronic
commerce, and to provide credit unions with necessary authority to
service their present and future customers, it is necessary that this act
take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 412

  An act to amend Sections 55901, 55922, 56631, and 56652 of the
Food and Agricultural Code, relating to farm products.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]
 3094                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 412 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 55901 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   55901. Except as specified in Section 55902, any misdemeanor
which is prescribed by this article is punishable by a fine of not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) or more than five thousand dollars ($5,000),
by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one year, or by both
the fine and imprisonment.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 55901 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   55901. (a) Except as specified in Section 55902, any misdemeanor
which is prescribed by this article is punishable by a fine of not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) or more than five thousand dollars ($5,000),
by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one year, or by both
the fine and imprisonment.
   (b) For a violation of the offense described in subdivision (a), the
department may recover investigative costs, excluding attorneys’ fees
and administrative overhead, for those charges where there has been a
conviction in a court of law, or a settlement of a stipulated agreement has
been reached in lieu of a court action. Nothing in this section allows the
department to recover investigative costs for an administrative licensing
action or any action that has not been filed in a court of law.
   (c) Any person or entity responsible for investigative costs under this
section shall be allowed to audit the department’s investigative costs.
The audit must be performed by a third-party Certified Public
Accountant and paid for by the person or entity requesting the audit. The
department shall adopt regulations to implement this subdivision by
June 1, 2002.
   SEC. 2. Section 55922 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   55922. Any person that violates any provision of this chapter is
liable civilly in the sum of not less than five hundred dollars ($500) or
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each and every violation,
this sum to be recovered in an action by the secretary in any court of
competent jurisdiction. All sums which are recovered under this section
shall be deposited in the State Treasury to the credit of the Department
of Food and Agriculture Fund.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 55922 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   55922. (a) Any person that violates any provision of this chapter is
liable civilly in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500) or more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000) for each and every violation, this sum to be
recovered in an action by the secretary in any court of competent
[Ch. 412 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3095

jurisdiction. All sums which are recovered under this section shall be
deposited in the State Treasury to the credit of the Department of Food
and Agriculture Fund.
   (b) For a violation of the offense described in subdivision (a), the
department may recover investigative costs, excluding attorneys’ fees
and administrative overhead, for those charges where there has been a
conviction in a court of law, or a settlement of a stipulated agreement has
been reached in lieu of a court action. Nothing in this section allows the
department to recover investigative costs for an administrative licensing
action or any action that has not been filed in a court of law.
   (c) Any person or entity responsible for investigative costs under this
section shall be allowed to audit the department’s investigative costs.
The audit must be performed by a third-party Certified Public
Accountant and paid for by the person or entity requesting the audit. The
department shall promulgate regulations to implement this subdivision
by June 1, 2002.
   SEC. 3. Section 56631 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   56631. Except as specified in Section 56632, any misdemeanor
which is prescribed in this article is punishable by a fine of not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) or more than five thousand dollars ($5,000),
by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one year, or by both
the fine and imprisonment.
   SEC. 3.5. Section 56631 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   56631. (a) Except as specified in Section 56632, any misdemeanor
which is prescribed in this article is punishable by a fine of not less than
five hundred dollars ($500) or more than five thousand dollars ($5,000),
by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one year, or by both
the fine and imprisonment.
   (b) For a violation of the offense described in subdivision (a), the
department may recover investigative costs, excluding attorneys’ fees
and administrative overhead, for those charges where there has been a
conviction in a court of law, or a settlement of a stipulated agreement has
been reached in lieu of a court action. Nothing in this section allows the
department to recover investigative costs for an administrative licensing
action or any action that has not been filed in a court of law.
   (c) Any person or entity responsible for investigative costs under this
section shall be allowed to audit the department’s investigative costs.
The audit must be performed by a third-party Certified Public
Accountant and paid for by the person or entity requesting the audit. The
department shall promulgate regulations to implement this subdivision
by June 1, 2002.
 3096                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 412 ]
   SEC. 4. Section 56652 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   56652. Any person that violates any provision of this chapter is
liable civilly in the sum of not less than five hundred dollars ($500) or
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each and every violation.
This sum shall be recovered in an action by the secretary in any court of
competent jurisdiction. All sums which are recovered pursuant to this
section shall be deposited in the State Treasury to the credit of the
Department of Food and Agriculture Fund.
   SEC. 4.5. Section 56652 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   56652. (a) Any person that violates any provision of this chapter is
liable civilly in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500) or more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000) for each and every violation. This sum shall
be recovered in an action by the secretary in any court of competent
jurisdiction. All sums which are recovered pursuant to this section shall
be deposited in the State Treasury to the credit of the Department of Food
and Agriculture Fund.
   (b) For a violation of the offense described in subdivision (a), the
department may recover investigative costs, excluding attorneys’ fees
and administrative overhead, for those charges where there has been a
conviction in a court of law, or a settlement of a stipulated agreement has
been reached in lieu of a court action. Nothing in this section allows the
department to recover investigative costs for an administrative licensing
action or any action that has not been filed in a court of law.
   (c) Any person or entity responsible for investigative costs under this
section shall be allowed to audit the department’s investigative costs.
The audit must be performed by a third-party Certified Public
Accountant and paid for by the person or entity requesting the audit. The
department shall promulgate regulations to implement this subdivision
by June 1, 2002.
   SEC. 5. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
55901 of the Food and Agricultural Code proposed by both this bill and
SB 1535. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 55901 of the Food and Agricultural Code, and (3) this bill is
enacted after SB 1535, in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not
become operative.
   SEC. 6. Section 2.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
55922 of the Food and Agricultural Code proposed by both this bill and
SB 1535. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 55922 of the Food and Agricultural Code, and (3) this bill is
[Ch. 413 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3097

enacted after SB 1535, in which case Section 2 of this bill shall not
become operative.
  SEC. 7. Section 3.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
56631 of the Food and Agricultural Code proposed by both this bill and
SB 1535. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 56631 of the Food and Agricultural Code, and (3) this bill is
enacted after SB 1535, in which case Section 3 of this bill shall not
become operative.
  SEC. 8. Section 4.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
56652 of the Food and Agricultural Code proposed by both this bill and
SB 1535. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 56652 of the Food and Agricultural Code, and (3) this bill is
enacted after SB 1535, in which case Section 4 of this bill shall not
become operative.



                             CHAPTER 413

  An act to amend Section 1812.201 of the Civil Code, relating to seller
assisted marketing plans.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1812.201 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.201. For the purposes of this title, the following definitions
shall apply:
   (a) ‘‘Seller assisted marketing plan’’ means any sale or lease or offer
to sell or lease any product, equipment, supplies, or services that requires
a total initial payment exceeding five hundred dollars ($500), but
requires an initial cash payment of less than fifty thousand dollars
($50,000), that will aid a purchaser or will be used by or on behalf of the
purchaser in connection with or incidental to beginning, maintaining, or
operating a business when the seller assisted marketing plan seller has
advertised or in any other manner solicited the purchase or lease of the
seller assisted marketing plan and done any of the following acts:
   (1) Represented that the purchaser will earn, is likely to earn, or can
earn an amount in excess of the initial payment paid by the purchaser for
participation in the seller assisted marketing plan.
 3098                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 413 ]
   (2) Represented that there is a market for the product, equipment,
supplies, or services, or any product marketed by the user of the product,
equipment, supplies, or services sold or leased or offered for sale or lease
to the purchaser by the seller, or anything, be it tangible or intangible,
made, produced, fabricated, grown, bred, modified, or developed by the
purchaser using, in whole or in part, the product, supplies, equipment,
or services that were sold or leased or offered for sale or lease to the
purchaser by the seller assisted marketing plan seller.
   (3) Represented that the seller will buy back or is likely to buy back
any product made, produced, fabricated, grown, or bred by the purchaser
using, in whole or in part, the product, supplies, equipment, or services
that were initially sold or leased or offered for sale or lease to the
purchaser by the seller assisted marketing plan seller.
   (b) A ‘‘seller assisted marketing plan’’ shall not include:
   (1) A security, as defined in the Corporate Securities Law of 1968
(Division 1 (commencing with Section 25000) of Title 4 of the
Corporations Code), that has been qualified for sale by the Department
of Corporations, or is exempt under Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 25100) of Part 2 of Division 1 of Title 4 of the Corporations Code
from the necessity to qualify.
   (2) A franchise defined by the Franchise Investment Law (Division
5 (commencing with Section 31000) of Title 4 of the Corporations Code)
that is registered with the Department of Corporations or is exempt under
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 31100) of Part 2 of Division 5 of
Title 4 of the Corporations Code from the necessity of registering.
   (3) Any transaction in which either the seller or purchaser or the lessor
or lessee is licensed pursuant to and the transaction is governed by the
Real Estate Law, Division 4 (commencing with Section 10000) of the
Business and Professions Code.
   (4) A license granted by a general merchandise retailer that allows the
licensee to sell goods, equipment, supplies, products, or services to the
general public under the retailer’s trademark, trade name, or service
mark if all of the following criteria are satisfied:
   (A) The general merchandise retailer has been doing business in this
state continually for five years prior to the granting of the license.
   (B) The general merchandise retailer sells diverse kinds of goods,
equipment, supplies, products, or services.
   (C) The general merchandise retailer also sells the same goods,
equipment, supplies, products, or services directly to the general public.
   (D) During the previous 12 months the general merchandise retailer’s
direct sales of the same goods, equipment, supplies, products, or services
to the public account for at least 50 percent of its yearly sales of these
goods, equipment, supplies, products, or services made under the
retailer’s trademark, trade name, or service mark.
[Ch. 413 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3099

   (5) A newspaper distribution system distributing newspapers as
defined in Section 6362 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   (6) A sale or lease to an existing or beginning business enterprise that
also sells or leases equipment, products, supplies, or performs services
that are not supplied by the seller and that the purchaser does not utilize
with the equipment, products, supplies, or services of the seller, if the
equipment, products, supplies, or services not supplied by the seller
account for more than 25 percent of the purchaser’s gross sales.
   (7) The sale in the entirety of an ‘‘ongoing business.’’ For purposes
of this paragraph, an ‘‘ongoing business’’ means a business that for at
least six months previous to the sale has been operated from a particular
specific location, has been open for business to the general public, and
has had all equipment and supplies necessary for operating the business
located at that location. The sale shall be of the entire ‘‘ongoing
business’’ and not merely a portion of the ongoing business.
   (8) A sale or lease or offer to sell or lease to a purchaser (A) who has
for a period of at least six months previously bought products, supplies,
services, or equipment that were sold under the same trademark or trade
name or that were produced by the seller and, (B) who has received on
resale of the product, supplies, services, or equipment an amount that is
at least equal to the amount of the initial payment.
   (9) The renewal or extension of an existing seller assisted marketing
plan contract.
   (10) A product distributorship that meets each of the following
requirements:
   (A) The seller sells products to the purchaser for resale by the
purchaser, and it is reasonably contemplated that substantially all of the
purchaser’s sales of the product will be at wholesale.
   (B) The agreement between the parties does not require that the
purchaser pay the seller, or any person associated with the seller, a fee
or any other payment for the right to enter into the agreement, and does
not require the purchaser to buy a minimum or specified quantity of the
products, or to buy products for a minimum or specified period of time.
For purposes of this paragraph, a ‘‘person associated with the seller’’
means a person, including an individual or a business entity, controlling,
controlled by, or under the same control as the seller.
   (C) The seller is a corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
joint venture, or any other business entity.
   (D) The seller has a net worth of at least ten million dollars
($10,000,000) according to audited financial statements of the seller
done during the 18 months preceding the date of the initial sale of
products to the purchaser. Net worth may be determined on a
consolidated basis if the seller is a subsidiary of another business entity
that is permitted by generally accepted accounting standards to prepare
 3100                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 413 ]
financial statements on a consolidated basis and that business entity
absolutely and irrevocably agrees in writing to guarantee the seller’s
obligations to the purchaser. The seller’s net worth shall be verified by
a certification to the Attorney General from an independent certified
public accountant that the audited financial statement reflects a net worth
of at least ten million dollars ($10,000,000). This certification shall be
provided within 30 days following receipt of a written request from the
Attorney General.
   (E) The seller grants the purchaser a license to use a trademark that
is registered under federal law.
   (F) It is not an agreement or arrangement encouraging a distributor
to recruit others to participate in the program and compensating the
distributor for recruiting others into the program or for sales made by
others recruited into the program.
   (c) ‘‘Person’’ includes an individual, corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, joint venture, or any business entity.
   (d) ‘‘Seller’’ means a person who sells or leases or offers to sell or
lease a seller assisted marketing plan and who meets either of the
following conditions:
   (1) Has sold or leased or represents or implies that the seller has sold
or leased, whether in California or elsewhere, at least five seller assisted
marketing plans within 24 months prior to a solicitation.
   (2) Intends or represents or implies that the seller intends to sell or
lease, whether in California or elsewhere, at least five seller assisted
marketing plans within 12 months following a solicitation.
   For purposes of this title, the seller is the person to whom the purchaser
becomes contractually obligated. A ‘‘seller’’ does not include a licensed
real estate broker or salesman who engages in the sale or lease of a
‘‘business opportunity’’ as that term is used in Sections 10000 to 10030,
inclusive, of the Business and Professions Code, or elsewhere in Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 10000), Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 10050), or Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 10450) of Part
1 of Division 4 of the Business and Professions Code.
   (e) ‘‘Purchaser’’ means a person who is solicited to become obligated
or does become obligated on a seller assisted marketing plan contract.
   (f) ‘‘Equipment’’ includes machines, all electrical devices, video or
audio devices, molds, display racks, vending machines, coin operated
game machines, machines that dispense products, and display units of
all kinds.
   (g) ‘‘Supplies’’ includes any and all materials used to produce, grow,
breed, fabricate, modify, develop, or make any product or item.
   (h) ‘‘Product’’ includes any tangible chattel, including food or living
animals, that the purchaser intends to:
   (1) Sell or lease.
[Ch. 413 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3101

   (2) Use to perform a service.
   (3) Resell or attempt to resell to the seller assisted marketing plan
seller.
   (4) Provide or attempt to provide to the seller assisted marketing plan
seller or to any other person whom the seller suggests the purchaser
contact so that the seller assisted marketing plan seller or that other
person may assist, either directly or indirectly, the purchaser in
distributing, selling, leasing, or otherwise disposing of the product.
   (i) ‘‘Services’’ includes any assistance, guidance, direction, work,
labor, or services provided by the seller to initiate or maintain or assist
in the initiation or maintenance of a business.
   (j) ‘‘Seller assisted marketing plan contract’’ or ‘‘contract’’ means
any contract or agreement that obligates a purchaser to a seller.
   (k) ‘‘Initial payment’’ means the total amount a purchaser is obligated
to pay to the seller under the terms of the seller assisted marketing plan
contract prior to or at the time of delivery of the equipment, supplies,
products, or services or within six months of the purchaser commencing
operation of the seller assisted marketing plan. If the contract sets forth
a specific total sale price for purchase of the seller assisted marketing
plan which total price is to be paid partially as a downpayment and then
in specific monthly payments, the ‘‘initial payment’’ means the entire
total sale price.
   (l) ‘‘Initial cash payment’’ or ‘‘downpayment’’ means that portion of
the initial payment that the purchaser is obligated to pay to the seller
prior to or at the time of delivery of equipment, supplies, products, or
services. It does not include any amount financed by or for which
financing is to be obtained by the seller, or financing that the seller assists
in obtaining.
   (m) ‘‘Buy-back’’ or ‘‘secured investment’’ means any representation
that implies in any manner that the purchaser’s initial payment is
protected from loss. These terms include a representation or implication
of any of the following:
   (1) That the seller may repurchase either all or part of what it sold to
the purchaser.
   (2) That the seller may at some future time pay the purchaser the
difference between what has been earned and the initial payment.
   (3) That the seller may in the ordinary course buy from the purchaser
items made, produced, fabricated, grown, bred, modified, or developed
by the purchaser using, in whole or in part, the product, supplies,
equipment, or services that were initially sold or leased to the purchaser
by the seller.
 3102                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 414 ]
  (4) That the seller or a person to whom the seller will refer the
purchaser may in the ordinary course sell, lease, or distribute the items
the purchaser has for sale or lease.



                             CHAPTER 414

  An act to amend Sections 19033 and 21007 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, relating to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature that the amendments
made by this act is to clarify the power of the Franchise Tax Board to
issue deficiency assessments after the holding in John E. Wertin, et al.
v. Franchise Tax Board, (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 961.
   SEC. 2. Section 19033 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   19033. (a) If the Franchise Tax Board determines that the tax
disclosed by the taxpayer on an original or amended return, including an
amended return reporting federal adjustments pursuant to Section
18622, is less than the tax disclosed by its examination, it shall mail
notice to the taxpayer of the deficiency proposed to be assessed. In no
case shall the determination of the deficiency be arbitrary or without
foundation.
   (b) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Franchise Tax Board,
in connection with the determination described in subdivision (a), shall
examine the original or amended return or related electronically stored
return data.
   (2) If the return or return data described in paragraph (1) has been
destroyed or cannot be located after reasonable effort, the Franchise Tax
Board shall request the taxpayer to provide a paper or electronic copy of
the return. If the taxpayer fails to provide a copy within 30 days, which
may be extended an additional 30 days for reasonable cause, from the
date of the request, paragraph (1) shall not apply.
   (c) As used in this section, ‘‘electronically stored return data’’ means
an electronic record of line items from an original or amended return and
accompanying schedules that is routinely created as a return is
processed.
[Ch. 415 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3103

   (d) The amendments to this section made by the act adding this
subdivision shall apply to notices of deficiencies proposed to be assessed
issued on or after January 1, 2001.
   SEC. 3. Section 21007 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   21007. The board shall prepare and publish brief but comprehensive
statements in simple and nontechnical language which explain
procedures, remedies, and the rights and obligations of the board and
taxpayers. As appropriate, these statements shall be provided to
taxpayers with the initial notice of audit, the notice of proposed
additional taxes, any subsequent notice of tax due, or other substantive
notices. Additionally, the board shall include an appropriate statement
in the tax booklets which are mailed annually to individuals and
corporations. The board also shall include an appropriate statement in
the tax booklets informing taxpayers they may be requested by the board
to furnish a copy of California or federal tax returns that are the subject
of or related to a federal audit.



                             CHAPTER 415

  An act to amend Section 6810 of the Corporations Code, and to amend
Sections 19411 and 23188 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating
to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 6810 of the Corporations Code is amended to
read:
  6810. (a) Upon the failure of a corporation to file the statement
required by Section 6210, the Secretary of State shall mail a notice of that
delinquency to the corporation. The notice shall also contain
information concerning the application of this section, and advise the
corporation of the penalty imposed by Section 19141 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code for failure to timely file the required statement after
notice of delinquency has been mailed by the Secretary of State. If,
within 60 days after the mailing of the notice of delinquency, a statement
pursuant to Section 6210 has not been filed by the corporation, the
Secretary of State may pursuant to regulation certify the name of the
corporation to the Franchise Tax Board.
 3104                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 415 ]
  (b) Upon certification pursuant to subdivision (a), the Franchise Tax
Board shall assess against the corporation a penalty of fifty dollars ($50)
pursuant to Section 19141 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
  (c) The penalty herein provided shall not apply to a corporation which
on or prior to the date of certification pursuant to subdivision (a) has
dissolved or has been merged into another corporation.
  (d) The penalty herein provided shall not apply and the Secretary of
State need not mail a notice of delinquency to a corporation the corporate
powers, rights, and privileges of which have been suspended by the
Franchise Tax Board pursuant to Section 23301, 23301.5, or 23775 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code on or prior to, and remain suspended on,
the last day of the filing period pursuant to Section 6210. The Secretary
of State need not mail a form pursuant to Section 6210 to a corporation
the corporate powers, rights, and privileges of which have been so
suspended by the Franchise Tax Board on or prior to, and remain
suspended on, the day the Secretary of State prepares the forms for
mailing.
  (e) If, after certification pursuant to subdivision (a) the Secretary of
State finds the required statement was filed before the expiration of the
60-day period after mailing of the notice of delinquency, the Secretary
of State shall promptly decertify the name of the corporation to the
Franchise Tax Board. The Franchise Tax Board shall then promptly
abate any penalty assessed against the corporation pursuant to Section
19141 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
  (f) If the Secretary of State determines that the failure of a corporation
to file a statement required by Section 6210 is excusable because of
reasonable cause or unusual circumstances that justify the failure, the
Secretary of State may waive the penalty imposed by this section and by
Section 19141 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, in which case the
Secretary of State shall not certify the name of the corporation to the
Franchise Tax Board, or if already certified, the Secretary of State shall
promptly decertify the name of the corporation.
  SEC. 2. Section 19411 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
  19411. The Franchise Tax Board may recover any refund or credit
or any portion thereof which is erroneously made or allowed, together
with interest at the adjusted annual rate established pursuant to Section
19521 beginning 30 days after the board mails a notice and demand for
repayment, in an action brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in
the County of Sacramento in the name of the people of the State of
California within whichever of the following periods expires the later:
  (a) Two years after the refund or credit was made.
  (b) During the period within which the Franchise Tax Board may mail
a notice of proposed deficiency assessment.
[Ch. 416 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3105

  SEC. 3. Section 23188 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
  23188. In the event that taxes, interest, or penalties have been or
shall be assessed against, paid by, or collected from a taxpayer under a
subdivision of Section 23181 or 23183.1, which assessment, payment,
or collection should have been made under a different subdivision of
those sections, the taxes, interest, or penalties shall be considered as
having been assessed, paid, or collected under that different subdivision
as of the date or dates they were made.



                             CHAPTER 416

  An act to amend Sections 4701, 4705, 4710, 4710.5, 4710.6, 4710.7,
4710.8, 4711, 4711.5, 4712, 4712.2, 4712.5 of, and to add Section
4702.7 to, the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to developmental
disabilities.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 4701 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4701. ‘‘Adequate notice’’ means a written notice informing the
applicant, recipient, and authorized representative of at least all of the
following:
   (a) The action that the service agency proposes to take, including a
statement of the basic facts upon which the service agency is relying.
   (b) The reason or reasons for that action.
   (c) The effective date of that action.
   (d) The specific law, regulation, or policy supporting the action.
   (e) The responsible state agency with whom a state appeal may be
filed, including the address of the state agency director.
   (f) That if a fair hearing is requested, the claimant has the following
rights:
   (1) The opportunity to be present in all proceedings and to present
written and oral evidence.
   (2) The opportunity to confront and cross-examine witnesses.
   (3) The right to appear in person with counsel or other representatives
of his or her own choosing.
   (4) The right to access to records pursuant to Article 5 (commencing
with Section 4725).
 3106                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 416 ]
   (5) The right to an interpreter.
   (g) Information on availability of advocacy assistance, including
referral to the developmental center or regional center clients’ rights
advocate, area board, publicly funded legal services corporations, and
other publicly or privately funded advocacy organizations, including the
protection and advocacy system required under federal Public Law
95-602, the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights
Act (42 U.S.C.A. Sec. 6000 et seq.).
   (h) The fair hearing procedure, including deadlines, access to service
agency records under Article 5 (commencing with Section 4725), the
opportunity to request an informal meeting to resolve the issue or issues,
and the opportunity to request mediation which shall be voluntary for
both the claimant and the service agency.
   (i) If the claimant has requested an informal meeting, information
that it shall be held within 10 days of the date the hearing request form
is received by the service agency.
   (j) The option of requesting mediation prior to a fair hearing, as
provided in Section 4711.5. Nothing in this section shall preclude the
claimant or his or her authorized representative from proceeding directly
to a fair hearing in the event that mediation is unsuccessful.
   (k) The fair hearing shall be completed and a final administrative
decision rendered within 90 days of the date the hearing request form is
received by the service agency, unless the fair hearing request has been
withdrawn or the time period has been extended in accordance with this
chapter.
   (l) Prior to a voluntary informal meeting, voluntary mediation or a
fair hearing, the claimant or his or her authorized representative shall
have the right to examine any or all documents contained in the
individual’s service agency file. Access to records shall be provided
pursuant to Article 5 (commencing with Section 4725).
   (m) An explanation that a request for mediation may constitute a
waiver of the rights of a medicaid home and community-based waiver
participant to receive a fair hearing decision within 90 days of the date
the hearing request form is received by the service agency, as specified
in subdivision (c) of Section 4711.5.
   (n) That if a request for a fair hearing by a recipient is postmarked or
received by a service agency no later than 10 days after receipt of the
notice of the proposed action mailed pursuant to subdivision (a) of
Section 4710, current services shall continue as provided in Section
4715. The notice shall be in clear, nontechnical language in English. If
the claimant or authorized representative does not comprehend English,
the notice shall be provided in such other language as the claimant or
authorized representative comprehends.
[Ch. 416 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3107

   (o) A statement indicating whether the recipient is a participant in the
home and community-based services waiver.
   SEC. 2. Section 4702.7 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
   4702.7. For purposes of this section, ‘‘medicaid home and
community-based waiver participant’’ means an individual deemed
eligible and receiving services through the Medicaid Home and
Community-based waiver program.
   SEC. 3. Section 4705 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4705. (a) Every service agency shall, as a condition of continued
receipt of state funds, have an agency fair hearing procedure for
resolving conflicts between the service agency and recipients of, or
applicants for, service. The State Department of Developmental
Services shall promulgate regulations to implement this chapter by July
1, 1999, which shall be binding on every service agency.
   Any public or private agency receiving state funds for the purpose of
serving persons with developmental disabilities not otherwise subject to
the provisions of this chapter shall, as a condition of continued receipt
of state funds, adopt and periodically review a written internal grievance
procedure.
   (b) An agency that employs a fair hearing procedure mandated by any
other statute shall be considered to have an approved procedure for
purposes of this chapter.
   (c) The service agency’s mediation and fair hearing procedure shall
be stated in writing, in English and any other language that may be
appropriate to the needs of the consumers of the agency’s service. A copy
of the procedure and a copy of the provisions of this chapter shall be
prominently displayed on the premises of the service agency.
   (d) All recipients and applicants, and persons having legal
responsibility for recipients or applicants, shall be informed verbally of,
and shall be notified in writing in a language which they comprehend of,
the service agency’s mediation and fair hearing procedure when they
apply for service, when they are denied service, and when notice of
service modification is given pursuant to Section 4710.
   (e) If, in the opinion of any person, the rights or interests of a claimant
who has not personally authorized a representative will not be properly
protected or advocated, the local area board and the clients’ right
advocate assigned to the regional center or developmental center shall
be notified, and the area board may appoint a person or agency as
representative, pursuant to Section 4590, to assist the claimant in the
mediation and fair hearing procedure. The appointment shall be in
writing to the authorized representative and a copy of the appointment
shall be immediately mailed to the service agency director.
 3108                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 416 ]
   SEC. 4. Section 4710 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4710. (a) Adequate notice shall be sent to the applicant or recipient
and the authorized representative, if any, by certified mail at least 30 days
prior to any of the following actions:
   (1) The agency makes a decision without the mutual consent of the
service recipient or authorized representative to reduce, terminate, or
change services set forth in an individual program plan.
   (2) A recipient is determined to be no longer eligible for agency
services.
   (b) Adequate notice shall be sent to the recipient and the authorized
representative, if any, by certified mail no more than five working days
after the agency makes a decision without the mutual consent of the
recipient or authorized representative, if any, to deny the initiation of a
service or support requested for inclusion in the individual program plan.
   (c) If the reason for denial of services or modification of services in
a recipient’s individual program plan is a lack of funds in the regional
center budget, the regional center shall be the service agency responsible
for giving adequate notice and participating in the fair hearing procedure
under this chapter.
   (d) The regional center shall, within 30 days after written notice is
mailed to the applicant or client, notify the department in writing of the
denial if a lack of funds in the regional center budget is the reason for one
of the following:
   (1) The denial of services to an applicant.
   (2) The denial of services to a current regional center client requesting
services not included in the client’s individual program plan but
determined to be necessary by the interdisciplinary team.
   (3) Denial, cutback, or termination of current services to a recipient
set forth in the individual program plan.
   The notification to the department shall include the nature of the
service requested, a request that the department allocate sufficient funds
to the regional center within 30 days to provide the service, the projected
cost for the service for the balance of the fiscal year, and information
substantiating the reason for the lack of funds to purchase the service.
   (e) If a person requests regional center services and is found to be
ineligible for these services, the regional center shall give adequate
notice pursuant to Section 4701. Notice shall be sent within five working
days of the time limits set forth in Sections 4642 and 4643.
   (f) The advance notice specified in subdivision (a) shall not be
required when a reduction, termination, or change in services is
determined to be necessary for the health and safety of the recipient.
However, adequate notice shall be given within 10 days after the service
agency action.
[Ch. 416 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3109

   SEC. 5. Section 4710.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4710.5. (a) Any applicant for or recipient of services, or authorized
representative of the applicant or recipient, who is dissatisfied with any
decision or action of the service agency which he or she believes to be
illegal, discriminatory, or not in the recipient’s or applicant’s best
interests, shall, upon filing a request within 30 days after notification of
the decision or action complained of, be afforded an opportunity for a fair
hearing. The opportunity to request a voluntary informal meeting and an
opportunity for mutually agreed upon voluntary mediation shall also be
offered at this time.
   (b) The request for a fair hearing and for mediation, or for a voluntary
informal meeting, or any combination thereof, shall be stated in writing
on a hearing request form provided by the service agency.
   (c) If any person makes a request for mediation or a fair hearing other
than on the hearing forms, the employee of the service agency who hears
or receives the request shall provide the person with a hearing request
form and shall assist the person in filling out the form if the person
requires or requests assistance. Any employee who willfully fails to
comply with this requirement shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (d) The hearing request form shall be directed to the director of the
service agency responsible for the action complained of under
subdivision (a). The service agency director shall simultaneously
facsimile (FAX) a copy of the hearing request form to the department and
the director of the responsible state agency or his or her designee
pursuant to Section 4704.5 within five working days of the service
agency director’s receipt of the request. The department shall keep a file
of all hearing request forms.
   SEC. 6. Section 4710.6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4710.6. (a) Upon receipt by the service agency director of the
hearing request form requesting a fair hearing, mediation, or a voluntary
informal meeting, the service agency director shall immediately provide
adequate notice pursuant to Section 4701 to the claimant, the claimant’s
guardian or conservator, parent of a minor, and authorized representative
of the claimant’s rights in connection with the fair hearing, mediation,
or informal meeting. If an informal meeting is requested by the claimant,
the service agency and the claimant shall determine a mutually agreed
upon time for the meeting. The service agency shall notify the claimant
of the date upon which his or her hearing request form was received by
the service agency.
   (b) The written notice shall also confirm the mutually agreed upon
date, time, and place for a voluntary informal meeting, if desired by the
claimant or his or her authorized representative, with the service agency
 3110                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 416 ]
director or the director’s designee. The written notice shall also state that
the claimant or his or her authorized representative may decline an
informal meeting.
   (c) The written notification of rights required pursuant to subdivision
(a) shall not be required if the service agency includes written
notification of those rights with the notice required by Section 4710.
   SEC. 7. Section 4710.7 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4710.7. (a) Upon requesting a fair hearing, the claimant has the
right to request a voluntary informal meeting with the service agency
director or his or her designee. The purpose of the meeting is to attempt
to resolve the issue or issues that are the subject of the fair hearing appeal
informally prior to the scheduled fair hearing.
   (b) If an informal meeting is held, it shall be conducted by the service
agency director or his or her designee. The service agency director or his
or her designee shall notify the applicant or recipient and his or her
authorized representative of the decision of the informal meeting in
writing within five working days of the meeting.
   (c) The written decision of the service agency director or his or her
designee shall:
   (1) Identify the issues presented by the appeal.
   (2) Rule on each issue identified.
   (3) State the facts supporting each ruling.
   (4) Identify the laws, regulations, and policies upon which each
ruling is based.
   (d) Prior to the meeting, the claimant or his or her authorized
representative shall have the right to examine any documents contained
in the individual’s service agency file. Access to records shall be
provided pursuant to Article 5 (commencing with Section 4725).
   SEC. 8. Section 4710.8 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4710.8. (a) At an informal meeting, the claimant shall have the
rights stated pursuant to Section 4701.
   (b) An informal meeting shall be held at a time and place reasonably
convenient to the claimant and the authorized representative.
   (c) An informal meeting shall be conducted in the English language.
However, if the claimant, the claimant’s guardian or conservator, the
parent of a minor claimant, or the authorized representative does not
understand English, an interpreter shall be provided who is competent
and acceptable to both the person requiring the interpreter and the service
agency director or the director’s designee. Any cost of an interpreter
shall be borne by the service agency.
   SEC. 9. Section 4711 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
[Ch. 416 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3111

   4711. Upon receipt of the hearing request form, where a fair hearing
has been requested but mediation has not, the responsible state agency
director shall immediately notify the claimant, the claimant’s legal
guardian or conservator, the parent of a minor claimant, the claimant’s
authorized representative, and the service agency director in writing of
all the following information applicable to fair hearings. Where the
hearing request form contains a request for a fair hearing and mediation,
the notifications shall be made separately, and each notice shall contain
only the information applicable to the particular type of proceeding.
   (a) The time, place, and date of the fair hearing or mediation, as
applicable, if agreed to by the service agency.
   (b) The rights of the parties at the fair hearing pursuant to Section
4701 or mediation, as applicable, pursuant to Section 4711.5.
   (c) The availability of advocacy assistance pursuant to subdivision
(g) of Section 4701 for both mediation and fair hearings.
   (d) The name, address, and telephone number of the persons or offices
designated by the director of the responsible state agency, as applicable,
to conduct fair hearings, mediate disputes, and to receive requests for
continuance or consolidation.
   (e) The rights and responsibilities of the parties established pursuant
to subdivisions (d) to (m), inclusive, of Section 4712.
   SEC. 10. Section 4711.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4711.5. (a) Upon receipt of the written request for mediation, the
service agency shall be given five working days to accept or decline
mediation.
   (b) If the service agency declines mediation, the notice of that
decision shall be sent immediately to the claimant, his or her authorized
representative, and the director of the responsible state agency.
   (c) (1) If the service agency accepts mediation, the service agency
shall immediately send notice of that decision to the claimant, his or her
authorized representative, and the director of the responsible state
agency.
   (2) Within five calendar days after the receipt of the notice of the
service agency’s decision regarding mediation, the responsible state
agency or the designee of the responsible state agency shall notify the
claimant, his or her authorized representative, and the service agency of
the information applicable to voluntary mediation specified in Section
4711. The mediation shall be held within 30 days of the date the hearing
request form is received by the service agency, unless a continuance is
granted to the claimant at the discretion of the mediator.
   (3) A continuance granted pursuant to paragraph (2) shall constitute
a waiver of medicaid home and community-based services of the
participant’s right to a decision within 90 days of the date the hearing
 3112                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 416 ]
request form is received by the service agency. The extension of time for
the final decision resulting from the continuance shall only be as long
as the time period of the continuance.
   (d) Mediation shall be conducted in an informal, nonadversarial
manner, and shall incorporate the rights of the claimant contained in
paragraphs (1), (3), (4), and (5) of subdivision (f) of Section 4701.
   (e) The State Department of Developmental Services shall contract
with the mediators that meet the following requirements:
   (1) Familiarity with the provisions of this division and implementing
regulations, familiarity with the process of reconciling differences in a
nonadversarial, informal manner.
   (2) The person is not in the business of providing or supervising
services provided to regional centers or to regional center consumers.
   (f) During the course of the mediation, the mediator may meet
separately with the participants to the mediation, and may speak with
any party or parties confidentially in an attempt to assist the parties to
reach a resolution that is acceptable to all parties.
   (g) The mediator shall voluntarily disqualify himself or herself and
withdraw from any case in which he or she cannot be fair and impartial.
Any party may request the disqualification of the mediator by filing an
affidavit, prior to the voluntary mediation, stating with particularity the
grounds upon which it is claimed that a fair and impartial mediation
cannot be accorded. The issue shall be decided by the mediator.
   (h) Either the service agency or the claimant or his or her authorized
representative may withdraw at any time from the mediation and
proceed to a fair hearing.
   SEC. 11. Section 4712 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4712. (a) The fair hearing shall be held within 50 days of the date
the hearing request form is received by the service agency, unless a
continuance based upon a showing of good cause has been granted to the
claimant. The service agency may also request a continuance based upon
a showing of good cause, provided that the granting of the continuance
does not extend the time period for rendering a final administrative
decision beyond the 90-day period provided for in this chapter. For
purposes of this section, good cause includes, but is not limited to, the
following circumstances:
   (1) Death of a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent of the
claimant or authorized representative, or legal guardian or conservator
of the claimant.
   (2) Personal illness or injury of the claimant or authorized
representative.
   (3) Sudden and unexpected emergencies, including, but not limited
to, court appearances of the claimant or authorized representative,
[Ch. 416 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3113

conflicting schedules of the authorized representative if the conflict is
beyond the control of the authorized representative.
   (4) Unavailability of a witness or evidence, the absence of which
would result in serious prejudice to the claimant.
   (5) An intervening request by the claimant or his or her authorized
representative for mediation.
   (b) Notwithstanding Sections 19130, 19131, and 19132 of the
Government Code, the department shall contract for the provision of
independent hearing officers. Hearing officers shall have had at least two
years of full-time legal training at a California or American Bar
Association accredited law school or the equivalent in training and
experience as established by regulations to be adopted by the department
pursuant to Section 4705. These hearing officers shall receive training
in the law and regulations governing services to developmentally
disabled individuals and administrative hearings. Training shall include,
but not be limited to, the Lanterman Developmental Disabilities
Services Act and regulations adopted thereunder, relevant case law,
information about services and supports available to persons with
developmental disabilities, including innovative services and supports,
the standard agreement contract between the department and regional
centers and regional center purchase-of-service policies, and
information and training on protecting the rights of consumers at
administrative hearings, with emphasis on assisting, where appropriate,
those consumers represented by themselves or an advocate
inexperienced in administrative hearings in fully developing the
administrative record. The State Department of Developmental Services
shall seek the advice of the State Council on Developmental Disabilities,
the Organization of Area Boards, the protection and advocacy agency
designated by the Governor in this state to fulfill the requirements and
assurances of the federal Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill
of Rights Act, contained in Chapter 75 (commencing with Section 6000)
of Title 42 of the United States Code, the Association of Regional Center
Agencies, and other state agencies or organizations and consumers and
family members as designated by the department in the development of
standardized hearing procedures for hearing officers and training
materials and the implementation of training procedures by the
department. The department shall provide formal training for hearing
officers on at least an annual basis. The training shall be developed and
presented by the department, however, the department shall invite those
agencies and organizations listed in this subdivision to participate.
   (c) The hearing officer shall not be an employee, agent, board
member, or contractor of the service agency against whose action the
appeal has been filed, or a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent, legal guardian, or conservator of the claimant, or any
 3114                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 416 ]
person who has a direct financial interest in the outcome of the fair
hearing, or any other interest which would preclude a fair and impartial
hearing.
   (d) The claimant and the service agency shall exchange a list of
potential witnesses, the general subject of the testimony of each witness,
and copies of all potential documentary evidence at least five calendar
days prior to the hearing. The hearing officer may prohibit testimony of
a witness that is not disclosed and may prohibit the introduction of
documents that have not been disclosed. However, the hearing officer
may allow introduction of such testimony or witness in the interest of
justice.
   (e) The fair hearing shall be held at a time and place reasonably
convenient to the claimant and the authorized representative. The
claimant or the authorized representative of the claimant and the regional
center shall agree on the location of the fair hearing.
   (f) Merits of a pending fair hearing shall not be discussed between the
hearing officer and a party outside the presence of the other party.
   (g) The hearing officer shall voluntarily disqualify himself or herself
and withdraw from any case in which he or she cannot accord a fair and
impartial hearing or consideration. Any party may request the
disqualification of the hearing officer by filing an affidavit, prior to the
taking of evidence at a hearing, stating with particularity the grounds
upon which it is claimed that a fair and impartial hearing cannot be
accorded. The issue shall be decided by the hearing officer.
   (h) Both parties to the fair hearing shall have the rights specified in
subdivision (f) of Section 4701.
   (i) The fair hearing need not be conducted according to the technical
rules of evidence and those related to witnesses. Any relevant evidence
shall be admitted. Both parties shall be allowed to submit documents
into evidence at the beginning of the hearing. No party shall be required
to formally authenticate any document unless the hearing officer
determines the necessity to do so in the interest of justice. All testimony
shall be under oath or affirmation which the hearing officer is
empowered to administer.
   (j) A service agency shall present its witnesses and all other evidence
before the claimant presents his or her case unless the parties agree
otherwise or the hearing officer determines that there exists good cause
for a witness to be heard out of order. This section does not alter the
burden of proof.
   (k) A recording shall be made of the proceedings before the hearing
officer. Any cost of recording shall be borne by the responsible state
agency.
   (l) The fair hearing shall be conducted in the English language.
However, if the claimant, the claimant’s guardian or conservator, parent
[Ch. 416 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3115

of a minor claimant, or authorized representative does not understand
English, an interpreter shall be provided by the responsible state agency.
   (m) The fair hearing shall be open to the public except at the request
of the claimant or authorized representative or when personnel matters
are being reviewed.
   (n) The agency awarded the contract for independent hearing officers
shall biennially conduct, or cause to be conducted, an evaluation of the
hearing officers who conduct hearings under this part. The department
shall approve the methodology used to conduct the evaluation.
Information and data for this evaluation shall be solicited from
consumers who were claimants in an administrative hearing over the
past two years, their family members or authorized representative if
involved in the hearing, regional centers, and nonattorney advocates,
attorneys who represented either party in an administrative hearing over
the past two years, and the organizations identified in subdivision (b).
Regional centers shall forward copies of administrative decisions
reviewed by the superior court to the department. The areas of evaluation
shall include, but not be limited to, the hearing officers’ demeanor
toward parties and witnesses, conduct of the hearing in accord with
fairness and standards of due process, ability to fairly develop the record
in cases where consumers represent themselves or are represented by an
advocate that does not have significant experience in administrative
hearings, use of legal authority, clarity of written decisions, and
adherence to the requirements of subdivision (b) of Section 4712.5. The
department shall be provided with a copy of the evaluation and shall use
the evaluation in partial fulfillment of its evaluation of the contract for
the provision of independent hearing officers. A summary of the data
collected shall be made available to the public upon request, provided
that the names of individual hearing officers and consumers shall not be
disclosed.
   SEC. 12. Section 4712.2 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4712.2. (a) Two or more claimants with a common complaint, or
their authorized representatives, or a service agency may request the
consolidation of appeals involving a common question of law or fact.
The hearing officer may grant the request for consolidation if the hearing
officer finds that consolidation would not result in prejudice or undue
inconvenience to any party, undue delay, or a violation of any claimant’s
right to confidentiality unless the claimant agrees to have otherwise
confidential information revealed to other claimants. Requests for
consolidation shall be forwarded to the hearing officer, and postmarked
within five working days of the receipt of the notice sent pursuant to
Section 4711. The hearing officer shall notify the parties and authorized
 3116                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 416 ]
representatives, if any, of a request for consolidation and shall afford an
opportunity for any written objections to be submitted.
   (b) In all consolidated hearings, each individual claimant shall have
all the rights specified in subdivision (f) of Section 4701. A separate
written decision shall be issued to each claimant and respective
authorized representatives.
   SEC. 13. Section 4712.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   4712.5. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (c), within 10
working days of the concluding day of the state hearing, but not later than
80 days following the date the hearing request form was received, the
hearing officer shall render a written decision and shall transmit the
decision to each party and to the director of the responsible state agency,
along with notification that this is the final administrative decision, that
each party shall be bound thereby, and that either party may appeal the
decision to a court of competent jurisdiction within 90 days of the
receiving notice of the final decision.
   (b) The hearing officer’s decision shall be in ordinary and concise
language and shall contain a summary of the facts, a statement of the
evidence from the proceedings that was relied upon, a decision on each
of the issues presented, and an identification of the statutes, regulations,
and policies supporting the decision.
   (c) Where the decision involves an issue arising from the federal
home- and community-based service waiver program, the hearing
officer’s decision shall be a proposed decision submitted to the Director
of Health Services as the single state agency for the medicaid program.
Within 90 days following the date the hearing request form is
postmarked or received, whichever is earlier, the director may adopt the
decision as written or decide the matter on the record. If the Director of
Health Services does not act on the proposed decision within 90 days,
the decision shall be deemed to be adopted by the Director of Health
Services. The final decision shall be immediately transmitted to each
party, along with the notice described in subdivision (a). If the decision
of the Director of Health Services differs from the proposed decision of
the hearing officer, a copy of that proposed decision shall also be served
upon each party.
   (d) The department shall collect and maintain, or cause to be collected
and maintained, redacted copies of all administrative hearing decisions
issued under this division. Hearing decisions shall be categorized by the
type of service or support that was the subject of the hearing and by the
year of issuance. The department shall make copies of the decisions
available to the public upon request at a cost per page not greater than
that which it charges for document requests submitted pursuant to
Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 6250) of Division 7 of Title 1 of
[Ch. 417 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3117

the Government Code. The department shall use this information in
partial fulfillment of its obligation to monitor regional centers and in its
evaluation of the contract for the provision of independent hearing
officers.



                             CHAPTER 417

   An act to amend Section 69.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 69.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   69.5. (a) (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, pursuant
to subdivision (a) of Section 2 of Article XIII A of the California
Constitution, any person over the age of 55 years, or any severely and
permanently disabled person, who resides in property that is eligible for
the homeowner’s exemption under subdivision (k) of Section 3 of
Article XIII of the California Constitution and Section 218 may transfer,
subject to the conditions and limitations provided in this section, the
base year value of that property to any replacement dwelling of equal or
lesser value that is located within the same county and is purchased or
newly constructed by that person as his or her principal residence within
two years of the sale by that person of the original property, provided that
the base year value of the original property shall not be transferred to the
replacement dwelling until the original property is sold.
   (2) Notwithstanding the limitation in paragraph (1) requiring that the
original property and the replacement dwelling be located in the same
county, this limitation shall not apply in any county in which the county
board of supervisors, after consultation with local affected agencies
within the boundaries of the county, adopts an ordinance making the
provisions of paragraph (1) also applicable to situations in which
replacement dwellings are located in that county and the original
properties are located in another county within this state. The
authorization contained in this paragraph shall be applicable in a county
only if the ordinance adopted by the board of supervisors complies with
all of the following requirements:
 3118                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 417 ]
   (A) It is adopted only after consultation between the board of
supervisors and all other local affected agencies within the county’s
boundaries.
   (B) It requires that all claims for transfers of base year value from
original property located in another county be granted if the claims meet
the applicable requirements of both subdivision (a) of Section 2 of
Article XIII A of the California Constitution and this section.
   (C) It requires that all base year valuations of original property
located in another county and determined by its assessor be accepted in
connection with the granting of claims for transfers of base year value.
   (D) It provides that its provisions are operative for a period of not less
than five years.
   (E) The ordinance specifies the date on and after which its provisions
shall be applicable. However, the date specified shall not be earlier than
November 9, 1988. The specified applicable date may be a date earlier
than the date the county adopts the ordinance.
   (b) In addition to meeting the requirements of subdivision (a), any
person claiming the property tax relief provided by this section shall be
eligible for that relief only if the following conditions are met:
   (1) The claimant is an owner and a resident of the original property
either at the time of its sale or within two years of the purchase or new
construction of the replacement dwelling.
   (2) The original property is eligible for the homeowner’s exemption,
as the result of the claimant’s ownership and occupation of the property
as his or her principal residence, either at the time of its sale or within
two years of the purchase or new construction of the replacement
dwelling.
   (3) At the time of the sale of the original property, the claimant or the
claimant’s spouse who resides with the claimant is at least 55 years of
age, or is severely and permanently disabled.
   (4) At the time of claiming the property tax relief provided by
subdivision (a), the claimant is an owner of a replacement dwelling and
occupies it as his or her principal place of residence and, as a result
thereof, the property is currently eligible for the homeowner’s
exemption or would be eligible for the exemption except that the
property is already receiving the exemption because of an exemption
claim filed by the previous owner.
   (5) The original property of the claimant is sold by him or her within
two years of the purchase or new construction of the replacement
dwelling. For purposes of this paragraph, the purchase or new
construction of the replacement dwelling includes the purchase of that
portion of land on which the replacement building, structure, or other
shelter constituting a place of abode of the claimant will be situated and
[Ch. 417 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3119

that, pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (g), constitutes a part of
the replacement dwelling.
   (6) The replacement dwelling, including that portion of land on
which it is situated that is specified in paragraph (5), is located entirely
within the same county as the claimant’s original property.
   (7) The claimant has not previously been granted, as a claimant, the
property tax relief provided by this section, except that this paragraph
shall not apply to any person who becomes severely and permanently
disabled subsequent to being granted, as a claimant, the property tax
relief provided by this section for any person over the age of 55 years.
In order to prevent duplication of claims under this section within this
state, county assessors shall report quarterly to the State Board of
Equalization that information from claims filed in accordance with
subdivision (f) and from county records as is specified by the board
necessary to identify fully all claims under this section allowed by
assessors and all claimants who have thereby received relief. The board
may specify that the information include all or a part of the names and
social security numbers of claimants and their spouses and the identity
and location of the replacement dwelling to which the claim applies. The
information may be required in the form of data processing media or
other media and in a format that is compatible with the recordkeeping
processes of the counties and the auditing procedures of the state.
   (c) The property tax relief provided by this section shall be available
if the original property or the replacement dwelling, or both, of the
claimant, includes, but is not limited to, either of the following:
   (1) A unit or lot within a cooperative housing corporation, a
community apartment project, a condominium project, or a planned unit
development. If the unit or lot constitutes the original property of the
claimant, the assessor shall transfer to the claimant’s replacement
dwelling only the base year value of the claimant’s unit or lot and his or
her share in any common area reserved as an appurtenance of that unit
or lot. If the unit or lot constitutes the replacement dwelling of the
claimant, the assessor shall transfer the base year value of the claimant’s
original property only to the unit or lot of the claimant and any share of
the claimant in any common area reserved as an appurtenance of that unit
or lot.
   (2) A mobilehome or a mobilehome and any land owned by the
claimant on which the mobilehome is situated. If the mobilehome or the
mobilehome and the land on which it is situated constitutes the
claimant’s original property, the assessor shall transfer to the claimant’s
replacement dwelling either the base year value of the mobilehome or
the base year value of the mobilehome and the land on which it is
situated, as appropriate. No transfer of base year value shall be made by
the assessor of that portion of land that does not constitute a part of the
 3120                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 417 ]
original property, as provided in paragraph (4) of subdivision (g). If the
mobilehome or the mobilehome and the land on which it is situated
constitutes the claimant’s replacement dwelling, the assessor shall
transfer the base year value of the claimant’s original property either to
the mobilehome or the mobilehome and the land on which it is situated,
as appropriate. No transfer of base year value shall be made by the
assessor to that portion of land that does not constitute a part of the
replacement dwelling, as provided in paragraph (3) of subdivision (g).
   This subdivision shall be subject to the limitations specified in
subdivision (d).
   (d) The property tax relief provided by this section shall be available
to a claimant who is the coowner of original property, as a joint tenant,
a tenant in common, or a community property owner, subject to the
following limitations:
   (1) If a single replacement dwelling is purchased or newly
constructed by all of the coowners and each coowner retains an interest
in the replacement dwelling, the claimant shall be eligible under this
section whether or not any or all of the remaining coowners would
otherwise be eligible claimants.
   (2) If two or more replacement dwellings are separately purchased or
newly constructed by two or more coowners and more than one coowner
would otherwise be an eligible claimant, only one coowner shall be
eligible under this section. These coowners shall determine by mutual
agreement which one of them shall be deemed eligible.
   (3) If two or more replacement dwellings are separately purchased or
newly constructed by two coowners who held the original property as
community property, only the coowner who has attained the age of 55
years, or is severely and permanently disabled, shall be eligible under
this section. If both spouses are over 55 years of age, they shall determine
by mutual agreement which one of them is eligible.
   In the case of coowners whose original property is a multiunit
dwelling, the limitations imposed by paragraphs (2) and (3) shall only
apply to coowners who occupied the same dwelling unit within the
original property at the time specified in paragraph (2) of subdivision
(b).
   (e) Upon the sale of original property, the assessor shall determine a
new base year value for that property in accordance with subdivision (a)
of Section 2 of Article XIII A of the California Constitution and Section
110.1, whether or not a replacement dwelling is subsequently purchased
or newly constructed by the former owner or owners of the original
property.
   This section shall not apply unless the transfer of the original property
is a change in ownership that either (1) subjects that property to
reappraisal at its current fair market value in accordance with Section
[Ch. 417 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3121

110.1 or 5803 or (2) results in a base year value determined in accordance
with this section, Section 69, or Section 69.3 because the property
qualifies under this section, Section 69, or Section 69.3 as a replacement
dwelling or property.
   (f) A claimant shall not be eligible for the property tax relief provided
by this section unless the claimant provides to the assessor, on a form that
the assessor shall make available upon request, the following
information:
   (1) The name and social security number of each claimant and of any
spouse of the claimant who was a record owner of the original property
at the time of its sale or is a record owner of the replacement dwelling.
   (2) Proof that the claimant or the claimant’s spouse who resided on
the original property with the claimant was, at the time of its sale, at least
55 years of age, or severely and permanently disabled. Proof of severe
and permanent disability shall be considered a certification, signed by
a licensed physician and surgeon of appropriate specialty, attesting to the
claimant’s severely and permanently disabled condition. In the absence
of available proof that a person is over 55 years of age, the claimant shall
certify under penalty of perjury that the age requirement is met. In the
case of a severely and permanently disabled claimant either of the
following shall be submitted:
   (A) A certification, signed by a licensed physician or surgeon of
appropriate specialty that identifies specific reasons why the disability
necessitates a move to the replacement dwelling and the
disability-related requirements, including any locational requirements,
of a replacement dwelling. The claimant shall substantiate that the
replacement dwelling meets disability-related requirements so
identified and that the primary reason for the move to the replacement
dwelling is to satisfy those requirements. If the claimant, or the
claimant’s spouse or guardian, so declares under penalty of perjury, it
shall be rebuttably presumed that the primary purpose of the move to the
replacement dwelling is to satisfy identified disability-related
requirements.
   (B) The claimant’s substantiation that the primary purpose of the
move to the replacement dwelling is to alleviate financial burdens
caused by the disability. If the claimant, or the claimant’s spouse or
guardian, so declares under penalty of perjury, it shall be rebuttably
presumed that the primary purpose of the move is to alleviate the
financial burdens caused by the disability.
   (3) The address and, if known, the assessor’s parcel number of the
original property.
   (4) The date of the claimant’s sale of the original property and the date
of the claimant’s purchase or new construction of a replacement
dwelling.
 3122                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 417 ]
   (5) A statement by the claimant that he or she occupied the
replacement dwelling as his or her principal place of residence on the
date of the filing of his or her claim.
   The State Board of Equalization shall design the form for claiming
eligibility.
   Any claim under this section shall be filed within three years of the
date the replacement dwelling was purchased or the new construction of
the replacement dwelling was completed subject to subdivision (k).
   (g) For purposes of this section:
   (1) ‘‘Person over the age of 55 years’’ means any person or the spouse
of any person who has attained the age of 55 years or older at the time
of the sale of original property.
   (2) ‘‘Base year value of the original property’’ means its base year
value, as determined in accordance with Section 110.1, with the
adjustments permitted by subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article XIII A
of the California Constitution and subdivision (f) of Section 110.1,
determined as of the date immediately prior to the date that the original
property is sold by the claimant.
   If the replacement dwelling is purchased or newly constructed after the
transfer of the original property, ‘‘base year value of the original
property’’ also includes any inflation factor adjustments permitted by
subdivision (f) of Section 110.1 for the period subsequent to the sale of
the original property. The base year or years used to compute the ‘‘base
year value of the original property’’ shall be deemed to be the base year
or years of any property to which that base year value is transferred
pursuant to this section.
   (3) ‘‘Replacement dwelling’’ means a building, structure, or other
shelter constituting a place of abode, whether real property or personal
property, that is owned and occupied by a claimant as his or her principal
place of residence, and any land owned by the claimant on which the
building, structure, or other shelter is situated. For purposes of this
paragraph, land constituting a part of a replacement dwelling includes
only that area of reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence, and
‘‘land owned by the claimant’’ includes land for which the claimant
either holds a leasehold interest described in subdivision (c) of Section
61 or a land purchase contract. Each unit of a multiunit dwelling shall
be considered a separate replacement dwelling. For purposes of this
paragraph, ‘‘area of reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence’’
includes all land if any nonresidential uses of the property are only
incidental to the use of the property as a residential site.
   (4) ‘‘Original property’’ means a building, structure, or other shelter
constituting a place of abode, whether real property or personal property,
that is owned and occupied by a claimant as his or her principal place of
residence, and any land owned by the claimant on which the building,
[Ch. 417 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3123

structure, or other shelter is situated. For purposes of this paragraph, land
constituting a part of original property includes only that area of
reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence, and ‘‘land owned by
the claimant’’ includes land for which the claimant either holds a
leasehold interest described in subdivision (c) of Section 61 or a land
purchase contract. Each unit of a multiunit dwelling shall be considered
a separate original property. For purposes of this paragraph, ‘‘area of
reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence’’ includes all land if
any nonresidential uses of the property are only incidental to the use of
the property as a residential site.
   (5) ‘‘Equal or lesser value’’ means that the amount of the full cash
value of a replacement dwelling does not exceed one of the following:
   (A) One hundred percent of the amount of the full cash value of the
original property if the replacement dwelling is purchased or newly
constructed prior to the date of the sale of the original property.
   (B) One hundred and five percent of the amount of the full cash value
of the original property if the replacement dwelling is purchased or
newly constructed within the first year following the date of the sale of
the original property.
   (C) One hundred and ten percent of the amount of the full cash value
of the original property if the replacement dwelling is purchased or
newly constructed within the second year following the date of the sale
of the original property.
   For the purposes of this paragraph, except as otherwise provided in
paragraph (4) of subdivision (h), if the replacement dwelling is, in part,
purchased and, in part, newly constructed, the date the ‘‘replacement
dwelling is purchased or newly constructed’’ is the date of purchase or
the date of completion of construction, whichever is later.
   (6) ‘‘Full cash value of the replacement dwelling’’ means its full cash
value, determined in accordance with Section 110.1, as of the date on
which it was purchased or new construction was completed, and after the
purchase or the completion of new construction.
   (7) ‘‘Full cash value of the original property’’ means its new base year
value, determined in accordance with subdivision (e), without the
application of subdivision (h) of Section 2 of Article XIII A of the
California Constitution, plus the adjustments permitted by subdivision
(b) of Section 2 of Article XIII A and subdivision (f) of Section 110.1
for the period from the date of its sale by the claimant to the date on which
the replacement property was purchased or new construction was
completed.
   (8) ‘‘Sale’’ means any change in ownership of the original property
for consideration.
   (9) ‘‘Claimant’’ means any person claiming the property tax relief
provided by this section. If a spouse of that person is a record owner of
 3124                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 417 ]
the replacement dwelling, the spouse is also a claimant for purposes of
determining whether in any future claim filed by the spouse under this
section the condition of eligibility specified in paragraph (7) of
subdivision (b) has been met.
   (10) ‘‘Property that is eligible for the homeowner’s exemption’’
includes property that is the principal place of residence of its owner and
is entitled to exemption pursuant to Section 205.5.
   (11) ‘‘Person’’ means any individual, but does not include any firm,
partnership, association, corporation, company, or other legal entity or
organization of any kind.
   (12) ‘‘Severely and permanently disabled’’ means any person
described in subdivision (b) of Section 74.3.
   (h) (1) Upon the timely filing of a claim, the assessor shall adjust the
new base year value of the replacement dwelling in conformity with this
section. This adjustment shall be made as of the latest of the following
dates:
   (A) The date the original property is sold.
   (B) The date the replacement dwelling is purchased.
   (C) The date the new construction of the replacement dwelling is
completed.
   (2) Any taxes that were levied on the replacement dwelling prior to
the filing of the claim on the basis of the replacement dwelling’s new
base year value, and any allowable annual adjustments thereto, shall be
canceled or refunded to the claimant to the extent that the taxes exceed
the amount that would be due when determined on the basis of the
adjusted new base year value.
   (3) Notwithstanding Section 75.10, Chapter 3.5 (commencing with
Section 75) shall be utilized for purposes of implementing this
subdivision, including adjustments of the new base year value of
replacement dwellings acquired prior to the sale of the original property.
   (4) In the case where a claim under this section has been timely filed
and granted, and new construction is performed upon the replacement
dwelling subsequent to the transfer of base year value, the property tax
relief provided by this section also shall apply to the replacement
dwelling, as improved, and thus there shall be no reassessment upon
completion of the new construction if both of the following conditions
are met:
   (A) The new construction is completed within two years of the date
of the sale of the original property and the owner notifies the assessor in
writing of completion of the new construction within 30 days after
completion.
   (B) The fair market value of the new construction on the date of
completion, plus the full cash value of the replacement dwelling on the
date of acquisition, is not more than the full cash value of the original
[Ch. 417 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3125

property as determined pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (g) for
purposes of granting the original claim.
   (i) Any claimant may rescind a claim for the property tax relief
provided by this section and shall not be considered to have received that
relief for purposes of paragraph (7) of subdivision (b), and the assessor
shall grant the rescission, if a written notice of rescission is delivered to
the office of the assessor as follows:
   (1) A written notice of rescission signed by the original filing
claimant or claimants is delivered to the office of the assessor in which
the original claim was filed.
   (2) (A) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the notice of
rescission is delivered to the office of the assessor before the date that
the county first issues, as a result of relief granted under this section, a
refund check for property taxes imposed upon the replacement dwelling.
If granting relief will not result in a refund of property taxes, then the
notice shall be delivered before payment is first made of any property
taxes, or any portion thereof, imposed upon the replacement dwelling
consistent with relief granted under this section. If payment of the taxes
is not made, then notice shall be delivered before the first date that those
property taxes, or any portion thereof, imposed upon the replacement
dwelling, consistent with relief granted under this section, are
delinquent.
   (B) Notwithstanding any other provision in this division, any time
the notice of rescission is delivered to the office of the assessor within
six years after relief was granted, provided that the replacement property
has been vacated as the claimant’s principal place of residence within 90
days after the original claim was filed, regardless of whether the property
continues to receive the homeowners’ exemption. If the rescission
increases the base year value of a property, or the homeowners’
exemption has been incorrectly allowed, appropriate escape assessments
or supplemental assessments, including interest as provided in Section
506, shall be imposed. The limitations periods for any escape
assessments or supplemental assessments shall not commence until July
1 of the assessment year in which the notice of rescission is delivered to
the office of the assessor.
   (3) The notice is accompanied by the payment of a fee as the assessor
may require, provided that the fee shall not exceed an amount reasonably
related to the estimated cost of processing a rescission claim, including
both direct costs and developmental and indirect costs, such as costs for
overhead, personnel, supplies, materials, office space, and computers.
   (j) (1) With respect to the transfer of base year value of original
properties to replacement dwellings located in the same county, this
section, except as provided in paragraph (3) or (4), shall apply to any
 3126                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 417 ]
replacement dwelling that is purchased or newly constructed on or after
November 6, 1986.
   (2) With respect to the transfer of base year value of original
properties to replacement dwellings located in different counties, except
as provided in paragraph (4), this section shall apply to any replacement
dwelling that is purchased or newly constructed on or after the date
specified in accordance with subparagraph (E) of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) in the ordinance of the county in which the replacement
dwelling is located, but shall not apply to any replacement dwelling
which was purchased or newly constructed before November 9, 1988.
   (3) With respect to the transfer of base year value by a severely and
permanently disabled person, this section shall apply only to
replacement dwellings that are purchased or newly constructed on or
after June 6, 1990.
   (4) The amendments made to subdivision (e) by the act adding this
paragraph shall apply only to replacement dwellings under Section 69
that are acquired or newly constructed on or after October 20, 1991, and
shall apply commencing with the 1991–92 fiscal year.
   (k) (1) In the case in which a county adopts an ordinance pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) that establishes an applicable date which
is more than three years prior to the date of adoption of the ordinance,
those potential claimants who purchased or constructed replacement
dwellings more than three years prior to the date of adoption of the
ordinance and who would, therefore, be precluded from filing a timely
claim, shall be deemed to have timely filed a claim if the claim is filed
within three years after the date that the ordinance is adopted. This
paragraph shall not be construed as a waiver of any other requirement of
this section.
   (2) This subdivision shall not apply to a claimant who has transferred
his or her replacement dwelling prior to filing a claim.
   (3) The property tax relief provided by this section, but filed under
this subdivision, shall apply prospectively only, commencing with the
lien date of the assessment year in which the claim is filed. There shall
be no refund or cancellation of taxes prior to the date that the claim is
filed.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local
agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees,
or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
Government Code.
[Ch. 419 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3127

                             CHAPTER 418

  An act to add and repeal Section 1506 of the Fish and Game Code,
relating to fish, and making an appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1506 is added to the Fish and Game Code, to
read:
   1506. (a) The fisheries management program described in the
Kings River Fisheries Management Program Framework Agreement,
effective May 28, 1999, as approved by the department is adopted and
authorized. The department may contribute, from the Fish and Game
Preservation Fund, or otherwise upon appropriation by the Legislature,
up to 50 percent of any capital costs incurred by local agencies for the
recreation and fish and wildlife enhancement features of the program.
   (b) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2011, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2011, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. The Legislature finds and declares that a special law is
necessary and that a general law cannot be made applicable within the
meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution
because of the unique opportunity to enhance the Kings River fishery.



                             CHAPTER 419

   An act to amend Section 98 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 11, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 12, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 98 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   98. (a) In each county, other than the County of Ventura, having
within its boundaries a qualifying city, the computations made pursuant
to Section 96.1 or its predecessor section, for the 1989–90 fiscal year and
each fiscal year thereafter, shall be modified as follows:
 3128                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 419 ]
   With respect to tax rate areas within the boundaries of a qualifying city,
there shall be excluded from the aggregate amount of ‘‘property tax
revenue allocated pursuant to this chapter to local agencies, other than
for a qualifying city, in the prior fiscal year,’’ an amount equal to the sum
of the amounts calculated pursuant to the TEA formula.
   (b) (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, each qualifying
city shall, for the 1989–90 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, be
allocated by the auditor an amount determined pursuant to the TEA
formula.
   (2) For each qualifying city, the auditor shall, for the 1989–90 fiscal
year and each fiscal year thereafter, allocate the amount determined
pursuant to the TEA formula to all tax rate areas within that city in
proportion to each tax rate area’s share of the total assessed value in the
city for the applicable fiscal year, and the amount so determined shall be
subtracted from the county’s proportionate share of property tax revenue
for that fiscal year within those tax rate areas.
   (3) After making the allocations pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2),
but before making the calculations pursuant to Section 96.5 or its
predecessor section, the auditor shall, for all tax rate areas in the
qualifying city, calculate the proportionate share of property tax revenue
allocated pursuant to this section and Section 96.1, or their predecessor
sections, in the 1989–90 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter to each
jurisdiction in the tax rate area.
   (4) In lieu of making the allocations of annual tax increment pursuant
to subdivision (e) of Section 96.5 or its predecessor section, the auditor
shall, for the 1989–90 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, allocate
the amount of property tax revenue determined pursuant to subdivision
(d) of Section 96.5 or its predecessor section to jurisdictions in the tax
rate area using the proportionate shares derived pursuant to paragraph
(3).
   (5) For purposes of the calculations made pursuant to Section 96.1 or
its predecessor section, in the 1990–91 fiscal year and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amounts that would have been allocated to qualifying
cities pursuant to this subdivision shall be deemed to be the ‘‘amount of
property tax revenue allocated in the prior fiscal year.’’
   (c) ‘‘TEA formula’’ means the Tax Equity Allocation formula, and
shall be calculated by the auditor for each qualifying city as follows:
   (1) For the 1988–89 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, the
auditor shall determine the total amount of property tax revenue to be
allocated to all jurisdictions in all tax rate areas within the qualifying
city, before the allocation and payment of funds in that fiscal year to a
community redevelopment agency within the qualifying city, as
provided in subdivision (b) of Section 33670 of the Health and Safety
Code.
[Ch. 419 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3129

   (2) The auditor shall determine the total amount of funds allocated in
each fiscal year to a community redevelopment agency in accordance
with subdivision (b) of Section 33670 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (3) The auditor shall determine the total amount of funds paid in each
fiscal year by a community redevelopment agency within the city to
jurisdictions other than the city pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
33401 and Section 33676 of the Health and Safety Code, and the cost to
the redevelopment agency of any land or facilities transferred and any
amounts paid to jurisdictions other than the city to assist in the
construction or reconstruction of facilities pursuant to an agreement
entered into under Section 33401 or 33445.5 of the Health and Safety
Code.
   (4) The auditor shall subtract the amount determined in paragraph (3)
from the amount determined in paragraph (2).
   (5) The auditor shall subtract the amount determined in paragraph (4)
from the amount determined in paragraph (1).
   (6) The amount computed in paragraph (5) shall be multiplied by the
following percentages in order to determine the TEA formula amount to
be distributed to the qualifying city in each fiscal year:
   (A) For the first fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 1 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (B) For the second fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 2 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (C) For the third fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 3 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (D) For the fourth fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 4 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (E) For the fifth fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 5 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (F) For the sixth fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 6 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (G) For the seventh fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter in which
the city receives a distribution pursuant to this section, 7 percent of the
amount determined in paragraph (5).
   (d) ‘‘Qualifying city’’ means any city, except a qualifying city as
defined in Section 98.1, that incorporated prior to June 5, 1987, and had
an amount of property tax revenue allocated to it pursuant to subdivision
(a) of Section 96.1 or its predecessor section in the 1988–89 fiscal year
 3130                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 419 ]
that is less than 7 percent of the amount of property tax revenue
computed as follows:
   (1) The auditor shall determine the total amount of property tax
revenue allocated to the city in the 1988–89 fiscal year.
   (2) The auditor shall subtract the amount in the 1988–89 fiscal year
determined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) from the amount
determined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (c).
   (3) The auditor shall subtract the amount determined in paragraph (2)
from the amount of property tax revenue determined in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (c).
   (4) The auditor shall divide the amount of property tax revenue
determined in paragraph (1) of this subdivision by the amount of
property tax revenue determined in paragraph (3) of this subdivision.
   (5) If the quotient determined in paragraph (4) of this subdivision is
less than 0.07, the city is a qualifying city. If the quotient determined in
that paragraph is equal to or greater than 0.07, the city is not a qualifying
city.
   (e) The auditor may assess each qualifying city its proportional share
of the actual costs of making the calculations required by this section,
and may deduct that assessment from the amount allocated pursuant to
subdivision (b). For purposes of this subdivision, a qualifying city’s
proportional share of the auditor’s actual costs shall not exceed the
proportion it receives of the total amounts excluded in the county
pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (f) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), in any fiscal year in which a
qualifying city is to receive a distribution pursuant to this section, the
auditor shall reduce the actual amount distributed to the qualifying city
by the sum of the following:
   (1) The amount of property tax revenue that was exchanged between
the county and the qualifying city as a result of negotiation pursuant to
Section 99.03.
   (2) (A) (i) In any county other than the County of Santa Clara, the
amount of revenue not collected by the qualifying city in the first fiscal
year following the city’s reduction after January 1, 1988, of the tax rate
or tax base of any locally imposed tax, except any tax that was imposed
after January 1, 1988. In the case of a tax that existed before January 1,
1988, this clause shall apply only with respect to an amount attributable
to a reduction of the rate or base to a level lower than the rate or base
applicable on January 1, 1988. The amount so computed by the auditor
shall constitute a reduction in the amount of property tax revenue
distributed to the qualifying city pursuant to this section in each
succeeding fiscal year. That amount shall be aggregated with any
additional amount computed pursuant to this clause as the result of the
[Ch. 419 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3131

city’s reduction in any subsequent year of the tax rate or tax base of the
same or any other locally imposed general or special tax.
   (ii) No reduction may be made pursuant to clause (i) in the case in
which a local tax is reduced or eliminated as a result of either a court
decision or the approval or rejection of a ballot measure by the voters.
   (B) In the County of Santa Clara, the net of the amounts determined
and applied as follows:
   (i) An amount determined and applied as described in clause (i) of
subparagraph (A), but not subject to the prohibition of clause (ii) of
subparagraph (A).
   (ii) The additional amount of revenue that is collected by the
qualifying city in the first fiscal year following the operative date of the
city’s increase in the rate or base of, or new imposition of, a locally
imposed tax, on or after January 1, 1998. The amount so computed by
the auditor shall constitute an increase in the amount of property tax
revenue distributed to the qualifying city pursuant to this section in each
succeeding fiscal year, until the first fiscal year following the repeal of
the increase or tax. That amount shall be aggregated with any additional
amount computed pursuant to this clause as the result of the city’s
increase in the rate or base of, or new imposition of, a locally imposed
tax in any subsequent year. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
clause, in no fiscal year shall the total amount computed for the
qualifying city pursuant to this clause exceed the total amount computed
for the qualifying city pursuant to clause (i).
   (3) The amount of property tax revenue received pursuant to this
chapter in excess of the amount allocated for the 1986–87 fiscal year by
all special districts that are governed by the city council of the qualifying
city or whose governing body is the same as the city council of the
qualifying city with respect to all tax rate areas within the boundaries of
the qualifying city.
   Notwithstanding this paragraph:
   (A) Commencing with the 1994–95 fiscal year, the auditor shall not
reduce the amount distributed to a qualifying city under this section by
reason of that city becoming the successor agency to a special district
that is dissolved, merged with that city, or becomes a subsidiary district
of that city, on or after July 1, 1994.
   (B) Commencing with the 1997–98 fiscal year, the auditor shall not
reduce the amount distributed to a qualifying city under this section by
reason of that city withdrawing from a county free library system
pursuant to Section 19116 of the Education Code.
   (4) Any amount of property tax revenues that has been exchanged
pursuant to Section 56842 of the Government Code between the City of
Rancho Mirage and a community services district, the formation of
which was initiated on or after March 6, 1997, pursuant to Chapter 4
 3132                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 419 ]
(commencing with Section 56800) of Part 3 of Division 3 of Title 5 of
the Government Code.
   (g) In any fiscal year in which a qualifying city is to receive a
distribution pursuant to this section, the auditor shall increase the actual
amount distributed to the qualifying city by the amount of property tax
revenue allocated to the qualifying city pursuant to Section 19116 of the
Education Code.
   (h) If the auditor determines that the amount to be distributed to a
qualifying city pursuant to subdivision (b), as modified by subdivisions
(e), (f), and (g) would result in a qualifying city having proceeds of taxes
in excess of its appropriation limit, the auditor shall reduce the amount,
on a dollar-for-dollar basis, by the amount that exceeds the city’s
appropriations limit.
   (i) The amount not distributed to the tax rate areas of a qualifying city
as a result of this section shall be distributed by the auditor to the county.
   (j) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no qualifying
city shall be distributed an amount pursuant to this section that is less
than the amount the city would have been allocated without the
application of the TEA formula.
   (k) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the auditor
shall not distribute any amount determined pursuant to this section to
any qualifying city that has in the prior fiscal year used any revenues or
issued bonds for the construction, acquisition, or development, of any
facility which is defined in Section 103(b)(4), 103(b)(5), or 103(b)(6) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 prior to the enactment of the Tax
Reform Act of 1986 (P.L. 99-514) and is no longer eligible for
tax-exempt financing.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 98 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   98. (a) In each county, other than the County of Ventura, having
within its boundaries a qualifying city, the computations made pursuant
to Section 96.1 or its predecessor section, for the 1989–90 fiscal year and
each fiscal year thereafter, shall be modified as follows:
   With respect to tax rate areas within the boundaries of a qualifying city,
there shall be excluded from the aggregate amount of ‘‘property tax
revenue allocated pursuant to this chapter to local agencies, other than
for a qualifying city, in the prior fiscal year,’’ an amount equal to the sum
of the amounts calculated pursuant to the TEA formula.
   (b) (1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, each qualifying
city shall, for the 1989–90 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, be
allocated by the auditor an amount determined pursuant to the TEA
formula.
   (2) For each qualifying city, the auditor shall, for the 1989–90 fiscal
year and each fiscal year thereafter, allocate the amount determined
[Ch. 419 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3133

pursuant to the TEA formula to all tax rate areas within that city in
proportion to each tax rate area’s share of the total assessed value in the
city for the applicable fiscal year, and the amount so determined shall be
subtracted from the county’s proportionate share of property tax revenue
for that fiscal year within those tax rate areas.
   (3) After making the allocations pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2),
but before making the calculations pursuant to Section 96.5 or its
predecessor section, the auditor shall, for all tax rate areas in the
qualifying city, calculate the proportionate share of property tax revenue
allocated pursuant to this section and Section 96.1, or their predecessor
sections, in the 1989–90 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter to each
jurisdiction in the tax rate area.
   (4) In lieu of making the allocations of annual tax increment pursuant
to subdivision (e) of Section 96.5 or its predecessor section, the auditor
shall, for the 1989–90 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, allocate
the amount of property tax revenue determined pursuant to subdivision
(d) of Section 96.5 or its predecessor section to jurisdictions in the tax
rate area using the proportionate shares derived pursuant to paragraph
(3).
   (5) For purposes of the calculations made pursuant to Section 96.1 or
its predecessor section, in the 1990–91 fiscal year and each fiscal year
thereafter, the amounts that would have been allocated to qualifying
cities pursuant to this subdivision shall be deemed to be the ‘‘amount of
property tax revenue allocated in the prior fiscal year.’’
   (c) ‘‘TEA formula’’ means the Tax Equity Allocation formula, and
shall be calculated by the auditor for each qualifying city as follows:
   (1) For the 1988–89 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, the
auditor shall determine the total amount of property tax revenue to be
allocated to all jurisdictions in all tax rate areas within the qualifying
city, before the allocation and payment of funds in that fiscal year to a
community redevelopment agency within the qualifying city, as
provided in subdivision (b) of Section 33670 of the Health and Safety
Code.
   (2) The auditor shall determine the total amount of funds allocated in
each fiscal year to a community redevelopment agency in accordance
with subdivision (b) of Section 33670 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (3) The auditor shall determine the total amount of funds paid in each
fiscal year by a community redevelopment agency within the city to
jurisdictions other than the city pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
33401 and Section 33676 of the Health and Safety Code, and the cost to
the redevelopment agency of any land or facilities transferred and any
amounts paid to jurisdictions other than the city to assist in the
construction or reconstruction of facilities pursuant to an agreement
 3134                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 419 ]
entered into under Section 33401 or 33445.5 of the Health and Safety
Code.
   (4) The auditor shall subtract the amount determined in paragraph (3)
from the amount determined in paragraph (2).
   (5) The auditor shall subtract the amount determined in paragraph (4)
from the amount determined in paragraph (1).
   (6) The amount computed in paragraph (5) shall be multiplied by the
following percentages in order to determine the TEA formula amount to
be distributed to the qualifying city in each fiscal year:
   (A) For the first fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 1 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (B) For the second fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 2 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (C) For the third fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 3 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (D) For the fourth fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 4 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (E) For the fifth fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 5 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (F) For the sixth fiscal year in which the qualifying city receives a
distribution pursuant to this section, 6 percent of the amount determined
in paragraph (5).
   (G) For the seventh fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter in which
the city receives a distribution pursuant to this section, 7 percent of the
amount determined in paragraph (5).
   (d) ‘‘Qualifying city’’ means any city, except a qualifying city as
defined in Section 98.1, that incorporated prior to June 5, 1987, and had
an amount of property tax revenue allocated to it pursuant to subdivision
(a) of Section 96.1 or its predecessor section in the 1988–89 fiscal year
that is less than 7 percent of the amount of property tax revenue
computed as follows:
   (1) The auditor shall determine the total amount of property tax
revenue allocated to the city in the 1988–89 fiscal year.
   (2) The auditor shall subtract the amount in the 1988–89 fiscal year
determined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) from the amount
determined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (c).
   (3) The auditor shall subtract the amount determined in paragraph (2)
from the amount of property tax revenue determined in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (c).
[Ch. 419 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3135

   (4) The auditor shall divide the amount of property tax revenue
determined in paragraph (1) of this subdivision by the amount of
property tax revenue determined in paragraph (3) of this subdivision.
   (5) If the quotient determined in paragraph (4) of this subdivision is
less than 0.07, the city is a qualifying city. If the quotient determined in
that paragraph is equal to or greater than 0.07, the city is not a qualifying
city.
   (e) The auditor may assess each qualifying city its proportional share
of the actual costs of making the calculations required by this section,
and may deduct that assessment from the amount allocated pursuant to
subdivision (b). For purposes of this subdivision, a qualifying city’s
proportional share of the auditor’s actual costs shall not exceed the
proportion it receives of the total amounts excluded in the county
pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (f) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), in any fiscal year in which a
qualifying city is to receive a distribution pursuant to this section, the
auditor shall reduce the actual amount distributed to the qualifying city
by the sum of the following:
   (1) The amount of property tax revenue that was exchanged between
the county and the qualifying city as a result of negotiation pursuant to
Section 99.03.
   (2) (A) (i) In any county other than the County of Santa Clara, the
amount of revenue not collected by the qualifying city in the first fiscal
year following the city’s reduction after January 1, 1988, of the tax rate
or tax base of any locally imposed tax, except any tax that was imposed
after January 1, 1988. In the case of a tax that existed before January 1,
1988, this clause shall apply only with respect to an amount attributable
to a reduction of the rate or base to a level lower than the rate or base
applicable on January 1, 1988. The amount so computed by the auditor
shall constitute a reduction in the amount of property tax revenue
distributed to the qualifying city pursuant to this section in each
succeeding fiscal year. That amount shall be aggregated with any
additional amount computed pursuant to this clause as the result of the
city’s reduction in any subsequent year of the tax rate or tax base of the
same or any other locally imposed general or special tax.
   (ii) No reduction may be made pursuant to clause (i) in the case in
which a local tax is reduced or eliminated as a result of either a court
decision or the approval or rejection of a ballot measure by the voters.
   (B) In the County of Santa Clara, the net of the amounts determined
and applied as follows:
   (i) An amount determined and applied as described in clause (i) of
subparagraph (A), but not subject to the prohibition of clause (ii) of
subparagraph (A).
 3136                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 419 ]
   (ii) The additional amount of revenue that is collected by the
qualifying city in the first fiscal year following the operative date of the
city’s increase in the rate or base of, or new imposition of, a locally
imposed tax, on or after January 1, 1998. The amount so computed by
the auditor shall constitute an increase in the amount of property tax
revenue distributed to the qualifying city pursuant to this section in each
succeeding fiscal year, until the first fiscal year following the repeal of
the increase or tax. That amount shall be aggregated with any additional
amount computed pursuant to this clause as the result of the city’s
increase in the rate or base of, or new imposition of, a locally imposed
tax in any subsequent year. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
clause, in no fiscal year shall the total amount computed for the
qualifying city pursuant to this clause exceed the total amount computed
for the qualifying city pursuant to clause (i).
   (3) The amount of property tax revenue received pursuant to this
chapter in excess of the amount allocated for the 1986–87 fiscal year by
all special districts that are governed by the city council of the qualifying
city or whose governing body is the same as the city council of the
qualifying city with respect to all tax rate areas within the boundaries of
the qualifying city.
   Notwithstanding this paragraph:
   (A) Commencing with the 1994–95 fiscal year, the auditor shall not
reduce the amount distributed to a qualifying city under this section by
reason of that city becoming the successor agency to a special district,
that is dissolved, merged with that city, or becomes a subsidiary district
of that city, on or after July 1, 1994.
   (B) Commencing with the 1997–98 fiscal year, the auditor shall not
reduce the amount distributed to a qualifying city under this section by
reason of that city withdrawing from a county free library system
pursuant to Section 19116 of the Education Code.
   (4) Any amount of property tax revenues that has been exchanged
pursuant to Section 56842 of the Government Code between the City of
Rancho Mirage and a community services district, the formation of
which was initiated on or after March 6, 1997, pursuant to Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 56800) of Part 3 of Division 3 of Title 5 of
the Government Code.
   (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in no event
may the auditor reduce the amount of ad valorem property tax revenue
otherwise allocated to a qualifying city pursuant to this section on the
basis of any additional ad valorem property tax revenues received by that
city pursuant to a services for revenue agreement. For purposes of this
subdivision, a ‘‘services for revenue agreement’’ means any agreement
between a qualifying city and the county in which it is located, entered
into by joint resolution of that city and that county, under which
[Ch. 419 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3137

additional service responsibilities are exchanged in consideration for
additional property tax revenues.
   (h) In any fiscal year in which a qualifying city is to receive a
distribution pursuant to this section, the auditor shall increase the actual
amount distributed to the qualifying city by the amount of property tax
revenue allocated to the qualifying city pursuant to Section 19116 of the
Education Code.
   (i) If the auditor determines that the amount to be distributed to a
qualifying city pursuant to subdivision (b), as modified by subdivisions
(e), (f), and (g) would result in a qualifying city having proceeds of taxes
in excess of its appropriation limit, the auditor shall reduce the amount,
on a dollar-for-dollar basis, by the amount that exceeds the city’s
appropriations limit.
   (j) The amount not distributed to the tax rate areas of a qualifying city
as a result of this section shall be distributed by the auditor to the county.
   (k) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no qualifying
city shall be distributed an amount pursuant to this section that is less
than the amount the city would have been allocated without the
application of the TEA formula.
   (l) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the auditor
shall not distribute any amount determined pursuant to this section to
any qualifying city that has in the prior fiscal year used any revenues or
issued bonds for the construction, acquisition, or development, of any
facility which is defined in Section 103(b)(4), 103(b)(5), or 103(b)(6) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 prior to the enactment of the Tax
Reform Act of 1986 (P.L. 99-514) and is no longer eligible for
tax-exempt financing.
   SEC. 2. The Legislature finds and declares that a special law is
necessary and that a general law cannot be made applicable within the
meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution
because of both of the following:
   (a) The unique sequence of city tax repeals and impositions, not
accounted for by generally applicable provisions regarding reductions
in TEA formula allocations, undertaken in recent years by qualified
cities in the County of Santa Clara.
   (b) The failure of generally applicable provisions to account for the
unique sequence of changes in recent years to local tax rates in the
County of Santa Clara would, if left unaddressed, result in unintended,
disparate reductions in the amount of TEA formula allocations to
qualified cities in that county.
   SEC. 3. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
98 of the Revenue and Taxation Code proposed by both this bill and SB
1581. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
 3138                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 420 ]
Section 98 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and (3) this bill is enacted
after SB 1581, in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not become
operative.
  SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local
agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees,
or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
Government Code.



                            CHAPTER 420

  An act to amend Section 14202.2 of the Penal Code, and to amend
Sections 6603 and 6604 of, and to amend and repeal Section 6604.1 of,
the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to sexually violent predators,
and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14202.2 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   14202.2. (a) The Department of Justice, in conjunction with the
Department of Corrections, shall update any supervised release file that
is available to law enforcement on the California Law Enforcement
Telecommunications System every 10 days to reflect the most recent
inmates paroled from facilities under the jurisdiction of the Department
of Corrections.
   (b) Commencing on July 1, 2001, The Department of Justice, in
consultation with the State Department of Mental Health, shall also
update any supervised release file that is available to law enforcement
on the California Law Enforcement Telecommunications System every
10 days to reflect patients undergoing community mental health
treatment and supervision through the Forensic Conditional Release
Program administered by the State Department of Mental Health, other
than individuals committed as incompetent to stand trial pursuant to
Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 1367) of Title 10 of Part 2.
   SEC. 2. Section 6603 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   6603. (a) A person subject to this article shall be entitled to a trial
by jury, the assistance of counsel, the right to retain experts or
professional persons to perform an examination on his or her behalf, and
[Ch. 420 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3139

have access to all relevant medical and psychological records and
reports. In the case of a person who is indigent, the court shall appoint
counsel to assist him or her, and, upon the person’s request, assist the
person in obtaining an expert or professional person to perform an
examination or participate in the trial on the person’s behalf.
   (b) The attorney petitioning for commitment under this article shall
have the right to demand that the trial be before a jury.
   (c) If the attorney petitioning for commitment under this article
determines that updated evaluations are necessary in order to properly
present the case for commitment, the attorney may request the State
Department of Mental Health to perform updated evaluations. If one or
more of the original evaluators is no longer available to testify in court
proceedings, the attorney petitioning for commitment under this article
may request the State Department of Mental Health to perform
replacement evaluations. When a request is made for an updated or
replacement evaluation, the State Department of Mental Health shall
perform the requested evaluations and forward them to the petitioning
attorney. However, updated or replacement evaluations shall not be
performed except as necessary to update one or more of the original
evaluations or to replace the evaluation of an evaluator that is no longer
available for testimony. These updated or replacement evaluations shall
include review of available medical and psychological records,
including treatment records, consultation with current treating
clinicians, and interviews of the person being evaluated, either
voluntarily or by court order. If an updated or replacement evaluation
results in a split opinion as to whether the subject meets the criteria for
commitment, the State Department of Mental Health shall conduct two
additional evaluations in accordance with subdivision (f) of Section
6601.
   (d) If no demand is made by the person subject to this article or the
petitioning attorney, the trial shall be before the court without jury.
   (e) A unanimous verdict shall be required in any jury trial.
   (f) The court shall notify the State Department of Mental Health of
the outcome of the trial by forwarding to the department a copy of the
minute order of the court within 72 hours of the decision.
   SEC. 3. Section 6604 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   6604. The court or jury shall determine whether, beyond a
reasonable doubt, the person is a sexually violent predator. If the court
or jury is not satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that the person is a
sexually violent predator, the court shall direct that the person be
released at the conclusion of the term for which he or she was initially
sentenced, or that the person be unconditionally released at the end of
parole, whichever is applicable. If the court or jury determines that the
 3140                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 420 ]
person is a sexually violent predator, the person shall be committed for
two years to the custody of the State Department of Mental Health for
appropriate treatment and confinement in a secure facility designated by
the Director of Mental Health, and the person shall not be kept in actual
custody longer than two years unless a subsequent extended
commitment is obtained from the court incident to the filing of a petition
for extended commitment under this article or unless the term of
commitment changes pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 6605. Time
spent on conditional release shall not count toward the two-year term of
commitment, unless the person is placed in a locked facility by the
conditional release program, in which case the time in a locked facility
shall count toward the two-year term of commitment. The facility shall
be located on the grounds of an institution under the jurisdiction of the
Department of Corrections.
   SEC. 4. Section 6604.1 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, as
amended by Section 7 of Chapter 961 of the Statutes of 1998, is amended
to read:
   6604.1. (a) The two-year term of commitment provided for in
Section 6604 shall commence on the date upon which the court issues
the initial order of commitment pursuant to that section. The initial
two-year term shall not be reduced by any time spent in a secure facility
prior to the order of commitment. For any subsequent extended
commitments, the term of commitment shall be for two years
commencing from the date of the termination of the previous
commitment.
   (b) The person shall be evaluated by two practicing psychologists or
psychiatrists, or by one practicing psychologist and one practicing
psychiatrist, designated by the State Department of Mental Health. The
provisions of subdivisions (c) to (i), inclusive, of Section 6601 shall
apply to evaluations performed for purposes of extended commitments.
The rights, requirements, and procedures set forth in Section 6603 shall
apply to extended commitment proceedings.
   SEC. 5. Section 6604.1 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, as
added by Section 8 of Chapter 961 of the Statutes of 1998, is repealed.
   SEC. 6. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to clarify recommitment and placement procedures to avoid
the possible inappropriate release of sexually violent predators, it is
necessary that this bill take effect immediately.
[Ch. 421 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3141

                              CHAPTER 421

  An act to repeal Section 1522.06 of the Health and Safety Code, to
amend Sections 11105 and 13300 of the Penal Code, and to amend
Sections 309 and 361.4 of, and to add Section 16504.5 to, the Welfare
and Institutions Code, relating to children, and declaring the urgency
thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (a) The mission of the juvenile dependency system in California is to
provide children who have been subjected to abuse or neglect with
protection from further harm.
   (b) County child welfare agencies are charged with investigating
allegations of abuse and neglect of children and identifying temporary
caretakers for children who must be removed from their homes.
   (c) In conducting child abuse investigations and assessing the risk of
placing children in out-of-home care, child welfare agencies and the
juvenile court must have timely access to the complete criminal
background records of alleged perpetrators and prospective caretakers.
   (d) The state has established a clear goal that children removed from
their home be placed in the home of a relative, whenever possible, in
order to provide the child with continuity and minimize any trauma that
may be caused by the removal. Existing law allows children to be placed
with relatives who are not licensed or certified foster parents. However,
child welfare agencies are required to conduct an in-home visit and
safety assessment prior to placing a child in the home of a relative.
   (e) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this act to do all of the
following:
   (1) Ensure the protection of children by authorizing county child
welfare agencies to have access to complete criminal background
information        through      the     California     Law       Enforcement
Telecommunications System (CLETS) in order to provide the instant
information these agencies require to carry out child abuse
investigations, relative placement assessments, and searches for parents
whose whereabouts are unknown.
   (2) Ensure the highest possible level of information accuracy by
requiring that any criminal background check conducted by county child
welfare agencies through CLETS be followed by a fingerprint-based
criminal background check within five judicial days.
   SEC. 2. Section 1522.06 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
 3142                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 421 ]
  SEC. 3. Section 11105 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
  11105. (a) (1) The Department of Justice shall maintain state
summary criminal history information.
  (2) As used in this section:
  (A) ‘‘State summary criminal history information’’ means the master
record of information compiled by the Attorney General pertaining to
the identification and criminal history of any person, such as name, date
of birth, physical description, fingerprints, photographs, date of arrests,
arresting agencies and booking numbers, charges, dispositions, and
similar data about the person.
   (B) ‘‘State summary criminal history information’’ does not refer to
records and data compiled by criminal justice agencies other than the
Attorney General, nor does it refer to records of complaints to or
investigations conducted by, or records of intelligence information or
security procedures of, the office of the Attorney General and the
Department of Justice.
   (b) The Attorney General shall furnish state summary criminal
history information to any of the following, if needed in the course of
their duties, provided that when information is furnished to assist an
agency, officer, or official of state or local government, a public utility,
or any entity, in fulfilling employment, certification, or licensing duties,
Chapter 1321 of the Statutes of 1974 and of Section 432.7 of the Labor
Code shall apply:
   (1) The courts of the state.
   (2) Peace officers of the state as defined in Section 830.1,
subdivisions (a) and (e) of Section 830.2, subdivision (a) of Section
830.3, subdivisions (a) and (b) of Section 830.5, and subdivision (a) of
Section 830.31.
   (3) District attorneys of the state.
   (4) Prosecuting city attorneys of any city within the state.
   (5) Probation officers of the state.
   (6) Parole officers of the state.
   (7) A public defender or attorney of record when representing a
person in proceedings upon a petition for a certificate of rehabilitation
and pardon pursuant to Section 4852.08.
   (8) A public defender or attorney of record when representing a
person in a criminal case and if authorized access by statutory or
decisional law.
   (9) Any agency, officer, or official of the state if the criminal history
information is required to implement a statute or regulation that
expressly refers to specific criminal conduct applicable to the subject
person of the state summary criminal history information, and contains
requirements or exclusions, or both, expressly based upon that specified
criminal conduct.
[Ch. 421 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3143

   (10) Any city or county, or city and county, or district, or any officer,
or official thereof if access is needed in order to assist that agency, officer,
or official in fulfilling employment, certification, or licensing duties,
and if the access is specifically authorized by the city council, board of
supervisors, or governing board of the city, county, or district if the
criminal history information is required to implement a statute,
ordinance, or regulation that expressly refers to specific criminal
conduct applicable to the subject person of the state summary criminal
history information, and contains requirements or exclusions, or both,
expressly based upon that specified criminal conduct.
   (11) The subject of the state summary criminal history information
under procedures established under Article 5 (commencing with Section
11120) of Chapter 1 of Title 1 of Part 4.
   (12) Any person or entity when access is expressly authorized by
statute if the criminal history information is required to implement a
statute or regulation that expressly refers to specific criminal conduct
applicable to the subject person of the state summary criminal history
information, and contains requirements or exclusions, or both, expressly
based upon that specified criminal conduct.
   (13) Health officers of a city, county, or city and county, or district,
when in the performance of their official duties enforcing Section
120175 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (14) Any managing or supervising correctional officer of a county jail
or other county correctional facility.
   (15) Any humane society, or society for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, for the specific purpose of complying with Section 14502 of the
Corporations Code for the appointment of level 1 humane officers.
   (16) County child welfare agency personnel who have been delegated
the authority of county probation officers to access state summary
criminal history information pursuant to Section 272 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code for the purposes specified in Section 16504.5 of the
Welfare and Institutions Code. Information from criminal history
records provided pursuant to this subdivision shall not be used for any
purposes other than those specified in this section and Section 16504.5
of the Welfare and Institutions Code. When an agency obtains records
obtained both on the basis of name checks and fingerprint checks, final
placement decisions shall be based only on the records obtained pursuant
to the fingerprint check.
   (c) The Attorney General may furnish state summary criminal history
information upon a showing of a compelling need to any of the
following, provided that when information is furnished to assist an
agency, officer, or official of state or local government, a public utility,
or any entity, in fulfilling employment, certification, or licensing duties,
 3144                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 421 ]
Chapter 1321 of the Statutes of 1974 and of Section 432.7 of the Labor
Code shall apply:
   (1) Any public utility as defined in Section 216 of the Public Utilities
Code that operates a nuclear energy facility when access is needed in
order to assist in employing persons to work at the facility, provided that,
if the Attorney General supplies the data, he or she shall furnish a copy
of the data to the person to whom the data relates.
   (2) To a peace officer of the state other than those included in
subdivision (b).
   (3) To a peace officer of another country.
   (4) To public officers (other than peace officers) of the United States,
other states, or possessions or territories of the United States, provided
that access to records similar to state summary criminal history
information is expressly authorized by a statute of the United States,
other states, or possessions or territories of the United States if the
information is needed for the performance of their official duties.
   (5) To any person when disclosure is requested by a probation, parole,
or peace officer with the consent of the subject of the state summary
criminal history information and for purposes of furthering the
rehabilitation of the subject.
   (6) The courts of the United States, other states, or territories or
possessions of the United States.
   (7) Peace officers of the United States, other states, or territories or
possessions of the United States.
   (8) To any individual who is the subject of the record requested if
needed in conjunction with an application to enter the United States or
any foreign nation.
   (9) Any public utility as defined in Section 216 of the Public Utilities
Code, if access is needed in order to assist in employing current or
prospective employees who in the course of their employment may be
seeking entrance to private residences. The information provided shall
be limited to the record of convictions and any arrest for which the
person is released on bail or on his or her own recognizance pending trial.
   If the Attorney General supplies the data pursuant to this paragraph,
the Attorney General shall furnish a copy of the data to the current or
prospective employee to whom the data relates.
   Any information obtained from the state summary criminal history is
confidential and the receiving public utility shall not disclose its
contents, other than for the purpose for which it was acquired. The state
summary criminal history information in the possession of the public
utility and all copies made from it shall be destroyed not more than 30
days after employment or promotion or transfer is denied or granted,
except for those cases where a current or prospective employee is out on
bail or on his or her own recognizance pending trial, in which case the
[Ch. 421 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3145

state summary criminal history information and all copies shall be
destroyed not more than 30 days after the case is resolved.
   A violation of this paragraph is a misdemeanor, and shall give the
current or prospective employee who is injured by the violation a cause
of action against the public utility to recover damages proximately
caused by the violations. Any public utility’s request for state summary
criminal history information for purposes of employing current or
prospective employees who may be seeking entrance to private
residences in the course of their employment shall be deemed a
‘‘compelling need’’ as required to be shown in this subdivision.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed as imposing any duty upon
public utilities to request state summary criminal history information on
any current or prospective employees.
   (10) To any campus of the California State University or the
University of California, or any four-year college or university
accredited by a regional accreditation organization approved by the
United States Department of Education, if needed in conjunction with
an application for admission by a convicted felon to any special
education program for convicted felons, including, but not limited to,
university alternatives and halfway houses. Only conviction
information shall be furnished. The college or university may require the
convicted felon to be fingerprinted, and any inquiry to the department
under this section shall include the convicted felon’s fingerprints and any
other information specified by the department.
   (d) Whenever an authorized request for state summary criminal
history information pertains to a person whose fingerprints are on file
with the Department of Justice and the department has no criminal
history of that person, and the information is to be used for employment,
licensing, or certification purposes, the fingerprint card accompanying
the request for information, if any, may be stamped ‘‘no criminal record’’
and returned to the person or entity making the request.
   (e) Whenever state summary criminal history information is
furnished as the result of an application and is to be used for
employment, licensing, or certification purposes, the Department of
Justice may charge the person or entity making the request a fee that it
determines to be sufficient to reimburse the department for the cost of
furnishing the information. In addition, the Department of Justice may
add a surcharge to the fee to fund maintenance and improvements to the
systems from which the information is obtained. Notwithstanding any
other law, any person or entity required to pay a fee to the department for
information received under this section may charge the applicant a fee
sufficient to reimburse the person or entity for this expense. All moneys
received by the department pursuant to this section, Sections 11105.3
and 12054 of the Penal Code, and Section 13588 of the Education Code
 3146                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 421 ]
shall be deposited in a special account in the General Fund to be available
for expenditure by the department to offset costs incurred pursuant to
those sections and for maintenance and improvements to the systems
from which the information is obtained upon appropriation by the
Legislature.
   (f) Whenever there is a conflict, the processing of criminal
fingerprints and fingerprints of applicants for security guard or alarm
agent registrations or firearms qualification permits submitted pursuant
to Section 7514 of the Business and Professions Code shall take priority
over the processing of applicant fingerprints.
   (g) It is not a violation of this section to disseminate statistical or
research information obtained from a record, provided that the identity
of the subject of the record is not disclosed.
   (h) It is not a violation of this section to include information obtained
from a record in (1) a transcript or record of a judicial or administrative
proceeding or (2) any other public record if the inclusion of the
information in the public record is authorized by a court, statute, or
decisional law.
   (i) Notwithstanding any other law, the Department of Justice or any
state or local law enforcement agency may require the submission of
fingerprints for the purpose of conducting summary criminal history
information checks that are authorized by law.
   (j) The state summary criminal history information shall include any
finding of mental incompetence pursuant to Chapter 6 (commencing
with Section 1367) of Title 10 of Part 2 arising out of a complaint
charging a felony offense specified in Section 290.
   SEC. 3.5. Section 13300 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   13300. (a) As used in this section:
   (1) ‘‘Local summary criminal history information’’ means the master
record of information compiled by any local criminal justice agency
pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 13100) of Title 3 of
Part 4 pertaining to the identification and criminal history of any person,
such as name, date of birth, physical description, dates of arrests,
arresting agencies and booking numbers, charges, dispositions, and
similar data about the person.
   (2) ‘‘Local summary criminal history information’’ does not refer to
records and data compiled by criminal justice agencies other than that
local agency, nor does it refer to records of complaints to or
investigations conducted by, or records of intelligence information or
security procedures of, the local agency.
   (3) ‘‘Local agency’’ means a local criminal justice agency.
   (b) A local agency shall furnish local summary criminal history
information to any of the following, when needed in the course of their
duties, provided that when information is furnished to assist an agency,
[Ch. 421 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3147

officer, or official of state or local government, a public utility, or any
entity, in fulfilling employment, certification, or licensing duties,
Chapter 1321 of the Statutes of 1974 and Section 432.7 of the Labor
Code shall apply:
   (1) The courts of the state.
   (2) Peace officers of the state, as defined in Section 830.1,
subdivisions (a) and (d) of Section 830.2, subdivisions (a), (b), and (j)
of Section 830.3, and subdivisions (a), (b), and (c) of Section 830.5.
   (3) District attorneys of the state.
   (4) Prosecuting city attorneys of any city within the state.
   (5) Probation officers of the state.
   (6) Parole officers of the state.
   (7) A public defender or attorney of record when representing a
person in proceedings upon a petition for a certificate of rehabilitation
and pardon pursuant to Section 4852.08.
   (8) A public defender or attorney of record when representing a
person in a criminal case and when authorized access by statutory or
decisional law.
   (9) Any agency, officer, or official of the state when the local
summary criminal history information is required to implement a
statute, regulation, or ordinance that expressly refers to specific criminal
conduct applicable to the subject person of the local summary criminal
history information, and contains requirements or exclusions, or both,
expressly based upon the specified criminal conduct.
   (10) Any city, county, city and county, or district, or any officer or
official thereof, when access is needed in order to assist the agency,
officer, or official in fulfilling employment, certification, or licensing
duties, and when the access is specifically authorized by the city council,
board of supervisors, or governing board of the city, county, or district
when the local summary criminal history information is required to
implement a statute, regulation, or ordinance that expressly refers to
specific criminal conduct applicable to the subject person of the local
summary criminal history information, and contains requirements or
exclusions, or both, expressly based upon the specified criminal
conduct.
   (11) The subject of the local summary criminal history information.
   (12) Any person or entity when access is expressly authorized by
statute when the local summary criminal history information is required
to implement a statute, regulation, or ordinance that expressly refers to
specific criminal conduct applicable to the subject person of the local
summary criminal history information, and contains requirements or
exclusions, or both, expressly based upon the specified criminal
conduct.
 3148                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 421 ]
   (13) Any managing or supervising correctional officer of a county jail
or other county correctional facility.
   (14) County child welfare agency personnel who have been delegated
the authority of county probation officers to access state summary
criminal information pursuant to Section 272 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code for the purposes specified in Section 16504.5 of the
Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (c) The local agency may furnish local summary criminal history
information, upon a showing of a compelling need, to any of the
following, provided that when information is furnished to assist an
agency, officer, or official of state or local government, a public utility,
or any entity, in fulfilling employment, certification, or licensing duties,
Chapter 1321 of the Statutes of 1974 and Section 432.7 of the Labor
Code shall apply:
   (1) Any public utility, as defined in Section 216 of the Public Utilities
Code, which operates a nuclear energy facility when access is needed to
assist in employing persons to work at the facility, provided that, if the
local agency supplies the information, it shall furnish a copy of this
information to the person to whom the information relates.
  (2) To a peace officer of the state other than those included in
subdivision (b).
  (3) To a peace officer of another country.
  (4) To public officers, other than peace officers, of the United States,
other states, or possessions or territories of the United States, provided
that access to records similar to local summary criminal history
information is expressly authorized by a statute of the United States,
other states, or possessions or territories of the United States when this
information is needed for the performance of their official duties.
  (5) To any person when disclosure is requested by a probation, parole,
or peace officer with the consent of the subject of the local summary
criminal history information and for purposes of furthering the
rehabilitation of the subject.
  (6) The courts of the United States, other states, or territories or
possessions of the United States.
  (7) Peace officers of the United States, other states, or territories or
possessions of the United States.
  (8) To any individual who is the subject of the record requested when
needed in conjunction with an application to enter the United States or
any foreign nation.
   (9) Any public utility, as defined in Section 216 of the Public Utilities
Code, when access is needed to assist in employing persons who will be
seeking entrance to private residences in the course of their employment.
The information provided shall be limited to the record of convictions
[Ch. 421 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3149

and any arrest for which the person is released on bail or on his or her
own recognizance pending trial.
   If the local agency supplies the information pursuant to this paragraph,
it shall furnish a copy of the information to the person to whom the
information relates.
   Any information obtained from the local summary criminal history is
confidential and the receiving public utility shall not disclose its
contents, other than for the purpose for which it was acquired. The local
summary criminal history information in the possession of the public
utility and all copies made from it shall be destroyed 30 days after
employment is denied or granted, including any appeal periods, except
for those cases where an employee or applicant is out on bail or on his
or her own recognizance pending trial, in which case the state summary
criminal history information and all copies shall be destroyed 30 days
after the case is resolved, including any appeal periods.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this paragraph is a
misdemeanor, and shall give the employee or applicant who is injured
by the violation a cause of action against the public utility to recover
damages proximately caused by the violation.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed as imposing any duty upon
public utilities to request local summary criminal history information on
any current or prospective employee.
   Seeking entrance to private residences in the course of employment
shall be deemed a ‘‘compelling need’’ as required to be shown in this
subdivision.
   (10) Any city, county, city and county, or district, or any officer or
official thereof, if a written request is made to a local law enforcement
agency and the information is needed to assist in the screening of a
prospective concessionaire, and any affiliate or associate thereof, as
these terms are defined in subdivision (k) of Section 432.7 of the Labor
Code, for the purposes of consenting to, or approving of, the prospective
concessionaire’s application for, or acquisition of, any beneficial interest
in a concession, lease, or other property interest.
   Any local government’s request for local summary criminal history
information for purposes of screening a prospective concessionaire and
their affiliates or associates before approving or denying an application
for, or acquisition of, any beneficial interest in a concession, lease, or
other property interest is deemed a ‘‘compelling need’’ as required by
this subdivision. However, only local summary criminal history
information pertaining to criminal convictions may be obtained
pursuant to this paragraph.
   Any information obtained from the local summary criminal history is
confidential and the receiving local government shall not disclose its
contents, other than for the purpose for which it was acquired. The local
 3150                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 421 ]
summary criminal history information in the possession of the local
government and all copies made from it shall be destroyed not more than
30 days after the local government’s final decision to grant or deny
consent to, or approval of, the prospective concessionaire’s application
for, or acquisition of, a beneficial interest in a concession, lease, or other
property interest. Nothing in this section shall be construed as imposing
any duty upon a local government, or any officer or official thereof, to
request local summary criminal history information on any current or
prospective concessionaire or their affiliates or associates.
   (d) Whenever an authorized request for local summary criminal
history information pertains to a person whose fingerprints are on file
with the local agency and the local agency has no criminal history of that
person, and the information is to be used for employment, licensing, or
certification purposes, the fingerprint card accompanying the request for
information, if any, may be stamped ‘‘no criminal record’’ and returned
to the person or entity making the request.
   (e) A local agency taking fingerprints of a person who is an applicant
for licensing, employment, or certification may charge a fee not to
exceed ten dollars ($10) to cover the cost of taking the fingerprints and
processing the required documents.
   (f) Whenever local summary criminal history information furnished
pursuant to this section is to be used for employment, licensing, or
certification purposes, the local agency shall charge the person or entity
making the request a fee which it determines to be sufficient to reimburse
the local agency for the cost of furnishing the information, provided that
no fee shall be charged to any public law enforcement agency for local
summary criminal history information furnished to assist it in
employing, licensing, or certifying a person who is applying for
employment with the agency as a peace officer or criminal investigator.
Any state agency required to pay a fee to the local agency for information
received under this section may charge the applicant a fee sufficient to
reimburse the agency for the expense.
   (g) Whenever there is a conflict, the processing of criminal
fingerprints shall take priority over the processing of applicant
fingerprints.
   (h) It is not a violation of this article to disseminate statistical or
research information obtained from a record, provided that the identity
of the subject of the record is not disclosed.
   (i) It is not a violation of this article to include information obtained
from a record in (1) a transcript or record of a judicial or administrative
proceeding or (2) any other public record when the inclusion of the
information in the public record is authorized by a court, statute, or
decisional law.
[Ch. 421 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3151

   (j) Notwithstanding any other law, the Department of Justice or any
state or local law enforcement agency may require the submission of
fingerprints for the purpose of conducting summary criminal history
information record checks which are authorized by law.
   (k) Any local criminal justice agency may release, within five years
of the arrest, information concerning an arrest or detention of a peace
officer or applicant for a position as a peace officer, as defined in Section
830, which did not result in conviction, and for which the person did not
complete a postarrest diversion program or a deferred entry of judgment
program, to a government agency employer of that peace officer or
applicant.
   (l) Any local criminal justice agency may release information
concerning an arrest of a peace officer or applicant for a position as a
peace officer, as defined in Section 830, which did not result in
conviction but for which the person completed a postarrest diversion
program or a deferred entry of judgment program, or information
concerning a referral to and participation in any postarrest diversion
program or a deferred entry of judgment program to a government
agency employer of that peace officer or applicant.
   (m) Notwithstanding subdivision (k) or (l), a local criminal justice
agency shall not release information under the following circumstances:
   (1) Information concerning an arrest for which diversion or a deferred
entry of judgment program has been ordered without attempting to
determine whether diversion or a deferred entry of judgment program
has been successfully completed.
   (2) Information concerning an arrest or detention followed by a
dismissal or release without attempting to determine whether the
individual was exonerated.
   (3) Information concerning an arrest without a disposition without
attempting to determine whether diversion has been successfully
completed or the individual was exonerated.
   SEC. 4. Section 309 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   309. (a) Upon delivery to the social worker of a child who has been
taken into temporary custody under this article, the social worker shall
immediately investigate the circumstances of the child and the facts
surrounding the child’s being taken into custody and attempt to maintain
the child with the child’s family through the provision of services. The
social worker shall immediately release the child to the custody of the
child’s parent, guardian, or responsible relative unless one or more of the
following conditions exist:
   (1) The child has no parent, guardian, or responsible relative; or the
child’s parent, guardian, or responsible relative is not willing to provide
care for the child.
 3152                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 421 ]
   (2) Continued detention of the child is a matter of immediate and
urgent necessity for the protection of the child and there are no
reasonable means by which the child can be protected in his or her home
or the home of a responsible relative.
   (3) There is substantial evidence that a parent, guardian, or custodian
of the child is likely to flee the jurisdiction of the court.
   (4) The child has left a placement in which he or she was placed by
the juvenile court.
   (b) In any case in which there is reasonable cause for believing that
a child who is under the care of a physician or surgeon or a hospital,
clinic, or other medical facility and cannot be immediately moved is a
person described in Section 300, the child shall be deemed to have been
taken into temporary custody and delivered to the social worker for the
purposes of this chapter while the child is at the office of the physician
or surgeon or the medical facility.
   (c) If the child is not released to his or her parent or guardian, the child
shall be deemed detained for purposes of this chapter.
   (d) If an able and willing relative, as defined in Section 319, is
available and requests temporary placement of the child pending the
detention hearing, the social worker shall initiate an emergency
assessment of the relative’s suitability, which shall include an in-home
visit to assess the safety of the home and the ability of the relative to care
for the child on a temporary basis, and a consideration of the results of
a criminal records check conducted by an appropriate governmental
agency through the California Law Enforcement Telecommunications
System pursuant to Section 16504.5 and allegations of prior child abuse
or neglect concerning the relative and other adults in the home. The
results of the assessment shall be provided to the court in the social
worker’s report as required by Section 319. Within five judicial days
following the criminal records check conducted through the California
Law Enforcement Telecommunications System, the social worker shall
ensure that a fingerprint clearance check of the relative and any other
person whose criminal record was obtained pursuant to subdivision (b)
of Section 361.4 is initiated and shall review the results of any criminal
records check to assess the safety of the home.
   SEC. 5. Section 361.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   361.4. (a) Prior to placing a child in the home of a relative, or the
home of any prospective guardian or other person who is not a licensed
or certified foster parent, the county social worker shall visit the home
to ascertain the appropriateness of the placement.
   (b) Whenever a child may be placed in the home of a relative, or the
home of any prospective guardian or other person who is not a licensed
or certified foster parent, the court or county social worker placing the
[Ch. 421 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3153

child shall cause a criminal records check to be conducted by an
appropriate governmental agency through the California Law
Enforcement Telecommunications System pursuant to Section 16504.5.
The criminal records check shall be conducted with regard to all persons
over the age of 18 years living in the home, and on any other person over
the age of 18 years, other than professionals providing professional
services to the child, known to the placing entity who may have
significant contact with the child, including any person who has a
familial or intimate relationship with any person living in the home. A
criminal records check may be conducted pursuant to this section on any
person over the age of 14 years living in the home who the county social
worker believes may have a criminal record. Within five judicial days
following the criminal records check conducted through the California
Law Enforcement Telecommunications System, the social worker shall
ensure that a fingerprint clearance check of the relative and any other
person whose criminal record was obtained pursuant to this subdivision
is initiated to ensure the accuracy of the criminal records check
conducted       through      the     California     Law       Enforcement
Telecommunications System and shall review the results of any criminal
records check to assess the safety of the home.
   (c) Whenever a child may be placed in the home of a relative, or a
prospective guardian or other person who is not a licensed or certified
foster parent, the county social worker shall cause a check of the Child
Abuse Index pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 11170 of the Penal
Code to be requested from the Department of Justice. The Child Abuse
Index check shall be conducted on all persons over the age of 18 years
living in the home.
   (d) (1) If the fingerprint clearance check indicates that the person has
no criminal record, the county social worker and court may consider the
home of the relative, prospective guardian, or other child who is not a
licensed or certified foster parent for placement of a child.
   (2) If the fingerprint clearance check indicates that the person has
been convicted of a crime that would preclude licensure under Section
1522 of the Health and Safety Code, the child shall not be placed in the
home.
   (3) Upon request from a county, the Director of Social Services may
waive the application of this section pursuant to standards established in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (g) of Section 1522 of the Health and Safety
Code. The director shall grant or deny the waiver within 14 days of
receipt of the county’s request.
   (e) Nothing in this section shall preclude a county from conducting
a criminal background check that the county is otherwise authorized to
conduct using fingerprints.
 3154                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 421 ]
   SEC. 6. Section 16504.5 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
   16504.5. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, pursuant
to subdivision (b) of Section 11105 of the Penal Code, a child welfare
agency may secure from an appropriate governmental agency the state
summary criminal history information, as defined in subdivision (a) of
Section 11105 of the Penal Code, through the California Law
Enforcement Telecommunications System for the following purposes:
   (1) To conduct an investigation pursuant to Section 11166.3 of the
Penal Code or an investigation involving a child in which the child is
alleged to come within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court under
Section 300.
   (2) To assess the appropriateness and safety of placing a child who has
been detained or is a dependent of the court, in the home of a relative
pursuant to Section 309 or 361.4.
   (3) To attempt to locate a parent or guardian pursuant to Section 311
of a child who is the subject of dependency court proceedings.
   (b) Any time that a child welfare agency initiates a criminal
background check through the California Law Enforcement
Telecommunications System, the agency shall ensure that a fingerprint
check is initiated within five judicial days of the check, unless the
whereabouts of the subject of the check are unknown or the subject of
the check refuses to submit to the fingerprint check. The Department of
Justice shall provide the requesting agency a copy of all criminal history
information regarding an individual that it maintains pursuant to
subdivision (b) of Section 11105 of the Penal Code.
   (c) Law enforcement personnel shall cooperate with requests for
criminal history information authorized pursuant to this section and
shall provide the information to the requesting entity in a timely manner.
   (d) Any law enforcement officer or person authorized by this section
to receive the information who obtains the information in the record and
knowingly provides the information to a person not authorized by law
to receive the information is guilty of a misdemeanor as specified in
Section 11142 of the Penal Code.
   (e) Information obtained pursuant to this section shall not be used for
any purposes other than those described in subdivision (a).
   (f) Nothing in this section shall preclude a relative or other person
living in a relative’s home from refuting any of the information obtained
by law enforcement if the individual believes the criminal records check
revealed erroneous information.
   SEC. 7. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district are
the result of a program for which legislative authority was requested by
[Ch. 422 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3155

that local agency or school district, within the meaning of Section 17556
of the Government Code and Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California
Constitution.
   SEC. 8. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order that local child welfare agencies may secure, as soon as
possible, appropriate criminal record checks for purposes of providing
safe and timely placement alternatives for minors who are the subject of
alleged abuse or neglect, it is necessary that this act take effect
immediately.



                             CHAPTER 422

  An act to add Section 5071.1 to the Vehicle Code, relating to vehicles.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 5071.1 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   5071.1. (a) The department, in consultation with the Girl Scout
Councils of California, shall design and make available for issuance
special license plates, in accordance with Section 5060, bearing a design
depicting the logo of the Girl Scouts of the United States of America.
Any person described in Section 5101, upon payment of the additional
fee set forth in subdivision (b), may apply for and be issued a set of
special interest license plates described in this subdivision.
   (b) In addition to the regular fees for an original registration, a
renewal of registration, or a transfer or substitution of the license plates,
the following additional fees shall be paid for the issuance, renewal,
retention, transfer, or substitution of the special interest license plates
authorized by this section:
   (1) For the original issuance of the plates, fifty dollars ($50).
   (2) For a renewal of registration of the plates, or retention of the plates
if renewal is not required, forty dollars ($40).
   (3) For transfer of the plates to another vehicle, fifteen dollars ($15).
   (4) For each substitute replacement plate, thirty-five dollars ($35).
   (c) After deducting administrative costs incurred by the department
to implement this section, the department shall deposit the additional
revenue derived from the issuance, renewal, retention, transfer, and
 3156                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 423 ]
substitution of the special interest license plates in the Girl Scouts
License Plate Fund, which is hereby created in the General Fund.
   (d) Upon appropriation by the Legislature, the money in the fund
shall be allocated by the Controller to the Girl Scout Councils of
California for the purpose of funding the promotion of Girl Scout
membership including outreach efforts in underserved areas, camping,
field trips, wider opportunities, mentoring programs, volunteer training,
and other Girl Scout opportunities, and for the promotion of the Girl
Scout License Plate Program.
   (e) Any organization participating in the special interest license plate
program pursuant to this section shall comply with all of the
requirements imposed on participating organizations pursuant to
Section 5060.



                            CHAPTER 423

  An act to amend Section 798.26 of, and to add Section 798.37.5 to,
the Civil Code, relating to mobilehome parks.
            [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 798.26 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
  798.26. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), and
notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, the
ownership or management of a park, subdivision, cooperative, or
condominium for mobilehomes shall have no right of entry to a
mobilehome without the prior written consent of the resident. The
consent may be revoked in writing by the resident at any time. The
ownership or management shall have a right of entry upon the land upon
which a mobilehome is situated for maintenance of utilities, trees, and
driveways, for maintenance of the premises in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the park when the homeowner or resident fails to so
maintain the premises, and protection of the mobilehome park,
subdivision, cooperative, or condominium at any reasonable time, but
not in a manner or at a time which would interfere with the resident’s
quiet enjoyment.
  (b) The ownership or management of a park, subdivision,
cooperative, or condominium for mobilehomes may enter a mobilehome
without the prior written consent of the resident in case of an emergency
or when the resident has abandoned the mobilehome.
[Ch. 423 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3157

   SEC. 2. Section 798.37.5 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
   798.37.5. (a) With respect to trees on rental spaces in a mobilehome
park, park management shall be solely responsible for the trimming,
pruning, or removal of any tree, and the costs thereof, upon written
notice by a homeowner or a determination by park management that the
tree poses a specific hazard or health and safety violation. In the case of
a dispute over that assertion, the park management or a homeowner may
request an inspection by the Department of Housing and Community
Development or a local agency responsible for the enforcement of the
Mobilehome Parks Act (Part 2.1 (commencing with Section 18200) of
Division 3 of the Health and Safety Code) in order to determine whether
a violation of that act exists.
   (b) With respect to trees in the common areas of a mobilehome park,
park management shall be solely responsible for the trimming, pruning,
or removal of any tree, and the costs thereof.
   (c) Park management shall be solely responsible for the maintenance,
repair, replacement, paving, sealing, and the expenses related to the
maintenance of all driveways installed by park management including,
but not limited to, repair of root damage to driveways and foundation
systems and removal. Homeowners shall be responsible for the
maintenance, repair, replacement, paving, sealing, and the expenses
related to the maintenance of a homeowner installed driveway. A
homeowner may be charged for the cost of any damage to the driveway
caused by an act of the homeowner or a breach of the homeowner’s
responsibilities under the rules and regulations so long as those rules and
regulations are not inconsistent with the provisions of this section.
   (d) No homeowner may plant a tree within the mobilehome park
without first obtaining written permission from the management.
   (e) This section shall not apply to alter the terms of any rental
agreement in effect prior to January 1, 2001, between the park
management and the homeowner regarding the responsibility for the
maintenance of trees and driveways within the mobilehome park, except
that upon any renewal or extension, the rental agreement shall be subject
to this section. This section is not intended to abrogate the content of any
existing rental agreement or other written agreements regarding trees or
driveways that are in effect prior to January 1, 2001.
   (f) This section shall only apply to rental agreements entered into,
renewed, or extended on or after January 1, 2001.
   (g) Any mobilehome park rule or regulation shall be in compliance
with this section.
 3158                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 424 ]
                             CHAPTER 424

   An act to amend Section 25503.8 of the Business and Professions
Code, relating to alcoholic beverages, and declaring the urgency thereof,
to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 25503.8 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   25503.8. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter,
the holder of a distilled spirits manufacturer’s license, a distilled spirits
manufacturer’s agent’s license, a beer manufacturer’s or winegrower’s
license may purchase advertising space and time from, or on behalf of,
an on-sale retail licensee if all of the following conditions are met:
   (1) The on-sale licensee is the owner of any of the following:
   (A) A fully enclosed auditorium or theater with a fixed seating
capacity in excess of 6,000 seats, at least 60 percent of the use of which
is for plays or musical concerts, not including sporting events.
   (B) A motion picture studio facility at which public tours are
conducted for at least four million people per year.
   (C) A retail, entertainment development adjacent to, and under
common ownership with, a theme park, amphitheater, and motion
picture production studio.
   (D) A theme or amusement park and the adjacent retail, dining, and
entertainment area located in the City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles
County, or Orange County.
   (2) The advertising space or time is purchased only in connection
with one of the following:
   (A) In the case of a fully enclosed auditorium or theater, in connection
with sponsorship of plays or musical concerts to be held on the premises
of the auditorium or theater owned by the on-sale licensee.
   (B) In the case of a motion picture studio facility, in connection with
sponsorship of the public tours or special events conducted at the studio
facility.
   (C) In the case of a retail, entertainment development, in connection
with sponsorship of public tours or special events conducted at the
development.
   (D) In the case of a theme or amusement park and the adjacent retail,
dining, and entertainment area, located in the City of Los Angeles, Los
Angeles County, or Orange County, in connection with daily activities
[Ch. 424 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3159

and events at the theme or amusement park and the adjacent retail,
dining, and entertainment area.
   (3) The on-sale licensee serves other brands of distilled spirits, beer
or wine in addition to the brand manufactured or marketed by the
distilled spirits manufacturer, distilled spirits manufacturer’s agent, beer
manufacturer or produced by the winegrower purchasing the advertising
space or time.
   (b) Any purchase of advertising space or time conducted pursuant to
subdivision (a) shall be conducted pursuant to a written contract entered
into by the holder of the distilled spirits manufacturer’s license, distilled
spirits manufacturer’s agent’s license, beer manufacturer’s or
winegrower’s license and the on-sale licensee, which contract shall not
in any way involve the holder of a distilled spirits, beer, or wine
wholesaler’s license.
   (c) Any holder of a distilled spirits manufacturer’s license, a distilled
spirits manufacturer’s agent’s license, beer manufacturer’s license or
winegrower’s license who, through coercion or other means, induces a
holder of a distilled spirits, beer, or wine wholesaler’s license to fulfill
those contractual obligations entered into pursuant to subdivision (a) or
(b) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six months, or by a fine
in an amount equal to the entire value of the advertising space or time
involved in the contract, plus ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or by both
imprisonment and fine. The person shall also be subject to license
revocation pursuant to Section 24200.
   (d) Any on-sale retail licensee, as described in subdivision (a), who
solicits or coerces a holder of a distilled spirits, beer, or wine
wholesaler’s license to solicit a holder of a beer manufacturer’s or
winegrower’s license to purchase advertising space or time pursuant to
subdivision (a) or (b) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six months,
or by a fine in an amount equal to the entire value of the advertising space
or time involved in the contract, plus ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or
by both imprisonment and fine. The person shall also be subject to
license revocation pursuant to Section 24200.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
 3160                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 425 ]
  SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to permit holders of distilled spirits manufacturers’ and
manufacturers’ agents’ licenses to purchase advertising space and time
under the same conditions as holders of beer manufacturers’ or
winegrowers’ licenses as soon as possible, it is necessary that this act
take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 425

  An act to add Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 10610) to Part 2
of Division 5 of the Food and Agricultural Code, relating to cattle
disease control.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 10610) is added
to Part 2 of Division 5 of the Food and Agricultural Code, to read:

                CHAPTER 4.      CATTLE DISEASE CONTROL

   10610. (a) The Secretary of the Department of Food and
Agriculture may adopt regulations to control or eradicate cattle diseases,
including bovine trichomoniasis, in any of the following ways:
   (1) Requiring permits before entry of, and limitations on the
importation of, cattle and other animals or materials that might act as a
cause or a vector of a disease or condition that is infectious or contagious
to cattle.
   (2) Limitations on the intrastate or interstate movement of cattle, in
compliance with any applicable federal law.
   (3) Diagnostic tests, vaccinations, treatments, or other appropriate
methods, including, but not limited to, the mandated reporting by
designated parties.
   (4) Notification of owners of cattle that have been exposed, or may
have been exposed, to infectious animals or materials.
   (5) Similar means that the secretary finds and determines are
necessary.
[Ch. 426 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3161

  (b) (1) The secretary shall appoint an advisory task force, including,
but not limited to, livestock industry representatives and university
researchers, for the purposes of advising the secretary on the control and
management of cattle health diseases and evaluating the effectiveness of
programs established pursuant to this chapter. The secretary shall
consult with the advisory task force prior to the adoption of regulations
or the imposition of fees by the secretary.
  (2) Members of the advisory task force, or alternate members when
acting as members, may be reimbursed, upon request, for necessary
expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
  (c) (1) Any person that willfully and knowingly violates any
regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
  (2) In lieu of seeking prosecution of any violation of this chapter as
a misdemeanor, the secretary may prosecute civilly, or levy civil
penalties, pursuant to Sections 9166 and 9167.
  (d) The secretary may impose fees to offset the costs of any program
established pursuant to this section, provided that the total fees collected
do not exceed the actual costs of regulation or impair the department’s
animal disease surveillance, public health, and food safety
responsibilities.
  (e) The secretary is authorized to establish accounts within the Food
and Agriculture Fund as necessary to efficiently administer the
department’s responsibilities pursuant to this chapter.
  (f) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or restrict the
authority granted to the State Veterinarian in Section 9562.
  SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 426

  An act to amend, add, and repeal Section 1374.16 of the Health and
Safety Code, relating to health care.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]
 3162                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 426 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 1374.16 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
  1374.16. (a) Every health care service plan, except a specialized
health care service plan, shall establish and implement a procedure by
which an enrollee may receive a standing referral to a specialist. The
procedure shall provide for a standing referral to a specialist if the
primary care physician determines in consultation with the specialist, if
any, and the plan medical director or his or her designee, that an enrollee
needs continuing care from a specialist. The referral shall be made
pursuant to a treatment plan approved by the health care service plan in
consultation with the primary care physician, the specialist, and the
enrollee, if a treatment plan is deemed necessary to describe the course
of the care. A treatment plan may be deemed to be not necessary
provided that a current standing referral to a specialist is approved by the
plan or its contracting provider, medical group, or independent practice
association. The treatment plan may limit the number of visits to the
specialist, limit the period of time that the visits are authorized, or require
that the specialist provide the primary care physician with regular reports
on the health care provided to the enrollee.
  (b) Every health care service plan, except a specialized health care
service plan, shall establish and implement a procedure by which an
enrollee with a condition or disease that requires specialized medical
care over a prolonged period of time and is life-threatening,
degenerative, or disabling may receive a referral to a specialist or
specialty care center that has expertise in treating the condition or disease
for the purpose of having the specialist coordinate the enrollee’s health
care. The referral shall be made if the primary care physician, in
consultation with the specialist or specialty care center if any, and the
plan medical director or his or her designee determines that this
specialized medical care is medically necessary for the enrollee. The
referral shall be made pursuant to a treatment plan approved by the health
care service plan in consultation with the primary care physician,
specialist or specialty care center, and enrollee, if a treatment plan is
deemed necessary to describe the course of care. A treatment plan may
be deemed to be not necessary provided that the appropriate referral to
a specialist or specialty care center is approved by the plan or its
contracting provider, medical group, or independent practice
association. After the referral is made, the specialist shall be authorized
to provide health care services that are within the specialist’s area of
expertise and training to the enrollee in the same manner as the enrollee’s
primary care physician, subject to the terms of the treatment plan.
[Ch. 426 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3163

   (c) The determinations described in subdivisions (a) and (b) shall be
made within three business days of the date the request for the
determination is made by the enrollee or the enrollee’s primary care
physician and all appropriate medical records and other items of
information necessary to make the determination are provided. Once a
determination is made, the referral shall be made within four business
days of the date the proposed treatment plan, if any, is submitted to the
plan medical director or his or her designee.
   (d) Subdivisions (a) and (b) do not require a health care service plan
to refer to a specialist who, or to a specialty care center that, is not
employed by or under contract with the health care service plan to
provide health care services to its enrollees, unless there is no specialist
within the plan network that is appropriate to provide treatment to the
enrollee, as determined by the primary care physician in consultation
with the plan medical director as documented in the treatment plan
developed pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b).
   (e) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘specialty care center’’ means a
center that is accredited or designated by an agency of the state or federal
government or by a voluntary national health organization as having
special expertise in treating the life-threatening disease or condition or
degenerative and disabling disease or condition for which it is accredited
or designated.
   (f) As used in this section, a ‘‘standing referral’’ means a referral by
a primary care physician to a specialist for more than one visit to the
specialist, as indicated in the treatment plan, if any, without the primary
care physician having to provide a specific referral for each visit.
   (g) As used in this section, with regard to an enrollee with human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (AIDS), ‘‘a condition or disease that requires specialized
medical care over a prolonged period of time and is life-threatening,
degenerative, or disabling’’ shall be interpreted broadly so as to
maximize the enrollee’s access to provider with demonstrated expertise
in treating a condition or disease involving a complicated treatment
regimen that requires ongoing monitoring of the patient’s adherence to
the regimen.
   (h) This section shall become inoperative on (1) January 1, 2004, or
(2) the date of adoption of an accreditation or designation by an agency
of the state or federal government or by a voluntary national health
organization of an HIV or AIDS specialist, whichever date is earlier, and,
as of January 1, 2004, or of the January 1 following the inoperative date
whichever date is earlier, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that
is enacted before those dates deletes or extends the dates on which it
becomes inoperative and is repealed.
 3164                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 426 ]
  SEC. 2. Section 1374.16 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
  1374.16. (a) Every health care service plan, except a specialized
health care service plan, shall establish and implement a procedure by
which an enrollee may receive a standing referral to a specialist. The
procedure shall provide for a standing referral to a specialist if the
primary care physician determines in consultation with the specialist, if
any, and the plan medical director or his or her designee, that an enrollee
needs continuing care from a specialist. The referral shall be made
pursuant to a treatment plan approved by the health care service plan in
consultation with the primary care physician, the specialist, and the
enrollee, if a treatment plan is deemed necessary to describe the course
of the care. A treatment plan may be deemed to be not necessary
provided that a current standing referral to a specialist is approved by the
plan or its contracting provider, medical group, or independent practice
association. The treatment plan may limit the number of visits to the
specialist, limit the period of time that the visits are authorized, or require
that the specialist provide the primary care physician with regular reports
on the health care provided to the enrollee.
  (b) Every health care service plan, except a specialized health care
service plan, shall establish and implement a procedure by which an
enrollee with a condition or disease that requires specialized medical
care over a prolonged period of time and is life-threatening,
degenerative, or disabling may receive a referral to a specialist or
specialty care center that has expertise in treating the condition or disease
for the purpose of having the specialist coordinate the enrollee’s health
care. The referral shall be made if the primary care physician, in
consultation with the specialist or specialty care center if any, and the
plan medical director or his or her designee determines that this
specialized medical care is medically necessary for the enrollee. The
referral shall be made pursuant to a treatment plan approved by the health
care service plan in consultation with the primary care physician,
specialist or specialty care center, and enrollee, if a treatment plan is
deemed necessary to describe the course of care. A treatment plan may
be deemed to be not necessary provided that the appropriate referral to
a specialist or specialty care center is approved by the plan or its
contracting provider, medical group, or independent practice
association. After the referral is made, the specialist shall be authorized
to provide health care services that are within the specialist’s area of
expertise and training to the enrollee in the same manner as the enrollee’s
primary care physician, subject to the terms of the treatment plan.
  (c) The determinations described in subdivisions (a) and (b) shall be
made within three business days of the date the request for the
determination is made by the enrollee or the enrollee’s primary care
[Ch. 427 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3165

physician and all appropriate medical records and other items of
information necessary to make the determination are provided. Once a
determination is made, the referral shall be made within four business
days of the date the proposed treatment plan, if any, is submitted to the
plan medical director or his or her designee.
  (d) Subdivisions (a) and (b) do not require a health care service plan
to refer to a specialist who, or to a specialty care center that, is not
employed by or under contract with the health care service plan to
provide health care services to its enrollees, unless there is no specialist
within the plan network that is appropriate to provide treatment to the
enrollee, as determined by the primary care physician in consultation
with the plan medical director as documented in the treatment plan
developed pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b).
  (e) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘specialty care center’’ means a
center that is accredited or designated by an agency of the state or federal
government or by a voluntary national health organization as having
special expertise in treating the life-threatening disease or condition or
degenerative and disabling disease or condition for which it is accredited
or designated.
  (f) As used in this section, a ‘‘standing referral’’ means a referral by
a primary care physician to a specialist for more than one visit to the
specialist, as indicated in the treatment plan, if any, without the primary
care physician having to provide a specific referral for each visit.
  (g) This section shall become operative on (1) January 1, 2004, or (2)
the date of adoption of an accreditation or designation by an agency of
the state or federal government or by a voluntary national health
organization of an HIV or AIDS specialist, whichever date is earlier.
  SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 427

   An act to add Section 2620.5 to the Business and Professions Code,
relating to physical therapists.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]
 3166                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 428 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 2620.5 is added to the Business and
Professions Code, to read:
  2620.5. A physical therapist may, upon specified authorization of a
physician and surgeon, perform tissue penetration for the purpose of
evaluating neuromuscular performance as a part of the practice of
physical therapy, as defined in Section 2620, provided the physical
therapist is certified by the board to perform the tissue penetration and
evaluation and provided the physical therapist does not develop or make
diagnostic or prognostic interpretations of the data obtained. Any
physical therapist who develops or makes a diagnostic or prognostic
interpretation of this data is in violation of the Medical Practice Act
(Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2000) of Division 2), and may be
subject to all of the sanctions and penalties set forth in that act.
  The board, after meeting and conferring with the Division of
Licensing of the Medical Board of California, shall do all of the
following:
  (a) Adopt standards and procedures for tissue penetration for the
purpose of evaluating neuromuscular performance by certified physical
therapists.
  (b) Establish standards for physical therapists to perform tissue
penetration for the purpose of evaluating neuromuscular performance.
  (c) Certify physical therapists meeting standards established by the
board pursuant to this section.
  SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 428

  An act to add and repeal Division 22.7 (commencing with Section
32550) of the Public Resources Code, relating to the Baldwin Hills
Conservancy.
            [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]
[Ch. 428 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3167

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Division 22.7 (commencing with Section 32550) is
added to the Public Resources Code, to read:

   DIVISION 22.7.       BALDWIN HILLS CONSERVANCY ACT

                   CHAPTER 1.     GENERAL PROVISIONS

   32550. This division shall be known, and may be cited, as the
Baldwin Hills Conservancy Act.
   32551. The Legislature hereby finds and declares all of the
following:
   (a) The Baldwin Hills area within the County of Los Angeles and the
cities of Los Angeles and Culver City constitutes an area with unique and
important cultural, scientific, educational, recreational, and scenic
resources, and includes land with the highest elevation in the Los
Angeles Basin.
   (b) The state recognized the importance of, and the need for,
recreational venues in this area by purchasing and establishing the
Kenneth Hahn State Recreation Area in 1983, which is under the
jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation. The County of
Los Angeles operates the state recreation area pursuant to a contract with
the Department of Parks and Recreation.
   (c) In recognition of the evolving community needs in the Baldwin
Hills area, in 1999 the Legislature directed the review and revision of the
master plan for the existing state recreation area as well as the acquisition
of other lands in the Baldwin Hills.
   (d) As one of the last remaining urban open spaces in Los Angeles
County, the Baldwin Hills area should be held in trust to be preserved
and enhanced for the enjoyment of, and appreciation by, present and
future generations.
   (e) The Baldwin Hills Conservancy should be created to develop and
coordinate an integrated program of resources stewardship so that the
Baldwin Hills area is managed for its optimum recreational and natural
resource values based upon the needs and desires of the surrounding
community.

                        CHAPTER 2.     DEFINITIONS

  32553. As used in this division, the following terms have the
following meaning:
  (a) ‘‘Baldwin Hills area’’ means the land area currently within the
Kenneth Hahn State Recreation Area, the Baldwin Hills community, the
 3168                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 428 ]
surrounding property bordered on the south by Slausen Avenue, and on
the east by La Brea Avenue, and including a spur of land extending from
Stocker Avenue to an area between La Brea Avenue and Crenshaw
Boulevard, and including Ballona Creek and adjacent property within
one-quarter mile of Ballona Creek on either side, from the Santa Monica
Freeway (Interstate 10) to the Marina Freeway (Interstate 90).
  (b) ‘‘Board’’ means the governing board of the Baldwin Hills
Conservancy.
  (c) ‘‘Conservancy’’ means the Baldwin Hills Conservancy.
  (d) ‘‘Fund’’ means the Baldwin Hills Conservancy Fund created
pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 32574.
  (e) ‘‘Nonprofit organization’’ means an exempt organization under
Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
  (f) ‘‘Territory’’ means the land in the Baldwin Hills area that is under
the jurisdiction of the conservancy.

                      CHAPTER 3.    CONSERVANCY

   32555. There is in the Resources Agency, the Baldwin Hills
Conservancy, which is created for the following purposes:
   (a) To acquire and manage public lands within the Baldwin Hills area,
and to provide recreational, open-space, wildlife habitat restoration and
protection, and lands for educational uses within the area.
   (b) To acquire open-space lands within the territory of the
conservancy.
   (c) To provide for the public’s enjoyment, and to enhance the
recreational and educational experience on public lands in the territory
in a manner consistent with the protection of lands and resources in the
area.
   32556. (a) The board shall consist of nine voting members and six
nonvoting members.
   (b) The nine voting members of the board shall consist of the
following:
   (1) The Secretary of the Resources Agency, or his or her designee.
   (2) The Director of Parks and Recreation, or his or her designee.
   (3) The Director of Finance, or his or her designee.
   (4) The Director of the Los Angeles County Department of Parks, or
his or her designee.
   (5) Three members of the public appointed by the Governor who are
residents of Los Angeles County selected from a list of prominent
members of the community who shall represent the diversity of the
surrounding community.
[Ch. 428 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3169

   (6) A resident of Los Angeles County appointed by the Speaker of the
Assembly, and a resident of Los Angeles County appointed by the
Senate Committee on Rules.
   (c) The six nonvoting members shall consist of the following:
   (1) The Secretary of the California Environmental Protection
Agency, or his or her designee.
   (2) The Executive Officer of the State Coastal Conservancy, or his or
her designee.
   (3) The Executive Officer of the State Lands Commission, or his or
her designee.
   (4) An appointee of the Governor with experience in developing
contaminated sites, commonly referred to as ‘‘brownfields.’’
   (5) The Executive Director of the Santa Monica Mountains
Conservancy, or his or her designee.
   (6) The Director of the Culver City Department of Parks and
Recreation.
   (d) A quorum shall consist of five voting members of the board, and
any action of the board affecting any matter before the board shall be
decided by a majority vote of the voting members present, a quorum
being present. However, the affirmative vote of at least four of the voting
members of the board shall be required for the transaction of any
business of the board.
   32557. (a) The voting members of the board shall serve for
two-year terms. Any vacancy on the board shall be filled within 60 days
from its occurrence by the appointing authority.
   (b) No person shall continue as a member of the board if that person
ceases to hold the office that qualifies that person for board membership.
Upon the occurrence of that event, that person’s membership on the
board shall automatically terminate.
   32558. The chairperson and vice-chairperson of the board shall be
selected by a majority of the voting members of the board for one-year
terms.
   32559. The conservancy may employ an executive officer and other
staff to perform those functions that cannot be provided by volunteers.
   32560. All meetings of the board shall be subject to the
requirements of the Ralph M. Brown Act (Chapter 9 (commencing with
Section 54950) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government
Code).
   32561. All members shall receive reimbursement for actual,
necessary, and reasonable expenses. Any member of the board who is not
a full-time public employee shall be compensated at a rate not to exceed
one hundred dollars ($100) per regular meeting, not to exceed 12 regular
meetings a year. Any member of the board may waive compensation.
 3170                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 428 ]
   32562. The conservancy shall obtain and maintain adequate
liability insurance or its equivalent for acts or omissions of the
conservancy’s agents, employees, volunteers, and servants.

                  CHAPTER 4.     POWERS AND DUTIES

   32565. The jurisdiction of the conservancy includes those lands or
other areas that are donated to, or otherwise acquired by, or are operated
by the conservancy, that are located in the Baldwin Hills area.
   32565.5. The conservancy shall do all of the following:
   (a) Develop and coordinate an integrated program of resource
stewardship so that the entire Baldwin Hills area is managed for
optimum recreational and natural resource values based upon the needs
and desires of the surrounding community.
   (b) Establish policies and priorities within the Baldwin Hills area,
and conduct any necessary planning activities in accordance with the
purposes set forth in Section 32555.
   (c) Give priority to related projects that create expanded
opportunities that provide recreation, aesthetic improvement, and
wildlife habitat in the Baldwin Hills area.
   (d) Approve conservancy funded projects that advance the policies
and proprieties set forth in this division.
   (e) Enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Department
of Parks and Recreation that would require the conservancy and the
department to cooperate in the sharing of technical assistance, data, and
information.
   (f) Upon submission to the Legislature of the master plan required to
be prepared pursuant to subdivisions (b) and (c) of Section 1 of Chapter
752 of the Statutes of 1999 by the Secretary of the Resources Agency and
the Director of Parks and Recreation, the conservancy shall, by May 1,
2002, approve the master plan, and prioritize and implement both of the
following in accordance with the master plan and with the master plan
recommendations:
   (1) The acquisition of additional recreational and open space and a
plan for the management of lands under the jurisdiction of the
conservancy, including additional or upgraded facilities and parks that
may be necessary or desirable.
   (2) The planned conveyance of lands acquired and restored, or lands
acquired, restored, and developed, to the Department of Parks and
Recreation or to any other public agency once the acquisition and
improvements have been finalized. Any such transfer shall be subject to
the approval of the Secretary of the Resources Agency. The secretary
may require all lands and facilities subject to transfer to be repaired,
[Ch. 428 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3171

replaced, or rehabilitated to a fully operable condition, prior to the
transfer occurring.
   (g) Review and approve any operating agreement or amendments to
an existing operating agreement between the Department of Parks and
Recreation and any local operating agency, including the County of Los
Angeles, for the Kenneth Hahn State Recreation Area. Any proposed
operating agreement or an amendment to an agreement shall be
submitted to the conservancy at least 90 days prior to the proposed
effective date of the agreement and shall not become effective unless the
conservancy certifies, in writing, its approval of the proposed
agreement.
   32566. The conservancy may direct the management, operation,
administration, and maintenance of the lands and facilities it acquires in
accordance with the purposes set forth in Section 32555. The
conservancy may adopt regulations governing the use by the public of
conservancy lands and facilities and may provide for the enforcement of
those regulations.
   32567. The conservancy shall determine acquisition priorities and
may acquire real property or any interest in real property within the
Baldwin Hills area from willing sellers and at fair market value or on
other mutually acceptable terms, upon a finding that the acquisition is
consistent with the purposes of the conservancy. The conservancy may
acquire the property itself, or may coordinate the acquisition with other
public agencies with appropriate responsibility and available funding or
land to exchange. The overall objectives of the land acquisition program
shall be to assist in accomplishing land transactions that are mutually
beneficial to the landowners and the conservancy, and that meet the
conservancy’s purposes. Neither the conservancy nor the State Board of
Public Works shall exercise the power of eminent domain for the
purposes of this division. The conservancy shall have the first right of
refusal to acquire public lands suitable for park and open space within
the conservancy’s territory, and may accept private or public lands
offered for recreational trails or private lands offered in satisfaction of
delinquent taxes owed on land located within the territory of the
conservancy.
   32568. The conservancy may undertake site improvement projects;
regulate public access; revegetate and otherwise rehabilitate degraded
areas, in consultation with other public agencies with appropriate
jurisdiction and expertise; upgrade deteriorating facilities; and construct
new facilities as needed for outdoor recreation, nature appreciation and
interpretation, and natural resource protection. These projects shall be
directed by the conservancy and undertaken by other public agencies,
with the conservancy providing overall coordination through setting
priorities for projects and assuring uniformity of approach.
 3172                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 428 ]
   32569. (a) The conservancy may award grants to local public
agencies, state agencies, federal agencies, and nonprofit organizations
for the purposes of this division.
   (b) Grants to nonprofit organizations for the acquisition of real
property or interests in real property shall be subject to all of the
following conditions:
   (1) The conservancy may acquire property at fair market value and
consistent with the Property Acquisition Law (Part 11 (commencing
with Section 15850) of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code),
except that the acquisition price of lands acquired from public agencies
shall be based on the public agencies’ cost to acquire the land.
   (2) The conservancy shall approve the terms under which the interest
in land is acquired.
   (3) The interest in land acquired pursuant to a grant from the
conservancy may not be used as security for any debt incurred by the
nonprofit organization unless the conservancy approves the transaction.
   (4) The transfer of land acquired pursuant to a grant shall be subject
to the approval of the conservancy and the execution of an agreement
between the conservancy and the transferee sufficient to protect the
interests of the conservancy.
   (5) The conservancy shall have a right of entry and power of
termination in and over all interests in real property acquired with state
funds, which may be exercised if any essential term or condition of the
grant is violated.
   (6) If the existence of the nonprofit organization is terminated for any
reason, title to all interest in real property acquired with state funds shall
immediately vest in the conservancy, except that, prior to that
termination, another public agency or nonprofit organization may
receive title to all or a portion of that interest in real property, by
recording its acceptance of title, together with the conservancy’s
approval, in writing.
   (c) Any deed or other instrument of conveyance whereby real
property is acquired by a nonprofit organization pursuant to this section
shall be recorded and shall set forth the executory interest or right of
entry on the part of the conservancy.
   32570. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
conservancy may lease, rent, sell, exchange, or otherwise transfer any
real property or interest therein or option acquired under this division to
a local public agency, state agency, federal agency, nonprofit
organization, individual, or other entity for management purposes
pursuant to terms and conditions approved by the conservancy. The
conservancy may request the Director of General Services to undertake
these actions on its behalf.
[Ch. 428 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3173

   (b) The conservancy may initiate, negotiate, and participate in
agreements for the management of land under its ownership or control
with local public agencies, state agencies, federal agencies, nonprofit
organizations, individuals, or other entities and may enter into any other
agreements authorized by state or federal law.
   (c) The conservancy shall approve changes to the current agreement
for the operation of the Kenneth Hahn State Recreation Area that may
be proposed for adoption by the Department of Parks and Recreation.
   32571. Local public agencies may enter into an agreement to
transfer responsibility for the management of the land located within the
Baldwin Hills area to the conservancy. Local public agencies shall retain
exclusive authority over all zoning or land use regulations within their
jurisdiction.
   32572. The conservancy shall restrict access on acquired lands that
are unsuitable for parks and open-space use by entering into temporary
agreements with other state or local public agencies for the protection of
public health and safety, resource management and protection, and
security.
   32573. The conservancy shall do all of the following:
   (a) Establish policies and priorities regarding the territory within the
Baldwin Hills area, and conduct any necessary planning activities in
accordance with the purposes set forth in Section 32555.
   (b) Give priority to related projects that create expanded
opportunities that provide recreation, aesthetic improvement, and
wildlife habitat in the Baldwin Hills area.
   (c) Approve conservancy-funded projects that advance the policies
and priorities set forth in this division.
   (d) Review the master plan required pursuant to subdivisions (b) and
(c) of Section 1 of Chapter 752 of the Statutes of 1999 and implement
prioritization for the acquisition and operation of additional recreational
and open-space needs, including additional or upgraded facilities and
parks that may be necessary or desirable.
   32574. (a) The conservancy may fix and collect fees for the use of
any land owned or controlled, or for any service provided, by the
conservancy. No fee shall exceed the cost of maintaining and operating
the land or of providing the service for which the fee is charged.
   (b) The fee revenue and all other revenue received pursuant to this
division shall be deposited in the Baldwin Hills Conservancy Fund,
which is hereby created in the State Treasury. The money in the fund
shall be expended by the conservancy, upon appropriation by the
Legislature, for the purposes of this division.
   (c) Nothing in this act changes the Kenneth Hahn State Recreation
Area’s status to receive funds as part of the state parks system.
 3174                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 428 ]
   32574.5. The conservancy shall coordinate its actions with state and
local public safety agencies.
   32575. The conservancy shall administer any funds appropriated to
it and any revenue generated by public agencies for the Baldwin Hills
area and contributed to the conservancy, and may expend those funds for
capital improvements, land acquisition, or support of the conservancy’s
operations. Subject to Section 11005 of the Government Code, the
conservancy may also accept any revenue, money, grants, goods, or
services contributed to the conservancy by any public agency, private
entity, or person, and, upon receipt, may expend any such revenue,
money, or grants for capital improvements, land acquisitions, or support
of the conservancy’s operations.
   32576. The conservancy may recruit and coordinate volunteers and
experts to assist with conservancy projects and the maintenance of
conservancy lands.
   32577. The conservancy shall coordinate its actions with state and
local public safety agencies.
   32578. The conservancy shall have, and may exercise, all rights and
powers, expressed or implied, necessary to carry out the purposes of this
division, except as otherwise provided.
   32579. The conservancy may sue and be sued.
   32580. This division shall remain in effect only until January 1,
2008, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that
is enacted before January 1, 2008, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Not later than December 31, 2006, the Legislative Analyst
shall review the effectiveness and progress of the Baldwin Hills
Conservancy established pursuant to Division 22.7 (commencing with
Section 32550) of the Public Resources Code in acquiring and
developing open-space land and recreational opportunities in the
Baldwin Hills area, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 32553 of the
Public Resources Code. The Legislative Analyst shall, not later than
December 31, 2006, submit to the Legislature a report evaluating
whether the termination date for the conservancy should be extended to
meet the goals of Division 22.7 (commencing with Section 32550) of the
Public Resources Code, and whether the land under the jurisdiction of
the conservancy should be transferred to the control of the Department
of Parks and Recreation for inclusion in the state park system.
[Ch. 429 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3175

                             CHAPTER 429

  An act to amend Section 41365 of the Education Code, relating to
charter schools, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect
immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 41365 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   41365. (a) The Charter School Revolving Loan Fund is hereby
created in the State Treasury. The Charter School Revolving Loan Fund
shall be comprised of federal funds obtained by the state for charter
schools and any other funds appropriated or transferred to the fund
through the annual budget process. Funds appropriated to the Charter
School Revolving Loan Fund shall remain available for the purposes of
the fund until reappropriated or reverted by the Legislature through the
annual Budget Act or any other act.
   (b) Loans may be made from moneys in the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund to a chartering authority for charter schools that
are not a conversion of an existing school, or directly to a charter school
that qualifies to receive funding pursuant to Chapter 6 (commencing
with Section 47630) that is not a conversion of an existing school, upon
application of a chartering authority or charter school and approval by
the Superintendent of Public Instruction. Money loaned to a chartering
authority for a charter school, or to a charter school, pursuant to this
section shall be used only to meet the purposes of the charter granted
pursuant to Section 47605. The loan to a chartering authority for a
charter school, or to a charter school, pursuant to this subdivision shall
not exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) over the
lifetime of the charter school. A charter school may receive money
obtained from multiple loans made directly to the charter school or to the
school’s chartering authority from the Charter School Revolving Loan
Fund, as long as the total amount received from the fund over the lifetime
of the charter school does not exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000). This subdivision does not apply to a charter school that
obtains renewal of a charter pursuant to Section 47607.
   (c) The Superintendent of Public Instruction may consider all of the
following when making a determination as to the approval of a charter
school’s loan application:
   (1) Soundness of the financial business plans of the applicant charter
school.
 3176                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 429 ]
   (2) Availability to the charter school of other sources of funding.
   (3) Geographic distribution of loans made from the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund.
   (4) The impact that receipt of funds received pursuant to this section
will have on the charter school’s receipt of other private and public
financing.
   (5) Plans for creative uses of the funds received pursuant to this
section, such as loan guarantees or other types of credit enhancements.
   (6) The financial needs of the charter school.
   (d) Priority for loans from the Charter School Revolving Loan Fund
shall be given to new charter schools for startup costs.
   (e) Commencing with the first fiscal year following the fiscal year the
charter school receives the loan, the Controller shall deduct from
apportionments made to the chartering authority or charter school, as
appropriate, an amount equal to the annual repayment of the amount
loaned to the chartering authority or charter school for the charter school
under this section and pay the same amount into the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund in the State Treasury. Repayment of the full
amount loaned to the chartering authority shall be deducted by the
Controller in equal annual amounts over a number of years agreed upon
between the loan recipient and the State Department of Education, not
to exceed five years for any loan.
   (f) (1) Notwithstanding other provisions of law, a loan may be made
directly to a charter school pursuant to this section only in the case of a
charter school that is incorporated.
   (2) Notwithstanding other provisions of law, in the case of default of
a loan made directly to a charter school pursuant to this section, the
chartering authority shall, also, be liable for repayment of the loan.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 41365 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   41365. (a) The Charter School Revolving Loan Fund is hereby
created in the State Treasury. The Charter School Revolving Loan Fund
shall be comprised of federal funds obtained by the state for charter
schools and any other funds appropriated or transferred to the fund
through the annual budget process. Funds appropriated to the Charter
School Revolving Loan Fund shall remain available for the purposes of
the fund until reappropriated or reverted by the Legislature through the
annual Budget Act or any other act.
   (b) Loans may be made from moneys in the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund to a chartering authority for charter schools that
are not a conversion of an existing school, or directly to a charter school
that qualifies to receive funding pursuant to Chapter 6 (commencing
with Section 47630) that is not a conversion of an existing school, upon
application of a chartering authority or charter school and approval by
the Superintendent of Public Instruction. Money loaned to a chartering
[Ch. 429 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3177

authority for a charter school, or to a charter school, pursuant to this
section shall be used only to meet the purposes of the charter granted
pursuant to Section 47605. The loan to a chartering authority for a
charter school, or to a charter school, pursuant to this subdivision shall
not exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) over the
lifetime of the charter school. A charter school may receive money
obtained from multiple loans made directly to the charter school or to the
school’s chartering authority from the Charter School Revolving Loan
Fund, as long as the total amount received from the fund over the lifetime
of the charter school does not exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000). This subdivision does not apply to a charter school that
obtains renewal of a charter pursuant to Section 47607.
   (c) The Superintendent of Public Instruction may consider all of the
following when making a determination as to the approval of a charter
school’s loan application:
   (1) Soundness of the financial business plans of the applicant charter
school.
   (2) Availability to the charter school of other sources of funding.
   (3) Geographic distribution of loans made from the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund.
   (4) The impact that receipt of funds received pursuant to this section
will have on the charter school’s receipt of other private and public
financing.
   (5) Plans for creative uses of the funds received pursuant to this
section, such as loan guarantees or other types of credit enhancements.
   (6) The financial needs of the charter school.
   (d) Priority for loans from the Charter School Revolving Loan Fund
shall be given to new charter schools for startup costs.
   (e) Commencing with the first fiscal year following the fiscal year the
charter school receives the loan, the Controller shall deduct from
apportionments made to the chartering authority or charter school, as
appropriate, an amount equal to the annual repayment of the amount
loaned to the chartering authority or charter school for the charter school
under this section and pay the same amount into the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund in the State Treasury. Repayment of the full
amount loaned to the chartering authority shall be deducted by the
Controller in equal annual amounts over a number of years agreed upon
between the loan recipient and the State Department of Education, not
to exceed five years for any loan.
   (f) (1) Notwithstanding other provisions of law, a loan may be made
directly to a charter school pursuant to this section only in the case of a
charter school that is incorporated.
 3178                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 430 ]
   (2) Notwithstanding other provisions of law, in the case of default of
a loan made directly to a charter school pursuant to this section, the
charter school shall be solely liable for repayment of the loan.
   SEC. 2. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
41365 of the Education Code proposed by both this bill and SB 1759.
It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become
effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section
41365 of the Education Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 1759,
in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to allow charter schools to begin using loans from the Charter
School Revolving Loan Fund beyond the first year in which the charter
schools first enroll pupils and to thereby continue educating pupils
enrolled in those schools, it is necessary that this act take effect
immediately.



                            CHAPTER 430

  An act to amend Section 538d of the Penal Code, relating to peace
officers.
            [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 538d of the Penal Code is amended to read:
  538d. (a) Any person other than one who by law is given the
authority of a peace officer, who willfully wears, exhibits, or uses the
authorized uniform, insignia, emblem, device, label, certificate, card, or
writing, of a peace officer, with the intent of fraudulently impersonating
a peace officer, or of fraudulently inducing the belief that he or she is a
peace officer, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
  (b) (1) Any person, other than the one who by law is given the
authority of a peace officer, who willfully wears, exhibits, or uses the
badge of a peace officer with the intent of fraudulently impersonating a
peace officer, or of fraudulently inducing the belief that he or she is a
peace officer, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment
in a county jail not to exceed one year, by a fine not to exceed two
thousand dollars ($2,000), or by both that imprisonment and fine.
[Ch. 431 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3179

   (2) Any person who willfully wears or uses any badge that falsely
purports to be authorized for the use of one who by law is given the
authority of a peace officer, or which so resembles the authorized badge
of a peace officer as would deceive any ordinary reasonable person into
believing that it is authorized for the use of one who by law is given the
authority of a peace officer, for the purpose of fraudulently
impersonating a peace officer, or of fraudulently inducing the belief that
he or she is a peace officer, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by
imprisonment in a county jail not to exceed one year, by a fine not to
exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000), or by both that imprisonment and
fine.
   (c) Any person who willfully wears, exhibits, or uses, or who
willfully makes, sells, loans, gives, or transfers to another, any badge,
insignia, emblem, device, or any label, certificate, card, or writing,
which falsely purports to be authorized for the use of one who by law is
given the authority of a peace officer, or which so resembles the
authorized badge, insignia, emblem, device, label, certificate, card, or
writing of a peace officer as would deceive an ordinary reasonable
person into believing that it is authorized for the use of one who by law
is given the authority of a peace officer, is guilty of a misdemeanor,
except that any person who makes or sells any badge under the
circumstances described in this subdivision is subject to a fine not to
exceed fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000).
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 431

   An act to amend Section 51256.2 of the Government Code, relating
to land use.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]
 3180                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 432 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 51256.2 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   51256.2. (a) One or more cities or counties may adopt a plan for
implementing the provisions of Section 51256 with respect to multiple
transactions within one or more specific areas, and submit the plan to the
director for his or her approval. The plan may be approved only upon a
determination by the director that it is consistent with the provisions of
Section 51256. Thereafter individual transactions shall be approved if
they are consistent with the approved plan.
   (b) Notwithstanding Section 51256, this section shall apply only to
lands under contract located in the Counties of San Bernardino and
Riverside, within the area bounded by Interstate 10 on the north, State
Route 71 on the west, State Route 91 on the south, and a line two miles
east of Interstate 15 on the east, and to easements within that area or
within 10 miles of its exterior boundaries and within either Riverside
County or San Bernardino County. For the purpose of this section,
easements located within the described area may be related to contract
rescissions in either county.
   (c) The Legislature finds and declares that, because of the unique
factors applicable only to the Chino Basin, a statute of general
applicability cannot be enacted within the meaning of subdivision (b) of
Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution. Those unique
circumstances are that the Chino agricultural preserve is undergoing
transition from agricultural to nonagricultural uses and the affected areas
comprise more than a single jurisdiction. Therefore, a
multijurisdictional approach is necessary.
   SEC. 2. This act shall become operative only if AB 1944 is enacted
and becomes effective on or before January 1, 2001.



                            CHAPTER 432

  An act to add Section 60605.1 to the Education Code, relating to pupil
instruction.
            [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
[Ch. 432 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3181

   (a) Evidence is growing that arts are critically important to education
and learning. According to the College Entrance Examination Board,
students of the arts outperform nonarts educated peers on measures of
academic ability. In 1995, the Scholastic Assessment Text scores of
students who studied the arts for more than four years were 59 points
higher on the verbal test and 44 points higher on the math test than the
scores of students with no education in the arts.
   (b) It has been shown that strong cognitive links exist between the arts
and science. Such cognitive reasoning includes the ability to explore
new concepts and associations, to understand abstract ideas, to build
models and recognize patterns. Further arts education also contributes
to student learning and achievement by enhancing motivation,
self-discipline, and understanding of others, appreciation of diversity, a
positive school climate, and preparation for the world of work.
   (c) Jobs and careers that involve artistic expression are becoming
increasingly important. According to the office of the Governor, the
entertainment industry alone contributes more than twenty-five billion
dollars ($25,000,000,000) to the state’s economy and generates more
than six hundred million dollars ($600,000,000) in state tax revenues.
   (d) For these reasons and others, it is important that visual and
performing arts instruction be available for all students in order to
increase cognitive reasoning and improve student performance.
   (e) The visual and performing arts are a required component of
instruction for pupils in grades 1 to 6, inclusive. To graduate from high
school, pupils must complete a year of a visual or performing arts
instruction.
   (f) As school districts implement or strengthen instructional
programs in visual or performing arts, it is important that content
standards be developed to ensure that schools will provide instruction
that contains rigorous content to expand and improve pupil learning.
   SEC. 2. Section 60605.1 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   60605.1. (a) No later than June 1, 2001, the State Board of
Education shall adopt content standards, pursuant to recommendations
developed by the Superintendent of Public Instruction, in the curriculum
area of visual and performing arts.
   (b) The content standards are intended to provide a framework for
programs that a school may offer in the instruction of visual or
performing arts. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a
school to follow the content standards.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed as mandating an
assessment of pupils in visual or performing arts.
 3182                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 433 ]
                             CHAPTER 433

  An act to amend Section 18691 of the Health and Safety Code, relating
to mobilehome parks.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 13, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 18691 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   18691. (a) The department shall adopt rules and regulations that it
determines are reasonably consistent with generally recognized fire
protection standards, governing conditions relating to the prevention of
fire or for the protection of life and property against fire in parks. The
department shall adopt and submit building standards for approval
pursuant to Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 18935) of Part 2.5 for
the purposes described in this section within permanent buildings. The
department, in consultation with local firefighting agencies, shall adopt
and implement no later than January 1, 2002, regulations that require
regular maintenance and periodic inspection and testing of fire hydrants
in mobilehome parks.
   (b) The regulations adopted by the department shall be applicable in
all parks, except in a park within a city, county, or city and county that
is the enforcement agency and has adopted and is enforcing a fire
prevention code imposing restrictions equal to or greater than the
restrictions imposed by those building standards published in the
California Building Standards Code and the other state regulations
adopted by the department.
   (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the rules and
regulations adopted by the department relating to the installation of
water supply and fire hydrant systems shall not apply within parks
constructed, or approved for construction, prior to January 1, 1966.
   (d) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a city, county, city
and county, or special district that is not the enforcement agency under
this part may enforce its fire prevention code in mobilehome parks
relating to fire hydrant systems, water supply, fire equipment access,
posting of fire equipment access, parking, lot identification, weed
abatement, debris abatement, combustible storage abatement, and
burglar bars. Before assuming fire code enforcement in accordance with
this subdivision, a city, county, city and county, or special district shall
give the department a 30-day written notice. A city, county, city and
county, or special district that enforces its fire prevention code pursuant
to this subdivision shall apply its code provisions to conditions that arise
[Ch. 434 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3183

after adoption of its fire prevention code, to conditions not legally in
existence at the adoption of its fire prevention code, or to conditions that,
in the opinion of the fire chief, constitute a distinct hazard to life or
property.



                             CHAPTER 434

   An act to amend Sections 1569.15, 1569.33, and 1569.616 of, and to
add Sections 1569.626 and 1569.627 to, the Health and Safety Code,
relating to Alzheimer’s disease.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. This act shall be known and may be cited as the
Alzheimer’s Training Act of 2000.
   SEC. 2. Section 1569.15 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1569.15. Any person desiring issuance of a license for a residential
care facility for the elderly under this chapter shall file with the
department, pursuant to regulations, an application on forms furnished
by the department, which shall include, but not be limited to:
   (a) Evidence satisfactory to the department of the ability of the
applicant to comply with this chapter and of rules and regulations
adopted under this chapter by the department.
   (b) Evidence satisfactory to the department that the applicant is of
reputable and responsible character. The evidence shall include, but not
be limited to, a criminal record clearance pursuant to Section 1569.17,
employment history, and character references. If the applicant is a firm,
association, organization, partnership, business trust, corporation, or
company, like evidence shall be submitted as to the members or
shareholders thereof, and the person in charge of the residential care
facility for the elderly which application for issuance of license or special
permit is made.
   (c) Evidence satisfactory to the department that the applicant has
sufficient financial resources to maintain the standards of service
required by regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   (d) Disclosure of the applicant’s prior or present service as an
administrator, general partner, corporate officer or director of, or as a
person who has held or holds a beneficial ownership of 10 percent or
more in, any residential care facility for the elderly or in any facility
 3184                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 434 ]
licensed pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1200),
Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1250), or Chapter 3 (commencing
with Section 1500).
   (e) Disclosure of any revocation or other disciplinary action taken, or
in the process of being taken, against a license held or previously held
by the entities specified in subdivision (c).
   (f) Any other information as may be required by the department for
the proper administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (g) Failure of the applicant to cooperate with the licensing agency in
the completion of the application shall result in the denial of the
application. Failure to cooperate means that the information described
in this section and in regulations of the department has not been
provided, or not provided in the form requested by the licensing agency,
or both.
   (h) Following the implementation of Article 7 (commencing with
Section 1569.70) evidence satisfactory to the department of the
applicant’s ability to meet regulatory requirements for the level of care
the facility intends to provide.
   (i) Evidence satisfactory to the department of adequate knowledge of
supportive services and other community supports which may be
necessary to meet the needs of elderly residents.
   (j) A signed statement that the person desiring issuance of a license
has read and understood the residential care facility for the elderly statute
and regulations.
   (k) Designation by the applicant of the individual who shall be the
administrator of the facility, including, if the applicant is an individual,
whether or not the licensee shall also be the administrator.
   (l) Evidence of successfully completing a certified prelicensure
education program pursuant to Section 1569.23.
   (m) For any facility that promotes or advertises or plans to promote
or advertise special care, special programming, or special environments
for persons with dementia, disclosure to the department of the special
features of the facility in its plan of operation.
   SEC. 3. Section 1569.33 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1569.33. (a) Every licensed residential care facility for the elderly
shall be periodically inspected and evaluated for quality of care by a
representative or representatives designated by the director. Evaluations
shall be conducted at least once per year and as often as necessary to
ensure the quality of care being provided.
   (b) The department shall notify the residential care facility for the
elderly in writing of all deficiencies in its compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this
[Ch. 434 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3185

chapter, and shall set a reasonable length of time for compliance by the
facility.
   (c) Reports on the results of each inspection, evaluation, or
consultation shall be kept on file in the department, and all inspection
reports, consultation reports, lists of deficiencies, and plans of correction
shall be open to public inspection in the county in which the facility is
located.
   (d) On and after July 1, 2001, as a part of the department’s annual
evaluation process, the department shall review the plan of operation,
training logs, and marketing materials of any residential care facility for
the elderly that advertises or promotes special care, special
programming, or a special environment for persons with dementia to
monitor compliance with Sections 1569.626 and 1569.627.
   SEC. 4. Section 1569.616 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1569.616. (a) (1) An administrator of a residential care facility for
the elderly shall be required to successfully complete a department
approved certification program prior to employment.
   (2) In those cases where the individual is both the licensee and the
administrator of a facility, or a licensed nursing home administrator, the
individual shall comply with the requirements of this section unless he
or she qualifies for one of the exemptions provided for in subdivision (b).
   (3) Failure to comply with this section shall constitute cause for
revocation of the license of the facility where an individual is
functioning as the administrator. The licensee shall notify the
department within 30 days of any change in administrators.
   (b) Individuals seeking exemptions under paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) shall meet the following criteria and fulfill the required
portions of the certification program, as the case may be:
   (1) An individual designated as the administrator of a residential care
facility for the elderly who holds a valid license as a nursing home
administrator issued in accordance with Chapter 8.5 (commencing with
Section 3901) of Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code shall
be required to complete the areas in the uniform core of knowledge
required by this section that pertain to the law, regulations, policies, and
procedural standards that impact the operations of residential care
facilities for the elderly, the use, misuse, and interaction of medication
commonly used by the elderly in a residential setting, and resident
admission, retention, and assessment procedures, equal to 12 hours of
classroom instruction. An individual meeting the requirements of this
paragraph shall not be required to take a written test.
   (2) In those cases where the individual was both the licensee and
administrator on or before July 1, 1991, the individual shall be required
to complete all the areas specified for the certification program but shall
 3186                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 434 ]
not be required to take the written test required by this section. Those
individuals exempted from the written test shall be issued a conditional
certification that is valid only for the administrator of the facility for
which the exemption was granted.
  (A) As a condition to becoming an administrator of another facility
the individual shall be required to pass the written test provided for in
this section.
  (B) As a condition to applying for a new facility license, the
individual shall be required to pass the written test provided for in
Section 1569.23.
  (c) (1) The administrator certification program shall require a
minimum of 40 hours of classroom instruction that provides training on
a uniform core of knowledge in each of the following areas:
  (A) Laws, regulations, and policies and procedural standards that
impact the operations of residential care facilities for the elderly.
  (B) Business operations.
  (C) Management and supervision of staff.
  (D) Psychosocial needs of the elderly.
  (E) Community and support services.
  (F) Physical needs for elderly persons.
  (G) Use, misuse, and interaction of medication commonly used by
the elderly.
  (H) Resident admission, retention, and assessment procedures.
  (I) Training focused specifically on serving clients with dementia.
This training shall be for at least four hours.
  (2) Individuals applying for certification under this section shall
successfully complete an approved certification program, pass a written
test administered by the department within 60 days of completing the
program, and submit the documentation required by subdivision (d) to
the department within 30 days of being notified of having passed the test.
The department may extend these time deadlines for good cause. The
department shall notify the applicant of his or her test results within 30
days of administering the test.
  (d) The department shall not begin the process of issuing a certificate
until receipt of all of the following:
  (1) A certificate of completion of the administrator training required
pursuant to this chapter.
  (2) The fee required for issuance of the certificate. A fee of one
hundred dollars ($100) shall be charged by the department to cover the
costs of processing the application for certification.
  (3) Documentation of passing the written test or of qualifying for an
exemption pursuant to subdivision (b).
  (4) Submission of fingerprints. The department and the Department
of Justice shall expedite the criminal record clearance for holders of
[Ch. 434 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3187

certificates of completion. The department may waive the submission
for those persons who have a current clearance on file.
   (e) It shall be unlawful for any person not certified under this section
to hold himself or herself out as a certified administrator of a residential
care facility for the elderly. Any person willfully making any false
representation as being a certified administrator is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (f) (1) Certificates issued under this section shall be renewed every
two years and renewal shall be conditional upon the certificate holder
submitting documentation of completion of 40 hours of continuing
education related to the core of knowledge specified in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (c). For purposes of this section, individuals who hold a
valid license as a nursing home administrator issued in accordance with
Chapter 8.5 (commencing with Section 3901) of Division 2 of the
Business and Professions Code and meet the requirements of paragraph
(1) of subdivision (b) shall only be required to complete 20 hours of
continuing education.
   (2) Every certified administrator of a residential care facility for the
elderly is required to renew his or her certificate and shall complete the
continuing education requirements of this subdivision whether he or she
is certified according to subdivision (a) or (b). On and after January 1,
2002, at least eight hours of the 40-hour continuing education
requirement for a certified administrator of a residential care facility for
the elderly shall include instruction on serving clients with dementia,
including, but not limited to, instruction related to direct care, physical
environment, and admissions procedures and assessment.
   (3) Certificates issued under this section shall expire every two years,
on the anniversary date of the initial issuance of the certificate, except
that any administrator receiving his or her initial certification on or after
January 1, 1999, shall make an irrevocable election to have his or her
recertification date for any subsequent recertification either on the date
two years from the date of issuance of the certificate or on the
individual’s birthday during the second calendar year following
certification. The department shall send a renewal notice to the
certificate holder 90 days prior to the expiration date of the certificate.
If the certificate is not renewed prior to its expiration date, reinstatement
shall only be permitted after the certificate holder has paid a delinquency
fee equal to three times the renewal fee and has provided evidence of
completion of the continuing education required.
   (4) To renew a certificate, the certificate holder shall, on or before the
certificate expiration date, request renewal by submitting to the
department documentation of completion of the required continuing
education courses and pay the renewal fee of one hundred dollars ($100),
irrespective of receipt of the department’s notification of the renewal. A
 3188                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 434 ]
renewal request postmarked on or before the expiration of the certificate
is proof of compliance with this paragraph.
   (5) A suspended or revoked certificate is subject to expiration as
provided for in this section. If reinstatement of the certificate is approved
by the department, the certificate holder, as a condition precedent to
reinstatement, shall pay a fee in an amount equal to the renewal fee, plus
the delinquency fee, if any, accrued at the time of its revocation or
suspension.
   (6) A certificate that is not renewed within four years after its
expiration shall not be renewed, restored, reissued, or reinstated except
upon completion of a certification program, passing any test that may be
required of an applicant for a new certificate at that time, and paying the
appropriate fees provided for in this section.
   (7) A fee of twenty-five dollars ($25) shall be charged for the
reissuance of a lost certificate.
   (8) A certificate holder shall inform the department of his or her
employment status within 30 days of any change.
   (g) The department may revoke a certificate issued under this section
for any of the following:
   (1) Procuring a certificate by fraud or misrepresentation.
   (2) Knowingly making or giving any false statement or information
in conjunction with the application for issuance of a certificate.
   (3) Criminal conviction unless an exemption is granted pursuant to
Section 1569.17.
   (h) The certificate shall be considered forfeited under the following
conditions:
   (1) The administrator has had a license revoked, suspended, or denied
as authorized under Section 1569.50.
   (2) The administrator has been denied employment, residence, or
presence in a facility based on action resulting from an administrative
hearing pursuant to Section 1569.58.
   (i) (1) The department shall establish, by regulation, the program
content, the testing instrument, the process for approving certification
programs, and criteria to be used in authorizing individuals,
organizations, or educational institutions to conduct certification
programs and continuing education courses. These regulations shall be
developed in consultation with provider and consumer organizations,
and shall be made available at least six months prior to the deadline
required for certification. The department may deny vendor approval to
any agency or person that has not provided satisfactory evidence of their
ability to meet the requirements of vendorization set out in the
regulations adopted pursuant to subdivision (j).
   (2) The department may authorize vendors to conduct the
administrator certification training program pursuant to provisions set
[Ch. 434 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3189

forth in this section. The department shall conduct the written test
pursuant to regulations adopted by the department.
   (3) The department shall prepare and maintain an updated list of
approved training vendors.
   (4) The department may inspect training programs and continuing
education courses to determine if content and teaching methods comply
with regulations. If the department determines that any vendor is not
complying with the intent of this section, the department shall take
appropriate action to bring the program into compliance, which may
include removing the vendor from the approved list.
   (5) The department shall establish reasonable procedures and
timeframes not to exceed 30 days for the approval of vendor training
programs.
   (6) The department may charge a reasonable fee, not to exceed one
hundred fifty dollars ($150) every two years to certification program
vendors for review and approval of the initial 40-hour training program
pursuant to subdivision (c). The department may also charge the vendor
a fee not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100) every two years for the
review and approval of the continuing education courses needed for
recertification pursuant to this subdivision.
   (j) This section shall be operative upon regulations being adopted by
the department to implement the administrator certification program as
provided for in this section.
   (k) The department shall establish a registry for holders of certificates
that shall include, at a minimum, information on employment status and
criminal record clearance.
   SEC. 4.5. Section 1569.616 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   1569.616. (a) (1) An administrator of a residential care facility for
the elderly shall be required to successfully complete a department
approved certification program prior to employment.
   (2) In those cases where the individual is both the licensee and the
administrator of a facility, or a licensed nursing home administrator, the
individual shall comply with the requirements of this section unless he
or she qualifies for one of the exemptions provided for in subdivision (b).
   (3) Failure to comply with this section shall constitute cause for
revocation of the license of the facility where an individual is
functioning as the administrator. The licensee shall notify the
department within 30 days of any change in administrators.
   (b) Individuals seeking exemptions under paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) shall meet the following criteria and fulfill the required
portions of the certification program, as the case may be:
   (1) An individual designated as the administrator of a residential care
facility for the elderly who holds a valid license as a nursing home
 3190                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 434 ]
administrator issued in accordance with Chapter 8.5 (commencing with
Section 3901) of Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code shall
be required to complete the areas in the uniform core of knowledge
required by this section that pertain to the law, regulations, policies, and
procedural standards that impact the operations of residential care
facilities for the elderly, the use, misuse, and interaction of medication
commonly used by the elderly in a residential setting, and resident
admission, retention, and assessment procedures, equal to 12 hours of
classroom instruction. An individual meeting the requirements of this
paragraph shall not be required to take a written test.
   (2) In those cases where the individual was both the licensee and
administrator on or before July 1, 1991, the individual shall be required
to complete all the areas specified for the certification program but shall
not be required to take the written test required by this section. Those
individuals exempted from the written test shall be issued a conditional
certification that is valid only for the administrator of the facility for
which the exemption was granted.
   (A) As a condition to becoming an administrator of another facility
the individual shall be required to pass the written test provided for in
this section.
   (B) As a condition to applying for a new facility license, the
individual shall be required to pass the written test provided for in
Section 1569.23.
   (c) (1) The administrator certification program shall require a
minimum of 40 hours of classroom instruction that provides training on
a uniform core of knowledge in each of the following areas:
   (A) Laws, regulations, and policies and procedural standards that
impact the operations of residential care facilities for the elderly.
   (B) Business operations.
   (C) Management and supervision of staff.
   (D) Psychosocial needs of the elderly.
   (E) Community and support services.
   (F) Physical needs for elderly persons.
   (G) Use, misuse, and interaction of medication commonly used by
the elderly.
   (H) Resident admission, retention, and assessment procedures.
   (I) Training focused specifically on serving clients with dementia.
This training shall be for at least four hours.
   (2) Individuals applying for certification under this section shall
successfully complete an approved certification program, pass a written
test administered by the department within 60 days of completing the
program, and submit the documentation required by subdivision (d) to
the department within 30 days of being notified of having passed the test.
The department may extend these time deadlines for good cause. The
[Ch. 434 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3191

department shall notify the applicant of his or her test results within 30
days of administering the test.
   (d) The department shall not begin the process of issuing a certificate
until receipt of all of the following:
   (1) A certificate of completion of the administrator training required
pursuant to this chapter.
   (2) The fee required for issuance of the certificate. The department
shall fix the amount of the fee so that the proceeds of the fees collected
are sufficient to cover the department’s regulatory enforcement costs,
but in no event shall the fee exceed one hundred dollars ($100) .
   (3) Documentation of passing the written test or of qualifying for an
exemption pursuant to subdivision (b).
   (4) Submission of fingerprints. The department and the Department
of Justice shall expedite the criminal record clearance for holders of
certificates of completion. The department may waive the submission
for those persons who have a current clearance on file.
   (e) It shall be unlawful for any person not certified under this section
to hold himself or herself out as a certified administrator of a residential
care facility for the elderly. Any person willfully making any false
representation as being a certified administrator is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (f) (1) Certificates issued under this section shall be renewed every
two years and renewal shall be conditional upon the certificate holder
submitting documentation of completion of 40 hours of continuing
education related to the core of knowledge specified in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (c). For purposes of this section, individuals who hold a
valid license as a nursing home administrator issued in accordance with
Chapter 8.5 (commencing with Section 3901) of Division 2 of the
Business and Professions Code and meet the requirements of paragraph
(1) of subdivision (b) shall only be required to complete 20 hours of
continuing education.
   (2) Every certified administrator of a residential care facility for the
elderly is required to renew his or her certificate and shall complete the
continuing education requirements of this subdivision whether he or she
is certified according to subdivision (a) or (b). On and after January 1,
2002, at least eight hours of the 40-hour continuing education
requirement for a certified administrator of a residential care facility for
the elderly shall include instruction on serving clients with dementia,
including, but not limited to, instruction related to direct care, physical
environment, and admissions procedures and assessment.
   (3) Certificates issued under this section shall expire every two years,
on the anniversary date of the initial issuance of the certificate, except
that any administrator receiving his or her initial certification on or after
January 1, 1999, shall make an irrevocable election to have his or her
 3192                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 434 ]
recertification date for any subsequent recertification either on the date
two years from the date of issuance of the certificate or on the
individual’s birthday during the second calendar year following
certification. The department shall send a renewal notice to the
certificate holder 90 days prior to the expiration date of the certificate.
If the certificate is not renewed prior to its expiration date, reinstatement
shall only be permitted after the certificate holder has paid a delinquency
fee equal to three times the renewal fee and has provided evidence of
completion of the continuing education required.
   (4) To renew a certificate, the certificate holder shall, on or before the
certificate expiration date, do both of the following:
   (A) Request renewal by submitting to the department documentation
of completion of the required continuing education courses , irrespective
of receipt of the department’s notification of the renewal. A renewal
request postmarked on or before the expiration of the certificate is proof
of compliance with this subparagraph.
   (B) Pay a renewal fee in the amount determined pursuant to paragraph
(2) of subdivision (d).
   (5) A suspended or revoked certificate is subject to expiration as
provided for in this section. If reinstatement of the certificate is approved
by the department, the certificate holder, as a condition precedent to
reinstatement, shall pay a fee in an amount equal to the renewal fee, plus
the delinquency fee, if any, accrued at the time of its revocation or
suspension.
   (6) A certificate that is not renewed within four years after its
expiration shall not be renewed, restored, reissued, or reinstated except
upon completion of a certification program, passing any test that may be
required of an applicant for a new certificate at that time, and paying the
appropriate fees provided for in this section.
   (7) A fee of twenty-five dollars ($25) shall be charged for the
reissuance of a lost certificate.
   (8) A certificate holder shall inform the department of his or her
employment status within 30 days of any change.
   (g) The department may revoke a certificate issued under this section
for any of the following:
   (1) Procuring a certificate by fraud or misrepresentation.
   (2) Knowingly making or giving any false statement or information
in conjunction with the application for issuance of a certificate.
   (3) Criminal conviction unless an exemption is granted pursuant to
Section 1569.17.
   (h) The certificate shall be considered forfeited under the following
conditions:
   (1) The administrator has had a license revoked, suspended, or denied
as authorized under Section 1569.50.
[Ch. 434 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3193

   (2) The administrator has been denied employment, residence, or
presence in a facility based on action resulting from an administrative
hearing pursuant to Section 1569.58.
   (i) (1) The department shall establish, by regulation, the program
content, the testing instrument, the process for approving certification
programs, and criteria to be used in authorizing individuals,
organizations, or educational institutions to conduct certification
programs and continuing education courses. These regulations shall be
developed in consultation with provider and consumer organizations,
and shall be made available at least six months prior to the deadline
required for certification. The department may deny vendor approval to
any agency or person that has not provided satisfactory evidence of their
ability to meet the requirements of vendorization set out in the
regulations adopted pursuant to subdivision (j).
   (2) The department may authorize vendors to conduct the
administrator certification training program pursuant to provisions set
forth in this section. The department shall conduct the written test
pursuant to regulations adopted by the department.
   (3) The department shall prepare and maintain an updated list of
approved training vendors.
   (4) The department may inspect training programs and continuing
education courses to determine if content and teaching methods comply
with regulations. If the department determines that any vendor is not
complying with the intent of this section, the department shall take
appropriate action to bring the program into compliance, which may
include removing the vendor from the approved list.
   (5) The department shall establish reasonable procedures and
timeframes not to exceed 30 days for the approval of vendor training
programs.
   (6) The department may charge a reasonable fee, not to exceed one
hundred fifty dollars ($150) every two years to certification program
vendors for review and approval of the initial 40-hour training program
pursuant to subdivision (c). The department may also charge the vendor
a fee not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100) every two years for the
review and approval of the continuing education courses needed for
recertification pursuant to this subdivision.
   (j) This section shall be operative upon regulations being adopted by
the department to implement the administrator certification program as
provided for in this section.
   (k) The department shall establish a registry for holders of certificates
that shall include, at a minimum, information on employment status and
criminal record clearance.
   SEC. 5. Section 1569.626 is added to the Health and Safety Code,
to read:
 3194                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 434 ]
   1569.626. All residential care facilities for the elderly that advertise
or promote special care, special programming, or a special environment
for persons with dementia, in addition to complying with the training
requirements described in Section 1569.625, shall meet the following
training requirements for all direct care staff:
   (a) Six hours of resident care orientation within the first four weeks
of employment. All six hours shall be devoted to the care of persons with
dementia. The facility may utilize various methods of instruction
including, but not limited to, preceptorship, mentoring, and other forms
of observation and demonstration. The orientation time shall be
exclusive of any administrative instruction.
   (b) Eight hours of in-service training per year on the subject of
serving residents with dementia. This training shall be developed in
consultation with individuals or organizations with specific expertise in
dementia care or by an outside source with expertise in dementia care.
In formulating and providing this training, reference may be made to
written materials and literature on dementia and the care and treatment
of persons with dementia. This training requirement may be satisfied in
one day or over a period of time. This training requirement may be
provided at the facility or offsite and may include a combination of
observation and practical application.
   SEC. 6. Section 1569.627 is added to the Health and Safety Code,
to read:
   1569.627. Any residential care facility for the elderly that advertises
or promotes special care, special programming, or a special environment
for persons with dementia shall disclose to the department the special
features of the facility in its plan of operation. This information shall be
provided to the public by the facility upon request. The information shall
include a brief narrative description of all of the following facility
features:
   (a) Philosophy, including, but not limited to, program goals.
   (b) Preadmission assessment.
   (c) Admission.
   (d) Assessment.
   (e) Program.
   (f) Staff.
   (g) Staff training.
   (h) Physical environment.
   (i) Changes in condition, including, but not limited to, when and
under what circumstances are changes made to a participant’s care plan.
   (j) Success indicators.
   SEC. 7. Section 4.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
1569.616 of the Health & Safety Code proposed by both this bill and AB
1445. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
[Ch. 435 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3195

become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 1569.616 of the Health & Safety Code, and (3) this bill is enacted
after AB 1445, in which case Section 4 of this bill shall not become
operative.
   SEC. 8. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 435

   An act to amend Section 14015 of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
relating to health.
             [Approved by Governor September 12, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14015 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   14015. (a) The providing of health care under this chapter shall not
impose any limitation or restriction upon the person’s right to sell,
exchange or change the form of property holdings nor shall the care
provided constitute any encumbrance on the holdings. However, the
transfer or gift of assets, including income and resources, for less than
fair market value shall, to the extent and under the circumstances set
forth in Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1396
et seq.) result in a period of ineligibility for aid.
   (b) Pursuant to Section 1917 (c)(2)(C)(ii) of the federal Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1396p(c)(2)(C)(ii)), a satisfactory showing
that assets transferred exclusively for a purpose other than to qualify for
medical assistance shall not result in ineligibility for Medi-Cal and shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
   (1) The property that would have been considered exempt for
purposes of establishing eligibility pursuant to federal or state laws at the
time of transfer.
 3196                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 436 ]
   (2) Property with a net market value that, when the property is
transferred, if included in the property reserve, would not result in
ineligibility.
   (3) Property for which adequate consideration is received.
   (4) Property upon which foreclosure or repossession was imminent
at the time of transfer, provided there is no evidence of collusion.
   (5) Assets transferred in return for an enforceable contract for life care
that does not include complete medical care.
   (6) Assets transferred without adequate consideration, provided that
the applicant or beneficiary provides convincing evidence to overcome
the presumption that the transfer was for the purpose of establishing
eligibility or reducing the share of cost.
   (c) In administering this section, it shall be presumed that property
transferred by the applicant or beneficiary prior to the look back period
established by the department preceding the date of initial application
was not transferred to establish eligibility or reduce the share of cost.
This property shall not be considered in determining eligibility.
   (d) Any item of durable medical equipment which is purchased for a
recipient pursuant to this chapter exclusively with Medi-Cal program
funds shall be returned to the department when the department
determines that the item is no longer medically necessary for the
recipient. Items of durable medical equipment shall include, but are not
limited to, wheelchairs and special hospital beds.
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 436

  An act to amend, repeal, and add Section 18824 of the Business and
Professions Code, relating to athletic events, making an appropriation
therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]
[Ch. 436 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3197

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 18824 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   18824. (a) Except as provided in Sections 18646 and 18832, every
person who conducts a contest or wrestling exhibition shall, within 72
hours after the determination of every contest or wrestling exhibition for
which admission is charged and received, furnish to the commission a
written report executed under penalty of perjury by one of the officers,
showing the number of tickets issued or sold for the contest or wrestling
exhibition, the amount of the gross receipts or value thereof, and the
gross price charged directly or indirectly and no matter by whom
received, for the sale, lease, or other exploitation of broadcasting and
television rights of the contest or wrestling exhibition, and without any
deductions, except for expenses incurred for one broadcast announcer,
telephone line connection, and transmission mobile equipment facility,
which may be deducted from the gross taxable base when those expenses
are approved by the commission. The person shall also, within the same
time, pay to the commission a fee of 5 percent, exclusive of any federal
taxes paid thereon, of the amount paid for admission to the contest or
wrestling exhibition, except that for any one boxing contest, the fee shall
not exceed the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), and
a fee of up to 5 percent of the gross price as described above for the sale,
lease, or other exploitation of broadcasting or television rights thereof,
except that in no case shall the fee be less than one thousand dollars
($1,000). The minimum fee for an amateur contest or exhibition shall not
be less than five hundred dollars ($500). The amount of the gross receipts
upon which the fee provided for in this section is calculated shall not
include any assessments levied by the commission under Section 18711.
   The fee on admission shall apply to the amount actually paid for
admission and not to the regular established price.
   No fee is due in the case of a person admitted free of charge. However,
if the total number of persons admitted free of charge to a boxing,
kickboxing, or martial arts contest or wrestling exhibition exceeds 25
percent of the total number of spectators, then a fee of one dollar ($1) per
complimentary ticket or pass used to gain admission to the contest shall
be paid to the commission for each complimentary ticket or pass that
exceeds the numerical total of 25 percent of the total number of
spectators.
   (b) If the fee on admissions for any one boxing contest exceeds
seventy thousand dollars ($70,000), the amount in excess of seventy
thousand dollars ($70,000) shall be paid one-half to the commission and
one-half to the Boxers’ Pension Account.
 3198                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 436 ]
   (c) As used in this section, ‘‘person’’ includes a promoter, club,
individual, corporation, partnership, association or other organization,
and ‘‘wrestling exhibition’’ means a performance of wrestling skills and
techniques by two or more individuals, to which admission is charged
or which is broadcast or televised, in which the participating individuals
are not required to use their best efforts in order to win, and for which
the winner may have been selected before the performance commences.
   (d) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2006, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Section 18824 is added to the Business and Professions
Code, to read:
   18824. (a) Except as provided in Sections 18646 and 18832, every
person who conducts a contest or wrestling exhibition shall, within 72
hours after the determination of every contest or wrestling exhibition for
which admission is charged and received, furnish to the commission a
written report executed under penalty of perjury by one of the officers,
showing the number of tickets issued or sold for the contest or wrestling
exhibition, the amount of the gross receipts or value thereof, and the
gross price charged directly or indirectly and no matter by whom
received, for the sale, lease, or other exploitation of broadcasting and
television rights of the contest or wrestling exhibition, and without any
deductions, except for expenses incurred for one broadcast announcer,
telephone line connection, and transmission mobile equipment facility,
which may be deducted from the gross taxable base when those expenses
are approved by the commission. The person shall also, within the same
time pay to the commission a 5 percent fee, exclusive of any federal taxes
paid thereon, of the amount paid for admission to the contest or wrestling
exhibition, and up to 5 percent of the gross price as described above for
the sale, lease, or other exploitation of broadcasting or television rights
thereof, except that in no case shall the fee be less than one thousand
dollars ($1,000).
   (b) The minimum fee for an amateur contest or exhibition shall not
be less than five hundred dollars ($500). The amount of the gross receipts
upon which the fee provided for in this section is calculated shall not
include any assessments levied by the commission under Section 18711.
   The fee on admission shall apply to the amount actually paid for
admission and not to the regular established price.
   No fee is due in the case of a person admitted free of charge; provided,
however, if the total number of persons admitted free of charge to a
boxing, kickboxing, or martial arts contest or wrestling exhibition
exceeds 25 percent of the total number of spectators, then a fee of one
dollar ($1) per complimentary ticket or pass used to gain admission to
the contest shall be paid to the commission for each complimentary
[Ch. 437 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3199

ticket or pass that exceeds the numerical total of 25 percent of the total
number of spectators.
   (c) As used in this section, ‘‘person’’ includes a promoter, club,
individual, corporation, partnership, association or other organization,
and ‘‘wrestling exhibition’’ means a performance of wrestling skills and
techniques by two or more individuals, to which admission is charged
or which is broadcast or televised, in which the participating individuals
are not required to use their best efforts in order to win, and for which
the winner may have been selected before the performance commences.
   (d) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2006.
   SEC. 3. The State Athletic Commission shall, by December 31,
2004, submit a report to the Legislature on the impact and effect of this
act. The report shall include, at a minimum, an assessment of the act’s
impact on the following:
   (a) The net changes in enhancing the ethical competition of the sport
of boxing.
   (b) The net increase in revenues collected by the commission.
   (c) The net increase in revenues deposited into the Boxers’ Pension
Account.



                             CHAPTER 437

   An act to amend Sections 17003, 17200.8, and 17409.1 of, and to add
Sections 17005.2, 17005.3, and 17403.5 to, the Financial Code, relating
to Internet escrow transactions.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 17003 of the Financial Code is amended to
read:
  17003. (a) ‘‘Escrow’’ means any transaction in which one person,
for the purpose of effecting the sale, transfer, encumbering, or leasing of
real or personal property to another person, delivers any written
instrument, money, evidence of title to real or personal property, or other
thing of value to a third person to be held by that third person until the
happening of a specified event or the performance of a prescribed
condition, when it is then to be delivered by that third person to a grantee,
grantor, promisee, promisor, obligee, obligor, bailee, bailor, or any agent
or employee of any of the latter.
 3200                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 437 ]
   (b) With regard to Internet escrow companies, ‘‘escrow’’ also
includes any transaction in which one person, for the purpose of
effecting the sale or transfer of personal property or services to another
person, delivers money, or its Internet-authorized equivalent, to a third
person to be held by that third person until the happening of a specified
event or the performance of a prescribed condition, when it is then to be
delivered by that third person to a grantee, grantor, promisee, promisor,
obligee, obligor, bailee, bailor, or any agent or employee of any of the
latter.
   SEC. 2. Section 17005.2 is added to the Financial Code, to read:
   17005.2. ‘‘Business location’’ and ‘‘business office location’’ mean
a facility or other place of business where a person engages in the
business of receiving an escrow for deposit or delivery, but does not
include a customer contact center.
   SEC. 3. Section 17005.3 is added to the Financial Code, to read:
   17005.3. ‘‘Customer contact center’’ means a facility operated by an
Internet escrow agent that exists solely for the purpose of responding to
customer electronic messages and telephone inquiries; provided, that no
receipt or disbursements relating to an escrow are made from the facility;
and provided further, that any documentation or other material
generated, transmitted, or otherwise sent from the facility can be
reviewed at any time from the business location of the Internet escrow
agent.
   SEC. 4. Section 17200.8 of the Financial Code is amended to read:
   17200.8. (a) Within the organization of each escrow agent
corporation, either as an owner, officer, or employee, there shall be one
or more persons possessing a minimum of five years of responsible
escrow or joint control experience to be stationed at the main office of
the corporation and one or more persons possessing a minimum of four
years of responsible escrow or joint control experience stationed at each
branch. At least one such qualified person shall be stationed on duty at
each business location licensed by this division during the time the
location is open for business. A person who has satisfied educational
requirements established by the commissioner may substitute education
for up to one year of experience.
   (b) Subdivision (a) does not apply to an Internet escrow agent with
respect to escrows involving personal property. However, within the
organization of each Internet escrow agent corporation engaged in the
business of an escrow involving personal property, either as an owner,
officer, or employee, one or more qualified persons shall possess
knowledge and understanding of the Escrow Law (as set forth in
Division 6 (commencing with Section 17000)), the rules promulgated
thereunder, and accounting so that, among other things, appropriate
books and records are used and maintained in order to account for
[Ch. 438 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3201

escrows involving personal property. At least one qualified person shall
be on duty at each business location of an Internet escrow agent licensed
by this division when operations are being conducted that require
knowledge of accounting and the Escrow Law and regulations. An
Internet escrow agent shall notify the commissioner of the daily business
hours during which those operations are to be conducted.
   SEC. 5. Section 17403.5 is added to the Financial Code, to read:
   17403.5. (a) All records required by this chapter may be retained by
an Internet escrow agent and provided to the commissioner in electronic
format.
   (b) All transfers by an Internet escrow agent between trust accounts
and interest-bearing accounts, and between escrow accounts, may be
made electronically.
   (c) A statement of account may be delivered by an Internet escrow
agent to a customer by electronic mail or via the Internet, unless
otherwise requested by the customer.
   SEC. 6. Section 17409.1 of the Financial Code is amended to read:
   17409.1. (a) Each person subject to this chapter shall maintain
separate escrow trust accounts for each licensed location. Transfers
between accounts are prohibited except by the actual writing of a check
from one escrow to the other, and by depositing the check for the account
of, and the writing of a receipt for the escrow to which the funds are being
transferred. Each transfer shall be properly supported and documented
in escrow files by inclusion of escrow instructions executed by the
principals authorizing the transfer.
   (b) With regard to Internet escrow companies, transfers to trust
accounts by commercial banks and from operating accounts to cover
losses may be made through wire transfer. Receipts for all these
transactions may be maintained in electronic form.



                             CHAPTER 438

  An act to add and repeal Sections 7099.1 and 21028 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and to add and repeal Section 13019 of the
Unemployment Insurance Code, relating to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

 SECTION 1.        Section 7099.1 is added to the Revenue and Taxation
Code, to read:
 3202                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 438 ]
   7099.1. (a) (1) With respect to tax advice, the protections of
confidentiality that apply to a communication between a client and an
attorney, as set forth in Article 3 (commencing with Section 950) of
Chapter 4 of Division 8 of the Evidence Code, shall also apply to a
communication between a taxpayer and any federally authorized tax
practitioner to the extent the communication would be considered a
privileged communication if it were between a client and an attorney.
   (2) Paragraph (1) may only be asserted in any noncriminal tax matter
before the State Board of Equalization.
   (3) For purposes of this section:
   (A) ‘‘Federally authorized tax practitioner’’ means any individual
who is authorized under federal law to practice before the Internal
Revenue Service if the practice is subject to federal regulation under
Section 330 of Title 31 of the United States Code, as provided by federal
law as of January 1, 2000.
   (B) ‘‘Tax advice’’ means advice given by an individual with respect
to a state tax matter, which may include federal tax advice if it relates to
the state tax matter. For purposes of this subparagraph, ‘‘federal tax
advice’’ means advice given by an individual within the scope of his or
her authority to practice before the federal Internal Revenue Service on
noncriminal tax matters.
   (C) ‘‘Tax shelter’’ means a partnership or other entity, any investment
plan or arrangement, or any other plan or arrangement if a significant
purpose of that partnership, entity, plan, or arrangement is the avoidance
or evasion of federal income tax.
   (b) The privilege under subdivision (a) shall not apply to any written
communication between a federally authorized tax practitioner and a
director, shareholder, officer, or employee, agent, or representative of a
corporation in connection with the promotion of the direct or indirect
participation of the corporation in any tax shelter, or in any proceeding
to revoke or otherwise discipline any license or right to practice by any
governmental agency.
   (c) This section shall be operative for communications made on or
after the effective date of the act adding this section.
   (d) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2005, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Section 21028 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code,
to read:
   21028. (a) (1) With respect to tax advice, the protections of
confidentiality that apply to a communication between a client and an
attorney, as set forth in Article 3 (commencing with Section 950) of
Chapter 4 of Division 8 of the Evidence Code, shall also apply to a
communication between a taxpayer and any federally authorized tax
[Ch. 438 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3203

practitioner to the extent the communication would be considered a
privileged communication if it were between a client and an attorney.
   (2) Paragraph (1) may only be asserted in any noncriminal tax matter
before the Franchise Tax Board.
   (3) For purposes of this section:
   (A) ‘‘Federally authorized tax practitioner’’ means any individual
who is authorized under federal law to practice before the Internal
Revenue Service if the practice is subject to federal regulation under
Section 330 of Title 31 of the United States Code, as provided by federal
law as of January 1, 2000.
   (B) ‘‘Tax advice’’ means advice given by an individual with respect
to a state tax matter, which may include federal tax advice if it relates to
the state tax matter. For purposes of this subparagraph, ‘‘federal tax
advice’’ means advice given by an individual within the scope of his or
her authority to practice before the federal Internal Revenue Service on
noncriminal tax matters.
   (C) ‘‘Tax shelter’’ means a partnership or other entity, any investment
plan or arrangement, or any other plan or arrangement if a significant
purpose of that partnership, entity, plan, or arrangement is the avoidance
or evasion of federal income tax.
   (b) The privilege under subdivision (a) shall not apply to any written
communication between a federally authorized tax practitioner and a
director, shareholder, officer, or employee, agent, or representative of a
corporation in connection with the promotion of the direct or indirect
participation of the corporation in any tax shelter, or in any proceeding
to revoke or otherwise discipline any license or right to practice by any
governmental agency.
   (c) This section shall be operative for communications made on or
after the effective date of the act adding this section.
   (d) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2005, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 3. Section 13019 is added to the Unemployment Insurance
Code, to read:
   13019. (a) (1) With respect to tax advice, the protections of
confidentiality that apply to a communication between a client and an
attorney, as set forth in Article 3 (commencing with Section 950) of
Chapter 4 of Division 8 of the Evidence Code, shall also apply to a
communication between a taxpayer and any federally authorized tax
practitioner to the extent the communication would be considered a
privileged communication if it were between a client and an attorney.
   (2) Paragraph (1) may only be asserted in any noncriminal tax matter
before the Employment Development Department.
   (3) For purposes of this section:
 3204                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 439 ]
   (A) ‘‘Federally authorized tax practitioner’’ means any individual
who is authorized under federal law to practice before the Internal
Revenue Service if the practice is subject to federal regulation under
Section 330 of Title 31 of the United States Code, as provided by federal
law as of January 1, 2000.
   (B) ‘‘Tax advice’’ means advice given by an individual with respect
to a state tax matter, which may include federal tax advice if it relates to
the state tax matter. For purposes of this subparagraph, ‘‘federal tax
advice’’ means advice given by an individual within the scope of his or
her authority to practice before the federal Internal Revenue Service on
noncriminal tax matters.
   (C) ‘‘Tax shelter’’ means a partnership or other entity, any investment
plan or arrangement, or any other plan or arrangement if a significant
purpose of that partnership, entity, plan, or arrangement is the avoidance
or evasion of federal income tax.
   (b) The privilege under subdivision (a) shall not apply to any written
communication between a federally authorized tax practitioner and a
director, shareholder, officer, or employee, agent, or representative of a
corporation in connection with the promotion of the direct or indirect
participation of the corporation in any tax shelter, or in any proceeding
to revoke or otherwise discipline any license or right to practice by any
governmental agency.
   (c) This section shall be operative for communications made on or
after the effective date of the act adding this section.
   (d) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2005, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends that date.



                             CHAPTER 439

  An act to add Chapter 5.6 (commencing with Section 6450) to
Division 3 of, and to repeal Section 6450 of, the Business and
Professions Code, relating to professions and vocations.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 5.6 (commencing with Section 6450) is added
to Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code, to read:
[Ch. 439 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3205

                      CHAPTER 5.6.      PARALEGALS

   6450. (a) ‘‘Paralegal’’ means a person who either contracts with or
is employed by an attorney, law firm, corporation, governmental agency,
or other entity and who performs substantial legal work under the
direction and supervision of an active member of the State Bar of
California, as defined in Section 6060, or an attorney practicing law in
the federal courts of this state, that has been specifically delegated by the
attorney to him or her. Tasks performed by a paralegal include, but are
not limited to, case planning, development, and management; legal
research; interviewing clients; fact gathering and retrieving information;
drafting and analyzing legal documents; collecting, compiling, and
utilizing technical information to make an independent decision and
recommendation to the supervising attorney; and representing clients
before a state or federal administrative agency if that representation is
permitted by statute, court rule, or administrative rule or regulation.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a paralegal shall not do any of
the following:
   (1) Provide legal advice.
   (2) Represent a client in court.
   (3) Select, explain, draft, or recommend the use of any legal
document to or for any person other than the attorney who directs and
supervises the paralegal.
   (4) Act as a runner or capper, as defined in Sections 6151 and 6152.
   (5) Engage in conduct that constitutes the unlawful practice of law.
   (6) Contract with, or be employed by, a natural person other than an
attorney to perform paralegal services.
   (7) In connection with providing paralegal services, induce a person
to make an investment, purchase a financial product or service, or enter
a transaction from which income or profit, or both, purportedly may be
derived.
   (8) Establish the fees to charge a client for the services the paralegal
performs, which shall be established by the attorney who supervises the
paralegal’s work. This paragraph does not apply to fees charged by a
paralegal in a contract to provide paralegal services to an attorney, law
firm, corporation, governmental agency, or other entity as provided in
subdivision (a).
   (c) A paralegal shall possess at least one of the following:
   (1) A certificate of completion of a paralegal program approved by
the American Bar Association.
   (2) A certificate of completion of a paralegal program at, or a degree
from, a postsecondary institution that requires the successful completion
of a minimum of 24 semester, or equivalent, units in law-related courses
and that has been accredited by a national or regional accrediting
 3206                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 439 ]
organization or approved by the Bureau for Private Postsecondary and
Vocational Education.
   (3) A baccalaureate degree or an advanced degree in any subject, a
minimum of one year of law-related experience under the supervision of
an attorney who has been an active member of the State Bar of California
for at least the preceding three years or who has practiced in the federal
courts of this state for at least the preceding three years, and a written
declaration from this attorney stating that the person is qualified to
perform paralegal tasks.
   (4) A high school diploma or general equivalency diploma, a
minimum of three years of law-related experience under the supervision
of an attorney who has been an active member of the State Bar of
California for at least the preceding three years or who has practiced in
the federal courts of this state for at least the preceding three years, and
a written declaration from this attorney stating that the person is
qualified to perform paralegal tasks. This experience and training shall
be completed no later than December 31, 2003.
   (d) All paralegals shall be required to certify completion every three
years of four hours of mandatory continuing legal education in legal
ethics. All continuing legal education courses shall meet the
requirements of Section 6070. Every two years, all paralegals shall be
required to certify completion of four hours of mandatory continuing
education in either general law or in a specialized area of law.
Certification of these continuing education requirements shall be made
with the paralegal’s supervising attorney. The paralegal shall be
responsible for keeping a record of the paralegal’s certifications.
   (e) A paralegal does not include a nonlawyer who provides legal
services directly to members of the public or a legal document assistant
or unlawful detainer assistant as defined in Section 6400.
   (f) If a legal document assistant, as defined in subdivision (c) of
Section 6400, has registered, on or before January 1, 2001, as required
by law, a business name that includes the word ‘‘paralegal,’’ that person
may continue to use that business name until he or she is required to
renew registration.
   (g) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2004, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which is enacted
before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends that date.
   6450. (a) ‘‘Paralegal’’ means a person who either contracts with or
is employed by an attorney, law firm, corporation, governmental agency,
or other entity and who performs substantial legal work under the
direction and supervision of an active member of the State Bar of
California, as defined in Section 6060, or an attorney practicing law in
the federal courts of this state, that has been specifically delegated by the
attorney to him or her. Tasks performed by a paralegal include, but are
[Ch. 439 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3207

not limited to, case planning, development, and management; legal
research; interviewing clients; fact gathering and retrieving information;
drafting and analyzing legal documents; collecting, compiling, and
utilizing technical information to make an independent decision and
recommendation to the supervising attorney; and representing clients
before a state or federal administrative agency if that representation is
permitted by statute, court rule, or administrative rule or regulation.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a paralegal shall not do the
following:
   (1) Provide legal advice.
   (2) Represent a client in court.
   (3) Select, explain, draft, or recommend the use of any legal
document to or for any person other than the attorney who directs and
supervises the paralegal.
   (4) Act as a runner or capper, as defined in Sections 6151 and 6152.
   (5) Engage in conduct that constitutes the unlawful practice of law.
   (6) Contract with, or be employed by, a natural person other than an
attorney to perform paralegal services.
   (7) In connection with providing paralegal services, induce a person
to make an investment, purchase a financial product or service, or enter
a transaction from which income or profit, or both, purportedly may be
derived.
   (8) Establish the fees to charge a client for the services the paralegal
performs, which shall be established by the attorney who supervises the
paralegal’s work. This paragraph does not apply to fees charged by a
paralegal in a contract to provide paralegal services to an attorney, law
firm, corporation, governmental agency, or other entity as provided in
subdivision (a).
   (c) A paralegal shall possess at least one of the following:
   (1) A certificate of completion of a paralegal program approved by
the American Bar Association.
   (2) A certificate of completion of a paralegal program at, or a degree
from, a postsecondary institution that requires the successful completion
of a minimum of 24 semester, or equivalent, units in law-related courses
and that has been accredited by a national or regional accrediting
organization or approved by the Bureau for Private Postsecondary and
Vocational Education.
   (3) A baccalaureate degree or an advanced degree in any subject, a
minimum of one year of law-related experience under the supervision of
an attorney who has been an active member of the State Bar of California
for at least the preceding three years or who has practiced in the federal
courts of this state for at least the preceding three years, and a written
declaration from this attorney stating that the person is qualified to
perform paralegal tasks.
 3208                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 439 ]
   (4) A high school diploma or general equivalency diploma, a
minimum of three years of law-related experience under the supervision
of an attorney who has been an active member of the State Bar of
California for at least the preceding three years or who has practiced in
the federal courts of this state for at least the preceding three years, and
a written declaration from this attorney stating that the person is
qualified to perform paralegal tasks. This experience and training shall
be completed no later than December 31, 2003.
   (d) All paralegals shall be required to certify completion every three
years of four hours of mandatory continuing legal education in legal
ethics. All continuing legal education courses shall meet the
requirements of Section 6070. Every two years, all paralegals shall be
required to certify completion of four hours of mandatory continuing
education in either general law or in a specialized area of law.
Certification of these continuing education requirements shall be made
with the paralegal’s supervising attorney. The paralegal shall be
responsible for keeping a record of the paralegal’s certifications.
   (e) A paralegal does not include a nonlawyer who provides legal
services directly to members of the public, or a legal document assistant
or unlawful detainer assistant as defined in Section 6400, unless the
person is a person described in subdivisions (a) and (b).
   (f) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2004.
   6451. It is unlawful for a paralegal to perform any services for a
consumer except as performed under the direction and supervision of the
attorney, law firm, corporation, government agency, or other entity that
employs or contracts with the paralegal. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit a paralegal who is employed by an attorney, law firm,
governmental agency, or other entity from providing services to a
consumer served by one of these entities if those services are specifically
allowed by statute, case law, court rule, or federal or state administrative
rule or regulation. ‘‘Consumer’’ means a natural person, firm,
association, organization, partnership, business trust, corporation, or
public entity.
   6452. (a) It is unlawful for a person to identify himself or herself as
a paralegal on any advertisement, letterhead, business card or sign, or
elsewhere unless he or she has met the qualifications of subdivision (c)
of Section 6450 and performs all services under the direction and
supervision of an attorney who is an active member of the State Bar of
California or an attorney practicing law in the federal courts of this state
who is responsible for all of the services performed by the paralegal. The
business card of a paralegal shall include the name of the law firm where
he or she is employed or a statement that he or she is employed by or
contracting with a licensed attorney.
[Ch. 439 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3209

   (b) An attorney who uses the services of a paralegal is liable for any
harm caused as the result of the paralegal’s negligence, misconduct, or
violation of this chapter.
   6453. A paralegal is subject to the same duty as an attorney specified
in subdivision (e) of Section 6068 to maintain inviolate the
confidentiality, and at every peril to himself or herself to preserve the
attorney-client privilege, of a consumer for whom the paralegal has
provided any of the services described in subdivision (a) of Section
6450.
   6454. The terms ‘‘paralegal,’’ ‘‘legal assistant,’’ ‘‘attorney
assistant,’’ ‘‘freelance paralegal,’’ ‘‘independent paralegal,’’ and
‘‘contract paralegal’’ are synonymous for purposes of this chapter.
   6455. (a) Any consumer injured by a violation of this chapter may
file a complaint and seek redress in any municipal or superior court for
injunctive relief, restitution, and damages. Attorney’s fees shall be
awarded in this action to the prevailing plaintiff.
   (b) Any person who violates the provisions of Section 6451 or 6452
is guilty of an infraction for the first violation, which is punishable upon
conviction by a fine of up to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500)
as to each consumer with respect to whom a violation occurs, and is
guilty of a misdemeanor for the second and each subsequent violation,
which is punishable upon conviction by a fine of two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500) as to each consumer with respect to whom a
violation occurs, or imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one
year, or by both that fine and imprisonment. Any person convicted of a
violation of this section shall be ordered by the court to pay restitution
to the victim pursuant to Section 1202.4 of the Penal Code.
   6456. An individual employed by the state as a paralegal, legal
assistant, legal analyst, or similar title, is exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
 3210                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 440 ]
                            CHAPTER 440

   An act to amend Sections 2183 and 2191.2 of, to add Sections 2190.2
and 2190.3 to, and to repeal Section 2179.5 of, the Business and
Professions Code, and to amend Sections 105105 and 105120 of, and to
add Sections 105101 and 105112 to, to repeal Section 105135 of, and to
repeal and add Section 105100 of, the Health and Safety Code, relating
to geriatric medicine.
            [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. This act shall be known as, and may be cited as, the
Geriatric Medical Training Act of 2000.
   SEC. 2. Section 2179.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 2183 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   2183. An applicant for a physician’s and surgeon’s certificate shall
pass the national examination for medical licensure in biomedical
sciences and clinical sciences, including geriatric medicine, determined
by the Division of Licensing to be essential for the unsupervised practice
of medicine.
   An applicant who applies for a physician’s and surgeon’s certificate
on or after January 1, 2004, shall have completed coursework in geriatric
medicine in medical school or in postgraduate medical education
training.
   SEC. 4. Section 2190.2 is added to the Business and Professions
Code, to read:
   2190.2. The Division of Licensing shall establish criteria that
providers of continuing medical education shall follow to ensure
attendance by licensees throughout the entire course.
   SEC. 5. Section 2190.3 is added to the Business and Professions
Code, to read:
   2190.3. All general internists and family physicians who have a
patient population of which over 25 percent are 65 years of age or older
shall complete at least 20 percent of all mandatory continuing education
hours in a course in the field of geriatric medicine or the care of older
patients.
   SEC. 6. Section 2191.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
[Ch. 440 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3211

   2191.2. The division shall encourage every physician and surgeon
to take a course in geriatric medicine, including geriatric pharmacology,
as part of his or her continuing education.
   SEC. 7. Section 105100 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
   SEC. 8. Section 105100 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   105100. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (a) In 1998, there were about 3.57 million Californians age 65 and
older, a 15 percent increase since 1990. This number will at least increase
to five million in 2010 and grow to seven million by 2020, with those
persons over age 85 representing the fastest growing segment of the
population.
   (b) By 2020, the numbers of Hispanic, African American, and other
minority older persons will more than quadruple to an estimated total of
at least 2.8 million.
   (c) The age group over 75 has the highest rate of health care utilization
of all groups.
   (d) The higher prevalence of chronic conditions in those age 65 and
older results in greater use of physician services. On average, they visit
a physician nine times a year compared to five visits by the general
population. They are hospitalized over three times as often as the
younger population, stay 50 percent longer, and use twice as many
prescription drugs.
   (e) The knowledge and skill base in geriatrics, which is essential to
the provision of medical care to older patients, has not been adequately
integrated into the training of today’s doctors and other health care
professionals.
   (f) If resources are not invested now for better training in geriatrics,
there will be an inadequate supply of doctors properly trained to treat
older patients by 2010.
   (g) The Academic Geriatric Resource Program was established in
1984 as a mechanism for developing within the University of California
new educational initiatives in geriatrics, gerontology, and other
disciplines relating to aging. The program originally was funded at one
million dollars ($1,000,000). Funding has not kept pace with inflation
or need. The program in 1999 was funded at one million one hundred
thousand dollars ($1,100,000).
   (h) The Association of American Medical Colleges acknowledged
the problem of inadequate medical education in geriatrics in December
1999 by launching a new program to enhance the gerontology and
geriatric curricula at United States medical schools. The association
recognized that geriatrics should ‘‘be represented in a more coherent and
comprehensive manner in the curricula of all U.S. medical schools.’’
 3212                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 440 ]
   SEC. 9. Section 105101 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   105101. It is the intent of the Legislature that the University of
California provide academic courses and training in the field of
geriatrics for medical students and existing general internists and family
physicians in order to ensure that every general internist and family
physician, along with other professions, have the requisite knowledge
and skills to competently treat the older population by the year 2010
when the baby boomer generation begins to retire.
   SEC. 10. Section 105105 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   105105. It is the purpose of the Legislature, in enacting this chapter,
for the University of California to establish academic geriatric resource
programs and encourage the development of expanded educational and
community service programs in geriatric medicine at its medical schools
or other health science campuses. A multidisciplinary approach shall be
utilized in the development of these programs. The programs shall
include, but not be limited to, one or more of the following elements:
   (a) Preclinical, clinical, or postgraduate educational programs in
geriatrics for health science students to instruct and train them in
recognizing and responding to the needs and dynamics of the health care
of older patients.
   (b) Provision of continuing education in geriatrics for health care
providers and the general public.
   (c) A teaching nursing home program to research nursing home
health care practices and to instruct and train health science students
about geriatric care.
   (d) Development and evaluation of the best practices for the health
care of older persons.
   (e) Development and evaluation of interdisciplinary models of
geriatric training.
   (f) Development and evaluation of innovative health care delivery
sites and programs for older persons.
   SEC. 11. Section 105120 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   105120. The Legislature requests that, on March 30, 2001, and
biennially thereafter, the Regents of the University of California submit
a progress report to the Legislature, including copies to the members of
the Assembly Committee on Aging and Long-Term Care, the members
of the Senate Health and Human Services Subcommittee on Aging and
Long-Term Care, and the Chairpersons of the Assembly Committee on
Budget and the Senate Committee on Budget and Fiscal Review,
regarding the grant programs established pursuant to this chapter. The
report should include, but not be limited to, all of the following elements:
[Ch. 440 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3213

   (a) A description of the progress made in implementing and
maintaining the programs.
   (b) The number of academic geriatric resource programs established.
   (c) The characteristics and costs of the programs.
   (d) A summary of the progress towards developing and
implementing educational and community service programs in geriatric
medicine at each campus.
   (e) An evaluation of the program’s effectiveness at each campus,
including identification of problems and limitations, and strategies to
overcome them.
   The report should separately delineate the information required
pursuant to this section with respect to each medical or health science
campus that receives funding under a grant program established
pursuant to this chapter.
   SEC. 12. Section 105112 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   105112. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature that University of
California medical students complete a definable curriculum in geriatric
medicine over the course of their medical school training to meet
recommended core competencies for the care of older persons. It is the
intent of the Legislature that this curriculum instill the attitudes,
knowledge, and skills that physicians need to provide competent and
compassionate care for older persons, including both didactic and
clinical experiences encompassing the spectrum of health status of older
persons and community-based sites for clinical training.
   (b) It is the intent of the Legislature that University of California
medical residents in internal medicine, family practice, and psychiatry
complete a definable curriculum in geriatric medicine over the course of
their residency training. It is the intent of the Legislature that this
curriculum instill the attitudes, knowledge, and skills that physicians
practicing these specialties need to provide competent and
compassionate care for older persons. This curriculum should
encompass the spectrum of health status of older persons and include
community-based sites for clinical training.
   (c) It is the intent of the Legislature that the University of California
be responsible for developing, implementing, maintaining, and
evaluating the geriatric medicine content needed in the curriculum. The
curriculum shall take into consideration the recommendations of the
Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences, the
American Geriatric Society, and other nationally recognized medical
organizations. The expanded geriatric medicine program and curriculum
should be developed and implemented at each University of California
school of medicine as soon as possible, but no later than September 1,
2003.
 3214                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 440 ]
   (d) The Legislature requests that, no later than March 30, 2003, the
Regents of the University of California submit a progress report on the
status of the implementation of a definable curriculum in geriatric
medicine at each campus in accordance with this act.
   (e) The Legislature requests that, no later than March 30, 2004, the
Regents of the University of California submit a report on the status of
the implementation of a definable curriculum in geriatric medicine at
each campus. The report should include the total number of hours of
geriatric instruction to be given at each school of medicine and the
number of weeks of that instruction or experience provided at each
medical school. This report should be written by a committee that is
specifically charged with reporting on the status of the implementation
of this section. The majority of committee members should be national
experts in the geriatric field who are not University of California
employees.
   (f) The Legislature requests that every 5 years, commencing no later
than June 30, 2005, the Regents of the University of California submit
a report describing progress in geriatrics training and related initiatives
at each campus in accordance with the act. This report should be written
by a committee that is specifically charged with evaluating this progress.
The majority of committee members should be national experts in the
geriatric field who are not University of California employees.
   (g) Copies of the reports requested in subdivisions (d), (e), and (f) are
to be submitted to the members of the Assembly Committee on Aging
and Long-Term Care, the members of the Senate Health and Human
Services Subcommittee on Aging and Long-Term Care, and the
Chairpersons of the Assembly Committee on Budget and the Senate
Committee on Budget and Fiscal Review.
   (h) It is the intent of the Legislature that the professors occupying the
University of California endowed chairs in geriatric medicine funded in
the 2000–01 Budget Act provide leadership in developing and
implementing the expanded geriatric medicine programs and curriculum
at the University of California, and that one-time funds provided to the
Academic Geriatric Resource Program in the 2000–01 Budget Act also
be used to expand geriatric medicine programs and curriculum at the
University to implement subdivisions (a) and (b) of Section 105112 of
the Health and Safety Code.
   SEC. 13. Section 105135 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
[Ch. 441 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3215

                             CHAPTER 441

  An act to add and repeal Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 55720)
of Part 2 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code, relating to
local government finance.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 55720) is added
to Part 2 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code, to read:

          CHAPTER 6.      TELECOMMUTING PROPERTY AMOUNT

   55720. (a) The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego
may enter into an agreement with the owner of ‘‘telecommuting center
property’’ to pay to that owner in each fiscal year, for a period not to
exceed five consecutive fiscal years, a Telecommuting Property Amount
(TPA). Any agreement that is entered into pursuant to this subdivision
shall specify matters including, but not limited to, both of the following:
   (1) Those conditions that the owner of the property is required to meet
to receive a TPA.
   (2) That period of consecutive fiscal years to which it applies. The
agreement shall designate as the first fiscal year of that period the first
fiscal year beginning after the date upon which the County of San Diego
enters into the agreement.
   No agreement entered into pursuant to this subdivision shall become
invalid by reason of the repeal of this chapter.
   (b) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
   (1) ‘‘Telecommuting center property’’ means tangible personal
property that meets all of the following requirements:
   (A) The property is directly involved in providing not less than 10
separate fully functional work stations with access to high speed data
communications, including, but not limited to, telecommunications
services, cable services, broadcast services, mobile services, wireless
services, satellite services, and Internet access.
   (B) The property is located at a remote worksite not less than 15 miles
from the normal workplace.
   (C) Ancillary services may include facsimile transmissions, high
volume copying, laser printing, video conferencing, and voice mail.
   (D) Use of the property will lead to usage by at least 10 full-time
employees for not less than one regular workday of each week.
 3216                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 441 ]
   (E) Employees using the telecommuting center property will, by
going to the telecommuting center, reduce their travel distance from
home to work location by not less than 15 miles one way.
   (F) The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego shall make
a finding, in its sole discretion, that the property meets the requirements
of subparagraphs (A) through (E).
   (2) ‘‘Telecommuting Property Amount’’ means an amount equal to
the amount of ad valorem property tax revenue derived from that
telecommuting center property for that fiscal year that is allocated to the
County of San Diego pursuant to Chapter 6 (commencing with Section
95) of Part 0.5 of Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   (c) The County of San Diego may cease any further payment of a TPA
under an agreement entered into by the county pursuant to subdivision
(a), and may recapture from the recipient-owner the amount of any or
every TPA previously paid to that recipient-owner under the agreement,
if, at any time during the term of that agreement, the county determines
that either of the following is true:
   (1) The property with respect to which the agreement was entered into
does not qualify as telecommuting property as defined in paragraph (1)
of subdivision (b).
   (2) The owner-recipient is not in compliance with the conditions set
forth in the agreement for the receipt of a TPA.
   (d) This section applies only with respect to property that is placed in
service on or after January 1, 2001.
   55721. This chapter shall remain in effect only until January 1,
2006, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that
is enacted before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.
   55722. The County of San Diego shall, in consultation with the
Governor’s Office of Planning and Research and in conjunction with the
Office of the Legislative Analyst, collect data on the efficiency and
effectiveness of this pilot program and report that data to the Legislative
Analyst on or before October 1, 2004. On or before January 1, 2005, the
Legislative Analyst shall report that data to the Governor and to the
Senate and Assembly Committees on Local Government.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district are
the result of a program for which legislative authority was requested by
that local agency or school district, within the meaning of Section 17556
of the Government Code and Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California
Constitution.
[Ch. 442 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3217

                             CHAPTER 442

   An act to add Section 6177 to the Business and Professions Code, and
to amend and renumber Section 10193 of, to amend Section 10234.8 of,
and to add Section 789.8 to, the Insurance Code, and to amend Section
15610.30 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to elder abuse.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6177 is added to the Business and Professions
Code, to read:
   6177. The State Bar by December 31 of each year shall report to the
Legislature on the number of complaints filed against California
attorneys alleging a violation of this article. The report shall also include
the type of charges made in each complaint, the number of resulting
investigations initiated, and the number and nature of any disciplinary
actions take by the State Bar for violations of this article.
   SEC. 2. Section 789.8 is added to the Insurance Code, to read:
   789.8. (a) ‘‘Elder’’ for purposes of this section means any person
residing in this state, 65 years of age or older.
   (b) If a life agent offers to sell to an elder any life insurance or annuity
product, the life agent shall advise an elder or elder’s agent in writing that
the sale or liquidation of any stock, bond, IRA, certificate of deposit,
mutual fund, annuity, or other asset to fund the purchase of this product
may have tax consequences, early withdrawal penalties, or other costs
or penalties as a result of the sale or liquidation, and that the elder or
elder’s agent may wish to consult independent legal or financial advice
before selling or liquidating any assets and prior to the purchase of any
life or annuity products being solicited, offered for sale, or sold. This
section does not apply to a credit life insurance product as defined in
Section 779.2.
   (c) A life agent who offers for sale or sells a financial product to an
elder on the basis of the product’s treatment under the Medi-Cal program
may not negligently misrepresent the treatment of any asset under the
statutes and rules and regulations of the Medi-Cal program, as it pertains
to the determination of the elder’s eligibility for any program of public
assistance.
   (d) A life agent who offers for sale or sells any financial product on
the basis of its treatment under the Medi-Cal program shall provide, in
writing, the following disclosure to the elder or the elder’s agent:
 3218                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 442 ]
     ‘‘NOTICE REGARDING STANDARDS FOR MEDI-CAL
                     ELIGIBILITY

  If you or your spouse are considering purchasing a financial product
based on its treatment under the Medi-Cal program, read this important
message!
  You or your spouse do not have to use up all of your savings before
applying for Medi-Cal.

                      UNMARRIED RESIDENT

   An unmarried resident may be eligible for Medi-Cal benefits if he or
she has less than (insert amount of individual’s resource allowance) in
countable resources.
   The Medi-Cal recipient is allowed to keep from his or her monthly
income a personal allowance of (insert amount of personal needs
allowance) plus the amount of any health insurance premiums paid. The
remainder of the monthly income is paid to the nursing facility as a
monthly share of cost.

                        MARRIED RESIDENT

   COMMUNITY SPOUSE RESOURCE ALLOWANCE: If one
spouse lives in a nursing facility, and the other spouse does not live in
a facility, the Medi-Cal program will pay some or all of the nursing
facility costs as long as the couple together does not have more than
(insert amount of community countable assets).
   MINIMUM MONTHLY MAINTENANCE NEEDS ALLOWANCE:
If a spouse is eligible for Medi-Cal payment of nursing facility costs, the
spouse living at home is allowed to keep a monthly income of at least
his or her individual monthly income or (insert amount of the minimum
monthly maintenance needs allowance), whichever is greater.

             FAIR HEARINGS AND COURT ORDERS

   Under certain circumstances, an at-home spouse can obtain an order
from an administrative law judge or court that will allow the at-home
spouse to retain additional resources or income. The order may allow the
couple to retain more than (insert amount of community spouse resource
allowance plus individual’s resource allowance) in countable resources.
The order also may allow the at-home spouse to retain more than (insert
amount of the monthly maintenance need allowance) in monthly
income.
[Ch. 442 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3219

       REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY EXEMPTIONS

  Many of your assets may already be exempt. Exempt means that the
assets are not counted when determining eligibility for Medi-Cal.

                  REAL PROPERTY EXEMPTIONS

  ONE PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE. One property used as a home is
exempt. The home will remain exempt in determining eligibility if the
applicant intends to return home someday.
  The home also continues to be exempt if the applicant’s spouse or
dependent relative continues to live in it.
  Money received from the sale of a home can be exempt for up to six
months if the money is going to be used for the purchase of another
home.
  REAL PROPERTY USED IN A BUSINESS OR TRADE. Real estate
used in a trade or business is exempt regardless of its equity value and
whether it produces income.

    PERSONAL PROPERTY AND OTHER EXEMPT ASSETS

   IRAs, KEOGHs, AND OTHER WORK-RELATED PENSION
PLANS. These funds are exempt if the family member whose name it
is in does not want Medi-Cal. If held in the name of a person who wants
Medi-Cal and payments of principal and interest are being received, the
balance is considered unavailable and is not counted. It is not necessary
to annuitize, convert to an annuity, or otherwise change the form of the
assets in order for them to be unavailable.

  PERSONAL PROPERTY USED IN A TRADE OR BUSINESS.

  ONE MOTOR VEHICLE.

  IRREVOCABLE BURIAL TRUSTS                      OR     IRREVOCABLE
PREPAID BURIAL CONTRACTS.

  THERE MAY BE OTHER ASSETS THAT MAY BE EXEMPT.

  This is only a brief description of the Medi-Cal eligibility rules, for
more detailed information, you should call your county welfare
department. Also, you are advised to contact a legal services program for
seniors or an attorney that is not connected with the sale of this product.

  I have read the above notice and have received a copy.
 3220                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 442 ]
Dated: _______________ Signature: ________________’’

  The statement required in this subdivision shall be printed in at least
12-point type, shall be clearly separate from any other document or
writing, and shall be signed by the prospective purchaser and that
person’s spouse, and legal representative, if any.
  (e) The State Department of Health Services shall update this form to
ensure consistency with state and federal law and make the disclosure
available to agents and brokers through its Internet website.
  (f) Nothing in this section allows or is intended to allow the unlawful
practice of law.
  (g) Subdivisions (b) and (d) shall become operative on July 1, 2001.
  SEC. 3. Section 10193 of the Insurance Code is amended and
renumbered to read:
  10192.55. (a) With regard to Medicare supplement insurance, all
insurers, brokers, agents, and others engaged in the business of insurance
owe a policyholder or a prospective policyholder a duty of honesty, and
a duty of good faith and fair dealing.
  (b) Conduct of an insurer, broker, or agent during the offer and sale
of a policy previous to the purchase is relevant to any action alleging a
breach of the duty of honesty, and a duty of good faith and fair dealing.
  SEC. 4. Section 10234.8 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
  10234.8. (a) With regard to long-term care insurance, all insurers,
brokers, agents, and others engaged in the business of insurance owe a
policyholder or a prospective policyholder a duty of honesty, and a duty
of good faith and fair dealing.
  (b) Conduct of an insurer, broker, or agent during the offer and sale
of a policy previous to the purchase is relevant to any action alleging a
breach of the duty of honesty, and a duty of good faith and fair dealing.
  SEC. 5. Section 15610.30 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
  15610.30. (a) ‘‘Financial abuse’’ of an elder or dependent adult
occurs when a person or entity does any of the following:
  (1) Takes, secretes, appropriates, or retains real or personal property
of an elder or dependent adult to a wrongful use or with intent to defraud,
or both.
  (2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, or retaining real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult to a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud, or both.
  (b) A person or entity shall be deemed to have taken, secreted,
appropriated, or retained property for a wrongful use if, among other
things, the person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates or retains
possession of property in bad faith.
[Ch. 443 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3221

  (1) A person or entity shall be deemed to have acted in bad faith if the
person or entity knew or should have known that the elder or dependent
adult had the right to have the property transferred or made readily
available to the elder or dependent adult or to his or her representative.
  (2) For purposes of this section, a person or entity should have known
of a right specified in paragraph (1) if, on the basis of the information
received by the person or entity or the person or entity’s authorized third
party, or both, it is obvious to a reasonable person that the elder or
dependent adult has a right specified in paragraph (1).
  (c) For purposes of this section, ‘‘representative’’ means a person or
entity that is either of the following:
  (1) A conservator, trustee, or other representative of the estate of an
elder or dependent adult.
  (2) An attorney-in-fact of an elder or dependent adult who acts within
the authority of the power of attorney.



                             CHAPTER 443

  An act to amend Sections 17210, 17210.1, 17213.1, and 17213.2 of,
and to add Section 17072.18 to, the Education Code, relating to school
facilities, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 17072.18 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   17072.18. The board may provide funding for response costs of the
removal of hazardous waste or solid waste, the removal of hazardous
substances, or other remedial action in connection with hazardous
substances at a schoolsite, in the same manner as provided in Section
17072.13, to a school district that has not applied for, or received, funds
from the board for the acquisition of a schoolsite, but which has incurred,
or will incur, response costs necessary for the development of the site,
before it can undertake construction at the site, in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter, and which is otherwise eligible to receive
funds under this chapter.
   SEC. 2. Section 17210 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   17210. As used in this article, the following terms have the
following meanings:
 3222                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 443 ]
   (a) ‘‘Administering agency’’ means any agency designated pursuant
to Section 25502 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (b) ‘‘Environmental assessor’’ means a class II environmental
assessor registered by the Office of Environmental Health Hazard
Assessment pursuant to Chapter 6.98 (commencing with Section 25570)
of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code, a professional engineer
registered in this state, a geologist registered in this state, a certified
engineering geologist registered in this state, or a licensed hazardous
substance contractor certified pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with
Section 7000) of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code. A
licensed hazardous substance contractor shall hold the equivalent of a
degree from an accredited public or private college or university or from
a private postsecondary educational institution approved by the Bureau
for Private Postsecondary and Vocational Education with at least 60
units in environmental, biological, chemical, physical, or soil science;
engineering; geology; environmental or public health; or a directly
related science field. In addition, any person who conducts Phase I
environmental assessments shall have a least two years experience in the
preparation of those assessments and any person who conducts a
preliminary endangerment assessment shall have at least three years
experience in conducting those assessments.
   (c) ‘‘Handle’’ has the meaning the term is given in Article 1
(commencing with Section 25500) of Chapter 6.95 of Division 20 of the
Health and Safety Code.
   (d) ‘‘Hazardous air emissions’’ means emissions into the ambient air
of air contaminants that have been identified as a toxic air contaminant
by the State Air Resources Board or by the air pollution control officer
for the jurisdiction in which the project is located. As determined by the
air pollution control officer, hazardous air emissions also means
emissions into the ambient air from any substance identified in
subdivisions (a) to (f), inclusive, of Section 44321 of the Health and
Safety Code.
   (e) ‘‘Hazardous material’’ has the meaning the term is given in
subdivision (d) of Section 25260 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (f) ‘‘Operation and maintenance,’’ ‘‘removal action work plan,’’
‘‘respond,’’ ‘‘response,’’ ‘‘response action’’ and ‘‘site’’ have the
meanings those terms are given in Article 2 (commencing with Section
25310) of the state act.
   (g) ‘‘Phase I environmental assessment’’ means a preliminary
assessment of a property to determine whether there has been or may
have been a release of a hazardous material, or whether a naturally
occurring hazardous material is present, based on reasonably available
information about the property and the area in its vicinity. A Phase I
environmental assessment may include, but is not limited to, a review
[Ch. 443 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3223

of public and private records of current and historical land uses, prior
releases of a hazardous material, data base searches, review of relevant
files of federal, state, and local agencies, visual and other surveys of the
property, review of historical aerial photographs of the property and the
area in its vicinity, interviews with current and previous owners and
operators, and review of regulatory correspondence and environmental
reports. Sampling or testing is not required as part of the Phase I
environmental assessment. A Phase I environmental assessment
conducted pursuant to the requirements adopted by the American
Society for Testing and Materials for due diligence for commercial real
estate transactions and that includes a review of all reasonably available
records and data bases regarding current and prior gas or oil wells and
naturally occurring hazardous materials located on the site or located
where they could potentially effect the site, satisfies the requirements of
this article for conducting a Phase I environmental assessment unless
and until the Department of Toxic Substances Control adopts final
regulations that establish guidelines for a Phase I environmental
assessment for purposes of schoolsites that impose different
requirements from those imposed by the American Society for Testing
and Materials.
   (h) ‘‘Preliminary endangerment assessment’’ means an activity that
is performed to determine whether current or past hazardous material
management practices or waste management practices have resulted in
a release or threatened release of hazardous materials, or whether
naturally occurring hazardous materials are present, which pose a threat
to children’s health, children’s learning abilities, public health or the
environment. A preliminary endangerment assessment requires
sampling and analysis of a site, a preliminary determination of the type
and extent of hazardous material contamination of the site, and a
preliminary evaluation of the risks that the hazardous material
contamination of a site may pose to children’s health, public health, or
the environment, and shall be conducted in a manner that complies with
the guidelines published by the Department of Toxic Substances Control
entitled ‘‘Preliminary Endangerment Assessment: Guidance Manual,’’
including any amendments that are determined by the Department of
Toxic Substances Control to be appropriate to address issues that are
unique to schoolsites.
   (i) ‘‘Proposed schoolsite’’ means real property acquired or to be
acquired or proposed for use as a schoolsite, prior to its occupancy as a
school.
   (j) ‘‘Regulated substance’’ means any material defined in subdivision
(g) of Section 25532 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (k) ‘‘Release’’ has the same meaning the term is given in Article 2
(commencing with Section 25310) of Chapter 6.8 of Division 20 of the
 3224                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 443 ]
Health and Safety Code, and includes a release described in subdivision
(d) of Section 25321 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (l) ‘‘Remedial action plan’’ means a plan approved by the Department
of Toxic Substances Control pursuant to Section 25356.1 of the Health
and Safety Code.
   (m) ‘‘State act’’ means the Carpenter-Presley-Tanner Hazardous
Substance Account Act (Chapter 6.8 (commencing with Section 25300)
of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code).
   SEC. 3. Section 17210.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   17210.1. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law:
   (1) For sites addressed by this article for which school districts elect
to receive state funds pursuant to Chapter 12.5 (commencing with
Section 17070.10), the state act applies to schoolsites where naturally
occurring hazardous materials are present, regardless of whether there
has been a release or there is a threatened release of a hazardous material.
   (2) For sites addressed by this article for which school districts elect
to receive state funds pursuant to Chapter 12.5 (commencing with
Section 17070.10), all references in the state act to hazardous substances
shall be deemed to include hazardous materials and all references in the
state act to public health shall be deemed to include children’s health.
   (3) All risk assessments conducted by school districts that elect to
receive state funds pursuant to Chapter 12.5 (commencing with Section
17070.10) at sites addressed by this article shall include a focus on the
risks to children’s health posed by a hazardous materials release or
threatened release, or the presence of naturally occurring hazardous
materials, on the schoolsite.
   (4) The response actions selected under this article shall, at a
minimum, be protective of children’s health, with an ample margin of
safety.
   (b) In implementing this article, a school district shall provide a
notice to residents in the immediate area, approved in form by the
Department of Toxic Substances Control, prior to the commencement of
work on a preliminary endangerment assessment.
   (c) Nothing in this article shall be construed to limit the authority of
the Department of Toxic Substances Control or the State Department of
Education to take any action otherwise authorized under any other
provision of law.
   (d) Unless the Legislature otherwise funds its costs for overseeing
actions taken pursuant to this article, the Department of Toxic
Substances Control shall comply with Chapter 6.66 (commencing with
Section 25269) of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code when
recovering its costs incurred in carrying out its duties pursuant to this
article.
[Ch. 443 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3225

   (e) Article 11 (commencing with Section 25220) of Chapter 6.5 of
Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code does not apply to schoolsites
at which all necessary response actions have been completed.
   SEC. 4. Section 17213.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   17213.1. As a condition of receiving state funding pursuant to
Chapter 12.5 (commencing with Section 17070.10) the governing board
of a school district shall comply with subdivision (a), and is not required
to comply with subdivision (a) of Section 17213, prior to the acquisition
of a schoolsite, or if the school district owns or leases a schoolsite, prior
to the construction of a project.
   (a) Prior to acquiring a schoolsite the governing board shall contract
with an environmental assessor to supervise the preparation of and sign
a Phase I environmental assessment of the proposed schoolsite unless
the governing board decides to proceed directly to a preliminary
endangerment assessment, in which case it shall comply with paragraph
(4).
   (1) The Phase I environmental assessment shall contain one of the
following recommendations:
   (A) A further investigation of the site is not required.
   (B) A preliminary endangerment assessment is needed, including
sampling or testing, to determine the following:
   (i) If a release of hazardous material has occurred and, if so, the extent
of the release.
   (ii) If there is the threat of a release of hazardous materials.
   (iii) If a naturally occurring hazardous material is present.
   (2) If the Phase I environmental assessment concludes that further
investigation of the site is not required, the assessment together with all
documentation related to the proposed acquisition or use of the proposed
schoolsite shall be submitted to the State Department of Education. A
school district may submit a Phase I environmental assessment to the
State Department of Education prior to its submission of other
documentation related to the proposed schoolsite acquisition or use.
Within 10 calendar days of receipt of the Phase I environmental
assessment and of the fee to be forwarded to the Department of Toxic
Substances Control for its review of the Phase I environmental
assessment, the State Department of Education shall transmit the Phase
I environmental assessment to the Department of Toxic Substances
Control for its review and approval, which shall be conducted by the
Department of Toxic Substances Control within 30 calendar days of its
receipt of the assessment and of sufficient information to allow the
Department of Toxic Substances Control to confirm that the
environmental assessor signing the assessment meets the qualifications
set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 17210. In those instances in which
the Department of Toxic Substances Control requests additional
 3226                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 443 ]
information after receipt of the Phase I environmental assessment
pursuant to paragraph (3), the Department of Toxic Substances Control
shall conduct its review and approval within 30 days of its receipt of the
requested additional information. If the Department of Toxic Substances
Control concurs with the conclusion of the Phase I environmental
assessment that a further investigation of the site is not required, the
Department of Toxic Substances Control shall approve the Phase I
environmental assessment and shall notify the State Department of
Education and the governing board of the school district of the approval.
  (3) If the Department of Toxic Substances Control determines that the
Phase I environmental assessment is not complete or disapproves the
Phase I environmental assessment, the department shall inform the
school district of the decision, the basis for the decision, and actions
necessary to secure department approval of the Phase I environmental
assessment. The school district shall take actions necessary to secure the
approval of the Phase I environmental assessment, elect to conduct a
preliminary endangerment assessment, or elect not to pursue the
acquisition or the construction project. To facilitate completion of the
Phase I environmental assessment, the information required by this
paragraph may be provided by telephonic or electronic means.
  (4) If the Phase I environmental assessment concludes that a
preliminary endangerment assessment is needed, or if the Department of
Toxic Substances Control concludes after it reviews a Phase I
environmental assessment pursuant to this section that a preliminary
endangerment assessment is needed, the school district shall either
contract with an environmental assessor to supervise the preparation of
and sign a preliminary endangerment assessment of the proposed
schoolsite and enter into an agreement with the Department of Toxic
Substances Control to oversee the preparation of the preliminary
endangerment assessment or elect not to pursue the acquisition or
construction project. The agreement entered into with the Department of
Toxic Substances Control may be entitled an ‘‘Environmental Oversight
Agreement’’ and shall reference this paragraph. A school district may,
with the concurrence of the Department of Toxic Substances Control,
enter into an agreement with the Department of Toxic Substances
Control to oversee the preparation of a preliminary endangerment
assessment without first having prepared a Phase I environmental
assessment. Upon request from the school district, the Director of the
Department of Toxic Substances Control shall exercise its authority to
designate a person to enter the site and inspect and obtain samples
pursuant to Section 25358.1 of the Health and Safety Code, if the
director determines that the exercise of that authority will assist in
expeditiously completing the preliminary endangerment assessment.
[Ch. 443 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3227

The preliminary endangerment assessment shall contain one of the
following conclusions:
   (A) A further investigation of the site is not required.
   (B) A release of hazardous materials has occurred, and if so, the
extent of the release, that there is the threat of a release of hazardous
materials, or that a naturally occurring hazardous material is present, or
any combination thereof.
   (5) The school district shall submit a preliminary draft of the
preliminary endangerment assessment to the Department of Toxic
Substances Control for its review and approval and to the State
Department of Education for its files. The school district may entitle a
document that is meant to fulfill the requirements of a preliminary
endangerment assessment a ‘‘preliminary environmental assessment’’
and that document shall be deemed to be a preliminary endangerment
assessment if it specifically refers to the statutory provisions whose
requirements it intends to meet and the document meets the
requirements of a preliminary endangerment assessment.
   (6) The Department of Toxic Substances Control shall complete its
review within 60 calendar days of receipt of the preliminary
endangerment assessment and shall either return the preliminary draft to
the school district with comments and requested modifications or
requested further assessment or approve the preliminary endangerment
assessment as a final draft preliminary endangerment assessment. If the
final draft preliminary endangerment assessment is approved and the
school district proposes to proceed with site acquisition or a construction
project, the school district shall make the final draft preliminary
endangerment assessment available to the public on the same basis and
at the same time it makes available the draft environmental impact report
or negative declaration pursuant to the California Environmental
Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the
Public Resources Code) for the site, unless the document developed
pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13
(commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code) will
not be made available until more than 90 days after the final draft
preliminary endangerment assessment is approved, in which case the
school district shall, within 60 days of the approval of the final draft of
the preliminary endangerment assessment, separately publish a notice of
the availability of the final draft for public review in a local newspaper
of general circulation. The school district shall hold a public hearing on
the final draft preliminary endangerment assessment and the draft
environmental impact report or negative declaration at the same time,
pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13
(commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code). All
comments pertaining to the final draft preliminary endangerment
 3228                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 443 ]
assessment and the draft environmental impact report or negative
declaration shall be forwarded to the Department of Toxic Substances
Control immediately. If the district has complied with the California
Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section
21000) of the Public Resources Code) prior to initiating the preliminary
endangerment assessment, the district shall reconsider the adequacy of
its approved environmental impact report or negative declaration in light
of the approved final draft of the preliminary endangerment assessment
and determine whether a further environmental document is necessary.
The district shall hold a public hearing on the final draft preliminary
endangerment assessment and its determination on the adequacy of the
existing environmental documents at the same time and in the same
manner as it would for a draft environmental impact report or draft
negative declaration as previously set forth in this section. The
Department of Toxic Substances Control shall approve or disapprove the
final preliminary endangerment assessment within 30 days of the
district’s approval action on the environmental document prepared under
the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing
with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code) and shall issue notice
of its determination accompanied by a statement of the basis of the
determination. The school district shall consider whether any changes
between the final draft and final preliminary endangerment assessment
require any change in its determination pursuant to the California
Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section
21000) of the Public Resources Code). The school district shall not file
its notice of determination under the California Environmental Quality
Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public
Resources Code) until after the Department of Toxic Substances Control
has approved the final preliminary endangerment assessment. The
public participation process set forth in this section shall be used by the
school district and the Department of Toxic Substances Control instead
of procedures set forth in Sections 25358.7 and 25358.7.1 of the Health
and Safety Code with respect to preliminary endangerment assessments.
If further response actions beyond a preliminary endangerment
assessment are required and the district determines that it will proceed
with the acquisition or construction project, the district shall comply
with the public participation requirements of Sections 25358.7 and
25358.7.1 of the Health and Safety Code and other applicable provisions
of the state act with respect to those response actions.
   (7) If the Department of Toxic Substances Control disapproves the
final draft preliminary endangerment assessment, it shall inform the
district of the decision, the basis for the decision, and actions necessary
to secure the Department of Toxic Substances Control approval of the
preliminary endangerment assessment. The school district shall take
[Ch. 443 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3229

actions necessary to secure the approval of the Department of Toxic
Substances Control of the preliminary endangerment assessment or elect
not to pursue the acquisition or construction project.
   (8) If the preliminary endangerment assessment determines that a
further investigation of the site is not required and the Department of
Toxic Substances Control approves this determination, it shall notify the
State Department of Education and the school district of its approval.
The school district may then proceed with the acquisition or construction
project.
   (9) If the preliminary endangerment assessment determines that a
release of hazardous material has occurred, that there is the threat of a
release of hazardous materials, that a naturally occurring hazardous
material is present, or any combination thereof, that requires further
investigation, and the Department of Toxic Substances Control approves
this determination, the school district may elect not to pursue the
acquisition or construction project. If the school district elects to pursue
the acquisition or construction project, it shall do all of the following:
   (A) Prepare a financial analysis that estimates the cost of response
action that will be required at the proposed schoolsite.
   (B) Assess the benefits that accrue from using the proposed
schoolsite when compared to the use of alternative schoolsites, if any.
   (C) Obtain the approval of the State Department of Education that the
proposed schoolsite meets the schoolsite selection standards adopted by
the State Department of Education pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
17251.
   (D) Evaluate the suitability of the proposed schoolsite in light of the
recommended alternative schoolsite locations in order of merit if the
school district has requested the assistance of the State Department of
Education, based upon the standards of the State Department of
Education, pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 17251.
   (10) The school district shall reimburse the Department of Toxic
Substances Control for all of the department’s response costs.
   (b) The costs incurred by the school districts when complying with
this section are allowable costs for purposes of an applicant under
Chapter 12.5 (commencing with Section 17070.10) of Part 10 and may
be reimbursed in accordance with Section 17072.13.
   (c) A school district that releases a Phase I environmental assessment,
a preliminary endangerment assessment, or information concerning
either of these assessments, any of which is required by this section, may
not be held liable in any action filed against the school district for making
either of these assessments available for public review.
   SEC. 5. Section 17213.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   17213.2. As a condition of receiving state funds pursuant to Chapter
12.5 (commencing with Section 17070.10), all of the following apply:
 3230                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 443 ]
   (a) If a preliminary endangerment assessment prepared pursuant to
Section 17213.1 discloses the presence of a hazardous materials release,
or threatened release, or the presence of naturally occurring hazardous
materials, at a proposed schoolsite at concentrations that could pose a
significant risk to children or adults, and the school district owns the
proposed schoolsite, the school district shall enter into an agreement
with the Department of Toxic Substances Control to oversee response
action at the site and shall take response action pursuant to the
requirements of the state act as may be required by the Department of
Toxic Substances Control.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a school district need not take
action in response to a release of hazardous material to groundwater
underlying the schoolsite if the release occurred at a site other than the
schoolsite and if the following conditions apply:
   (1) The school district did not cause or contribute to the release of a
hazardous material to the groundwater.
   (2) Upon the request of the Department of Toxic Substances Control
or its authorized representative the school district provides the
Department of Toxic Substances Control or its authorized representative
with access to the schoolsite.
   (3) The school district does not interfere with the response action
activities.
   (c) If at anytime during the response action the school district
determines that there has been a significant increase in the estimated cost
of the response action, the school district shall notify the State
Department of Education.
   (d) A school district that is required by the Department of Toxic
Substances Control to take response action at a proposed schoolsite is
subject to both of the following prohibitions:
   (1) The school district may not begin construction of a school
building until the Department of Toxic Substances Control determines
all of the following:
   (A) That the construction will not interfere with the response action.
   (B) That site conditions will not pose a significant threat to the health
and safety of workers involved in the construction of the school building.
   (C) That the nature and extent of any release or threatened release of
hazardous materials or the presence of any naturally occurring hazardous
materials have been fully characterized.
   (2) The school district may not occupy a school building following
construction until it obtains from the Department of Toxic Substances
Control a certification that all response actions, except for operation and
maintenance activities, necessary to ensure that hazardous materials at
the schoolsite no longer pose a significant risk to children and adults at
the schoolsite have been completed and that the response action
[Ch. 443 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3231

standards and objectives established in the final removal action work
plan or remedial action plan have been met and are being maintained.
After a school building is constructed and occupied, a school district
may continue with ongoing operation and maintenance activities if the
Department of Toxic Substances Control certifies before occupancy that
neither site conditions nor the ongoing operation and maintenance
activities pose a significant risk to children or adults at the schoolsite.
   (e) If, at anytime during construction at a schoolsite, a previously
unidentified release or threatened release of a hazardous material or the
presence of a naturally occurring hazardous material is discovered, the
school district shall cease all construction activities at the sites notify the
Department of Toxic Substances Control, and take actions required by
subdivision (a) that are necessary to address the release or threatened
release or the presence of any naturally occurring hazardous materials.
Construction may be resumed if the Department of Toxic Substances
Control determines that the construction will not interfere with any
response action necessary to address the hazardous material release or
threatened release or the presence of a naturally occurring hazardous
material, determines that the site conditions will not pose a significant
threat to the health and safety of workers involved in the construction of
the schoolsite, and certifies that the nature and extent of the release,
threatened release, or presence of a naturally occurring hazardous
material have been fully characterized.
   (f) Construction may proceed at any portions of the site that the
Department of Toxic Substances Control determines are not affected by
the release or threatened release of hazardous materials, or presence of
any naturally occurring hazardous materials, provided that all of the
following apply:
   (1) Those portions of the site have been fully characterized.
   (2) The Department of Toxic Substances Control determines that the
construction will not interfere with any response action necessary to
address the release or threatened release of hazardous materials, or
presence of any naturally occurring hazardous materials.
   (3) The site conditions will not pose a significant threat to the health
and safety of workers involved with construction.
   (g) The Department of Toxic Substances Control shall notify the
State Department of Education, the Division of the State Architect, and
the Office of Public School Construction when the Department of Toxic
Substances Control certifies that all necessary response actions have
been completed at a schoolsite. The Department of Toxic Substances
Control shall also notify the Division of the State Architect whenever a
response action has an impact on the design of a school facility and shall
specify the conditions that must be met in the design of the school facility
in order to protect the integrity of the response action.
 3232                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 444 ]
   (h) The school district shall reimburse the Department of Toxic
Substances Control for all response costs incurred by the department.
   (i) The costs incurred by the school districts when complying with
this section are allowable costs for purposes of an applicant under
Chapter 12.5 (commencing with Section 17070.10) of Part 10 and may
be reimbursed in accordance with Section 17072.13.
   SEC. 6. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.
   SEC. 7. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to ensure that school districts receive state funding by
complying with the Phase I environmental assessment requirement, it is
necessary that this act take effect immediately.



                            CHAPTER 444

  An act to add Section 1191.21 to the Penal Code, relating to victims.
            [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1191.21 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   1191.21. (a) (1) The Office of Criminal Justice Planning shall
develop and make available a ‘‘notification of eligibility’’ card for
victims and derivative victims of crimes as defined in subdivision (c) of
Section 13960 of the Government Code that includes, but is not limited
to, the following information:

‘‘If you have been the victim of a crime that meets the required
definition, you or others may be eligible to receive payment from the
California State Restitution Fund for losses directly resulting from the
crime. To learn about eligibility and receive an application to receive
payments, call the Victims of Crime Program at (800) 777-9229 or call
[Ch. 445 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3233

your local county Victim Witness Assistance Center.’’

   (2) At a minimum, the Office of Criminal Justice Planning shall
develop a template available for downloading on its Internet website the
information requested in subdivision (b).
   (b) In a case involving a crime as defined in subdivision (c) of Section
13960 of the Government Code, the law enforcement officer with
primary responsibility for investigating the crime committed against the
victim and the district attorney may provide the ‘‘notification of
eligibility’’ card to the victim and derivative victim of a crime.
   (c) The terms ‘‘victim’’ and ‘‘derivative victim’’ shall be given the
same meaning given those terms in Section 13960 of the Government
Code.



                             CHAPTER 445

  An act to amend Sections 12301.3 and 12301.4 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, relating to human services, and declaring the urgency
thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12301.3 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
is amended to read:
   12301.3. (a) Each county shall appoint an in-home supportive
services advisory committee that shall be comprised of not more than 11
individuals. No less than 50 percent of the membership of the advisory
committee shall be individuals who are current or past users of personal
assistance services paid for through public or private funds or as
recipients of services under this article.
   (1) (A) In counties with fewer than 500 recipients of services
provided pursuant to this article or Section 14132.95, at least one
member of the advisory committee shall be a current or former provider
of in-home supportive services.
   (B) In counties with 500 or more recipients of services provided
pursuant to this article or Section 14132.95, at least two members of the
advisory committee shall be a current or former provider of in-home
supportive services.
 3234                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 445 ]
   (2) Individuals who represent organizations that advocate for people
with disabilities or seniors may be appointed to committees under this
section.
   (3) Individuals from community-based organizations that advocate
on behalf of home care employees may be appointed to committees
under this section.
   (4) A county board of supervisors shall not appoint more than one
county employee as a member of the advisory committee, but may
designate any county employee to provide ongoing advice and support
to the advisory committee.
   (b) Prior to the appointment of members to a committee required by
subdivision (a), the county board of supervisors shall solicit
recommendations for qualified members through a fair and open process
that includes the provision of reasonable written notice to, and
reasonable response time by, members of the general public and
interested persons and organizations.
   (c) The advisory committee shall submit recommendations to the
county board of supervisors on the preferred mode or modes of service
to be utilized in the county for in-home supportive services.
   (d) Any county that has established a governing body, as provided in
subdivision (b) of Section 12301.6, prior to July 1, 2000, shall not be
required to comply with the composition requirements of subdivision (a)
and shall be deemed to be in compliance with this section.
   SEC. 2. Section 12301.4 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   12301.4. (a) Each advisory committee established pursuant to
Section 12301.3 or 12301.6 shall provide ongoing advice and
recommendations regarding in-home supportive services to the county
board of supervisors, any administrative body in the county that is
related to the delivery and administration of in-home supportive
services, and the governing body and administrative agency of the public
authority, nonprofit consortium, contractor, and public employees.
   (b) Each county shall be eligible to receive state reimbursements of
administrative costs for only one advisory committee and shall comply
with the requirements of subdivision (e) of Section 12302.25.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to provide counties that are currently forming in-home
supportive services advisory committees with clarification regarding the
[Ch. 446 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3235

composition of those committees, it is necessary that this act take effect
immediately.



                             CHAPTER 446

  An act to amend Section 97 of the Streets and Highways Code, relating
to highways.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 97 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
  97. (a) The department, in consultation with the Department of the
California Highway Patrol, shall develop pilot projects in both northern
and southern California. The portions of the highways involved in the
projects shall be designated and identified as ‘‘Safety
Enhancement-Double Fine Zones’’ and shall be in the following
locations:
  (1) On Route 37, between the intersection with Route 121 and the
intersection with Route 29.
  (2) On Route 4, between the intersection with the Cummings Skyway
and the intersection with Route 80.
  (3) On Route 74, at both of the following locations:
  (A) Between the intersection with Route 5 and the intersection with
the Riverside-Orange county line.
  (B) Between the junction with Route 15 and the intersection with
Seventh Street in the City of Perris.
  (4) On Route 46, between the intersection with Route 101 and the
junction with Route 41.
  (5) On the Golden Gate Bridge.
  (6) On Route 12, between the intersection with Walters Road in the
City of Suisun and the intersection with Lower Sacramento Road in the
City of Lodi.
  (7) On Route 138, between the intersection with Avenue T and
Pearblossom Highway and the intersection with Interstate Highway
Route 15.
  (8) On Route 101, between the intersection with Boronda Road and
the intersection with the San Benito-Monterey county line.
  (9) On Route 152, between the junction with Route 156 at the Don
Pacheco ‘‘Y’’ and the intersection with Ferguson Road.
 3236                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 446 ]
   (10) On Route 2, between the city limits of La Canada Flintridge and
the intersection with Route 39.
   (b) (1) The department shall adopt rules and regulations prescribing
uniform standards for warning signs to notify motorists that, pursuant
to Section 42010 of the Vehicle Code, increased penalties apply for
traffic violations that are committed within Safety Enhancement-Double
Fine Zones. The rules and regulations adopted by the department shall
include, but not be limited to, a requirement that Safety
Enhancement-Double Fine Zones be identified with signs stating:
‘‘Special Safety Zone Begins Here’’ and ‘‘Special Safety Zone Ends
Here.’’
   (2) The department or local authorities, with respect to highways
under their respective jurisdictions, shall place and maintain the warning
signs specified in paragraph (1) in areas designated under subdivision
(a).
   (3) The department shall report to the Legislature on January 1, 2003,
on the results of these pilot projects, including a determination of
whether the projects were successful. In its report, the department shall
update the January 1, 1998, report, and shall provide a detailed analysis
on the impact of the pilot projects on highway safety, including, but not
limited to, the number of accidents, traffic injuries, and fatalities in the
project areas; and, in consultation with the Department of the California
Highway Patrol, recommend specific criteria for designation of a
highway as a Safety Enhancement-Double Fine Zone. A determination
that the projects were successful shall be based upon a showing that a
statistically significant decrease in the number of accidents, traffic
injuries, and fatalities has occurred in the project areas.
   (c) Designation of a highway as a Safety Enhancement-Double Fine
Zone does not increase the civil liability of the state under Division 3.6
(commencing with Section 810) of Title 1 of the Government Code or
any other provision of law relating to civil liability.
   (d) (1) Only the base fine shall be enhanced pursuant to this section.
   (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any additional
penalty, forfeiture, or assessment imposed by any other statute shall be
based on the amount of the base fine before enhancement or doubling
and shall not be based on the amount of the enhanced fine imposed
pursuant to this section.
   (e) The pilot projects specified in subdivision (a) shall not be elevated
in priority for state funding purposes.
   (f) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2004, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which is enacted
before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
[Ch. 447 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3237

costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 447

  An act to amend Sections 116.760, 631.3, and 1141.28 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, to amend Section 7895 of the Family Code, to amend
Sections 68085, 70141, 72055, 77009, 77201.1, and 77212 of, and to
add Section 811.9 to, the Government Code, to amend Section 1037 of
the Penal Code, and to amend Section 100 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, relating to courts.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 116.760 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   116.760. (a) The appealing party shall pay the same fees that are
required for an appeal of a limited civil case.
   (b) A party who does not appeal shall not be charged any fee for filing
any document relating to the appeal.
   SEC. 2. Section 631.3 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   631.3. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a party to
the litigation has deposited jury fees with the judge or clerk and that party
waives a jury or obtains a continuance of the trial, or the case is settled,
none of the deposit shall be refunded if the court finds there has been
insufficient time to notify the jurors that the trial would not proceed at
the time set. If the jury fees so deposited are not refunded for the reasons
herein specified, or if a refund of jury fees deposited with the judge or
clerk has not been requested, in writing, by the depositing party within
20 business days from the date on which the jury is waived or the action
is settled, dismissed, or a continuance thereof granted, the fees shall be
transmitted to the Controller for deposit into the Trial Court Trust Fund.
All jury fees and mileage fees that may accrue by reason of a juror
serving on more than one case in the same day shall be transmitted to the
Controller for deposit into the Trial Court Trust Fund. All jury fees that
 3238                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 447 ]
were deposited with the court in advance of trial pursuant to Section 631
prior to January 1, 1999, and which remain on deposit in cases that were
settled, dismissed, or otherwise disposed of prior to January 1, 1998,
shall be transmitted to the Controller for deposit into the Trial Court
Trust Fund.
   SEC. 3. Section 1141.28 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   1141.28. (a) All administrative costs of arbitration, including
compensation of arbitrators, shall be paid for by the court in which the
arbitration costs are incurred, except as otherwise provided in
subdivision (b) and in Section 1141.21.
   (b) The actual costs of compensation of arbitrators in any proceeding
which would not otherwise be subject to the provisions of this chapter
but in which arbitration is conducted pursuant to this chapter solely
because of the stipulation of the parties, shall be paid for in equal shares
by the parties. If the imposition of these costs would create such a
substantial economic hardship for any party as not to be in the interest
of justice, as determined by the arbitrator, that party’s share of costs shall
be paid for by the court in which the arbitration costs are incurred. The
determination as to substantial economic hardship may be reviewed by
the court.
   SEC. 4. Section 7895 of the Family Code is amended to read:
   7895. (a) Upon appeal from a judgment freeing a child who is a
dependent child of the juvenile court from parental custody and control,
the appellate court shall appoint counsel for the appellant as provided by
this section.
   (b) Upon motion by the appellant and a finding that the appellant is
unable to afford counsel, the appellate court shall appoint counsel for the
indigent appellant, and appellant’s counsel shall be provided a free copy
of the reporter’s and clerk’s transcript. All of those costs are a charge
against the state.
   (c) The reporter’s and clerk’s transcripts shall be prepared and
transmitted immediately after filing of the notice of appeal, at court
expense and without advance payment of fees. If the appellant is able to
afford counsel, the court may seek reimbursement from the appellant for
the cost of the transcripts under subdivision (c) of Section 68511.3 of the
Government Code as though the appellant had been granted permission
to proceed in forma pauperis.
   SEC. 4.5. Section 811.9 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   811.9. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, judges,
subordinate judicial officers, and court executive officers of the superior
and municipal courts are state officers for purposes of Part 1
(commencing with Section 810) to Part 7 (commencing with Section
995), inclusive, and trial court employees are employees of the trial court
[Ch. 447 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3239

for purposes of Part 1 (commencing with Section 810) to Part 7
(commencing with Section 995), inclusive. The Judicial Council shall
provide for representation, defense, and indemnification of such
individuals and the court pursuant to Part 1 (commencing with Section
810) to Part 7 (commencing with Section 995), inclusive. The Judicial
Council shall provide for such representation or defense through the
county counsel, the Attorney General, or other counsel. The county
counsel and the Attorney General may, but are not required to, provide
such representation or defense for the Judicial Council. The fact that a
judge, subordinate judicial officer, court executive officer, trial court
employee, or the court was represented or defended by the county
counsel, the Attorney General, or other counsel shall not be the sole basis
for a judicial determination of disqualification of a judge, subordinate
judicial officer, the county counsel, the Attorney General, or other
counsel in unrelated actions.
   (b) To promote the cost-effective, prompt, and fair resolution of
actions, proceedings, and claims affecting the trial courts, the Judicial
Council shall adopt rules of court requiring the Administrative Office of
the Courts to manage actions, proceedings, and claims that affect the trial
courts and involve superior or municipal courts, superior or municipal
court judges, subordinate judicial officers, court executive officers, or
trial court employees in consultation with the affected courts and
individuals. The Administrative Office of the Courts’ management of
these actions, proceedings, and claims shall include, but not be limited
to, case management and administrative responsibilities such as
selection of counsel and making strategic and settlement decisions.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the
employment status of subordinate judicial officers, court executive
officers, and trial court employees related to any matters not covered by
subdivision (a).
   SEC. 5. Section 68085 of the Government Code, as amended by
Chapter 15 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
   68085. (a) (1) There is hereby established the Trial Court Trust
Fund, the proceeds of which shall be apportioned at least quarterly for
the purpose of funding trial court operations, as defined in Section
77003. In no event shall apportionment payments exceed 30 percent of
the total annual apportionment to the Trial Court Trust Fund for state trial
court funding in any 90-day period.
   (2) The apportionment payments shall be made by the Controller. For
fiscal year 1997–98, the Controller shall make the first apportionment
payment within 10 days of the operative date of this section. The final
payment from the Trial Court Trust Fund for each fiscal year shall be
made on or before August 31 of the subsequent fiscal year.
 3240                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 447 ]
   (3) If apportionment payments are made on a quarterly basis, the
payments shall be on July 15, October 15, January 15, and April 15. In
addition to quarterly payments, a final payment from the Trial Court
Trust Fund for each fiscal year may be made on or before August 31 of
the subsequent fiscal year.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the fees listed in
subdivision (c) shall all be deposited upon collection in a special account
in the county treasury, and transmitted herefrom monthly to the
Controller for deposit in the Trial Court Trust Fund.
   (c) (1) Except as specified in subdivision (d), this section applies to
all fees collected pursuant to Sections 631.3 and 116.230 of the Code of
Civil Procedure and Sections 26820.4, 26823, 26826, 26826.01, 26827,
26827.4, 26830, 26832.1, 26833.1, 26835.1, 26836.1, 26837.1, 26838,
26850.1, 26851.1, 26852.1, 26853.1, 26855.4, 26862, 27081.5, 68086,
72055, 72056, 72056.01, and 72060.
   (2) If any of the fees provided for in this subdivision are partially
waived by court order, and the fee is to be divided between the Trial
Court Trust Fund and any other fund, the amount of the partial waiver
shall be deducted from the amount to be distributed to each fund in the
same proportion as the amount of each distribution bears to the total
amount of the fee.
   (3) Any amounts transmitted by a county to the Controller for deposit
into the Trial Court Trust Fund from fees collected pursuant to Section
27361 between January 1, 1998, and the effective date of this paragraph
shall be credited against the total amount the county is required to pay
to the state pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (b) of Section 77201
for the 1997–98 fiscal year.
   (d) This section does not apply to that portion of a filing fee collected
pursuant to Section 26820.4, 26826, 26827, 72055, or 72056 which is
allocated for dispute resolution pursuant to Section 470.3 of the
Business and Professions Code, the county law library pursuant to
Section 6320 of the Business and Professions Code, the Judges’
Retirement Fund pursuant to Section 26822.3, automated recordkeeping
or conversion to micrographics pursuant to Sections 26863 and 68090.7,
and courthouse financing pursuant to Section 76238. This section also
does not apply to fees collected pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (c) of
Section 27361.
   (e) This section applies to all payments required to be made to the
State Treasury by any county or city and county pursuant to Section
77201, 77201.1, or 77205.
   (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no agency shall take
action to change the amounts allocated to any of the above funds.
   (g) Before making any apportionments under this section, the
Controller shall deduct, from the annual appropriation for that purpose,
[Ch. 447 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3241

the actual administrative costs that will be incurred under this section.
Costs reimbursed under this section shall be determined on an annual
basis in consultation with the Judicial Council.
   (h) Any amounts required to be transmitted by a county or city and
county to the state pursuant to this section shall be remitted to the
Controller no later than 45 days after the end of the month in which the
fees were collected. This remittance shall be accompanied by a
remittance advice identifying the collection month and the appropriate
account in the Trial Court Trust Fund to which it is to be deposited. Any
remittance which is not made by the county or city and county in
accordance with this section shall be considered delinquent, and subject
to the penalties specified in this section.
   (i) Upon receipt of any delinquent payment required pursuant to this
section, the Controller shall calculate a penalty on any delinquent
payment by multiplying the amount of the delinquent payment at a daily
rate equivalent to 11/2 percent per month for the number of days the
payment is delinquent. Notwithstanding Section 77009, any penalty on
a delinquent payment that a court is required to reimburse to a county’s
general fund pursuant to this section and Section 24353 shall be paid
from the Trial Court Operations Fund for that court.
   (j) Penalty amounts calculated pursuant to subdivision (i) shall be
paid by the county to the Trial Court Trust Fund no later than 45 days
after the end of the month in which the penalty was calculated.
   (k) The Trial Court Trust Fund shall be invested in the Surplus Money
Investment Fund and all interest earned shall be allocated to the Trial
Court Trust Fund semiannually and shall be allocated among the courts
in accordance with the requirements of subdivision (a). The specific
allocations shall be specified by the Judicial Council, based upon
recommendations from the Trial Court Budget Commission.
   (l) It is the intent of the Legislature that the revenues required to be
deposited into the Trial Court Trust Fund be remitted as soon after
collection by the courts as possible. Not later than February 1, 2001, the
Judicial Council, in consultation with the California State Association
of Counties and the California County Auditors Association, shall study
and make recommendations to the Legislature on alternative procedures
that would improve the collection and remittance of revenues to the Trial
Court Trust Fund.
   SEC. 6. Section 70141 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   70141. (a) To assist the court in disposing of its business connected
with the administration of justice, upon approval by the Judicial
Council, the superior court of any city and county may appoint not
exceeding 10 commissioners, and the superior court of every county,
except a county with a population of 4,000,000 or over, may appoint one
 3242                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 447 ]
commissioner. Each person so appointed shall be designated as ‘‘court
commissioner’’ of the county.
   (b) Until July 1, 1997, in addition to the court commissioners
authorized by subdivision (a) or any other provision of law, either the
superior court or the municipal court, but not both, of any county or city
and county may appoint one additional commissioner, at the same rate
of compensation as the other commissioner or commissioners for that
court, upon adoption of a resolution by the board of supervisors pursuant
to subdivision (c).
   (c) The county or city and county shall be bound by, and the
resolution adopted by the board of supervisors shall specifically
recognize, the following conditions:
   (1) The county or city and county has sufficient funds for the support
of the position and any staff who will provide direct support to the
position, agrees to assume any and all additional costs that may result
therefrom, and agrees that no state funds shall be made available, or shall
be used, in support of this position or any staff who provide direct
support to this position.
   (2) The additional commissioner shall not be deemed a judicial
position for purposes of calculating trial court funding pursuant to
Section 77202.
   (3) The salary for this position and for any staff who provide direct
support to this position shall not be considered as part of court operations
for purposes of Sections 77003 and 77204.
   (4) The county or city and county agrees not to seek funding from the
state for payment of the salary, benefits, or other compensation for such
a commissioner or for any staff who provide direct support to such a
commissioner.
   (d) The court may provide that the additional commissioner may
perform all duties authorized for a commissioner of that court in the
county. In a county or city and county that has undertaken a
consolidation of the trial courts, the additional commissioner shall be
appointed by the superior or municipal courts pursuant to the
consolidation agreement.
   (e) In addition to the court commissioners authorized by subdivisions
(a) and (b), the superior court of any county or city and county shall
appoint additional commissioners pursuant to Sections 4251 and 4252
of the Family Code. These commissioners shall receive a salary equal
to 85 percent of a superior court judge’s salary.
   SEC. 7. Section 72055 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   72055. The total fee for filing of the first paper in a limited civil case,
shall be ninety dollars ($90), except that in cases where the amount
demanded, excluding attorney’s fees and costs, is ten thousand dollars
($10,000) or less, the fee shall be eighty-three dollars ($83). The amount
[Ch. 447 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3243

of the demand shall be stated on the first page of the paper immediately
below the caption.
  This section applies to the initial complaint, petition, or application,
and any papers transmitted from another court on the transfer of a civil
action or proceeding, but does not include documents filed pursuant to
Section 491.150, 704.750, or 708.160 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
  The term ‘‘total fee’’ as used in this section and Section 72056
includes any amount allocated to the Judges’ Retirement Fund pursuant
to Section 72056.1, any automation fee imposed pursuant to Section
68090.7, any construction fee imposed pursuant to Section 76238, and
the law library fee established pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with
Section 6320) of Chapter 5 of Division 3 of the Business and Professions
Code. The term ‘‘total fee’’ as used in this section and Section 72056 also
includes any dispute resolution fee imposed pursuant to Section 470.3
of the Business and Professions Code, but the board of supervisors of
each county may exclude any portion of this dispute resolution fee from
the term ‘‘total fee.’’
  The fee shall be waived in any action for damages against a defendant,
based upon the defendant’s commission of a felony offense, upon
presentation to the clerk of the court of a certified copy of the abstract
of judgment of conviction of the defendant of the felony giving rise to
the claim for damages. If the plaintiff would have been entitled to recover
those fees from the defendant had they been paid, the court may assess
the amount of the waived fees against the defendant and order the
defendant to pay that sum to the county.
  SEC. 8. Section 77009 of the Government Code is amended to read:
  77009. (a) For the purposes of funding trial court operations, each
board of supervisors shall establish in the county treasury a Trial Court
Operations Fund, which will operate as an agency fund. All funds
appropriated in the Budget Act and allocated and reallocated to each
court in the county by the Judicial Council shall be deposited into the
fund. Accounts shall be established in the Trial Court Operations Fund
for each trial court in the county, except that one account may be
established for courts which have a unified budget. In a county where
court budgets include appropriations for expenditures administered on
a countywide basis, including, but not limited to, court security,
centralized data-processing and planning and research services, an
account for each centralized service shall be established and funded from
those appropriations.
  (b) The moneys of the Trial Court Operations Fund arising from
deposits of funds appropriated in the Budget Act and allocated or
reallocated to each court in the county by the Judicial Council shall be
payable only for the purposes set forth in Sections 77003 and 77006.5,
and for services purchased by the court pursuant to subdivisions (b) and
 3244                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 447 ]
(c) of Section 77212. The presiding judge of each court in a county, or
his or her designee, shall authorize and direct expenditures from the fund
and the county auditor-controller shall make payments from the funds
as directed. Approval of the board of supervisors is not required for
expenditure from this fund.
   (c) All funds received by a trial court from any source shall be
deposited in the trial court operations fund, except as provided in this
section. Funds that are received to fulfill the requirements of Article 4
(commencing with Section 4250) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 9
and Division 14 (commencing with Section 10000) of the Family Code
shall be identified and maintained in a separate account established in the
fund for this purpose. All other funds that are received for purposes other
than court operations, as defined in Section 77003 and Rule 810 of the
California Rules of Court, shall be identified and maintained in one or
more separate accounts established in the fund pursuant to procedures
adopted by the Judicial Council. This subdivision shall only apply to
funds received by the courts for operating and program purposes. This
subdivision shall not apply to either of the following:
   (1) Funds received by the courts pursuant to Section 68084, if those
funds are not for operating or program use.
   (2) Payments from a party or a defendant received by a trial court or
the county for any fees, fines, or forfeitures.
   (d) Interest received by a county which is attributable to investment
of money required by this section to be deposited in its Trial Court
Operations Fund shall be deposited in the fund and shall be used for trial
court operations purposes.
   (e) In no event shall interest be charged to the Trial Court Operations
Fund, except as provided in Section 77009.1.
   (f) Reasonable administrative expenses incurred by the county
associated with the operation of this fund shall be charged to each court
on a pro rata basis in proportion to the total amount allocated to each
court in this fund.
   (g) A county, or city and county, may bill trial courts within its
jurisdiction for costs for services provided by the county, or city and
county, as described in Sections 77003 and 77212, including indirect
costs as described in paragraph (7) of subdivision (a) of Section 77003
and Section 77212. The costs billed by the county, or the city and the
county, pursuant to this subdivision shall not exceed the costs incurred
by the county, or the city and the county, of providing similar services
to county departments or special districts.
   (h) Pursuant to Section 77206, the Controller, at the request of the
Legislature or the Judicial Council, may perform financial and fiscal
compliance audits of this fund.
[Ch. 447 ]                           STATUTES OF 2000                                        3245

   (i) The Judicial Council with the concurrence of the Department of
Finance and the Controller’s office shall establish procedures to
implement the provisions of this section and to provide for payment of
trial court operations expenses, as described in Sections 77003 and
77006.5, incurred on July 1, 1997, and thereafter.
   (j) The Judicial Council shall study alternative methods for the
establishment and management of the Trial Court Operations Fund as
provided in this section, and shall report its findings and
recommendations to the Legislature not later than November 1, 1998.
   SEC. 9. Section 77201.1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   77201.1. (a) Commencing on July 1, 1997, and each year
thereafter, no county shall be responsible for funding court operations,
as defined in Section 77003 and Rule 810 of the California Rules of
Court as it read on July 1, 1996.
   (b) Commencing in the 1999–2000 fiscal year, and each fiscal year
thereafter, each county shall remit to the state in four equal installments
due on October 1, January 1, April 1, and May 1, the amounts specified
in paragraphs (1) and (2), as follows:
   (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall remit to the state the amount listed below which is based on
an amount expended by the respective county for court operations during
the 1994–95 fiscal year:

Jurisdiction                                                                       Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 22,509,905
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            11,974,535
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11,222,780
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9,234,511
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
3246                                  STATUTES OF 2000                              [Ch. 447 ]
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        175,330,647
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4,520,911
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             –
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      38,846,003
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             –
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       17,857,241
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          20,733,264
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            20,227,102
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       43,495,932
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         19,295,303
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          6,543,068
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    –
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         12,181,079
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          6,764,792
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       28,689,450
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             –
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             –
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       6,242,661
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6,162,466
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3,506,297
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             –
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             –
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      9,734,190
[Ch. 447 ]                           STATUTES OF 2000                                    3247

Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           –
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           –

  (2) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall also remit to the state the amount listed below which is
based on an amount of fine and forfeiture revenue remitted to the state
pursuant to Sections 27361 and 76000 of this code, Sections 1463.001,
1463.07, and 1464 of the Penal Code, and Sections 42007, 42007.1, and
42008 of the Vehicle Code during the 1994–95 fiscal year:

Jurisdiction                                                                        Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 9,912,156
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         58,757
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            265,707
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1,217,052
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           310,331
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          397,468
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4,168,194
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           553,730
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,028,349
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3,695,633
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         360,974
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1,025,583
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,144,661
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        614,920
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5,530,972
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         982,208
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        375,570
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          430,163
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          71,002,129
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,042,797
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2,111,712
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            135,457
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             717,075
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,733,156
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           104,729
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          415,136
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,330,125
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        719,168
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,220,686
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19,572,810
 3248                                  STATUTES OF 2000                          [Ch. 447 ]
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,243,754
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        193,772
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       7,681,744
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          5,937,204
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          302,324
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            8,511,193
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16,166,735
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4,046,107
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3,562,835
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2,036,515
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4,831,497
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3,277,610
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11,597,583
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,902,096
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,044,700
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       42,533
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        615,581
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,708,758
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2,316,999
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,855,169
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      678,681
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        640,303
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       137,087
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,840,422
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          361,665
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     4,575,349
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      880,798
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      289,325

  (3) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, county
remittances specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not be increased in
subsequent years.
  (4) Except for those counties with a population of 70,000, or less, on
January 1, 1996, the amount a county is required to remit pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall be adjusted by the amount equal to any adjustment
resulting from the procedures in subdivisions (c) and (d) of Section
77201 as that section read on June 30, 1998, to the extent a county filed
an appeal with the Controller with respect to the findings made by the
Department of Finance. This paragraph shall not be construed to
establish a new appeal process beyond what was provided by Section
77201, as that section read on June 30, 1998.
[Ch. 447 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3249

   (5) Any change in statute or rule of court that either reduces the bail
schedule or redirects or reduces a county’s portion of fee, fine, and
forfeiture revenue to an amount that is less than (A) the fees, fines, and
forfeitures retained by that county, and (B) the county’s portion of fines
and forfeitures transmitted to the state in the 1994–95 fiscal year, shall
reduce that county’s remittance specified in paragraph (2) of this
subdivision by an equal amount. Nothing in this paragraph is intended
to limit judicial sentencing discretion.
   (c) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility to provide necessary and suitable court facilities pursuant
to Section 68073.
   (d) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility for justice-related expenses not included in Section 77003
which are otherwise required of the county by law, including, but not
limited to, indigent defense representation and investigation, and
payment of youth authority charges.
   (e) County base year remittance requirements specified in paragraph
(2) of subdivision (b) incorporate specific reductions to reflect those
instances where the Department of Finance has determined that a
county’s remittance to both the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust
Fund during the 1994–95 fiscal year exceeded the aggregate amount of
state funding from the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust Fund. The
amount of the reduction was determined by calculating the difference
between the amount the county remitted to the General Fund and the
Trial Court Trust Fund and the aggregate amount of state support from
the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust Fund allocated to the county’s
trial courts. In making its determination of whether a county is entitled
to a reduction pursuant to that paragraph, the Department of Finance
subtracted from county revenues remitted to the state, all moneys
derived from the fee required by Section 42007.1 of the Vehicle Code
and the parking surcharge required by subdivision (c) of Section 76000.
   (f) Notwithstanding subdivision (e), the Department of Finance shall
not reduce a county’s base year remittance requirement, as specified in
paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), if the county’s trial court funding
allocation was modified pursuant to the amendments to the allocation
formula set forth in paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 77200,
as amended by Chapter 2 of the Statutes of 1993, to provide a stable level
of funding for small county courts in response to reductions in the
General Fund support for the trial courts.
   (g) In any fiscal year in which a county of the first class pays the
employer-paid retirement contribution for court employees, or any other
employees of the county who provide a service to the court, and the
amounts of those payments are charged to the budget of the courts, the
sum the county is required to pay to the state pursuant to paragraph (1)
 3250                                  STATUTES OF 2000                               [Ch. 447 ]
of subdivision (b) shall be increased by the actual amount charged to the
trial court up to twenty-three million five hundred twenty-seven
thousand nine hundred forty-nine dollars ($23,527,949) in that fiscal
year. The county and the trial court shall report to the Controller and the
Department of Finance the actual amount charged in that fiscal year.
   (h) This section shall become operative on July 1, 1999.
   SEC. 9.2. Section 77201.1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   77201.1. (a) Commencing on July 1, 1997, and each year
thereafter, no county shall be responsible for funding court operations,
as defined in Section 77003 and Rule 810 of the California Rules of
Court as it read on July 1, 1996.
   (b) Commencing in the 1999–2000 fiscal year, and each fiscal year
thereafter, each county shall remit to the state in four equal installments
due on October 1, January 1, April 1, and May 1, the amounts specified
in paragraphs (1) and (2), as follows:
   (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall remit to the state the amount listed below which is based on
an amount expended by the respective county for court operations during
the 1994–95 fiscal year:

Jurisdiction                                                                       Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 22,509,905
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            11,974,535
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11,222,780
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9,234,511
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          175,330,647
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
[Ch. 447 ]                          STATUTES OF 2000                                      3251

Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             –
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4,520,911
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     38,846,003
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17,857,241
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         20,733,264
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           20,227,102
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      43,495,932
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        19,295,303
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6,543,068
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        12,181,079
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6,764,792
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      28,689,450
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6,242,661
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6,162,466
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3,506,297
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             –
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9,734,190
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –

  (2) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall also remit to the state the amount listed below which is
 3252                                  STATUTES OF 2000                            [Ch. 447 ]
based on an amount of fine and forfeiture revenue remitted to the state
pursuant to Sections 27361 and 76000 of this code, Sections 1463.001,
1463.07, and 1464 of the Penal Code, and Sections 42007, 42007.1, and
42008 of the Vehicle Code during the 1994–95 fiscal year:

Jurisdiction                                                                        Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 9,912,156
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         58,757
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            265,707
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1,217,052
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           310,331
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          397,468
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4,168,194
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           553,730
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,028,349
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3,695,633
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         360,974
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1,025,583
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,144,661
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        614,920
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5,530,972
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         982,208
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        375,570
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          430,163
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          71,002,129
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,042,797
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2,111,712
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            135,457
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             717,075
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,733,156
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           104,729
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          415,136
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,330,125
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        719,168
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,220,686
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19,572,810
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,243,754
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          193,772
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         7,681,744
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5,937,204
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            302,324
[Ch. 447 ]                          STATUTES OF 2000                                   3253

San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            8,071,934
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16,166,735
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4,046,107
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3,562,835
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2,036,515
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4,831,497
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3,277,610
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11,597,583
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,902,096
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,044,700
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       42,533
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        615,581
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,708,758
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2,316,999
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,855,169
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      678,681
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        640,303
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       137,087
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,840,422
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          361,665
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     4,575,349
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      880,798
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      289,325

  (3) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, county
remittances specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not be increased in
subsequent years.
  (4) Except for those counties with a population of 70,000, or less, on
January 1, 1996, the amount a county is required to remit pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall be adjusted by the amount equal to any adjustment
resulting from the procedures in subdivisions (c) and (d) of Section
77201 as that section read on June 30, 1998, to the extent a county filed
an appeal with the Controller with respect to the findings made by the
Department of Finance. This paragraph shall not be construed to
establish a new appeal process beyond what was provided by Section
77201, as that section read on June 30, 1998.
  (5) Any change in statute or rule of court that either reduces the bail
schedule or redirects or reduces a county’s portion of fee, fine, and
forfeiture revenue to an amount that is less than (A) the fees, fines, and
forfeitures retained by that county, and (B) the county’s portion of fines
and forfeitures transmitted to the state in the 1994–95 fiscal year, shall
reduce that county’s remittance specified in paragraph (2) of this
 3254                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 447 ]
subdivision by an equal amount. Nothing in this paragraph is intended
to limit judicial sentencing discretion.
   (c) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility to provide necessary and suitable court facilities pursuant
to Section 68073.
   (d) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility for justice-related expenses not included in Section 77003
which are otherwise required of the county by law, including, but not
limited to, indigent defense representation and investigation, and
payment of youth authority charges.
   (e) County base year remittance requirements specified in paragraph
(2) of subdivision (b) incorporate specific reductions to reflect those
instances where the Department of Finance has determined that a
county’s remittance to both the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust
Fund during the 1994–95 fiscal year exceeded the aggregate amount of
state funding from the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust Fund. The
amount of the reduction was determined by calculating the difference
between the amount the county remitted to the General Fund and the
Trial Court Trust Fund and the aggregate amount of state support from
the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust Fund allocated to the county’s
trial courts. In making its determination of whether a county is entitled
to a reduction pursuant to that paragraph, the Department of Finance
subtracted from county revenues remitted to the state, all moneys
derived from the fee required by Section 42007.1 of the Vehicle Code
and the parking surcharge required by subdivision (c) of Section 76000.
   (f) Notwithstanding subdivision (e), the Department of Finance shall
not reduce a county’s base year remittance requirement, as specified in
paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), if the county’s trial court funding
allocation was modified pursuant to the amendments to the allocation
formula set forth in paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 77200,
as amended by Chapter 2 of the Statutes of 1993, to provide a stable level
of funding for small county courts in response to reductions in the
General Fund support for the trial courts.
   (g) In any fiscal year in which a county of the first class pays the
employer-paid retirement contribution for court employees, or any other
employees of the county who provide a service to the court, and the
amounts of those payments are charged to the budget of the courts, the
sum the county is required to pay to the state pursuant to paragraph (1)
of subdivision (b) shall be increased by the actual amount charged to the
trial court up to twenty-three million five hundred twenty-seven
thousand nine hundred forty-nine dollars ($23,527,949) in that fiscal
year. The county and the trial court shall report to the Controller and the
Department of Finance the actual amount charged in that fiscal year.
   (h) This section shall become operative on July 1, 1999.
[Ch. 447 ]                           STATUTES OF 2000                                        3255

   SEC. 9.4. Section 77201.1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   77201.1. (a) Commencing on July 1, 1997, and each year
thereafter, no county shall be responsible for funding court operations,
as defined in Section 77003 and Rule 810 of the California Rules of
Court as it read on July 1, 1996.
   (b) Commencing in the 1999–2000 fiscal year, and each fiscal year
thereafter, each county shall remit to the state in four equal installments
due on October 1, January 1, April 1, and May 1, the amounts specified
in paragraphs (1) and (2), as follows:
   (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall remit to the state the amount listed below which is based on
an amount expended by the respective county for court operations during
the 1994–95 fiscal year:

Jurisdiction                                                                       Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 22,509,905
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            11,974,535
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11,222,780
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9,234,511
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          175,330,647
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    –
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
 3256                                 STATUTES OF 2000                             [Ch. 447 ]
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4,520,911
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     38,846,003
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17,857,241
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         20,733,264
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           20,227,102
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      43,495,932
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        19,295,303
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6,543,068
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        12,181,079
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6,764,792
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      28,689,450
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6,242,661
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6,162,466
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3,506,297
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             –
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9,734,190
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –

  (2) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall also remit to the state the amount listed below which is
based on an amount of fine and forfeiture revenue remitted to the state
pursuant to Sections 27361 and 76000 of this code, Sections 1463.001,
1463.07, and 1464 of the Penal Code, and Sections 42007, 42007.1, and
42008 of the Vehicle Code during the 1994–95 fiscal year:
[Ch. 447 ]                           STATUTES OF 2000                                    3257

Jurisdiction                                                                        Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 9,912,156
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         58,757
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            265,707
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1,217,052
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           310,331
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          397,468
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4,168,194
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           124,085
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,028,349
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3,695,633
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         360,974
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1,025,583
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,144,661
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        614,920
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5,530,972
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         982,208
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        375,570
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          430,163
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          71,002,129
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,042,797
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2,111,712
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            135,457
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             717,075
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,733,156
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           104,729
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          415,136
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,330,125
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        719,168
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,220,686
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19,572,810
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,243,754
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          193,772
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         7,681,744
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5,937,204
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            302,324
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              8,511,193
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        16,166,735
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4,046,107
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           3,562,835
 3258                                  STATUTES OF 2000                          [Ch. 447 ]
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2,036,515
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4,831,497
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3,277,610
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11,597,583
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,902,096
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,044,700
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       42,533
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        615,581
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,708,758
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2,316,999
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,855,169
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      678,681
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        640,303
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       137,087
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,840,422
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          361,665
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     4,575,349
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      880,798
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      289,325

   (3) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, county
remittances specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not be increased in
subsequent years.
   (4) Except for those counties with a population of 70,000, or less, on
January 1, 1996, the amount a county is required to remit pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall be adjusted by the amount equal to any adjustment
resulting from the procedures in subdivisions (c) and (d) of Section
77201 as that section read on June 30, 1998, to the extent a county filed
an appeal with the Controller with respect to the findings made by the
Department of Finance. This paragraph shall not be construed to
establish a new appeal process beyond what was provided by Section
77201, as that section read on June 30, 1998.
  (5) Any change in statute or rule of court that either reduces the bail
schedule or redirects or reduces a county’s portion of fee, fine, and
forfeiture revenue to an amount that is less than (A) the fees, fines, and
forfeitures retained by that county, and (B) the county’s portion of fines
and forfeitures transmitted to the state in the 1994–95 fiscal year, shall
reduce that county’s remittance specified in paragraph (2) of this
subdivision by an equal amount. Nothing in this paragraph is intended
to limit judicial sentencing discretion.
[Ch. 447 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3259

   (c) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility to provide necessary and suitable court facilities pursuant
to Section 68073.
   (d) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility for justice-related expenses not included in Section 77003
which are otherwise required of the county by law, including, but not
limited to, indigent defense representation and investigation, and
payment of youth authority charges.
   (e) County base year remittance requirements specified in paragraph
(2) of subdivision (b) incorporate specific reductions to reflect those
instances where the Department of Finance has determined that a
county’s remittance to both the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust
Fund during the 1994–95 fiscal year exceeded the aggregate amount of
state funding from the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust Fund. The
amount of the reduction was determined by calculating the difference
between the amount the county remitted to the General Fund and the
Trial Court Trust Fund and the aggregate amount of state support from
the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust Fund allocated to the county’s
trial courts. In making its determination of whether a county is entitled
to a reduction pursuant to that paragraph, the Department of Finance
subtracted from county revenues remitted to the state, all moneys
derived from the fee required by Section 42007.1 of the Vehicle Code
and the parking surcharge required by subdivision (c) of Section 76000.
   (f) Notwithstanding subdivision (e), the Department of Finance shall
not reduce a county’s base year remittance requirement, as specified in
paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), if the county’s trial court funding
allocation was modified pursuant to the amendments to the allocation
formula set forth in paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 77200,
as amended by Chapter 2 of the Statutes of 1993, to provide a stable level
of funding for small county courts in response to reductions in the
General Fund support for the trial courts.
   (g) In any fiscal year in which a county of the first class pays the
employer-paid retirement contribution for court employees, or any other
employees of the county who provide a service to the court, and the
amounts of those payments are charged to the budget of the courts, the
sum the county is required to pay to the state pursuant to paragraph (1)
of subdivision (b) shall be increased by the actual amount charged to the
trial court up to twenty-three million five hundred twenty-seven
thousand nine hundred forty-nine dollars ($23,527,949) in that fiscal
year. The county and the trial court shall report to the Controller and the
Department of Finance the actual amount charged in that fiscal year.
   (h) This section shall become operative on July 1, 1999.
   SEC. 9.6. Section 77201.1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
 3260                                  STATUTES OF 2000                               [Ch. 447 ]
   77201.1. (a) Commencing on July 1, 1997, and each year
thereafter, no county shall be responsible for funding court operations,
as defined in Section 77003 and Rule 810 of the California Rules of
Court as it read on July 1, 1996.
   (b) Commencing in the 1999–2000 fiscal year, and each fiscal year
thereafter, each county shall remit to the state in four equal installments
due on October 1, January 1, April 1, and May 1, the amounts specified
in paragraphs (1) and (2), as follows:
   (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall remit to the state the amount listed below which is based on
an amount expended by the respective county for court operations during
the 1994–95 fiscal year:

Jurisdiction                                                                       Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 22,509,905
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            11,974,535
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11,222,780
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9,234,511
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          175,330,647
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    –
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4,520,911
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
[Ch. 447 ]                          STATUTES OF 2000                                          3261

Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         38,846,003
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          17,857,241
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             20,733,264
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    –
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               20,227,102
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          43,495,932
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            19,295,303
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             6,543,068
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       –
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            12,181,079
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             6,764,792
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          28,689,450
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    –
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          6,242,661
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            6,162,466
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,506,297
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    –
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9,734,190
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –

  (2) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall also remit to the state the amount listed below which is
based on an amount of fine and forfeiture revenue remitted to the state
pursuant to Sections 27361 and 76000 of this code, Sections 1463.001,
1463.07, and 1464 of the Penal Code, and Sections 42007, 42007.1, and
42008 of the Vehicle Code during the 1994–95 fiscal year:

Jurisdiction                                                                            Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           $ 9,912,156
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             58,757
3262                                   STATUTES OF 2000                           [Ch. 447 ]
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           265,707
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,217,052
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          310,331
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         397,468
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4,168,194
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          124,085
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,028,349
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     3,695,633
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        360,974
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,025,583
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1,144,661
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       614,920
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     5,530,972
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        982,208
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       375,570
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         430,163
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         71,002,129
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1,042,797
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,111,712
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           135,457
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            717,075
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1,733,156
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          104,729
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         415,136
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3,330,125
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       719,168
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1,220,686
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      19,572,810
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1,243,754
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         193,772
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        7,681,744
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           5,937,204
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           302,324
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             8,071,934
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16,166,735
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          4,046,107
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,562,835
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            2,036,515
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          4,831,497
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,277,610
[Ch. 447 ]                          STATUTES OF 2000                                   3263

Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11,597,583
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,902,096
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,044,700
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       42,533
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        615,581
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,708,758
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2,316,999
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,855,169
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      678,681
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        640,303
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       137,087
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,840,422
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          361,665
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     4,575,349
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      880,798
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      289,325

   (3) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, county
remittances specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not be increased in
subsequent years.
   (4) Except for those counties with a population of 70,000, or less, on
January 1, 1996, the amount a county is required to remit pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall be adjusted by the amount equal to any adjustment
resulting from the procedures in subdivisions (c) and (d) of Section
77201 as that section read on June 30, 1998, to the extent a county filed
an appeal with the Controller with respect to the findings made by the
Department of Finance. This paragraph shall not be construed to
establish a new appeal process beyond what was provided by Section
77201, as that section read on June 30, 1998.
  (5) Any change in statute or rule of court that either reduces the bail
schedule or redirects or reduces a county’s portion of fee, fine, and
forfeiture revenue to an amount that is less than (A) the fees, fines, and
forfeitures retained by that county, and (B) the county’s portion of fines
and forfeitures transmitted to the state in the 1994–95 fiscal year, shall
reduce that county’s remittance specified in paragraph (2) of this
subdivision by an equal amount. Nothing in this paragraph is intended
to limit judicial sentencing discretion.
  (c) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility to provide necessary and suitable court facilities pursuant
to Section 68073.
  (d) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility for justice-related expenses not included in Section 77003
which are otherwise required of the county by law, including, but not
 3264                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 447 ]
limited to, indigent defense representation and investigation, and
payment of youth authority charges.
   (e) County base year remittance requirements specified in paragraph
(2) of subdivision (b) incorporate specific reductions to reflect those
instances where the Department of Finance has determined that a
county’s remittance to both the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust
Fund during the 1994–95 fiscal year exceeded the aggregate amount of
state funding from the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust Fund. The
amount of the reduction was determined by calculating the difference
between the amount the county remitted to the General Fund and the
Trial Court Trust Fund and the aggregate amount of state support from
the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust Fund allocated to the county’s
trial courts. In making its determination of whether a county is entitled
to a reduction pursuant to that paragraph, the Department of Finance
subtracted from county revenues remitted to the state, all moneys
derived from the fee required by Section 42007.1 of the Vehicle Code
and the parking surcharge required by subdivision (c) of Section 76000.
   (f) Notwithstanding subdivision (e), the Department of Finance shall
not reduce a county’s base year remittance requirement, as specified in
paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), if the county’s trial court funding
allocation was modified pursuant to the amendments to the allocation
formula set forth in paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 77200,
as amended by Chapter 2 of the Statutes of 1993, to provide a stable level
of funding for small county courts in response to reductions in the
General Fund support for the trial courts.
   (g) In any fiscal year in which a county of the first class pays the
employer-paid retirement contribution for court employees, or any other
employees of the county who provide a service to the court, and the
amounts of those payments are charged to the budget of the courts, the
sum the county is required to pay to the state pursuant to paragraph (1)
of subdivision (b) shall be increased by the actual amount charged to the
trial court up to twenty-three million five hundred twenty-seven
thousand nine hundred forty-nine dollars ($23,527,949) in that fiscal
year. The county and the trial court shall report to the Controller and the
Department of Finance the actual amount charged in that fiscal year.
   (h) This section shall become operative on July 1, 1999.
   SEC. 10. Section 77212 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   77212. (a) The State of California, the counties of California, and
the trial courts of California, recognize that a unique and interdependent
relationship has evolved between the courts and the counties over a
sustained period of time. While it is the intent of this act to transfer all
fiscal responsibility for the support of the trial courts from the counties
to the State of California, it is imperative that the activities of the state,
[Ch. 447 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3265

the counties, and the trial courts be maintained in a manner that ensures
that services to the people of California not be disrupted. Therefore, to
this end, during the 1997–98 fiscal year, commencing on July 1, 1997,
counties shall continue to provide and courts shall continue to use,
county services provided to the trial courts on July 1, 1997, including,
but not limited to: auditor/controller services, coordination of telephone
services, data-processing and information technology services,
procurement, human resources services, affirmative action services,
treasurer/tax collector services, county counsel services, facilities
management, and legal representation. These services shall be provided
to the court at a rate that shall not exceed the costs of providing similar
services to county departments or special districts. If the cost was not
included in the county base pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b)
of Section 77201 or was not otherwise charged to the court prior to July
1, 1997, and were court operation costs as defined in Section 77003 in
fiscal year 1994–95, the court may seek adjustment of the amount the
county is required to submit to the state pursuant Section 77201.
   (b) In fiscal year 1998–99 commencing on July 1, 1998, and
thereafter the county may give notice to the court that the county will no
longer provide a specific service except that the county shall cooperate
with the court to ensure that a vital service for the court shall be available
from the county or other entities that provide such services. The notice
must be given at least 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year and shall
be effective only upon the first day of the succeeding fiscal year.
   (c) In fiscal year 1998–99, commencing on July 1, 1998, and
thereafter, the court may give notice to the county that the court will no
longer use a specific county service. The notice shall be given at least 90
days prior to the end of the fiscal year and shall be effective only upon
the first day of the succeeding fiscal year. However, for three years from
the effective date of this section, a court shall not terminate a service that
involved the acquisition of equipment, including, but not limited to,
computer and data processing systems, financed by a long-term
financing plan whereby the county is dependent upon the court’s
continued financial support for a portion of the cost of the acquisition.
   (d) (1) If a trial court desires to receive or continue to receive a
specific service from a county or city and county as provided in
subdivision (c), and the county or city and county desires to provide or
continue to provide that service as provided in subdivision (b), the
presiding judge of that court and the county or city and county shall enter
into a contract for that service. The contract shall identify the scope of
service, method of service delivery, term of agreement, anticipated
service outcomes, and the cost of the service. The court and the county
or city and county shall cooperate in developing and implementing the
contract.
 3266                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 447 ]
   (2) This subdivision applies to services to be provided in fiscal year
1999–2000 and thereafter.
   SEC. 11. Section 1037 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   1037. (a) When a court orders a change of venue to a court in
another county all costs incurred by that court or county, which are not
payable pursuant to Section 4750, for the transfer, preparation and trial
of the action, the guarding, keeping and transportation of the prisoner,
any appeal or other proceeding relating to the action and execution of the
sentence shall be a charge against the court or the county in which the
action originated. For the purposes of this section, costs that are included
in the definition of court operations as defined in Section 77003 of the
Government Code and Rule 810 of the California Rules of Court shall
be considered court costs and are a charge against the court in the county
in which the action originated. All other costs shall be considered county
costs and are a charge against the county in which the action originated.
   (b) Claims for the costs described in subdivision (a) shall be
forwarded to the treasurer and auditor of the county in which the action
originated. The treasurer shall pay the amount of county costs out of the
general funds of the county. The presiding judge of the court, or his or
her designee, shall authorize, and the treasurer shall pay, the amount of
court costs out of the local trial court operations fund as directed by the
court. Payments for claims for court costs shall be deposited into the
local trial court operations fund established pursuant to Section 77009
of the Government Code.
   (c) The term ‘‘all costs’’ means all reasonable and necessary costs
incurred by the county or court as a result of the change of venue which
would not have been incurred but for the change, and does not include
normal salaries, overhead, and other expenses which would have been
incurred by the county or court in any event.
   (d) The trial court may, in its sound discretion, approve any cost as
reasonable and necessary under this section. Prior to the trial court’s
issuing any order approving such a cost, the clerk shall give 10 days’
written notice of the court’s intention to issue an order to the auditor of
the county in which the action originated. The auditor may appear for the
limited purpose of opposing the issuance of the order. If he or she fails
to appear, the county of origin may not in any other proceeding contest
the imposition of these costs.
   SEC. 12. Section 100 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   100. The Judicial Council shall establish a planning and advisory
group consisting of appropriate professional and program specialists to
recommend on the development of program guidelines and funding
procedures consistent with this chapter. At a minimum, the council shall
adopt program guidelines consistent with the guidelines established by
[Ch. 447 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3267

the National Court Appointed Special Advocate Association, and with
California law; but the council may require additional or more stringent
standards. State funding shall be contingent on a program adopting and
adhering to the program guidelines adopted by the council.
   The program guidelines adopted by the council shall be adopted and
incorporated into local rules of court by each participating superior court
as a prerequisite to funding pursuant to this chapter.
   The council shall adopt program guidelines and criteria for funding
which encourage multicounty CASA programs where appropriate, and
shall in no case provide for funding more than one program per county.
   The council shall establish in a timely fashion a request-for-proposal
process to establish, maintain, or expand local CASA programs and
require local matching funds or in-kind funds equal to the proposal
request. The maximum state grant per county program per year shall not
exceed thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) in counties in which the
population is less than 700,000 and shall not exceed fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000) in counties in which the population is 700,000 or more,
according to the annual population report provided by the Department
of Finance.
   SEC. 13. Section 9.2 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 77201.1 of the Government Code proposed by both this bill and
AB 2402. If both bills are enacted and amend Section 77201.1 of the
Government Code, and SB 815 is not enacted amending Section
77201.1 of the Government Code, Section 77201.1 as amended by AB
2402 shall remain in effect only until the operative date of this bill, at
which time Section 9.2 of this bill shall become operative and Sections
9, 9.4, and 9.6 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 14. Section 9.4 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 77201.1 of the Government Code proposed by both this bill and
SB 815. If both bills are enacted and amend Section 77201.1 of the
Government Code, and AB 2402 is not enacted amending Section
77201.1 of the Government Code, Section 77201.1 as amended by SB
815 shall remain in effect only until the operative date of this bill, at
which time Section 9.4 of this bill shall become operative and Sections
9, 9.2, and 9.6 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 15. Section 9.6 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 77201.1 of the Government Code proposed by this bill, AB
2402, and SB 815. If all three bills are enacted and amend Section
77201.1 of the Government Code, Section 77201.1 as amended by AB
2402 and SB 815 shall remain in effect only until the operative date of
this bill, at which time Section 9.6 of this bill shall become operative and
Sections 9, 9.2, and 9.4 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 16. The Legislature hereby declares that Section 4.5 of this act
shall not be interpreted as applicable to, nor legislative preference of, an
 3268                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 448 ]
employment status for trial court employees. The Legislature recognizes
that pursuant to Chapter 850 of the Statutes of 1997, the Task Force on
Trial Court Employees will make recommendations to the Legislature
regarding an appropriate system of employment and governance for trial
court employees. The recommendations of the Task Force on Trial Court
Employees shall take effect only upon subsequent action of the
Legislature.
   SEC. 17. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                            CHAPTER 448

   An act to amend Section 1418.4 of the Health and Safety Code,
relating to long-term care facilities.
            [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1418.4 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   1418.4. (a) No licensed skilled nursing facility or intermediate care
facility may prohibit the formation of a family council, and, when
requested by a member of the resident’s family or the resident’s
representative, the family council shall be allowed to meet in a common
meeting room of the facility at least once a month during mutually
agreed upon hours.
   (b) Facility policies on family councils shall in no way limit the right
of residents, family members, and family council members to meet
independently with outside persons, including members of nonprofit or
government organizations or with facility personnel during nonworking
hours.
   (c) ‘‘Family council’’ for the purpose of this section means a meeting
of family members, friends, or representatives of two or more residents
to confer in private without facility staff.
[Ch. 449 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3269

   (d) Family councils shall also be provided adequate space on a
prominent bulletin board or other posting area for the display of meeting
notices, minutes, newsletters, or other information pertaining to the
operation or interest of the family council.
   (e) Staff or visitors may attend family council meetings, at the group’s
invitation.
   (f) The facility shall provide a designated staff person who shall be
responsible for providing assistance and responding to written requests
that result from family council meetings.
   (g) The facility shall consider the views and act upon the grievances
and recommendations of a family council concerning proposed policy
and operational decisions affecting resident care and life in the facility.
   (h) The facility shall respond in writing to written requests or
concerns of the family council, within 10 working days.
   (i) When a family council exists, the facility shall include notice of
the family council meetings in at least a quarterly mailing, and shall
inform family members or representatives of new residents who are
identified on the admissions agreement, during the admissions process,
or in the resident’s records, of the existence of the family council. The
notice shall include the time, place, and date of meetings, and the person
to contact regarding involvement in the family council.
   (j) No facility shall willfully interfere with the formation,
maintenance, or promotion of a family council. For the purposes of this
subdivision, willful interference shall include, but not be limited to,
discrimination or retaliation in any way against an individual as a result
of his or her participation in a family council, or the willful scheduling
of facility events in conflict with a previously scheduled family council
meeting.
   (k) (1) Violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
violation of the residents’ rights.
   (2) Violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a class
‘‘B’’ violation, as defined in Section 1424.



                             CHAPTER 449

   An act to add Section 14673.6 to the Government Code, relating to
state property, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect
immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]
 3270                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 450 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 14673.6 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
  14673.6. The Director of General Services may transfer and convey,
without charge or consideration, to the City of Salinas, all rights, title,
and interests, including any equitable interest, held by the state in the real
property situated at 342 Front Street, Salinas, California. The
Legislature hereby finds that it has deemed the subject property,
formerly used as an Employment Development Department office, as
surplus and that the city has received a transfer of property interests from
the United States for any interest held by the United States Department
of Labor in that property.
  SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order that the Director of General Services may transfer and convey
certain state property, without charge or consideration, at the earliest
possible time, it is necessary for this act to go into immediate effect.



                             CHAPTER 450

  An act to amend Section 317 of, to repeal Section 326 of, and to add
Section 326.5 to, the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to minors.
             [Approved by Governor September 13, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 14, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 317 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   317. (a) When it appears to the court that a parent or guardian of the
child desires counsel but is presently financially unable to afford and
cannot for that reason employ counsel, the court may appoint counsel as
provided in this section.
   (b) When it appears to the court that a parent or guardian of the child
is presently financially unable to afford and cannot for that reason
employ counsel, and the child has been placed in out-of-home care, or
the petitioning agency is recommending that the child be placed in
out-of-home care, the court shall appoint counsel, unless the court finds
[Ch. 450 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3271

that the parent or guardian has made a knowing and intelligent waiver
of counsel as provided in this section.
   (c) Where a child is not represented by counsel, the court shall appoint
counsel for the child unless the court finds that the child would not
benefit from the appointment of counsel. The court shall state on the
record its reasons for that finding. A primary responsibility of any
counsel appointed to represent a child pursuant to this section shall be
to advocate for the protection, safety, and physical and emotional
well-being of the child. Counsel for the child may be a district attorney,
public defender, or other member of the bar, provided that the counsel
does not represent another party or county agency whose interests
conflict with the child’s. The fact that the district attorney represents the
child in a proceeding pursuant to Section 300 as well as conducts a
criminal investigation or files a criminal complaint or information
arising from the same or reasonably related set of facts as the proceeding
pursuant to Section 300 is not in and of itself a conflict of interest. The
court may fix the compensation for the services of appointed counsel.
The appointed counsel shall have a caseload and training that assures
adequate representation of the child. The Judicial Council shall
promulgate rules of court that establish caseload standards, training
requirements, and guidelines for appointed counsel for children and
shall adopt rules as required by Section 326.5 no later than July 1, 2001.
   (d) The counsel appointed by the court shall represent the parent,
guardian, or child at the detention hearing and at all subsequent
proceedings before the juvenile court. Counsel shall continue to
represent the parent or child unless relieved by the court upon the
substitution of other counsel or for cause. The representation shall
include representing the parent or the child in termination proceedings
and in those proceedings relating to the institution or setting aside of a
legal guardianship.
   (e) The counsel for the child shall be charged in general with the
representation of the child’s interests. To that end, the counsel shall make
or cause to have made any further investigations that he or she deems in
good faith to be reasonably necessary to ascertain the facts, including the
interviewing of witnesses, and he or she shall examine and
cross-examine witnesses in both the adjudicatory and dispositional
hearings. He or she may also introduce and examine his or her own
witnesses, make recommendations to the court concerning the child’s
welfare, and participate further in the proceedings to the degree
necessary to adequately represent the child. In any case in which the
child is four years of age or older, counsel shall interview the child to
determine the child’s wishes and to assess the child’s well-being, and
shall advise the court of the child’s wishes. Counsel for the child shall
not advocate for the return of the child if, to the best of his or her
 3272                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 450 ]
knowledge, that return conflicts with the protection and safety of the
child. In addition counsel shall investigate the interests of the child
beyond the scope of the juvenile proceeding and report to the court other
interests of the child that may need to be protected by the institution of
other administrative or judicial proceedings. The attorney representing
a child in a dependency proceeding is not required to assume the
responsibilities of a social worker and is not expected to provide
nonlegal services to the child. The court shall take whatever appropriate
action is necessary to fully protect the interests of the child.
   (f) Either the child or the counsel for the child, with the informed
consent of the child if the child is found by the court to be of sufficient
age and maturity to so consent, may invoke the psychotherapist-client
privilege, physician-patient privilege, and clergyman-penitent
privilege; and if the child invokes the privilege, counsel may not waive
it, but if counsel invokes the privilege, the child may waive it. Counsel
shall be holder of these privileges if the child is found by the court not
to be of sufficient age and maturity to so consent. For the sole purpose
of fulfilling his or her obligation to provide legal representation of the
child, counsel for a child shall have access to all records with regard to
the child maintained by a health care facility, as defined in Section 1545
of the Penal Code, health care providers, as defined in Section 6146 of
the Business and Professions Code, a physician and surgeon or other
health practitioner as defined in Section 11165.8 of the Penal Code or a
child care custodian, as defined in Section 11165.7 of the Penal Code.
Notwithstanding any other law, counsel shall be given access to all
records relevant to the case which are maintained by state or local public
agencies. All information requested from a child protective agency
regarding a child who is in protective custody, or from a child’s guardian
ad litem, shall be provided to the child’s counsel within 30 days of the
request.
   (g) In a county of the third class, if counsel is to be provided to a child
at county expense other than by counsel for the agency, the court shall
first utilize the services of the public defender prior to appointing private
counsel, to provide legal counsel. Nothing in this subdivision shall be
construed to require the appointment of the public defender in any case
in which the public defender has a conflict of interest. In the interest of
justice, a court may depart from that portion of the procedure requiring
appointment of the public defender after making a finding of good cause
and stating the reasons therefor on the record.
   (h) In a county of the third class, if counsel is to be appointed for a
parent or guardian at county expense, the court shall first utilize the
services of the alternate public defender, prior to appointing private
counsel, to provide legal counsel. Nothing in this subdivision shall be
construed to require the appointment of the alternate public defender in
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3273

any case in which the public defender has a conflict of interest. In the
interest of justice, a court may depart from that portion of the procedure
requiring appointment of the alternate public defender after making a
finding of good cause and stating the reasons therefor on the record.
   SEC. 2. Section 326 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 326.5 is added to the Welfare and Institutions Code,
to read:
   326.5. The Judicial Council shall adopt a rule of court effective July
1, 2001, that complies with the requirement of the federal Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act (Public Law 93-247) for the appointment
of a guardian ad litem, who may be an attorney or a court-appointed
special advocate, for a child in cases in which a petition is filed based
upon neglect or abuse of the child or in which a prosecution is initiated
under the Penal Code arising from neglect or abuse of the child. The rule
of court may include guidelines to the courts for determining when an
attorney should be appointed rather than a court appointed special
advocate, and caseload standards for guardians ad litem.
   SEC. 4. Section 2 of this act shall become operative on July 1, 2001.



                             CHAPTER 451

  An act to amend Sections 1250, 1253, 1265, 1267, 1267.5, 1294,
1298, 1331, 1333, 1336.2, 1337.1, 1337.3, 1417.2, 1417.3, 1417.4,
1420, 1421.1, 1421.2, 1422, 1422.5, 1424, 1428, 1428.1, 1438, and
1599.1 of, to add Sections 1276.7, 1325.5, 1417.15, 1418.91, 1422.6,
1423.5, 1424.5, 1429.1, and 1437.5 to, and to repeal Sections 1430.5,
1435, and 1435.5 of, the Health and Safety Code, to amend Section
14124.7 of, and to add Section 14126.02 to, the Welfare and Institutions
Code, relating to health facilities, and making an appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 14, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 15, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. (a) (1) It is the intent of the Legislature that this act
add to the quality of life of older Californians by enhancing the quality
of long-term care services. The primary goal of this effort is to enable
citizens with long-term care needs to live at home, with family members,
and in the community for as long as possible.
 3274                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 451 ]
   (2) Therefore, it is the intent of this act to increase access to quality
alternatives to nursing home facilities by providing improved in-home
support services and community-based care services.
   (b) (1) It is also the intent of this act to ensure that nursing home
facilities in California provide safe and secure environments for
residents and their families and that they have the highest quality of care
possible.
   (2) Therefore, it is the intent of this act to reform nursing home
standards, strengthen enforcement of those standards, and promote
residents’ and family rights.
   SEC. 2. Section 1250 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to
read:
   1250. As used in this chapter, ‘‘health facility’’ means any facility,
place, or building that is organized, maintained, and operated for the
diagnosis, care, prevention, and treatment of human illness, physical or
mental, including convalescence and rehabilitation and including care
during and after pregnancy, or for any one or more of these purposes, for
one or more persons, to which the persons are admitted for a 24-hour stay
or longer, and includes the following types:
   (a) ‘‘General acute care hospital’’ means a health facility having a
duly constituted governing body with overall administrative and
professional responsibility and an organized medical staff that provides
24-hour inpatient care, including the following basic services: medical,
nursing, surgical, anesthesia, laboratory, radiology, pharmacy, and
dietary services. A general acute care hospital may include more than
one physical plant maintained and operated on separate premises as
provided in Section 1250.8. A general acute care hospital that
exclusively provides acute medical rehabilitation center services,
including at least physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech
therapy, may provide for the required surgical and anesthesia services
through a contract with another acute care hospital. In addition, a general
acute care hospital that, on July 1, 1983, provided required surgical and
anesthesia services through a contract or agreement with another acute
care hospital may continue to provide these surgical and anesthesia
services through a contract or agreement with an acute care hospital.
   A ‘‘general acute care hospital’’ includes a ‘‘rural general acute care
hospital’’. However, a ‘‘rural general acute care hospital’’ shall not be
required by the department to provide surgery and anesthesia services.
A ‘‘rural general acute care hospital’’ shall meet either of the following
conditions:
   (1) The hospital meets criteria for designation within peer group six
or eight, as defined in the report entitled Hospital Peer Grouping for
Efficiency Comparison, dated December 20, 1982.
[Ch. 451 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3275

   (2) The hospital meets the criteria for designation within peer group
five or seven, as defined in the report entitled Hospital Peer Grouping
for Efficiency Comparison, dated December 20, 1982, and has no more
than 76 acute care beds and is located in a census dwelling place of
15,000 or less population according to the 1980 federal census.
   (b) ‘‘Acute psychiatric hospital’’ means a health facility having a duly
constituted governing body with overall administrative and professional
responsibility and an organized medical staff that provides 24-hour
inpatient care for mentally disordered, incompetent, or other patients
referred to in Division 5 (commencing with Section 5000) or Division
6 (commencing with Section 6000) of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
including the following basic services: medical, nursing, rehabilitative,
pharmacy, and dietary services.
   (c) ‘‘Skilled nursing facility’’ means a health facility that provides
skilled nursing care and supportive care to patients whose primary need
is for availability of skilled nursing care on an extended basis.
   (d) ‘‘Intermediate care facility’’ means a health facility that provides
inpatient care to ambulatory or nonambulatory patients who have
recurring need for skilled nursing supervision and need supportive care,
but who do not require availability of continuous skilled nursing care.
   (e) ‘‘Intermediate       care    facility/developmentally       disabled
habilitative’’ means a facility with a capacity of 4 to 15 beds that
provides 24-hour personal care, habilitation, developmental, and
supportive health services to 15 or fewer developmentally disabled
persons who have intermittent recurring needs for nursing services, but
have been certified by a physician and surgeon as not requiring
availability of continuous skilled nursing care.
   (f) ‘‘Special hospital’’ means a health facility having a duly
constituted governing body with overall administrative and professional
responsibility and an organized medical or dental staff that provides
inpatient or outpatient care in dentistry or maternity.
   (g) ‘‘Intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled’’ means a
facility that provides 24-hour personal care, habilitation,
developmental, and supportive health services to developmentally
disabled clients whose primary need is for developmental services and
who have a recurring but intermittent need for skilled nursing services.
   (h) ‘‘Intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled—nursing’’
means a facility with a capacity of 4 to 15 beds that provides 24-hour
personal care, developmental services, and nursing supervision for
developmentally disabled persons who have intermittent recurring
needs for skilled nursing care but have been certified by a physician and
surgeon as not requiring continuous skilled nursing care. The facility
shall serve medically fragile persons who have developmental
 3276                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 451 ]
disabilities or demonstrate significant developmental delay that may
lead to a developmental disability if not treated.
   (i) (1) ‘‘Congregate living health facility’’ means a residential home
with a capacity, except as provided in paragraph (4), of no more than six
beds, that provides inpatient care, including the following basic services:
medical supervision, 24-hour skilled nursing and supportive care,
pharmacy, dietary, social, recreational, and at least one type of service
specified in paragraph (2). The primary need of congregate living health
facility residents shall be for availability of skilled nursing care on a
recurring, intermittent, extended, or continuous basis. This care is
generally less intense than that provided in general acute care hospitals
but more intense than that provided in skilled nursing facilities.
   (2) Congregate living health facilities shall provide one of the
following services:
   (A) Services for persons who are mentally alert, physically disabled
persons, who may be ventilator dependent.
   (B) Services for persons who have a diagnosis of terminal illness, a
diagnosis of a life-threatening illness, or both. Terminal illness means
the individual has a life expectancy of six months or less as stated in
writing by his or her attending physician and surgeon. A
‘‘life-threatening illness’’ means the individual has an illness that can
lead to a possibility of a termination of life within five years or less as
stated in writing by his or her attending physician and surgeon.
   (C) Services for persons who are catastrophically and severely
disabled. A catastrophically and severely disabled person means a
person whose origin of disability was acquired through trauma or
nondegenerative neurologic illness, for whom it has been determined
that active rehabilitation would be beneficial and to whom these services
are being provided. Services offered by a congregate living health
facility to a catastrophically disabled person shall include, but not be
limited to, speech, physical, and occupational therapy.
   (3) A congregate living health facility license shall specify which of
the types of persons described in paragraph (2) to whom a facility is
licensed to provide services.
   (4) (A) A facility operated by a city and county for the purposes of
delivering services under this section may have a capacity of 59 beds.
   (B) A congregate living health facility not operated by a city and
county servicing persons who are terminally ill, persons who have been
diagnosed with a life-threatening illness, or both, that is located in a
county with a population of 500,000 or more persons may have not more
than 25 beds for the purpose of serving terminally ill persons.
   (C) A congregate living health facility not operated by a city and
county serving persons who are catastrophically and severely disabled,
as defined in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) that is located in a county
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3277

of 500,000 or more persons may have not more than 12 beds for the
purpose of serving catastrophically and severely disabled persons.
   (5) A congregate living health facility shall have a noninstitutional,
homelike environment.
   (j) (1) ‘‘Correctional treatment center’’ means a health facility
operated by the Department of Corrections, the Department of the Youth
Authority, or a county, city, or city and county law enforcement agency
that, as determined by the state department, provides inpatient health
services to that portion of the inmate population who do not require a
general acute care level of basic services. This definition shall not apply
to those areas of a law enforcement facility that houses inmates or wards
that may be receiving outpatient services and are housed separately for
reasons of improved access to health care, security, and protection. The
health services provided by a correctional treatment center shall include,
but are not limited to, all of the following basic services: physician and
surgeon, psychiatrist, psychologist, nursing, pharmacy, and dietary. A
correctional treatment center may provide the following services:
laboratory, radiology, perinatal, and any other services approved by the
state department.
   (2) Outpatient surgical care with anesthesia may be provided, if the
correctional treatment center meets the same requirements as a surgical
clinic licensed pursuant to Section 1204, with the exception of the
requirement that patients remain less than 24 hours.
   (3) Correctional treatment centers shall maintain written service
agreements with general acute care hospitals to provide for those inmate
physical health needs that cannot be met by the correctional treatment
center.
   (4) Physician and surgeon services shall be readily available in a
correctional treatment center on a 24-hour basis.
   (5) It is not the intent of the Legislature to have a correctional
treatment center supplant the general acute care hospitals at the
California Medical Facility, the California Men’s Colony, and the
California Institution for Men. This subdivision shall not be construed
to prohibit the California Department of Corrections from obtaining a
correctional treatment center license at these sites.
   (k) ‘‘Nursing facility’’ means a health facility licensed pursuant to
this chapter that is certified to participate as a provider of care either as
a skilled health facility in the federal Medicare program under Title
XVIII of the federal Social Security Act or as a nursing facility in the
federal medicaid program under Title XIX of the federal Social Security
Act, or as both.
   (l) Regulations defining a correctional treatment center described in
subdivision (j) that is operated by a county, city, or city and county, the
Department of Corrections, or the Department of the Youth Authority,
 3278                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 451 ]
shall not become effective prior to, or if effective, shall be inoperative
until January 1, 1996, and until that time these correctional facilities are
exempt from any licensing requirements.
   SEC. 3. Section 1253 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to
read:
   1253. (a) No person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
political subdivision of the state, or other governmental agency within
the state shall operate, establish, manage, conduct, or maintain a health
facility in this state, without first obtaining a license therefor as provided
in this chapter, nor provide, after July 1, 1974, special services without
approval of the state department. However, any health facility offering
any special service on the effective date of this section shall be approved
by the state department to continue those services until the state
department evaluates the quality of those services and takes permitted
action.
   (b) This section shall not apply to a receiver appointed by the court
to temporarily operate a long-term health care facility pursuant to Article
8 (commencing with Section 1325).
   SEC. 4. Section 1265 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to
read:
   1265. Any person, political subdivision of the state, or
governmental agency desiring a license for a health facility, approval for
a special service under this chapter, or approval to manage a health
facility currently licensed as a skilled nursing facility or intermediate
care facility, as defined in subdivision (c) or (d) of Section 1250, that has
not filed an application for a license to operate that facility shall file with
the state department a verified application on forms prescribed and
furnished by the state department, containing all of the following:
   (a) The name of the applicant and, if an individual, whether the
applicant has attained the age of 18 years.
   (b) The type of facility or health facility.
   (c) The location thereof.
   (d) The name of the person in charge thereof.
   (e) Evidence satisfactory to the state department that the applicant is
of reputable and responsible character. If the applicant is a firm,
association, organization, partnership, business trust, corporation, or
company, like evidence shall be submitted as to the members or
shareholders thereof, and the person in charge of the health facility for
which application for license is made. If the applicant is a political
subdivision of the state or other governmental agency, like evidence
shall be submitted as to the person in charge of the health facility for
which application for license is made.
[Ch. 451 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3279

   (f) Evidence satisfactory to the state department of the ability of the
applicant to comply with this chapter and of rules and regulations
promulgated under this chapter by the state department.
   (g) Evidence satisfactory to the department that the applicant to
operate a skilled nursing facility or intermediate care facility possesses
financial resources sufficient to operate the facility for a period of at least
45 days.
   (h) Each applicant for a license to operate a skilled nursing facility or
intermediate care facility shall disclose to the state department evidence
of the right to possession of the facility at the time the application will
be granted, that may be satisfied by the submission of a copy of
applicable portions of a lease agreement or deed of trust. The names and
addresses of any persons or organizations listed as owner of record in the
real estate, including the buildings and the grounds appurtenant to the
buildings, shall be disclosed to the state department.
   (i) Any other information as may be required by the state department
for the proper administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (j) Upon submission of an application to the state department by an
intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled habilitative or an
intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled—nursing, the
application shall include a statement of need signed by the chairperson
of the area board pursuant to Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 4570)
of Division 4.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code. In the event the area
board has not provided the statement of need within 30 days of receipt
of the request from the applicant, the state department may process the
application for license without the statement.
   (k) The information required pursuant to this section, other than
individuals’ social security numbers, shall be made available to the
public upon request, and shall be included in the department’s public file
regarding the facility.
   SEC. 5. Section 1267 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to
read:
   1267. (a) (1) Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall
expire 12 months from the date of its issuance and each special permit
shall expire on the expiration date of the license. Application for renewal
of a license or special permit accompanied by the necessary fee shall be
filed with the state department not less than 30 days prior to the
expiration date. Failure to make a timely renewal shall result in
expiration of the license or special permit.
   (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the license of a facility operated
by a receiver appointed pursuant to Article 8 (commencing with Section
1325) shall not expire during the period of the receivership, and for 30
days thereafter.
 3280                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
   (b) A renewal license or special permit may be issued for a period not
to exceed two years if the holder of the license or special permit has been
found in substantial compliance with any statutory requirements,
regulations, or standards during the preceding license period. However,
for a health facility specified in subdivision (a) or (b) of Section 1250,
a renewal license or special permit may be issued for a period not to
exceed three years, if the holder of the license or special permit has been
found in substantial compliance with statutory requirements,
regulations, or standards during the preceding license period.
   (c) Notwithstanding the length of the period for which a renewal
license is issued, a license fee shall be due and payable annually.
   SEC. 6. Section 1267.5 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1267.5. (a) (1) Each applicant for a license to operate a skilled
nursing facility or intermediate care facility shall disclose to the state
department the name and business address of each general partner if the
applicant is a partnership, or each director and officer if the applicant is
a corporation, and each person having a beneficial ownership interest of
5 percent or more in the applicant corporation or partnership.
   (2) If any person described in paragraph (1) has served or currently
serves as an administrator, general partner, trustee or trust applicant, sole
proprietor of any applicant or licensee who is a sole proprietorship,
executor, or corporate officer or director of, or has held a beneficial
ownership interest of 5 percent or more in, any other skilled nursing
facility or intermediate care facility or in any community care facility
licensed pursuant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 1500) of this
division, the applicant shall disclose the relationship to the state
department, including the name and current or last address of the health
facility or community care facility and the date the relationship
commenced and, if applicable, the date it was terminated.
   (3) (A) If the facility is operated by, or proposed to be operated in
whole or part under, a management contract, the names and addresses of
any person or organization, or both, having an ownership or control
interest of 5 percent or more in the management company shall be
disclosed to the state department. This provision shall not apply if the
management company has submitted an application for licensure with
the state department and has complied with paragraph (1).
   (B) If the management company is a subsidiary of one or more other
organizations, the information shall include the names and addresses of
the parent organizations of the management company and the names and
addresses of any officer or director of the parent organizations. The
failure to comply with this subparagraph may result in action to revoke
or deny a license. However, once the information that is required under
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3281

this subparagraph is provided, the action to revoke the license shall
terminate.
   (4) If the applicant or licensee is a subsidiary of one or more other
organizations, the information shall include the names and addresses of
the parent organizations of the subsidiary and the names and addresses
of any officer or director of the parent organizations.
   (5) The information required by this subdivision shall be provided to
the state department upon initial application for licensure, and any
change in the information shall be provided to the state department
within 30 calendar days of that change.
   (6) Except as provided in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3), the
failure to comply with this section may result in action to revoke or deny
a license.
   (7) The information required by this section shall be made available
to the public upon request, shall be included in the public file of the
facility, and shall be included in the department’s automated certification
licensing administration information management system.
   (b) On and after January 1, 1990, no person may acquire a beneficial
interest of 5 percent or more in any corporation or partnership licensed
to operate a skilled nursing facility or intermediate care facility, or in any
management company under contract with a licensee of a skilled nursing
facility or intermediate care facility, nor may any person become an
officer or director of, or general partner in, a corporation, partnership, or
management company of this type without the prior written approval of
the state department. Each application for departmental approval
pursuant to this subdivision shall include the information specified in
subdivision (a) as regards the person for whom the application is made.
   The state department shall approve or disapprove the application
within 30 days after receipt thereof, unless the state department, with just
cause, extends the application review period beyond 30 days.
   (c) The state department may deny approval of a license application
or of an application for approval under subdivision (b) if a person named
in the application, as required by this section, was an officer, director,
general partner, or owner of a 5-percent or greater beneficial interest in
a licensee of, or in a management company under contract with a licensee
of, a skilled nursing facility, intermediate care facility, community care
facility, or residential care facility for the elderly at a time when one or
more violations of law were committed therein that resulted in
suspension or revocation of its license, or at a time when a court-ordered
receiver was appointed pursuant to Section 1327, or at a time when a
final Medi-Cal decertification action was taken under federal law.
However, the prior suspension, revocation, or court-ordered
receivership of a license shall not be grounds for denial of the application
if the applicant shows to the satisfaction of the state department (1) that
 3282                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 451 ]
the person in question took every reasonably available action to prevent
the violation or violations that resulted in the disciplinary action and (2)
that he or she took every reasonably available action to correct the
violation or violations once he or she knew, or with the exercise of
reasonable diligence should have known of, the violation or violations.
   (d) No application shall be denied pursuant to this section until the
state department first (1) provides the applicant with notice in writing of
grounds for the proposed denial of application, and (2) affords the
applicant an opportunity to submit additional documentary evidence in
opposition to the proposed denial.
   (e) Nothing in this section shall cause any individual to be personally
liable for any civil penalty assessed pursuant to Chapter 2.4
(commencing with Section 1417) or create any new criminal or civil
liability contrary to general laws limiting that liability.
   (f) This section shall not apply to a bank, trust company, financial
institution, title insurer, controlled escrow company, or underwritten
title company to which a license is issued in a fiduciary capacity.
   (g) As used in this section, ‘‘person’’ has the same meaning as
specified in Section 19.
   (h) This section shall not apply to the directors of a nonprofit
corporation exempt from taxation under Section 23701d of the Revenue
and Taxation Code that operates a skilled nursing facility or intermediate
care facility in conjunction with a licensed residential facility, where the
directors serve without financial compensation and are not compensated
by the nonprofit corporation in any other capacity.
   SEC. 7. Section 1276.7 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   1276.7. (a) (1) On or before May 1, 2001, the department shall
determine the need, and provide subsequent recommendations, for any
increase in the minimum number of nursing hours per patient day in
skilled nursing facilities. The department shall analyze the relationship
between staffing levels and quality of care in skilled nursing facilities.
The analysis shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:
   (A) A determination of average staffing levels in this state.
   (B) A review of facility expenditures on nursing staff, including
salary, wages, and benefits.
   (C) A review of other states’ staffing requirements as relevant to this
state.
   (D) A review of available research and reports on the issue of staffing
levels and quality of care.
   (E) The number of Medi-Cal beds in a facility.
   (F) The corporate status of the facility.
   (G) Information on compliance with both state and federal standards.
   (H) Work force availability trends.
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3283

   (2) The department shall prepare a report on its analysis and
recommendations and submit this report to the Legislature, including its
recommendations for any staffing increases and proposed timeframes
and costs for implementing any increase.
   (b) It is the intent of the Legislature to establish sufficient staffing
levels required to provide quality skilled nursing care. It is further the
intent of the Legislature to increase the minimum number of direct care
nursing hours per patient day in skilled nursing facilities to 3.5 hours by
2004 or to whatever staffing levels the department determines are
required to provide California nursing home residents with a safe
environment and quality skilled nursing care.
   SEC. 7.5. Section 1294 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1294. The state department may suspend or revoke any license or
special permit issued under the provisions of this chapter upon any of the
following grounds and in the manner provided in this chapter:
   (a) Violation by the licensee or holder of a special permit of any of the
provisions of this chapter or of the rules and regulations promulgated
under this chapter.
   (b) Violation by a facility certified as a skilled nursing facility under
Title XVIII of the Social Security Act or as a nursing facility under Title
XIX of the Social Security Act, or as both, of any federal statutes or
regulations applicable to its operation.
   (c) Aiding, abetting, or permitting the violation of any provision of
this chapter or of the rules and regulations promulgated under this
chapter.
   (d) Conduct inimical to the public health, morals, welfare, or safety
of the people of the State of California in the maintenance and operation
of the premises or services for which a license or special permit is issued.
   (e) The conviction of a licensee, or other person mentioned in
subdivision (b) of Section 1265.1, at any time during licensure, of a
crime as defined in Section 1265.2.
   SEC. 8. Section 1298 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to
read:
   1298. (a) (1) No person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, political subdivision of the state, or other governmental
agency within the state shall continue to operate, conduct, or maintain
an existing health facility without having applied for and obtained a
license or a special permit as provided for in this chapter.
   (2) This subdivision shall not apply to a receiver appointed by the
court to temporarily operate a long-term health care facility pursuant to
Article 8 (commencing with Section 1325).
   (b) Any license or special permit revoked pursuant to this chapter
may be reinstated pursuant to Section 11522 of the Government Code.
 3284                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 451 ]
   SEC. 9. Section 1325.5 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   1325.5. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this section
to empower the state department to take quick, effective action to protect
the health and safety of residents of long-term health care facilities and
to minimize the effects of transfer trauma that accompany the abrupt
transfer of elderly and disabled residents.
   (b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘temporary manager’’ means the
person appointed temporarily by the state department as a substitute
facility manager or administrator with authority to hire, terminate, or
reassign staff, obligate facility funds, alter facility procedures, and
manage the facility to correct deficiencies identified in the facility’s
operation.
   (c) The director may appoint a temporary manager when any of the
following circumstances exist:
   (1) The residents of the long-term health care facility are in
immediate danger of death or permanent injury by virtue of the failure
of the facility to comply with federal or state requirements applicable to
the operation of the facility.
   (2) As a result of the change in the status of the license or operation
of a long-term health care facility, the facility is required to comply with
Section 1336.2, the facility fails to comply with Section 1336.2, and the
state department has determined that the facility is unwilling or unable
to meet the requirements of Section 1336.2.
   (d) Upon appointment, the temporary manager shall take all
necessary steps and make best efforts to eliminate immediate danger of
death or permanent injury to resident so complete transfer of residents
to alternative placements pursuant to Section 1336.2.
   (e) The appointment of a temporary manager shall become effective
immediately and shall authorize the temporary manager to act pursuant
to this section. The state department shall provide the licensee and
administrator with a statement of allegations at the time of appointment.
Within 48 hours, the department shall provide the licensee and the
administrator with a formal statement of cause and concerns. The
statement of cause and concerns shall specify the factual and legal basis
for the imposition of the temporary manager and shall be supported by
the declaration of the director or the director’s authorized designee. The
statement of cause and concerns shall notify the licensee of the licensee’s
right to petition the Office of Administrative Hearings for a hearing to
contest the appointment of the temporary manager and shall provide the
licensee with a form and appropriate information for the licensee’s use
in requesting a hearing.
   (f) (1) The licensee of a long-term health care facility may contest the
appointment of the temporary manager at any time by filing a petition
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3285

for an order to terminate the appointment of the temporary manager with
the Office of Administrative Hearings. On the same day as the petition
is filed with the Office of Administrative Hearings, the licensee shall
deliver a copy of the petition to the office of the director.
   (2) Upon receipt of a petition of hearing, the Office of Administrative
Hearings shall set a hearing date and time within five business days of
the receipt of the petition. The office shall promptly notify the licensee
and the state department of the date, time, and place of the hearing. The
office shall assign the case to an administrative law judge. At the hearing,
relevant evidence may be presented pursuant to Section 11513 of the
Government Code. The administrative law judge shall issue a written
decision on the petition within five business days of the conclusion of
the hearing. The five-day time periods for holding the hearing and
rendering a decision may be extended by the agreement of the parties.
   (3) The administrative law judge shall uphold the appointment of the
temporary manager if the state department proves, by a preponderance
of the evidence, that the circumstances specified in subdivision (c) apply
to the facility. The administrative law judge shall order the termination
of the temporary manager if the burden of proof is not satisfied.
   (g) The decision of the administrative law judge is subject to judicial
review as provided in Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure by
the superior court sitting in the county where the facility is located. This
review may be requested by the licensee of the facility or the state
department by filing a petition seeking relief from the order. The petition
may also request the issuance of temporary injunctive relief pending the
decision on the petition. The superior court shall hold a hearing within
five business days of the filing of the petition and shall issue a decision
on the petition within five days of the hearing. The state department may
be represented by legal counsel within the state department for purposes
of court proceedings authorized under this section.
   (h) If the licensee of the long-term health care facility does not protest
the appointment, it shall continue until the conditions described in
subdivision (c) no longer exist or the state department has secured the
services of a receiver pursuant to this article.
   (i) (1) If the licensee of the long-term health care facility petitions the
Office of Administrative Hearings pursuant to subdivision (f), the
appointment of the temporary manager by the director pursuant to this
section shall continue until it is terminated by the administrative law
judge or by the superior court, or it shall continue for 30 days from the
date the administrative law judge or the superior court upholds the
appointment of the temporary manager, whichever is earlier.
   (2) At any time during the appointment of the temporary manager, the
director may request an extension of the appointment by filing a petition
for hearing with the Office of Administrative Hearings and serving a
 3286                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 451 ]
copy of the petition on the licensee. The office shall proceed as specified
in paragraph (2) of subdivision (f). The administrative law judge may
extend the appointment of the temporary manager as follows:
   (A) Upon a showing by the state department that the conditions
specified in subdivision (c) continue to exist, an additional 60 days.
   (B) Upon a finding that the state department is seeking a receiver,
until the state department has secured the services of a receiver pursuant
to this article.
   (3) The licensee or the state department may request review of the
administrative law judge’s decision on the extension as provided in
subdivision (g).
   (j) The temporary manager appointed pursuant to this section shall
meet the following qualifications:
   (1) Be qualified to oversee correction of deficiencies on the basis of
experience and education.
   (2) Not have been found guilty of misconduct by any licensing board.
   (3) Have no financial ownership interest in the facility and have no
member of his or her immediate family who has a financial ownership
interest in the facility.
   (4) Not currently serve, or within the past two years have served, as
a member of the staff of the facility.
   (5) Be acceptable to the facility.
   (k) Payment of the temporary manager’s salary shall comply with the
following requirements:
   (1) Shall be paid directly by the facility while the temporary manager
is assigned to that facility.
   (2) Shall be equivalent to the sum of the following:
   (A) The prevailing salary paid by licensees for positions of the same
type in the facility’s geographic area.
   (B) Additional costs that reasonably would have been incurred by the
licensee if the licensee had been in an employment relationship.
   (C) Any other reasonable costs incurred by the appointed temporary
manager in furnishing services pursuant to this section.
   (3) May exceed the amount specified in paragraph (2) if the
department is otherwise unable to attract a qualified temporary manager.
   (l) Temporary management pursuant to this section shall terminate
when any one of the following occurs:
   (1) The temporary manager notifies the department and the
department verifies that the facility meets state, and if applicable,
federal, standards for operation and will be able to continue to maintain
compliance with those standards after the termination of temporary
management.
   (2) The facility closes.
   (3) The department issues a license to a new operator.
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3287

   (4) The department approves a new management company.
   (m) The state department shall adopt regulations for the
administration of this section on or before December 31, 2001.
   SEC. 11. Section 1331 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to
read:
   1331. (a) The receiver shall be appointed for an initial period of not
more than six months. The initial six-month period may be extended for
additional periods not exceeding six months, as determined by the court
pursuant to this section. At the end of four months, the receiver shall
report to the court on its assessment of the probability that the long-term
health care facility will meet state standards for operation by the end of
the initial six-month period and will continue to maintain compliance
with those standards after termination of the receiver’s management. If
it appears that the facility cannot be brought into compliance with state
standards within the initial six-month period, the court shall take
appropriate action as follows:
   (1) Extend the receiver’s management for an additional six months if
there is a substantial likelihood that the facility will meet state standards
within that period and will maintain compliance with the standards after
termination of the receiver’s management. The receiver shall report to
the court in writing upon the facility’s progress at the end of six weeks
of any extension ordered pursuant to this paragraph.
   (2) Order the director to revoke or temporarily suspend, or both, the
license pursuant to Section 1296 and extend the receiver’s management
for the period necessary to transfer patients in accordance with the
transfer plan, but for not more than six months from the date of initial
appointment of a receiver, or 14 days, whichever is greater. An extension
of an additional six months may be granted if deemed necessary by the
court.
   (b) If it appears at the end of six weeks of an extension ordered
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) that the facility cannot be
brought into compliance with state standards for operation or that it will
not maintain compliance with those standards after the receiver’s
management is terminated, the court shall take appropriate action as
specified in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a).
   (c) In evaluating the probability that a long-term health care facility
will maintain compliance with state standards of operation after the
termination of receiver management ordered by the court, the court shall
consider at least the following factors:
   (1) The duration, frequency, and severity of past violations in the
facility.
   (2) History of compliance in other long-term health care facilities
operated by the proposed licensee.
   (3) Efforts by the licensee to prevent and correct past violations.
 3288                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
   (4) The financial ability of the licensee to operate in compliance with
state standards.
   (5) The recommendations and reports of the receiver.
   (d) Management of a long-term health care facility operated by a
receiver pursuant to this article shall not be returned to the licensee, to
any person related to the licensee, or to any person who served as a
member of the facility’s staff or who was employed by the licensee prior
to the appointment of the receiver.
   (e) (1) Should a long-term health care facility subject to this section
not agree to the appointment of a temporary manager and the department
successfully obtain a court-appointed receiver, management of the
facility may only be returned to the licensee if the department believes
that it would be in the best interests of the residents of the facility and
the department requests that the court return the operation of the facility
to the former licensee.
   (2) Before the court may return the operation of the facility to the
former licensee under this subdivision, the department shall provide
clear and convincing evidence to the court that it is in the best interests
of the facility’s residents to take that action.
   (f) The owner of the facility may at any time sell, lease, or close the
facility, subject to the following provisions:
   (1) If the owner closes the facility, or the sale or lease results in the
closure of the facility, the court shall determine if a transfer plan is
necessary. If the court so determines, the court shall adopt and
implement a transfer plan of not more than 30 days.
   (2) If the licensee proposes to sell or lease the facility and the facility
will continue to operate as a long-term health care facility, the court and
the state department shall reevaluate any proposed transfer plan. If the
court and the state department determine that the sale or lease of the
facility will result in compliance with licensing standards, the transfer
plan and the receivership shall, subject to those conditions that the court
may impose and enforce, be terminated upon the effective date of the sale
or lease.
   SEC. 12. Section 1333 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1333. (a) To the extent state funds are advanced for the salary of the
receiver or for other expenses in connection with the receivership, as
limited by subdivision (d) of Section 1329, the state shall be reimbursed
from the revenues accruing to the facility or to the licensee or an entity
related to the licensee. Any reimbursement received by the state shall be
redeposited in the account from which the state funds were advanced. If
the revenues are insufficient to reimburse the state, the unreimbursed
amount shall constitute a lien upon the assets of the facility or the
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3289

proceeds from the sale thereof. The lien shall not attach to the interests
of a lessor, unless the lessor is operating the facility.
   (b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘entity related to the licensee’’
means an entity, other than a natural person, of which the licensee is a
subsidiary or an entity in which any person who was obligated to
disclose information under Section 1267.5 possesses an interest that
would also require disclosure pursuant to Section 1267.5.
   SEC. 13. Section 1336.2 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1336.2. (a) When patients are transferred due to any change in the
status of the license or operation of a facility, including voluntary or
involuntary termination of a facility’s Medi-Cal or Medicare
certification, the facility shall take reasonable steps to transfer affected
patients safely and minimize possible transfer trauma by, at a minimum,
doing all of the following:
   (1) Medically assess, prior to transfer, the patient’s condition and
susceptibility to adverse health consequences, including psychosocial
effects, in the event of transfer. The patient’s physician and surgeon, if
available, shall undertake this assessment. The assessment shall provide
recommendations, including counseling and followup visits, for
preventing or ameliorating potential adverse health consequences in the
event of transfer.
   (2) Provide, in accordance with these assessments, counseling, and
other recommended services, prior to transfer, to any affected patient
who may suffer adverse health consequences due to transfer.
   (3) Evaluate, prior to transfer, the relocation needs of the patient and
the patient’s family and determine the most appropriate and available
type of future care and services for the patient. The health facility shall
discuss the evaluation and medical assessment with the patient or the
patient’s guardian, agent, or responsible party and make the evaluation
and assessment part of the medical records for transfer.
   (4) Inform, at least 30 days in advance of the transfer, the patient or
patient’s guardian, agent, or responsible party of alternative facilities
that are available and adequate to meet patient and family needs.
   (5) Arrange for appropriate, future medical care and services, unless
the patient or patient’s guardian has otherwise made these arrangements.
This requirement does not obligate a facility to pay for future care and
services.
   (b) The facility shall provide an appropriate team of professional staff
to perform the services required in subdivision (a).
   (c) The facility shall also give written notice to affected patients or
their guardians, agents, or responsible parties advising them of the
requirements in subdivision (a) at least 30 days in advance of transfer.
If a facility is required to give written notice pursuant to Section 1336,
 3290                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
then the notice shall advise the affected patient or the patient’s guardian,
agent, or responsible party of the requirements in subdivision (a). If the
transfer is made pursuant to subdivision (f), the notice shall include
notification to the patient that the transfer plan is available to the patient
or patient’s representative free of charge upon request.
   (d) In the event of a temporary suspension of a facility’s license
pursuant to Section 1296, the 30-day notice requirement in subdivision
(c) shall not apply, but the facility shall provide the relocation services
required in subdivision (a) unless the state department provides the
services pursuant to subdivision (e).
   (e) The state department may provide, or arrange for the provision of,
necessary relocation services at a facility, including medical
assessments, counseling, and placement of patients, if the state
department determines that these services are needed promptly to
prevent adverse health consequences to patients, and the facility refuses,
or does not have adequate staffing, to provide the services. In these cases,
the facility shall reimburse the state department for the cost of providing
the relocation services. If a facility’s refusal to provide the relocation
services required in subdivision (a) endangers the health and safety of
patients to be transferred, then the state department may also request that
the Attorney General’s office or the local district attorney’s office seek
injunctive relief and damages in the same manner as provided for in
Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 17200) of Part 2 of Division 7 of
the Business and Professions Code.
   (f) If 10 or more patients are likely to be transferred due to any
voluntary or involuntary change in the status of the license or operation
of a facility, including voluntary or involuntary termination of a facility’s
Medi-Cal or Medicare certification, the facility shall submit a proposed
relocation plan for the affected patients to the state department for
comment, if any, at least 45 days prior to the transfer of any patient. The
plan shall provide for implementation of the relocation services in
subdivision (a) and shall describe the availability of beds in the area for
patients to be transferred, the proposed discharge process, and the
staffing available to assist in the transfers. The facility shall submit its
final relocation plan to the local ombudsperson, and if different from the
proposed plan, to the state department, at least 30 days prior to the
transfer of any patient.
   SEC. 14. Section 1337.1 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1337.1. A skilled nursing or intermediate care facility shall adopt an
approved training program that meets standards established by the state
department. The approved training program shall consist of at least the
following:
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3291

   (a) An orientation program to be given to newly employed nurse
assistants prior to providing direct patient care in skilled nursing or
intermediate care facilities.
   (b) (1) A precertification training program consisting of at least 60
classroom hours of training on basic nursing skills, patient safety and
rights, the social and psychological problems of patients, and resident
abuse prevention, recognition, and reporting pursuant to subdivision (e).
The 60 classroom hours of training may be conducted within a skilled
nursing or intermediate care facility or in an educational institution.
   (2) In addition to the 60 classroom hours of training required under
paragraph (1), the precertification training program shall consist of at
least 100 hours of supervised and on-the-job training clinical practice.
The 100 hours may consist of normal employment as a nurse assistant
under the supervision of either the director of nurse training or a licensed
nurse. The 100 hours shall consist of at least four hours of supervised
training to address the special needs of persons with developmental and
mental disorders, including mental retardation, Alzheimer’s disease,
cerebral palsy, epilepsy, dementia, Parkinson’s disease, and mental
illness.
   (3) In a precertification training program subject to this subdivision,
credit shall be given for the training received in an approved
precertification training program adopted by another skilled nursing or
intermediate care facility.
   (4) This subdivision shall not apply to a skilled nursing or
intermediate care facility that demonstrates to the state department that
it employs only nurse assistants with a valid certification.
   (c) Continuing in-service training to assure continuing competency
in existing and new nursing skills.
   (d) Each facility shall consider including training regarding the
characteristics and method of assessment and treatment of acquired
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).
   (e) (1) The approved training program shall include a minimum of
six hours of instruction on preventing, recognizing, and reporting
instances of resident abuse utilizing those courses developed pursuant
to Section 13823.93 of the Penal Code for hospital-based training
centers.
   (2) A minimum of four hours of instruction on preventing,
recognizing, and reporting instances of resident abuse shall be included
within the total minimum hours of continuing education required and in
effect for certified nursing assistants.
   SEC. 14.5. Section 1337.3 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   1337.3. (a) The state department shall prepare and maintain a list
of approved training programs for nurse assistant certification. The list
 3292                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 451 ]
shall include training programs conducted by skilled nursing or
intermediate care facilities, as well as local agencies and education
programs. In addition, the list shall include information on whether a
training center is currently training nurse assistants, their competency
test pass rates, and the number of nurse assistants they have trained.
Clinical portions of the training programs may be obtained as on-the-job
training, supervised by a qualified director of staff development or
licensed nurse.
   (b) It shall be the duty of the state department to inspect a
representative sample of training programs. The state department shall
protect consumers and students in any training program against fraud,
misrepresentation, or other practices that may result in improper or
excessive payment of funds paid for training programs. In evaluating a
training center’s training program, the state department shall examine
each training center’s trainees’ competency test passage rate, and require
each program to maintain an average 60 percent test score passage rate
to maintain its participation in the program. The average test score
passage rate shall be calculated over a two-year period. If the state
department determines that any training program is not complying with
regulations or is not meeting the competency passage rate requirements,
notice thereof in writing shall be immediately given to the program. If
the program has not been brought into compliance within a reasonable
time, the program may be removed from the approved list and notice
thereof in writing given to it. Programs removed under this article shall
be afforded an opportunity to request reinstatement of program approval
at any time. The state department’s district offices shall inspect
facility-based centers as part of their annual survey.
   (c) Notwithstanding Section 1337.1, the approved training program
shall consist of at least the following:
   (1) A 16-hour orientation program to be given to newly employed
nurse assistants prior to providing direct patient care, and consistent with
federal training requirements for facilities participating in the Medicare
or medicaid programs.
   (2) (A) A certification training program consisting of at least 60
classroom hours of training on basic nursing skills, patient safety and
rights, the social and psychological problems of patients, and elder abuse
recognition and reporting pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 1337.1.
The 60 classroom hours of training may be conducted within a skilled
nursing facility, an intermediate care facility, or an educational
institution.
   (B) In addition to the 60 classroom hours of training required under
subparagraph (A), the certification program shall also consist of 100
hours of supervised and on-the-job training clinical practice. The 100
hours may consist of normal employment as a nurse assistant under the
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3293

supervision of either the director of staff development or a licensed
nurse. The 100 hours shall consist of at least four hours of supervised
training to address the special needs of persons with developmental and
mental disorders, including mental retardation, Alzheimer’s disease,
cerebral palsy, epilepsy, dementia, Parkinson’s disease, and mental
illness.
   (d) The state department, in consultation with the State Department
of Education and other appropriate organizations, shall develop criteria
for approving training programs, that includes program content for
orientation, training, inservice and the examination for testing
knowledge and skills related to basic patient care services and shall
develop a plan that identifies and encourages career ladder opportunities
for certified nurse assistants. This group shall also recommend, and the
department shall adopt, regulation changes necessary to provide for
patient care when facilities utilize noncertified nurse assistants who are
performing direct patient care. The requirements of this subdivision
shall be established by January 1, 1989.
   (e) On or before January 1, 2004, the state department, in consultation
with the State Department of Education, the American Red Cross, and
other appropriate organizations, shall do the following:
   (1) Review the current examination for approved training programs
for certified nurse assistants to ensure the accurate assessment of
whether a nurse assistant has obtained the required knowledge and skills
related to basic patient care services.
   (2) Develop a plan that identifies and encourages career ladder
opportunities for certified nurse assistants, including the application of
on-the-job post-certification hours to educational credits.
   (f) A skilled nursing or intermediate care facility shall determine the
number of specific clinical hours within each module identified by the
state department required to meet the requirements of subdivision (d),
subject to subdivisions (b) and (c). The facility shall consider the specific
hours recommended by the state department when adopting the
certification training program required by this chapter.
   (g) This article shall not apply to a program conducted by any church
or denomination for the purpose of training the adherents of the church
or denomination in the care of the sick in accordance with its religious
tenets.
   (h) The Chancellor of the California Community Colleges shall
provide to the state department a standard process for approval of college
credit. The state department shall make this information available to all
training programs in the state.
   SEC. 14.7. Section 1417.15 is added to the Health and Safety Code,
immediately after Section 1417.1, to read:
 3294                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 451 ]
   1417.15. (a) (1) If one or more of the following remedies is
actually imposed for violation of state or federal requirements, the
long-term health care facility shall post a notice of the imposed remedy
or remedies, in a form specified by the department, on all doors
providing ingress to or egress from the facility, except as specified in
paragraph (2):
   (A) License suspension.
   (B) Termination of certification for Medicare or Medi-Cal.
   (C) Denial of payment by Medicare or Medi-Cal for all otherwise
eligible residents.
   (D) Denial of payment by Medicare or Medi-Cal for otherwise
eligible incoming residents.
   (E) Ban on admission of any type.
   (2) For purposes of this subdivision, a distinct part nursing facility
shall only be required to post the notice on all main doors providing
ingress to or egress from the distinct part, and not on all of the doors
providing ingress to or egress from the facility. An intermediate care
facility/developmentally disabled habilitative and an intermediate care
facility/developmentally disabled-nursing shall post this notice on the
inside of all doors providing ingress to or egress from the facility.
   (b) A violation of the requirement of subdivision (a) shall be a class
‘‘B’’ violation, as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 1424.
   (c) The department shall adopt regulations for the administration of
this section.
   SEC. 14.9. Section 1417.2 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   1417.2. (a) Notwithstanding Section 1428, moneys collected as a
result of civil penalties imposed under this chapter shall be deposited
into an account which is hereby established in the Special Deposit Fund
under the provisions of Section 16370 of the Government Code. This
account is titled the Health Facilities Citation Penalties Account and
shall, upon appropriation by the Legislature, be used for the protection
of health or property of residents of long-term health care facilities,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (1) Relocation expenses incurred by the state department, in the event
of a facility closure.
   (2) Maintenance of facility operation pending correction of
deficiencies or closure, such as temporary management or receivership,
in the event that the revenues of the facility are insufficient.
   (3) Reimbursing residents for personal funds lost. In the event that the
loss is a result of the actions of a long-term health care facility or its
employees, the revenues of the facility shall first be used.
   (4) The costs associated with informational meetings required under
Section 1327.2.
[Ch. 451 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3295

   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), the balance in the Health
Facilities Citation Penalties Account shall not, at any time, exceed ten
million dollars ($10,000,000).
   SEC. 15. Section 1417.3 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1417.3. The department shall promote quality of care and quality of
life for residents, clients, and patients in long-term health care facility
services through specific activities that include, but are not limited to,
all of the following:
   (a) Research and evaluation of innovative facility resident care
models.
   (b) (1) Provision of statewide training on effective facility practices.
   (2) Training also shall include topics related to the provision of
quality of care and quality of life for facility residents. The topics for
training shall be identified by the department through a periodic survey.
The curriculum for the training provided under this paragraph shall be
developed in consultation with representatives from provider
associations, consumer associations, and others, as deemed appropriate
by the state department.
   (c) Response to facility requests for technical assistance regarding
licensing and certification requirements, compliance with federal and
state standards, and related operational issues.
   (d) State employees providing technical assistance to facilities
pursuant to this section are only required to report violations they
discover during the provision of the assistance to the appropriate district
office if the violations constitute an immediate and serious threat to the
health and welfare of, or has resulted in actual harm to, patients,
residents, or clients of the facility.
   (e) The state department shall measure facility satisfaction and the
effectiveness of the technical assistance provided pursuant to
subdivision (c).
   (f) No person employed in the technical assistance or training units
under subdivisions (b) and (c) shall also participate in the licensing,
surveying, or direct regulation of facilities.
   (g) This section shall not diminish the department’s ongoing survey
and enforcement process.
   SEC. 16. Section 1417.4 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1417.4. (a) There is hereby established in the state department the
Quality Awards Program for nursing homes.
   (b) The department shall establish criteria under the program, after
consultation with stakeholder groups, for recognizing all skilled nursing
facilities that provide exemplary care to residents.
 3296                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 451 ]
   (c) (1) Monetary awards shall be made to Quality Awards Program
recipients that serve high proportions of Medi-Cal residents to the extent
funds are appropriated each year in the annual Budget Act.
   (2) Monetary awards presented under this section and paid for by
funds appropriated from the General Fund shall be used for staff bonuses
and distributed in accordance with criteria established by the
department.
   (3) Monetary awards presented under this section and paid for from
funds from the Federal Citation Penalty Account shall be used to fund
innovative facility grants to improve the quality of care and quality of
life for residents in skilled nursing facilities.
   (d) The department shall establish criteria for selecting facilities to
receive the quality awards, in consultation with senior advocacy
organizations, employee labor organizations representing facility
employees, nursing home industry representatives, and other interested
parties as deemed appropriate by the department. The criteria established
pursuant to this subdivision shall not be considered regulations within
the meaning of Section 11342 of the Government Code, and shall not be
subject to adoption as regulations pursuant to Chapter 3.5 (commencing
with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government
Code.
   (e) The department shall publish an annual listing of the Quality
Awards Program recipients with the dollar amount awarded, if
applicable. The department shall also publish an annual listing of the
Quality Awards Program recipients that receive innovative facility
grants with the purpose of the grant and the grant amount.
   SEC. 17. Section 1418.91 is added to the Health and Safety Code,
immediately after Section 1418.9, to read:
   1418.91. (a) A long-term health care facility shall report all
incidents of alleged abuse or suspected abuse of a resident of the facility
to the department immediately, or within 24 hours.
   (b) A failure to comply with the requirements of this section shall be
a class ‘‘B’’ violation.
   (c) For purposes of this section, ‘‘abuse’’ shall mean any of the
conduct described in subdivisions (a) and (b) of Section 15610.07 of the
Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (d) This section shall not change any reporting requirements under
Section 15630 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or as otherwise
specified in the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act,
Chapter 11 (commencing with Section 15600) of Part 3 of Division 9 of
the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   SEC. 18. Section 1420 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
[Ch. 451 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3297

   1420. (a) (1) Upon receipt of a written or oral complaint, the state
department shall assign an inspector to make a preliminary review of the
complaint and shall notify the complainant within two working days of
the receipt of the complaint of the name of the inspector. Unless the state
department determines that the complaint is willfully intended to harass
a licensee or is without any reasonable basis, it shall make an onsite
inspection or investigation within 10 working days of the receipt of the
complaint. In any case in which the complaint involves a serious threat
of imminent danger of death or serious bodily harm, the state department
shall make an onsite inspection or investigation within 24 hours of the
receipt of the complaint. In any event, the complainant shall be promptly
informed of the state department’s proposed course of action and of the
opportunity to accompany the inspector on the inspection or
investigation of the facility. Upon the request of either the complainant
or the state department, the complainant or his or her representative, or
both, may be allowed to accompany the inspector to the site of the
alleged violations during his or her tour of the facility, unless the
inspector determines that the privacy of any patient would be violated
thereby.
   (2) When conducting an onsite inspection or investigation pursuant
to this section, the state department shall collect and evaluate all
available evidence and may issue a citation based upon, but not limited
to, all of the following:
   (A) Observed conditions.
   (B) Statements of witnesses.
   (C) Facility records.
   (3) Within 10 working days of the completion of the complaint
investigation, the state department shall notify the complainant in
writing of the department’s determination as a result of the inspection or
investigation.
   (b) Upon being notified of the state department’s determination as a
result of the inspection or investigation, a complainant who is
dissatisfied with the state department’s determination, regarding a
matter which would pose a threat to the health, safety, security, welfare,
or rights of a resident, shall be notified by the state department of the
right to an informal conference, as set forth in this section. The
complainant may, within five business days after receipt of the notice,
notify the director in writing of his or her request for an informal
conference. The informal conference shall be held with the designee of
the director for the county in which the long-term health care facility
which is the subject of the complaint is located. The long-term health
care facility may participate as a party in this informal conference. The
director’s designee shall notify the complainant and licensee of his or her
determination within 10 working days after the informal conference and
 3298                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
shall apprise the complainant and licensee in writing of the appeal rights
provided in subdivision (c).
   (c) If the complainant is dissatisfied with the determination of the
director’s designee in the county in which the facility is located, the
complainant may, within 15 days after receipt of this determination,
notify in writing the Deputy Director of the Licensing and Certification
Division of the state department, who shall assign the request to a
representative of the Complainant Appeals Unit for review of the facts
that led to both determinations. As a part of the Complainant Appeals
Unit’s independent investigation, and at the request of the complainant,
the representative shall interview the complainant in the district office
where the complaint was initially referred. Based upon this review, the
Deputy Director of the Licensing and Certification Division of the state
department shall make his or her own determination and notify the
complainant and the facility within 30 days.
   (d) Any citation issued as a result of a conference or review provided
for in subdivision (b) or (c) shall be issued and served upon the facility
within three working days of the final determination, unless the licensee
agrees in writing to an extension of this time. Service shall be effected
either personally or by registered or certified mail. A copy of the citation
shall also be sent to each complainant by registered or certified mail.
   (e) A miniexit conference shall be held with the administrator or his
or her representative upon leaving the facility at the completion of the
investigation to inform him or her of the status of the investigation. The
department shall also state the items of noncompliance and compliance
found as a result of a complaint and those items found to be in
compliance, provided the disclosure maintains the anonymity of the
complainant. In any matter in which there is a reasonable probability that
the identity of the complainant will not remain anonymous, the state
department shall also state that it is unlawful to discriminate or seek
retaliation against the complainant.
   (f) For purposes of this section, ‘‘complaint’’ means any oral or
written notice to the state department, other than a report from the facility
of an alleged violation of applicable requirements of state or federal law
or any alleged facts that might constitute such a violation.
   SEC. 19. Section 1421.1 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1421.1. (a) Within 24 hours of the occurrence of any of the events
specified in subdivision (b), the licensee of a skilled nursing facility shall
notify the department of the occurrence. This notification may be in
written form if it is provided by telephone facsimile or overnight mail,
or by telephone with a written confirmation within five calendar days.
The information provided pursuant to this subdivision may not be
released to the public by the department unless its release is needed to
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3299

justify an action taken by the department or it otherwise becomes a
matter of public record. A violation of this section is a class ‘‘B’’
violation.
   (b) All of the following occurrences shall require notification
pursuant to this section:
   (1) The licensee of a facility receives notice that a judgment lien has
been levied against the facility or any of the assets of the facility or the
licensee.
   (2) A financial institution refuses to honor a check or other instrument
issued by the licensee to its employees for a regular payroll.
   (3) The supplies, including food items and other perishables, on hand
in the facility fall below the minimum specified by any applicable statute
or regulation.
   (4) The financial resources of the licensee fall below the amount
needed to operate the facility for a period of at least 45 days based on the
current occupancy of the facility.
   (5) The licensee fails to make timely payment of any premiums
required to maintain required insurance policies or bonds in effect, or
any tax lien levied by any government agency.
   SEC. 20. Section 1421.2 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1421.2. (a) There is hereby established in the state department the
Skilled Nursing Facility Financial Solvency Advisory Board.
   (b) The board shall be composed of eight members.
   The members shall consist of the director, or the director’s designee,
and seven members appointed by the director.
   The seven members appointed by the director may be, but are not
necessarily limited to, individuals with training and experience in the
following areas or fields:
   (1) Medical and health care economics.
   (2) Consumer advocacy or representation.
   (3) Nursing facility employee organizations.
   (4) Accountancy.
   (5) Research or actuarial studies in the area of skilled nursing
facilities.
   (6) Management or administration of health care delivery systems.
   (c) One of the members appointed by the director shall be a
representative of a collective bargaining agent.
   (d) The purpose of the board shall be to do all of the following:
   (1) Advise the director on matters of financial solvency affecting the
delivery of services in skilled nursing facilities.
   (2) Develop and recommend to the director financial solvency
licensing requirements and standards relating to the operation of skilled
nursing facilities.
 3300                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
   (3) Periodically monitor and report on the implementation and results
of the financial solvency licensing requirements and standards.
   (e) The board shall meet at least quarterly and at the call of the chair.
In order to preserve the independence of the board, the director shall not
serve as chair. The members of the board may establish their own rules
and procedures.
   (f) All members shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed from department funds for expenses actually and necessarily
incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (g) For purposes of this section, ‘‘board’’ means the Skilled Nursing
Facility Financial Solvency Advisory Board.
   (h) Financial solvency licensing requirements and standards
recommended to the director by the board and approved by the director
may be noticed, after a period of review and comment not to exceed 45
days, for adoption as regulations as proposed or modified under the
rulemaking provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5
(commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of
the Government Code). During the director’s 45-day review and
comment period, the director, in consultation with the board, may
postpone the adoption of the licensing requirements and standards
pending further review and comment.
   (i) The board shall report to the director on or before July 1, 2002, on
its recommendations.
   (j) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2004, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which is enacted
before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 21. Section 1422 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1422. (a) The Legislature finds and declares that it is the public
policy of this state to assure that long-term health care facilities provide
the highest level of care possible. The Legislature further finds that
inspections are the most effective means of furthering this policy. It is
not the intent of the Legislature by the amendment of subdivision (b)
enacted by Chapter 1595 of the Statutes of 1982 to reduce in any way the
resources available to the state department for inspections, but rather to
provide the state department with the greatest flexibility to concentrate
its resources where they can be most effective.
   (b) (1) Without providing notice of these inspections, the state
department shall, in addition to any inspections conducted pursuant to
complaints filed pursuant to Section 1419, conduct inspections annually,
except with regard to those facilities which have no class ‘‘AA,’’ class
‘‘A,’’ or class ‘‘B’’ violations in the past twelve months. The state
department shall also conduct inspections as may be necessary to assure
the health, safety, and security of patients in long-term health care
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3301

facilities. Every facility shall be inspected at least once every two years.
The department shall vary the cycle in which inspections of long-term
health care facilities are conducted to reduce the predictability of the
inspections.
   (2) The state department shall submit to the federal Department of
Health and Human Services on or before July 1, 1985, for review and
approval, a request to implement a three-year pilot program designed to
lessen the predictability of the long-term health care facility inspection
process. Two components of the pilot program shall be (A) the
elimination of the present practice of entering into a one-year
certification agreement, and (B) the conduct of segmented inspections
of a sample of facilities with poor inspection records, as defined by the
state department. At the conclusion of the pilot project, an analysis of
both components shall be conducted by the state department to
determine effectiveness in reducing inspection predictability and the
respective cost benefits. Implementation of this pilot project is
contingent upon federal approval. The state department shall report
annually to the Legislature on progress of the pilot project with a final
report at the end of the third year.
   (c) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (b), the state
department shall conduct unannounced direct patient care inspections at
least annually to inspect physician and surgeon services, nursing
services, pharmacy services, dietary services, and activity programs of
all the long-term health care facilities. Facilities evidencing repeated
serious problems in complying with this chapter or a history of poor
performance, or both, shall be subject to periodic unannounced direct
patient care inspections during the inspection year. The direct patient
care inspections shall assist the state department in the prioritization of
its efforts to correct facility deficiencies.
   (d) All long-term health care facilities shall report to the state
department any changes in the nursing home administrator or the
director of nursing services within 10 calendar days of the changes.
   (e) Within 90 days after the receipt of notice of a change in the nursing
home administrator or the director of nursing services, the state
department may conduct an abbreviated inspection of the long-term
health care facilities.
   (f) If a change in a nursing home administrator occurs and the Board
of Nursing Home Administrators notifies the state department that the
new administrator is on probation or has had his or her license suspended
within the previous three years, the state department shall conduct an
abbreviated survey of the long-term health care facility employing that
administrator within 90 days of notification.
   SEC. 21.5. Section 1422.5 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
 3302                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
   1422.5. (a) The department shall develop and establish a consumer
information service system to provide updated and accurate information
to the general public and consumers regarding long-term care facilities
in their communities. The consumer information service system shall
include, but need not be limited to, all of the following elements:
   (1) An on-line inquiry system accessible through a statewide toll-free
telephone number and the Internet.
   (2) Long-term health care facility profiles, with data on services
provided, a history of all citations and complaints for the last two full
survey cycles, and ownership information. The profile for each facility
shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:
   (A) The name, address, and telephone number of the facility.
   (B) The number of units or beds in the facility.
   (C) Whether the facility accepts Medicare or Medi-Cal patients.
   (D) Whether the facility is a nursing home, and whether the facility
has a special care unit or program for people with Alzheimer’s disease
and other dementias, and whether the facility participates in the
voluntary disclosure program for special care units.
   (E) Whether the facility is a for profit or not-for-profit provider.
   (3) Information regarding substantiated complaints shall include the
action taken and the date of action.
   (4) Information regarding the state citations assessed shall include the
status of the state citation, including the facility’s plan or correction, and
information as to whether an appeal has been filed.
   (5) Any appeal resolution pertaining to a citation or complaint shall
be updated on the file in a timely manner.
   (b) Where feasible, the department shall interface the consumer
information service system with its Automated Certification and
Licensure Information Management System.
   (c) It is the intent of the Legislature that the department, in developing
and establishing the system pursuant to subdivision (a), maximize the
use of available federal funds.
   (d) (1) Notwithstanding the consumer information service system
established pursuant to subdivision (a), by January 1, 2002, the state
department shall develop a method whereby information is provided to
the public and consumers on long-term health care facilities. The
information provided shall include, but not be limited to, all of the
following elements:
   (A) Substantiated complaints, including the action taken and the date
of the action.
   (B) State citations assessed, including the status of any citation and
whether an appeal has been filed.
   (C) State actions, including license suspensions, revocations, and
receiverships.
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3303

   (D) Federal enforcement sanctions imposed, including any denial of
payment, temporary management, termination, or civil money penalty
of five hundred dollars ($500) or more.
   (E) Any information or data beneficial to the public and consumers.
   (2) This subdivision shall become inoperative on July 1, 2003.
   (e) In implementing this section, the department shall ensure the
confidentiality of personal and identifying information of residents and
employees and shall not disclose this information through the consumer
information service system developed pursuant to this section.
   SEC. 22. Section 1422.6 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   1422.6. Each skilled nursing facility and intermediate care facility
shall post a copy of the notice required pursuant to Section 9718 of the
Welfare and Institutions Code in a conspicuous location in at least four
areas of the facility, as follows:
   (a) One location that is accessible to members of the public.
   (b) One location that is used for employee breaks.
   (c) One location that is next to a telephone designated for resident use.
   (d) One location that is used for communal functions for residents,
such as for dining or resident council meetings and activities.
   SEC. 23. Section 1423.5 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   1423.5. (a) The state department shall centrally review federal
deficiencies and supporting documentation that require the termination
of certification for a nursing facility. The state department shall develop
a standardized methodology for conducting the central review of these
deficiencies. The standardized methodology shall assess all of the
following:
   (1) The extent to which the survey team followed established survey
protocols.
   (2) The thoroughness of the investigation or review.
   (3) The quality of documentation.
   (4) The consistency in interpreting federal requirements.
   (b) The state department shall develop a system for tracking patterns
and a quality assurance process for preventing, detecting, and correcting
inconsistent or poor quality survey practices.
   (c) On or before October 1 of each year, the state department shall
provide to the Legislature a summary of federal enforcement actions
taken against nursing facilities during the previous state fiscal year.
   SEC. 24. Section 1424 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1424. Citations issued pursuant to this chapter shall be classified
according to the nature of the violation and shall indicate the
classification on the face thereof.
 3304                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
   (a) In determining the amount of the civil penalty, all relevant facts
shall be considered, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (1) The probability and severity of the risk that the violation presents
to the patient’s or resident’s mental and physical condition.
   (2) The patient’s or resident’s medical condition.
   (3) The patient’s or resident’s mental condition and his or her history
of mental disability or disorder.
   (4) The good faith efforts exercised by the facility to prevent the
violation from occurring.
   (5) The licensee’s history of compliance with regulations.
   (b) Relevant facts considered by the department in determining the
amount of the civil penalty shall be documented by the department on
an attachment to the citation and available in the public record. This
requirement shall not preclude the department or a facility from
introducing facts not listed on the citation to support or challenge the
amount of the civil penalty in any proceeding set forth in Section 1428.
   (c) Class ‘‘AA’’ violations are violations that meet the criteria for a
class ‘‘A’’ violation and that the state department determines to have
been a direct proximate cause of death of a patient or resident of a
long-term health care facility. Except as provided in Section 1424.5, a
class ‘‘AA’’ citation is subject to a civil penalty in the amount of not less
than five thousand dollars ($5,000) and not exceeding twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000) for each citation. In any action to enforce a
citation issued under this subdivision, the state department shall prove
all of the following:
   (1) The violation was a direct proximate cause of death of a patient
or resident.
   (2) The death resulted from an occurrence of a nature that the
regulation was designed to prevent.
   (3) The patient or resident suffering the death was among the class of
persons for whose protection the regulation was adopted.
   If the state department meets this burden of proof, the licensee shall
have the burden of proving that the licensee did what might reasonably
be expected of a long-term health care facility licensee, acting under
similar circumstances, to comply with the regulation. If the licensee
sustains this burden, then the citation shall be dismissed.
   Except as provided in Section 1424.5, for each class ‘‘AA’’ citation
within a 12-month period that has become final, the state department
shall consider the suspension or revocation of the facility’s license in
accordance with Section 1294. For a third or subsequent class ‘‘AA’’
citation in a facility within that 12-month period that has been sustained
following a citation review conference, the state department shall
commence action to suspend or revoke the facility’s license in
accordance with Section 1294.
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3305

   (d) Class ‘‘A’’ violations are violations which the state department
determines present either (1) imminent danger that death or serious harm
to the patients or residents of the long-term health care facility would
result therefrom, or (2) substantial probability that death or serious
physical harm to patients or residents of the long-term health care facility
would result therefrom. A physical condition or one or more practices,
means, methods, or operations in use in a long-term health care facility
may constitute a class ‘‘A’’ violation. The condition or practice
constituting a class ‘‘A’’ violation shall be abated or eliminated
immediately, unless a fixed period of time, as determined by the state
department, is required for correction. Except as provided in Section
1424.5, a class ‘‘A’’ citation is subject to a civil penalty in an amount not
less than one thousand dollars ($1,000) and not exceeding ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) for each and every citation.
   If the state department establishes that a violation occurred, the
licensee shall have the burden of proving that the licensee did what might
reasonably be expected of a long-term health care facility licensee,
acting under similar circumstances, to comply with the regulation. If the
licensee sustains this burden, then the citation shall be dismissed.
   (e) Class ‘‘B’’ violations are violations that the state department
determines have a direct or immediate relationship to the health, safety,
or security of long-term health care facility patients or residents, other
than class ‘‘AA’’ or ‘‘A’’ violations. Unless otherwise determined by the
state department to be a class ‘‘A’’ violation pursuant to this chapter and
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, any violation of a
patient’s rights as set forth in Sections 72527 and 73523 of Title 22 of
the California Code of Regulations, that is determined by the state
department to cause or under circumstances likely to cause significant
humiliation, indignity, anxiety, or other emotional trauma to a patient is
a class ‘‘B’’ violation. A class ‘‘B’’ citation is subject to a civil penalty
in an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100) and not exceeding
one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each and every citation. A class ‘‘B’’
citation shall specify the time within which the violation is required to
be corrected. If the state department establishes that a violation occurred,
the licensee shall have the burden of proving that the licensee did what
might reasonably be expected of a long-term health care facility licensee,
acting under similar circumstances, to comply with the regulation. If the
licensee sustains this burden, then the citation shall be dismissed.
   In the event of any citation under this paragraph, if the state
department establishes that a violation occurred, the licensee shall have
the burden of proving that the licensee did what might reasonably be
expected of a long-term health care facility licensee, acting under similar
circumstances, to comply with the regulation. If the licensee sustains this
burden, then the citation shall be dismissed.
 3306                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
   (f) (1) Any willful material falsification or willful material omission
in the health record of a patient of a long-term health care facility is a
violation.
   (2) ‘‘Willful material falsification,’’ as used in this section, means any
entry in the patient health care record pertaining to the administration of
medication, or treatments ordered for the patient, or pertaining to
services for the prevention or treatment of decubitus ulcers or
contractures, or pertaining to tests and measurements of vital signs, or
notations of input and output of fluids, that was made with the
knowledge that the records falsely reflect the condition of the resident
or the care or services provided.
   (3) ‘‘Willful material omission,’’ as used in this section, means the
willful failure to record any untoward event that has affected the health,
safety, or security of the specific patient, and that was omitted with the
knowledge that the records falsely reflect the condition of the resident
or the care or services provided.
   (g) Except as provided in subdivision (a) of Section 1425.5, a
violation of subdivision (f) may result in a civil penalty not to exceed ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), as specified in paragraphs (1) to (3),
inclusive.
   (1) The willful material falsification or willful material omission is
subject to a civil penalty of not less than two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500) or more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) in instances
where the health care record is relied upon by a health care professional
to the detriment of a patient by affecting the administration of
medications or treatments, the issuance of orders, or the development of
plans of care. In all other cases, violations of this subdivision are subject
to a civil penalty not exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500).
   (2) Where the penalty assessed is one thousand dollars ($1,000) or
less, the violation shall be issued and enforced, except as provided in this
subdivision, in the same manner as a class ‘‘B’’ violation, and shall
include the right of appeal as specified in Section 1428. Where the
assessed penalty is in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000), or for
skilled nursing facilities or intermediate care facilities as specified in
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 1418, in excess of
two thousand dollars ($2,000), the violation shall be issued and
enforced, except as provided in this subdivision, in the same manner as
a class ‘‘A’’ violation, and shall include the right of appeal as specified
in Section 1428.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed as a change in previous law
enacted by Chapter 11 of the Statutes of 1985 relative to this paragraph,
but merely as a clarification of existing law.
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3307

   (3) Nothing in this subdivision shall preclude the state department
from issuing a class ‘‘A’’ or class ‘‘B’’ citation for any violation that
meets the requirements for that citation, regardless of whether the
violation also constitutes a violation of this subdivision. However, no
single act, omission, or occurrence may be cited both as a class ‘‘A’’ or
class ‘‘B’’ violation and as a violation of this subdivision.
   (h) Where the licensee has failed to post the notices as required by
Section 9718 of the Welfare and Institutions Code in the manner required
under Section 1422.6, the state department shall assess the licensee a
civil penalty in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100) for each day
the failure to post the notices continues. Where the total penalty assessed
is two thousand dollars ($2,000) or less, the violation shall be issued and
enforced in the same manner as a class ‘B‘ violation, and shall include
the right of appeal as specified in Section 1428. Where the assessed
penalty is equal to or in excess of two thousand dollars ($2,000), the
violation shall be issued and enforced in the same manner as a class ‘‘A’’
violation and shall include the right of appeal as specified in Section
1428. Any fines collected pursuant to this subdivision shall be used to
fund the costs incurred by the California Department of Aging in
producing and posting the posters.
   (i) The director shall prescribe procedures for the issuance of a notice
of violation with respect to violations having only a minimal
relationship to patient safety or health.
   (j) The department shall provide a copy of all citations issued under
this section to the affected residents mentioned in the violation and to the
affected residents’ family or designated legal representative.
   (k) Nothing in this section is intended to change existing statutory or
regulatory requirements governing the ability of a licensee to contest a
citation pursuant to Section 1428.
   (l) The department shall ensure that district office activities
performed under Sections 1419 to 1424, inclusive, are consistent with
the requirements of these sections and all applicable laws and
regulations. To ensure the integrity of these activities, the department
shall establish a statewide process for the collection of postsurvey
evaluations from affected facilities.
   SEC. 25. Section 1424.5 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   1424.5. (a) In lieu of the fines specified in subdivisions (c), (d), and
(e) of Section 1424, fines imposed on skilled nursing facilities or
intermediate care facilities, as specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subdivision (a) of Section 1418, shall be as follows:
   (1) A class ‘‘AA’’ citation is subject to a civil penalty in an amount
not less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) and not exceeding
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for each and every citation. For
 3308                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 451 ]
a second or subsequent class ‘‘AA’’ citation in a skilled nursing facility
or intermediate care facility within a 24-month period that has been
sustained following a citation review conference, or where the licensee
has chosen not to exercise its right to a citation review conference, the
state department shall commence action to suspend or revoke the
facility’s license in accordance with Section 1294.
   (2) A class ‘‘A’’ citation is subject to a civil penalty in an amount not
less than two thousand dollars ($2,000) and not exceeding twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000) for each and every citation.
   (3) Any ‘‘willful material falsification’’ or ‘‘willful material
omission,’’ as those terms are defined in subdivision (f) of Section 1424,
in the health record of a resident is subject to a civil penalty in an amount
not less than two thousand dollars ($2,000) and not exceeding twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000) for each and every citation.
   (b) A licensee may, in lieu of contesting a class ‘‘AA’’ or class ‘‘A’’
citation pursuant to Section 1428, transmit to the state department, the
minimum amount specified by law, or 65 percent of the amount specified
in the citation, whichever is greater, for each violation, within 30
business days after the issuance of the citation.
   SEC. 26. Section 1428 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1428. (a) If the licensee desires to contest a citation or the proposed
assessment of a civil penalty therefor, the licensee shall use the processes
described in subdivisions (b) and (c) for classes ‘‘AA,’’ ‘‘A,’’ or ‘‘B’’
citations. As a result of a citation review conference, a citation or the
proposed assessment of a civil penalty may be affirmed, modified, or
dismissed by the director or the director’s designee. If the director’s
designee affirms, modifies, or dismisses the citation or proposed
assessment of a civil penalty, he or she shall state with particularity in
writing his or her reasons for that action, and shall immediately transmit
a copy thereof to each party to the original complaint. If the licensee
desires to contest a decision made after the citation review conference,
the licensee shall inform the director in writing within 15 business days
after he or she receives the decision by the director’s designee.
   (b) If a licensee notifies the director that he or she intends to contest
a class ‘‘AA’’ or a class ‘‘A’’ citation, the licensee may first, within 15
business days after service of the citation, notify the director in writing
of his or her request for a citation review conference. The licensee shall
inform the director in writing, within 15 business days of the service of
the citation or the receipt of the decision of the director’s designee after
the citation review conference, of the licensee’s intent to adjudicate the
validity of the citation in the municipal or superior court in the county
in which the long-term health care facility is located. In order to perfect
a judicial appeal of a contested citation, a licensee shall file a civil action
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3309

in the municipal or superior court in the county in which the long-term
health care facility is located. The action shall be filed no later than 90
calendar days after a licensee notifies the director that he or she intends
to contest the citation, or no later than 90 days after the receipt of the
decision by the director’s designee after the citation review conference,
and served not later than 90 days after filing. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, a licensee prosecuting a judicial appeal shall file and
serve an at-issue memorandum pursuant to Rule 209 of the California
Rules of Court within six months after the state department files its
answer in the appeal. Notwithstanding subdivision (d), the court shall
dismiss the appeal upon motion of the state department if the at-issue
memorandum is not filed by the facility within the period specified. The
court may affirm, modify, or dismiss the citation, the level of the citation,
or the amount of the proposed assessment of the civil penalty.
   (c) If a licensee desires to contest a class ‘‘B’’ citation, the licensee
may request, within 15 business days after service of the citation, a
citation review conference, by writing the director or the director’s
designee of the licensee’s intent to appeal the citation through the
citation review conference. If the licensee wishes to appeal the citation
which has been upheld in a citation review conference, the licensee shall,
within 15 working days from the date the citation review conference
decision was rendered, notify the director or the director’s designee that
he or she wishes to appeal the decision through the procedures set forth
in Section 100171 or elects to submit the matter to binding arbitration
in accordance with subdivision (d). The administrative law judge may
affirm, modify, or dismiss the citation or the proposed assessment of a
civil penalty. The licensee may choose to have his or her appeal heard
by the administrative law judge or submit the matter to binding
arbitration without having first appealed the decision to a citation review
conference by notifying the director in writing within 15 business days
of the service of the citation.
   (d) If a licensee is dissatisfied with the decision of the administrative
law judge, the licensee may, in lieu of seeking judicial review of the
decision as provided in Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
elect to submit the matter to binding arbitration by filing, within 60 days
of its receipt of the decision, a request for arbitration with the American
Arbitration Association. The parties shall agree upon an arbitrator
designated from the American Arbitration Association in accordance
with the association’s established rules and procedures. The arbitration
hearing shall be set within 45 days of the election to arbitrate, but in no
event less than 28 days from the date of selection of an arbitrator. The
arbitration hearing may be continued up to 15 additional days if
necessary at the arbitrator’s discretion. Except as otherwise specifically
provided in this subdivision, the arbitration hearing shall be conducted
 3310                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
in accordance with the American Arbitration Association’s established
rules and procedures. The arbitrator shall determine whether the licensee
violated the regulation or regulations cited by the department, and
whether the citation meets the criteria established in Sections 1423 and
1424. If the arbitrator determines that the licensee has violated the
regulation or regulations cited by the department, and that the class of
the citation should be upheld, the proposed assessment of a civil penalty
shall be affirmed, subject to the limitations established in Section 1424.
The licensee and the department shall each bear its respective portion of
the cost of arbitration. A resident, or his or her designated representative,
or both, entitled to participate in the citation review conference pursuant
to subdivision (f), may make an oral or written statement regarding the
citation, at any arbitration hearing to which the matter has been
submitted after the citation review conference.
   (e) If an appeal is prosecuted under this section, including an appeal
taken in accordance with Section 100171, the state department shall
have the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that
(1) the alleged violation did occur, (2) the alleged violation met the
criteria for the class of citation alleged, and (3) the assessed penalty was
appropriate. The state department shall also have the burden of
establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that the assessment of
a civil penalty should be upheld. If a licensee fails to notify the director
in writing that he or she intends to contest the citation, or the proposed
assessment of a civil penalty therefor, or the decision made by the
director’s designee, after a citation review conference, within the time
specified in this section, the decision by the director’s designee after a
citation review conference shall be deemed a final order of the state
department and shall not be subject to further administrative review,
except that the licensee may seek judicial relief from the time limits
specified in this section. If a licensee appeals a contested citation or the
assessment of a civil penalty, no civil penalty shall be due and payable
unless and until the appeal is terminated in favor of the state department.
   (f) The director or the director’s designee shall establish an
independent unit of trained citation review conference hearing officers
within the state department to conduct citation review conferences.
Citation review conference hearing officers shall be directly responsible
to the deputy director for licensing and certification, and shall not be
concurrently employed as supervisors, district administrators, or
regional administrators with the licensing and certification division.
Specific training shall be provided to members of this unit on conducting
an informal conference, with emphasis on the regulatory and legal
aspects of long-term health care.
   Where the state department issues a citation as a result of a complaint
or regular inspection visit, and a resident or residents are specifically
[Ch. 451 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3311

identified in a citation by name as being specifically affected by the
violation, then the following persons may attend the citation review
conference:
   (1) The complainant and his or her designated representative.
   (2) A personal health care provider, designated by the resident.
   (3) A personal attorney.
   (4) Any person representing the Office of the State Long-Term Care
Ombudsman, as referred to in subdivision (d) of Section 9701 of the
Welfare and Institutions Code.
   Where the state department determines that residents in the facility
were threatened by the cited violation but does not name specific
residents, any person representing the Office of the State Long-Term
Care Ombudsman, as referred to in subdivision (d) of Section 9701 of
the Welfare and Institutions Code, and a representative of the residents
or family council at the facility may participate to represent all residents.
In this case, these representatives shall be the sole participants for the
residents in the conference. The residents or family council shall
designate which representative will participate.
   The complainant, affected resident, and their designated
representatives shall be notified by the state department of the
conference and their right to participate. The director’s designee shall
notify the complainant or his or her designated representative and the
affected resident or his or her designated representative, of his or her
determination based on the citation review conference.
   (g) In assessing the civil penalty for a violation, all relevant facts shall
be considered, including, but not limited to, all of the following:
   (1) The probability and severity of the risk which the violation
presents to the patient’s or resident’s mental and physical condition.
   (2) The patient’s or resident’s medical condition.
   (3) The patient’s or resident’s mental condition and his or her history
of mental disability.
   (4) The good faith efforts exercised by the facility to prevent the
violation from occurring.
   (5) The licensee’s history of compliance with regulations.
   (h) Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, an assessment
of civil penalties for a class ‘‘A’’ or class ‘‘B’’ violation shall be trebled
and collected for a second and subsequent violation for which a citation
of the same class was issued within any 12-month period. Trebling shall
occur only if the first citation issued within the 12-month period was
issued in the same class, a civil penalty was assessed, and a plan of
correction was submitted for the previous same-class violation
occurring within the period, without regard to whether the action to
enforce the previous citation has become final. However, the increment
to the civil penalty required by this subdivision shall not be due and
 3312                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
payable unless and until the previous action has terminated in favor of
the state department.
   If the class ‘‘B’’ citation is issued for a patient’s rights violation, as
defined in subdivision (c) of Section 1424, it shall not be trebled unless
the state department determines the violation has a direct or immediate
relationship to the health, safety, security, or welfare of long-term health
care facility residents.
   (i) The director shall prescribe procedures for the issuance of a notice
of violation with respect to violations having only a minimal
relationship to safety or health.
   (j) Actions brought under this chapter shall be set for trial at the
earliest possible date and shall take precedence on the court calendar
over all other cases except matters to which equal or superior precedence
is specifically granted by law. Times for responsive pleading and for
hearing the proceeding shall be set by the judge of the court with the
object of securing a decision as to subject matters at the earliest possible
time.
   (k) If the citation is dismissed, the state department shall take action
immediately to ensure that the public records reflect in a prominent
manner that the citation was dismissed.
   (l) Penalties paid on violations under this chapter shall be applied
against the state department’s accounts to offset any costs incurred by the
state pursuant to this chapter. Any costs or penalties assessed pursuant
to this chapter shall be paid within 30 days of the date the decision
becomes final. If a facility does not comply with this requirement, the
state department shall withhold any payment under the Medi-Cal
program until the debt is satisfied. No payment shall be withheld if the
state department determines that it would cause undue hardship to the
facility or to patients or residents of the facility.
   (m) The amendments made to subdivisions (a) and (c) of this section
by Chapter 84 of the Statutes of 1988, to extend the number of days
allowed for the provision of notification to the director, do not affect the
right, that is also contained in those amendments, to request judicial
relief from these time limits.
   SEC. 27. Section 1428.1 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1428.1. Except as provided in subdivision (d) of Section 1424.5, a
licensee may, in lieu of contesting a citation pursuant to Section 1428,
transmit to the state department the minimum amount specified by law,
or 65 percent of the amount specified in the citation, whichever is greater,
for each violation within 15 business days after the issuance of the
citation.
   SEC. 28. Section 1429.1 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3313

   1429.1. (a) If a long-term health care facility licensed as a skilled
nursing facility or an intermediate care facility, as defined in paragraphs
(1) and (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 1418, has one or more of the
following remedies actually imposed for violation of state or federal
requirements, the facility shall provide written notification of the action
to each resident, the resident’s responsible party and legal representative,
and all applicants for admission to the facility:
   (1) Termination of the facility’s provider agreement to participate in
the Medicare program, medicaid program, or both programs.
   (2) Denial of Medicare or medicaid payment for new admissions to
the facility.
   (3) Denial by the Health Care Financing Administration of Medicare
or medicaid payment for all individuals in the facility.
   (4) A ban on admissions, of any type.
   (b) A violation of the requirements of this section shall be a class ‘‘B’’
violation.
   SEC. 29. Section 1430.5 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
   SEC. 30. Section 1435 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
   SEC. 31. Section 1435.5 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
   SEC. 32. Section 1437.5 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   1437.5. (a) If a facility is certified to participate in the federal
Medicare program as a skilled nursing facility under Title XVIII of the
Social Security Act, in the medicaid program as a nursing facility under
Title XIX of the Social Security Act, or in both and any of the following
occurs, the state department may rescind its permanent license to operate
and issue a provisional license under Section 1437:
   (1) The facility’s provider agreement is terminated.
   (2) A temporary manager is appointed to operate it.
   (3) Payment becomes due on a federal civil money penalty of seven
thousand dollars ($7,000) per day, or greater, imposed on it.
   (4) A federal civil monetary penalty of any amount is imposed and
has continued for a period of 30 days or more.
   (5) A federal civil monetary penalty of any amount is imposed and
has accrued in an amount equal to, or greater than, thirty-five thousand
dollars ($35,000).
   (b) The state department may not take action pursuant to subdivision
(a) until a final administrative decision is issued if the facility has
requested a hearing pursuant to federal law, until a facility has waived
its right to a hearing under federal law, or until the time for requesting
a hearing under federal law has expired and a hearing request was not
received by federal authorities.
   (c) If a receiver or temporary manager is appointed to operate a skilled
nursing facility or an intermediate care facility, specified in paragraphs
 3314                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 451 ]
(1) and (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 1418, pursuant to state law, or
as otherwise specified in regulations adopted by the department, the state
department may rescind its permanent license to operate and issue a
provisional license under Section 1437.
   (d) (1) A provisional license issued pursuant to this section shall
terminate six months from the date of issuance unless extended by the
department.
   (2) At least 30 days prior to the termination of a provisional license,
the department shall give the facility a full and complete inspection. If,
at the time of the inspection, it is determined that the facility meets all
applicable requirements for licensure, a permanent license shall be
restored. If, at the time of the inspection, it is determined that the facility
does not meet the requirements for licensure, but the facility has made
substantial progress towards meeting the requirements, as determined
by the department, the provisional license shall be renewed for six
months. If, at the time of the first inspection, the department determines
that there has not been substantial progress towards meeting the
requirements for licensure, or, if at any subsequent inspection the
department determines that there has not been substantial progress
towards meeting requirements identified at the most recent previous
inspection, a permanent license shall not be issued.
   (e) The facility may request a hearing in writing within 10 days of the
receipt of notice from the department denying a permanent license under
this section. The provisional license shall remain in effect during the
pendency of the hearing. The hearing shall be held in accordance with
Section 100171. The hearing officer shall uphold the denial of a
permanent license if the department proves, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the licensee did not meet the requirements for licensure.
   SEC. 33. Section 1438 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   1438. The state department shall review the effectiveness of the
enforcement system in maintaining the quality of care provided by
long-term health care facilities and shall submit a report thereon to the
Legislature on enforcement activities, on or before December 1, 2001,
and annually thereafter, together with any recommendations of the state
department for additional legislation which it deems necessary to
improve the effectiveness of the enforcement system or to enhance the
quality of care provided by long-term health care facilities.
   SEC. 33.5. Section 1599.1 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   1599.1. Written policies regarding the rights of patients shall be
established and shall be made available to the patient, to any guardian,
next of kin, sponsoring agency or representative payee, and to the public.
Those policies and procedures shall ensure that each patient admitted to
[Ch. 451 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3315

the facility has the following rights and is notified of the following
facility obligations, in addition to those specified by regulation:
   (a) The facility shall employ an adequate number of qualified
personnel to carry out all of the functions of the facility.
   (b) Each patient shall show evidence of good personal hygiene, be
given care to prevent bedsores, and measures shall be used to prevent and
reduce incontinence for each patient.
   (c) The facility shall provide food of the quality and quantity to meet
the patients’ needs in accordance with physicians’ orders.
   (d) The facility shall provide an activity program staffed and
equipped to meet the needs and interests of each patient and to encourage
self-care and resumption of normal activities. Patients shall be
encouraged to participate in activities suited to their individual needs.
   (e) The facility shall be clean, sanitary, and in good repair at all times.
   (f) A nurses’ call system shall be maintained in operating order in all
nursing units and provide visible and audible signal communication
between nursing personnel and patients. Extension cords to each
patient’s bed shall be readily accessible to patients at all times.
   (g) (1) If a facility has a significant beneficial interest in an ancillary
health service provider or if a facility knows that an ancillary health
service provider has a significant beneficial interest in the facility, as
provided by subdivision (a) of Section 1323, or if the facility has a
significant beneficial interest in another facility, as provided by
subdivision (c) of Section 1323, the facility shall disclose that interest
in writing to the patient, or his or her representative, and advise the
patient, or his or her representative, that the patient may choose to have
another ancillary health service provider, or facility, as the case may be,
provide any supplies or services ordered by a member of the medical
staff of the facility.
   (2) A facility is not required to make any disclosures required by this
subdivision to any patient, or his or her representative, if the patient is
enrolled in an organization or entity which provides or arranges for the
provision of health care services in exchange for a prepaid capitation
payment or premium.
   (h) (1) If a resident of a long-term health care facility has been
hospitalized in an acute care hospital and asserts his or her rights to
readmission pursuant to bed hold provisions or readmission rights of
either state or federal law and the facility refuses to readmit him or her,
the resident may appeal the facility’s refusal.
   (2) The refusal of the facility as described in this subdivision shall be
treated as if it were an involuntary transfer under federal law and the
rights and procedures that apply to appeals of transfers and discharges
of nursing facility residents shall apply to the resident’s appeal under this
subdivision.
 3316                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 451 ]
   (3) If the resident appeals pursuant to this subdivision, and the
resident is eligible under the Medi-Cal program, the resident shall
remain in the hospital and the hospital may be reimbursed at the
administrative day rate, pending the final determination of the hearing
officer, unless the resident agrees to placement in another facility.
   (4) If the resident appeals pursuant to this subdivision, and the
resident is not eligible under the Medi-Cal program, the resident shall
remain in the hospital if other payment is available, pending the final
determination of the hearing officer, unless the resident agrees to
placement in another facility.
   (5) If the resident is not eligible for participation in the Medi-Cal
program and has no other source of payment, the hearing and final
determination shall be made within 48 hours.
   SEC. 34. Section 14124.7 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   14124.7. (a) No long-term health care facility participating as a
provider under the Medi-Cal program shall seek to evict out of the
facility or, effective January 1, 2002, transfer within the facility, any
resident as a result of the resident changing his or her manner of
purchasing the services from private payment or Medicare to Medi-Cal,
except that a facility may transfer a resident from a private room to a
semiprivate room if the resident changes to Medi-Cal payment status.
This section also applies to residents who have made a timely and good
faith application for Medi-Cal benefits and for whom an eligibility
determination has not yet been made.
   (b) This section does not apply to any resident of a skilled nursing
facility or intermediate care facility, receiving respite care services, as
defined in Section 1418.1 of the Health and Safety Code, unless it is
already being provided through a Medicaid waiver program pursuant to
Section 1396n of Title 42 of the United States Code, or is already
allowed as a covered service by the Medi-Cal program.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall limit a facility’s ability to transfer a
resident within a facility, as provided by law, because of a change in a
resident’s health care needs or if the bed retention would result in there
being no available Medicare-designated beds within a facility.
   (d) This section shall be implemented only to the extent it does not
conflict with federal law.
   SEC. 35. Section 14126.02 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
   14126.02. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature to devise a Medi-Cal
long-term care reimbursement methodology that more effectively
ensures individual access to appropriate long-term care services,
promotes quality resident care, advances decent wages and benefits for
nursing home workers, supports provider compliance with all applicable
[Ch. 451 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3317

state and federal requirements, and encourages administrative
efficiency.
   (b) (1) The department shall review the current Medi-Cal
reimbursement system to evaluate the extent to which the methodology
supports the objectives stated in subdivision (a). The scope of the review
shall encompass the structure currently used for peer groups, audits,
projections, updates and other rate development factors that have an
impact on the quality of care.
   (2) The department shall examine several alternative rate
methodology models for a new Medi-Cal reimbursement system for
skilled nursing facilities to include, but not be limited to, consideration
of the following:
   (A) Classification of residents based on the resource utilization group
system or other appropriate acuity classification system.
   (B) Facility specific case mix factors.
   (C) Direct care labor based factors.
   (D) Geographic or regional differences in the cost of operating
facilities and providing resident care.
   (c) The department shall submit to the Legislature a formal report and
proposal for any statutory changes necessary to implement
recommendations related to best meeting the objectives stated in
subdivision (a) and the costs associated with any changes.
   (d) The alternatives for a new system described in paragraph (2) of
subdivision (b) shall be developed in consultation with recognized
experts with experience in long-term care reimbursement, economists,
the Attorney General, the federal Health Care Financing Administration,
and other interested parties.
   (e) In implementing this section, the department may contract as
necessary, on a bid or nonbid basis, for professional consulting services
from nationally recognized higher education and research institutions,
or other qualified individuals and entities not associated with a skilled
nursing facility, with demonstrated expertise in long-term care
reimbursement systems. The review specified in subdivision (b) shall be
conducted with all possible expedience. This subdivision establishes an
accelerated process for issuing contracts pursuant to this section and
contracts entered into pursuant to this subdivision shall be exempt from
the requirements of Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 10100) and
Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 10290) of Part 2 of Division 2 of
the Public Contracts Code.
   SEC. 36. (a) The sum of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000)
is hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the State Department
of Health Services without regard to fiscal years for the purpose of
implementing Section 14126.02 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
 3318                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 452 ]
  (b) It is the intent of the Legislature that the amount of the
appropriation specified in subdivision (a) be matched by federal funds.
  SEC. 37. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 452

 An act to amend Sections 124555 and 124710 of the Health and Safety
Code, relating to health care.
             [Approved by Governor September 14, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 15, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 124555 of the Health and Safety Code, as
added by Section 2 of Chapter 744 of the Statutes of 1999, is amended
to read:
   124555. (a) (1) It is the intent of the Legislature that funds
distributed under this section promote stability for participating clinics,
as a part of the state’s health care safety net, and at the same time be
distributed in a manner that best promotes access to health care to
seasonal agricultural and migratory workers and their families.
   (2) The department shall grant funds, for up to three years per grant,
to eligible, private, nonprofit, community-based primary care clinics for
the purpose of establishing and maintaining a health services program
for seasonal agricultural and migratory workers and their families.
   (b) In order to be eligible to receive funds under this program, a clinic
shall, at a minimum, meet all of the following conditions:
   (1) The clinic shall be licensed under either paragraph (1) or (2) of
subdivision (a) of Section 1204.
   (2) The clinic’s patient population shall include at least 25 percent
farmworkers and their dependents.
   (3) The clinic shall operate in a medically underserved area, including
a Health Professional Shortage Area, or serve a medically underserved
population, as designated by the United States Department of Health and
Human Services, or shall be able to demonstrate that at least 50 percent
[Ch. 453 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3319

of its patients are persons with incomes at or below 200 percent of the
federal poverty level.
   (c) The department shall seek input from stakeholders in designing
the methodology for distribution of funds under this section.
   SEC. 2. Section 124710 of the Health and Safety Code, as added by
Section 5 of Chapter 744 of the Statutes of 1999, is amended to read:
   124710. (a) (1) It is the intent of the Legislature that funds
distributed under this section promote stability for participating clinics,
as a part of the state’s health care safety net, and at the same time be
distributed in a manner that best promotes access to health care to
geographically isolated populations.
   (2) The department shall grant funds, for up to three years per grant,
to eligible, private, nonprofit, community-based primary care clinics for
the purpose of establishing and maintaining rural health services and
development projects as specified under this article.
   (b) In order to be eligible to receive funds under this program, a clinic
shall, at a minimum, meet all of the following conditions:
   (1) The clinic shall be licensed under paragraph (1) or (2) of
subdivision (a) of Section 1204.
   (2) The clinic shall operate in a ‘‘rural’’ Medical Study Service Area,
as defined by the Health Manpower Commission.
   (3) The clinic shall operate in a medically underserved area, including
a Health Professional Shortage Area, or serve a medically underserved
population, as designated by the United States Department of Health and
Human Services, or shall be able to demonstrate that at least 50 percent
of its patients are persons with incomes at or below 200 percent of the
federal poverty level.
   (c) The department shall seek input from stakeholders in designing
the methodology for distribution of funds under this section.



                             CHAPTER 453

   An act to amend Section 14132 of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
relating to Medi-Cal.
             [Approved by Governor September 14, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 15, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
  (a) Under existing Medi-Cal program provisions relating to the scope
of health and medical care, as contained in Section 14059 of the Welfare
 3320                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 453 ]
and Institutions Code, reference to ‘‘conditions that interfere with
normal activity’’ necessarily includes conditions that interfere with the
ability of a parent or other caretaker to care for a child.
   (b) Section 14059.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code provides
that under the Medi-Cal program, a service is considered medically
necessary when it is reasonably necessary to prevent significant
disability.
   (c) Conditions that interfere with the ability of a parent or caretaker
to care for a child constitute a severe disability within the meaning of
Section 14059.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   SEC. 2. Section 14132 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   14132. The following is the schedule of benefits under this chapter:
   (a) Outpatient services are covered as follows:
   Physician, hospital or clinic outpatient, surgical center, respiratory
care, optometric, chiropractic, psychology, podiatric, occupational
therapy, physical therapy, speech therapy, audiology, acupuncture to the
extent federal matching funds are provided for acupuncture, and services
of persons rendering treatment by prayer or healing by spiritual means
in the practice of any church or religious denomination insofar as these
can be encompassed by federal participation under an approved plan,
subject to utilization controls.
   (b) Inpatient hospital services, including, but not limited to,
physician and podiatric services, physical therapy and occupational
therapy, are covered subject to utilization controls.
   (c) Nursing facility services, subacute care services, and services
provided by any category of intermediate care facility for the
developmentally disabled, including podiatry, physician, nurse
practitioner services, and prescribed drugs, as described in subdivision
(d), are covered subject to utilization controls. Respiratory care, physical
therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, and audiology services
for patients in nursing facilities and any category of intermediate care
facility for the developmentally disabled are covered subject to
utilization controls.
   (d) Purchase of prescribed drugs is covered subject to the Medi-Cal
List of Contract Drugs and utilization controls.
   (e) Outpatient dialysis services and home hemodialysis services,
including physician services, medical supplies, drugs and equipment
required for dialysis, are covered, subject to utilization controls.
   (f) Anesthesiologist services when provided as part of an outpatient
medical procedure, nurse anesthetist services when rendered in an
inpatient or outpatient setting under conditions set forth by the director,
outpatient laboratory services, and X-ray services are covered, subject
to utilization controls. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to
[Ch. 453 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3321

require prior authorization for anesthesiologist services provided as part
of an outpatient medical procedure or for portable X-ray services in a
nursing facility or any category of intermediate care facility for the
developmentally disabled.
   (g) Blood and blood derivatives are covered.
   (h) (1) Emergency and essential diagnostic and restorative dental
services, except for orthodontic, fixed bridgework, and partial dentures
that are not necessary for balance of a complete artificial denture, are
covered, subject to utilization controls. The utilization controls shall
allow emergency and essential diagnostic and restorative dental services
and prostheses that are necessary to prevent a significant disability or to
replace previously furnished prostheses which are lost or destroyed due
to circumstances beyond the beneficiary’s control. The department’s
utilization controls shall not require X-rays as a condition of
reimbursement for fillings for children under 18 years of age.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the director may by regulation provide
for certain fixed artificial dentures necessary for obtaining employment
or for medical conditions which preclude the use of removable dental
prostheses, and for orthodontic services in cleft palate deformities
administered by the department’s California Children Services Program.
   (2) For persons 21 years of age or older, the services specified in
paragraph (1) shall be provided subject to the following conditions:
   (A) Periodontal treatment is not a benefit.
   (B) Endodontic therapy is not a benefit except for vital pulpotomy.
   (C) Laboratory processed crowns are not a benefit.
   (D) Removable prosthetics shall be a benefit only for patients as a
requirement for employment.
   (E) The director may, by regulation, provide for the provision of fixed
artificial dentures that are necessary for medical conditions that preclude
the use of removable dental prostheses.
   (F) Notwithstanding the conditions specified in subparagraphs (A) to
(E), inclusive, the department may approve services for persons with
special medical disorders subject to utilization review.
   (3) Paragraph (2) shall become inoperative July 1, 1995.
   (i) Medical transportation is covered, subject to utilization controls.
   (j) Home health care services are covered, subject to utilization
controls.
   (k) Prosthetic and orthotic devices and eyeglasses are covered,
subject to utilization controls. Utilization controls shall allow
replacement of prosthetic and orthotic devices and eyeglasses necessary
because of loss or destruction due to circumstances beyond the
beneficiary’s control. Frame styles for eyeglasses replaced pursuant to
this subdivision shall not change more than once every two years, unless
the department so directs.
 3322                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 453 ]
   Orthopedic and conventional shoes are covered when provided by a
prosthetic and orthotic supplier on the prescription of a physician and
when at least one of the shoes will be attached to a prosthesis or brace,
subject to utilization controls. Modification of stock conventional or
orthopedic shoes when medically indicated, is covered subject to
utilization controls. When there is a clearly established medical need that
cannot be satisfied by the modification of stock conventional or
orthopedic shoes, custom-made orthopedic shoes are covered, subject to
utilization controls.
   (l) Hearing aids are covered, subject to utilization controls.
Utilization controls shall allow replacement of hearing aids necessary
because of loss or destruction due to circumstances beyond the
beneficiary’s control.
   (m) Durable medical equipment and medical supplies are covered,
subject to utilization controls. The utilization controls shall allow the
replacement of durable medical equipment and medical supplies when
necessary because of loss or destruction due to circumstances beyond the
beneficiary’s control. The utilization controls shall allow authorization
of durable medical equipment needed to assist a disabled beneficiary in
caring for a child for whom the disabled beneficiary is a parent,
stepparent, foster parent, or legal guardian, subject to the availability of
federal financial participation. The department shall adopt emergency
regulations to define and establish criteria for assistive durable medical
equipment in accordance with the rulemaking provisions of the
Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section
11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code).
   (n) Family planning services are covered, subject to utilization
controls.
   (o) Inpatient intensive rehabilitation hospital services, including
respiratory rehabilitation services, in a general acute care hospital are
covered, subject to utilization controls, when either of the following
criteria are met:
   (1) A patient with a permanent disability or severe impairment
requires an inpatient intensive rehabilitation hospital program as
described in Section 14064 to develop function beyond the limited
amount that would occur in the normal course of recovery.
   (2) A patient with a chronic or progressive disease requires an
inpatient intensive rehabilitation hospital program as described in
Section 14064 to maintain the patient’s present functional level as long
as possible.
   (p) Adult day health care is covered in accordance with Chapter 8.7
(commencing with Section 14520).
[Ch. 453 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3323

   (q) (1) Application of fluoride, or other appropriate fluoride
treatment as defined by the department, other prophylaxis treatment for
children 17 years of age and under, are covered.
   (2) All dental hygiene services provided by a registered dental
hygienist in alternative practice pursuant to Sections 1768 and 1770 of
the Business and Professions Code may be covered as long as they are
within the scope of Denti-Cal benefits and they are necessary services
provided by a registered dental hygienist in alternative practice.
   (r) (1) Paramedic services performed by a city, county, or special
district, or pursuant to a contract with a city, county, or special district,
and pursuant to a program established under Article 3 (commencing with
Section 1480) of Chapter 2.5 of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code
by a paramedic certified pursuant to that article, and consisting of
defibrillation and those services specified in subdivision (3) of Section
1482 of the article.
   (2) All providers enrolled under this subdivision shall satisfy all
applicable statutory and regulatory requirements for becoming a
Medi-Cal provider.
   (3) This subdivision shall be implemented only to the extent funding
is available under Section 14106.6.
   (s) In-home medical care services are covered when medically
appropriate and subject to utilization controls, for beneficiaries who
would otherwise require care for an extended period of time in an acute
care hospital at a cost higher than in-home medical care services. The
director shall have the authority under this section to contract with
organizations qualified to provide in-home medical care services to
those persons. These services may be provided to patients placed in
shared or congregate living arrangements, if a home setting is not
medically appropriate or available to the beneficiary. As used in this
section, ‘‘in-home medical care service’’ includes utility bills directly
attributable to continuous, 24-hour operation of life-sustaining medical
equipment, to the extent that federal financial participation is available.
   As used in this subdivision, in-home medical care services, include,
but are not limited to:
   (1) Level of care and cost of care evaluations.
   (2) Expenses, directly attributable to home care activities, for
materials.
   (3) Physician fees for home visits.
   (4) Expenses directly attributable to home care activities for shelter
and modification to shelter.
   (5) Expenses directly attributable to additional costs of special diets,
including tube feeding.
   (6) Medically related personal services.
   (7) Home nursing education.
 3324                     STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 453 ]
   (8) Emergency maintenance repair.
   (9) Home health agency personnel benefits which permit coverage of
care during periods when regular personnel are on vacation or using sick
leave.
   (10) All services needed to maintain antiseptic conditions at stoma or
shunt sites on the body.
   (11) Emergency and nonemergency medical transportation.
   (12) Medical supplies.
   (13) Medical equipment, including, but not limited to, scales,
gurneys, and equipment racks suitable for paralyzed patients.
   (14) Utility use directly attributable to the requirements of home care
activities which are in addition to normal utility use.
   (15) Special drugs and medications.
   (16) Home health agency supervision of visiting staff which is
medically necessary, but not included in the home health agency rate.
   (17) Therapy services.
   (18) Household appliances and household utensil costs directly
attributable to home care activities.
   (19) Modification of medical equipment for home use.
   (20) Training and orientation for use of life support systems,
including, but not limited to, support of respiratory functions.
   (21) Respiratory care practitioner services as defined in Sections
3702 and 3703 of the Business and Professions Code, subject to
prescription by a physician and surgeon.
   Beneficiaries receiving in-home medical care services are entitled to
the full range of services within the Medi-Cal scope of benefits as
defined by this section, subject to medical necessity and applicable
utilization control. Services provided pursuant to this subdivision,
which are not otherwise included in the Medi-Cal schedule of benefits,
shall be available only to the extent that federal financial participation
for these services is available in accordance with a home- and
community-based services waiver.
   (t) Home- and community-based services approved by the United
States Department of Health and Human Services may be covered to the
extent that federal financial participation is available for those services
under waivers granted in accordance with Section 1396n of Title 42 of
the United States Code. The director may seek waivers for any or all
home- and community-based services approvable under Section 1396n
of Title 42 of the United States Code. Coverage for those services shall
be limited by the terms, conditions, and duration of the federal waivers.
   The department shall submit a report, as provided in Section 28 of the
1982 Budget Act, 30 days prior to providing these services as Medi-Cal
benefits. The report shall be submitted to the Joint Legislative Budget
[Ch. 453 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3325

Committee and the fiscal committees and shall address the cost
effectiveness of services provided pursuant to this subdivision.
   (u) Comprehensive perinatal services, as provided through an
agreement with a health care provider designated in Section 14134.5 and
meeting the standards developed by the department pursuant to Section
14134.5, subject to utilization controls.
   The department shall seek any federal waivers necessary to implement
the provisions of this subdivision. The provisions for which appropriate
federal waivers cannot be obtained shall not be implemented. Provisions
for which waivers are obtained or for which waivers are not required
shall be implemented notwithstanding any inability to obtain federal
waivers for the other provisions. No provision of this subdivision shall
be implemented unless matching funds from Subchapter XIX
(commencing with Section 1396) of Chapter 7 of Title 42 of the United
States Code are available.
   (v) Early and periodic screening, diagnosis, and treatment for any
individual under 21 years of age is covered, consistent with the
requirements of Subchapter XIX (commencing with Section 1396) of
Chapter 7 of Title 42 of the United States Code.
   (w) Hospice service which is Medicare-certified hospice service is
covered, subject to utilization controls. Coverage shall be available only
to the extent that no additional net program costs are incurred.
   (x) When a claim for treatment provided to a beneficiary includes
both services which are authorized and reimbursable under this chapter,
and services which are not reimbursable under this chapter, that portion
of the claim for the treatment and services authorized and reimbursable
under this chapter shall be payable.
   (y) Home- and community-based services approved by the United
States Department of Health and Human Services for beneficiaries with
a diagnosis of AIDS or ARC, who require intermediate care or a higher
level of care.
   Services provided pursuant to a waiver obtained from the Secretary of
the United States Department of Health and Human Services pursuant
to this subdivision, and which are not otherwise included in the
Medi-Cal schedule of benefits, shall be available only to the extent that
federal financial participation for these services is available in
accordance with the waiver, and subject to the terms, conditions, and
duration of the waiver. These services shall be provided to individual
beneficiaries in accordance with the client’s needs as identified in the
plan of care, and subject to medical necessity and applicable utilization
control.
   The director may under this section contract with organizations
qualified to provide, directly or by subcontract, services provided for in
this subdivision to eligible beneficiaries. Contracts or agreements
 3326                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 453 ]
entered into pursuant to this division shall not be subject to the Public
Contract Code.
   (z) Respiratory care when provided in organized health care systems
as defined in Section 3701 of the Business and Professions Code, and
as an in-home medical service as outlined in subdivision (s).
   (aa) (1) There is hereby established in the department, a program to
provide comprehensive clinical family planning services to any person
who has a family income at or below 200 percent of the federal poverty
level, as revised annually, and who is eligible to receive these services
pursuant to the waiver identified in paragraph (2). This program shall be
known as the Family Planning, Access, Care, and Treatment (Family
PACT) Waiver Program.
   (2) The department shall seek a waiver for a program to provide
comprehensive clinical family planning services as described in
paragraph (8). The program shall be operated only in accordance with
the waiver and the statutes and regulations in paragraph (4) and subject
to the terms, conditions, and duration of the waiver. The services shall
be provided under the program only if the waiver is approved by the
federal Health Care Financing Administration in accordance with
Section 1396n of Title 42 of the United States Code and only to the extent
that federal financial participation is available for the services.
   (3) Solely for the purposes of the waiver and notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the collection and use of an individual’s social
security number shall be necessary only to the extent required by federal
law.
   (4) Sections 14105.3 to 14105.39, inclusive, 14107.11, 24005, and
24013, and any regulations adopted under these statutes shall apply to
the program provided for under this subdivision. No other provision of
law under the Medi-Cal program or the State-Only Family Planning
Program shall apply to the program provided for under this subdivision.
   (5) Notwithstanding Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340)
of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, the department
may implement, without taking regulatory action, the provisions of the
waiver after its approval by the federal Health Care Financing
Administration and the provisions of this section by means of an
all-county letter or similar instruction to providers. Thereafter, the
department shall adopt regulations to implement this section and the
approved waiver in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 3.5
(commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of
the Government Code. Beginning six months after the effective date of
the act adding this subdivision, the department shall provide a status
report to the Legislature on a semiannual basis until regulations have
been adopted.
[Ch. 453 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3327

   (6) In the event that the Department of Finance determines that the
program operated under the authority of the waiver described in
paragraph (2) is no longer cost-effective, this subdivision shall become
inoperative on the first day of the first month following the issuance of
a 30-day notification of that determination in writing by the Department
of Finance to the chairperson in each house that considers
appropriations, the chairpersons of the committees, and the appropriate
subcommittees in each house that considers the State Budget, and the
Chairperson of the Joint Legislative Budget Committee.
   (7) If this subdivision ceases to be operative, all persons who have
received or are eligible to receive comprehensive clinical family
planning services pursuant to the waiver described in paragraph (2) shall
receive family planning services under the Medi-Cal program pursuant
to subdivision (n) if they are otherwise eligible for Medi-Cal with no
share of cost, or shall receive comprehensive clinical family planning
services under the program established in Division 24 (commencing
with Section 24000) either if they are eligible for Medi-Cal with a share
of cost or if they are otherwise eligible under Section 24003.
   (8) For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘comprehensive clinical family
planning services’’ means the process of establishing objectives for the
number and spacing of children, and selecting the means by which those
objectives may be achieved. These means include a broad range of
acceptable and effective methods and services to limit or enhance
fertility, including contraceptive methods, federal Food and Drug
Administration approved contraceptive drugs, devices, and supplies,
natural family planning, abstinence methods, and basic, limited fertility
management. Comprehensive clinical family planning services include,
but are not limited to, preconception counseling, maternal and fetal
health counseling, general reproductive health care, including diagnosis
and treatment of infections and conditions, including cancer, that
threaten reproductive capability, medical family planning treatment and
procedures, including supplies and followup, and informational,
counseling, and educational services. Comprehensive clinical family
planning services shall not include abortion, pregnancy testing solely for
the purposes of referral for abortion or services ancillary to abortions, or
pregnancy care that is not incident to the diagnosis of pregnancy.
Comprehensive clinical family planning services shall be subject to
utilization control and include all of the following:
   (A) Family planning related services and male and female
sterilization. Family planning services for men and women shall include
emergency services and services for complications directly related to the
contraceptive method, federal Food and Drug Administration approved
contraceptive drugs, devices, and supplies, and followup, consultation,
 3328                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 454 ]
and referral services, as indicated, which may require treatment
authorization requests.
  (B) All United States Department of Agriculture, federal Food and
Drug Administration approved contraceptive drugs, devices, and
supplies that are in keeping with current standards of practice and from
which the individual may choose.
  (C) Culturally and linguistically appropriate health education and
counseling services, including informed consent, that include all of the
following:
  (i) Psychosocial and medical aspects of contraception.
  (ii) Sexuality.
  (iii) Fertility.
  (iv) Pregnancy.
  (v) Parenthood.
  (vi) Infertility.
  (vii) Reproductive health care.
  (viii) Preconception and nutrition counseling.
  (ix) Prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted infection.
  (x) Use of contraceptive methods, federal Food and Drug
Administration approved contraceptive drugs, devices, and supplies.
  (xi) Possible contraceptive consequences and followup.
  (xii) Interpersonal communication and negotiation of relationships to
assist individuals and couples in effective contraceptive method use and
planning families.
  (D) A comprehensive health history, updated at next periodic visit
(between 11 and 24 months after initial examination) that includes a
complete obstetrical history, gynecological history, contraceptive
history, personal medical history, health risk factors, and family health
history, including genetic or hereditary conditions.
  (E) A complete physical examination on initial and subsequent
periodic visits.



                            CHAPTER 454

   An act to amend Section 130021 of the Health and Safety Code,
relating to hospital facilities.
            [Approved by Governor September 14, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 15, 2000.]
[Ch. 454 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3329

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 130021 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
  130021. (a) All regulatory submissions to the California Building
Standards Commission made by the office pursuant to this article and
Article 9 (commencing with Section 130050) shall be deemed to be
emergency regulations and shall be adopted as such.
  (b) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2001, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2001, deletes or extends that date.
 3330                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 455 ]
                            CHAPTER 455

  An act to amend Section 4000.37 of, and to add Section 5604.5 to, the
Vehicle Code, relating to vehicles.
            [Approved by Governor September 14, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 15, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 4000.37 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
  4000.37. (a) Upon application for renewal of registration of a motor
vehicle, the department shall require that the applicant submit either a
form approved by the department, but issued by the insurer, as specified
in paragraph (1), (2), or (3), or any of the items specified in paragraph
(4), as evidence that the applicant is in compliance with the financial
responsibility laws of this state.
  (1) For vehicles covered by private passenger automobile liability
policies and having coverage as described in subdivisions (a) and (b) of
Section 660 of the Insurance Code, or policies and coverages for private
passenger automobile policies as described in subdivisions (a) and (b)
of that section and issued by an automobile assigned risk plan, the form
shall include all of the following:
  (A) The primary name of the insured covered by the policy or the
vehicle owner, or both.
  (B) The year, make, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle.
  (C) The name, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners
(NAIC) number, and the address of the insurance company or surety
company providing a policy or bond for the vehicle.
  (D) The policy or bond number, and the effective date and expiration
date of that policy or bond.
  (E) A statement from the insurance company or surety company that
the policy or bond meets the requirements of Section 16056 or 16500.5.
  (2) For vehicles covered by commercial or fleet policies, and not
private passenger automobile liability policies, as described in
paragraph (1), the form shall include all of the following:
  (A) The name and address of the vehicle owner or fleet operator.
  (B) The name, the NAIC number, and the address of the insurance
company or surety company providing a policy or bond for the vehicle.
  (C) The policy or bond number, and the effective date and expiration
date of the policy or bond.
  (D) A statement from the insurance company or surety company that
the policy or bond meets the requirements of Section 16056 or 16500.5
and is a commercial or fleet policy. For vehicles registered pursuant to
[Ch. 455 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3331

Article 9.5 (commencing with Section 5300) or Article 4 (commencing
with Section 8050) of Chapter 4, one form may be submitted per fleet
as specified by the department.
   (3) (A) The director may authorize an insurer to issue a form that
does not conform to paragraph (1) or (2) if the director does all of the
following:
   (i) Determines that the entity issuing the alternate form is or will
begin reporting the insurance information required under paragraph (1)
or (2) to the department through electronic transmission.
   (ii) Determines that use of the alternate form furthers the interests of
the state by enhancing the enforcement of the state’s financial
responsibility laws.
   (iii) Approves the contents of the alternate form as providing an
adequate means for persons to prove compliance with the financial
responsibility laws.
   (B) The director may authorize the use of the alternate form in lieu of
the forms otherwise required under paragraph (1) or (2) for a period of
four years or less and may renew that authority for additional periods of
four years or less.
   (4) In lieu of evidence of insurance as described in paragraphs (1), (2),
and (3), one of the following documents as evidence of coverage under
an alternative form of financial responsibility may be provided by the
applicant:
   (A) An evidence form, as specified by the department, that indicates
either a certificate of self-insurance or an assignment of deposit letter has
been issued by the department pursuant to Sections 16053 or 16054.2.
   (B) An insurance covering note or binder pursuant to Section 382 or
382.5 of the Insurance Code.
   (C) An evidence form that indicates coverage is provided by a
charitable risk pool operating under Section 5005.1 of the Corporations
Code, if the registered owner of the vehicle is a nonprofit organization
that is exempt from taxation under paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of
Section 501 of the United States Internal Revenue Code. The evidence
form shall include:
   (1) The name and address of the vehicle owner or fleet operator.
   (2) The name and address of the charitable risk pool providing the
policy for the vehicle.
   (3) The policy number, and the effective date and expiration date of
the policy.
   (4) A statement from the charitable risk pool that the policy meets the
requirements of subdivision (b) of Section 16054.2.
   (b) This section does not apply to any of the following:
 3332                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 455 ]
  (1) A vehicle for which a certification has been filed pursuant to
Section 4604, until the vehicle is registered for operation upon the
highway.
  (2) A vehicle that is owned or leased by, or under the direction of, the
United States or any public entity that is included in Section 811.2 of the
Government Code.
  (3) A vehicle registration renewal application where there is a change
of registered owner.
  (4) A vehicle for which evidence of liability insurance information
has been electronically filed with the department.
  SEC. 1.5. Section 4000.37 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
  4000.37. (a) Upon application for renewal of registration of a motor
vehicle, the department shall require that the applicant submit either a
form approved by the department, but issued by the insurer, as specified
in paragraph (1), (2), or (3), or any of the items specified in paragraph
(4), as evidence that the applicant is in compliance with the financial
responsibility laws of this state.
  (1) For vehicles covered by private passenger automobile liability
policies and having coverage as described in subdivisions (a) and (b) of
Section 660 of the Insurance Code, or policies and coverages for private
passenger automobile policies as described in subdivisions (a) and (b)
of that section and issued by an automobile assigned risk plan, the form
shall include all of the following:
  (A) The primary name of the insured covered by the policy or the
vehicle owner, or both.
  (B) The year, make, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle.
  (C) The name, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners
(NAIC) number, and the address of the insurance company or surety
company providing a policy or bond for the vehicle.
  (D) The policy or bond number, and the effective date and expiration
date of that policy or bond.
  (E) A statement from the insurance company or surety company that
the policy or bond meets the requirements of Section 16056 or 16500.5.
For the purposes of this section, policies described in Sections 11629.71
and 11629.91 of the Insurance Code are deemed to meet the
requirements of Section 16056.
  (2) For vehicles covered by commercial or fleet policies, and not
private passenger automobile liability policies, as described in
paragraph (1), the form shall include all of the following:
  (A) The name and address of the vehicle owner or fleet operator.
  (B) The name, the NAIC number, and the address of the insurance
company or surety company providing a policy or bond for the vehicle.
  (C) The policy or bond number, and the effective date and expiration
date of the policy or bond.
[Ch. 455 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3333

   (D) A statement from the insurance company or surety company that
the policy or bond meets the requirements of Section 16056 or 16500.5
and is a commercial or fleet policy. For vehicles registered pursuant to
Article 9.5 (commencing with Section 5300) or Article 4 (commencing
with Section 8050) of Chapter 4, one form may be submitted per fleet
as specified by the department.
   (3) (A) The director may authorize an insurer to issue a form that
does not conform to paragraph (1) or (2) if the director does all of the
following:
   (i) Determines that the entity issuing the alternate form is or will
begin reporting the insurance information required under paragraph (1)
or (2) to the department through electronic transmission.
   (ii) Determines that use of the alternate form furthers the interests of
the state by enhancing the enforcement of the state’s financial
responsibility laws.
   (iii) Approves the contents of the alternate form as providing an
adequate means for persons to prove compliance with the financial
responsibility laws.
   (B) The director may authorize the use of the alternate form in lieu of
the forms otherwise required under paragraph (1) or (2) for a period of
four years or less and may renew that authority for additional periods of
four years or less.
   (4) In lieu of evidence of insurance as described in paragraphs (1), (2),
and (3), one of the following documents as evidence of coverage under
an alternative form of financial responsibility may be provided by the
applicant:
   (A) An evidence form, as specified by the department, that indicates
either a certificate of self-insurance or an assignment of deposit letter has
been issued by the department pursuant to Section 16053 or 16054.2.
   (B) An insurance covering note or binder pursuant to Section 382 or
382.5 of the Insurance Code.
   (C) An evidence form that indicates coverage is provided by a
charitable risk pool operating under Section 5005.1 of the Corporations
Code, if the registered owner of the vehicle is a nonprofit organization
that is exempt from taxation under paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of
Section 501 of the United States Internal Revenue Code. The evidence
form shall include:
   (1) The name and address of the vehicle owner or fleet operator.
   (2) The name and address of the charitable risk pool providing the
policy for the vehicle.
   (3) The policy number, and the effective date and expiration date of
the policy.
   (4) A statement from the charitable risk pool that the policy meets the
requirements of subdivision (b) of Section 16054.2.
 3334                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 455 ]
   (b) This section does not apply to any of the following:
   (1) A vehicle for which a certification has been filed pursuant to
Section 4604, until the vehicle is registered for operation upon the
highway.
   (2) A vehicle that is owned or leased by, or under the direction of, the
United States or any public entity that is included in Section 811.2 of the
Government Code.
   (3) A vehicle registration renewal application where there is a change
of registered owner.
   (4) A vehicle for which evidence of liability insurance information
has been electronically filed with the department.
   SEC. 2. Section 5604.5 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   5604.5. (a) Every dealer who, upon transferring by sale, lease, or
otherwise, any new or used vehicle of a type subject to registration,
requires the transferee to insure the motor vehicle shall, if the required
insurance policy is sold by that dealer at the time of the transfer and the
policy does not insure the transferee against damages resulting from
ownership or operation of the vehicle arising by reason of personal
injury or death of any person, or from damage to property, notify the
transferee of that fact in writing on a document other than the insurance
policy. The document shall be signed by the transferee and an exact copy
shall be furnished to the transferee by the dealer at the time of signature.
   (b) The document required under subdivision (a) shall contain a
notice in English and Spanish in at least 10-point type that reads as
follows:

                      ‘‘INSURANCE WARNING

   The motor vehicle physical damage insurance policy you are buying
does not allow you to legally drive on the streets of California. Generally,
in order to legally drive on the streets of California, you must either
purchase a type of insurance called ‘‘liability insurance’’ or deposit a
bond with the Department of Motor Vehicles. If you drive this or any
other motor vehicle without liability insurance or a bond, a police officer
may request evidence of liability insurance or a bond at the time of a
traffic stop. If you do not have evidence of liability insurance or a bond
during a traffic stop, the fines can be from several hundreds of dollars to
an amount that exceeds $1,000. If you get into an accident and do not
have liability insurance or a bond, you will lose your driver’s license for
one year. If you cause the accident and do not have liability insurance or
a bond, you may have to pay the injured person yourself and these costs
may be substantial.
   Liability insurance as well as the insurance needed to obtain a loan for
your motor vehicle may be purchased through a licensed insurance agent
[Ch. 456 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3335

or broker. The price for both types of insurance may be more or less than
the price for the insurance you are being offered by the dealer. The State
of California advises you to shop for insurance because prices may vary
substantially.
   I have read this notice and understand that I am about to buy a type of
insurance that is available elsewhere and that does not allow me to drive
the motor vehicle legally on the streets of California.
   I also understand that if I drive on the streets of California without
liability insurance or a bond, then I may be subject to severe financial
penalties, including fines and personal payment for any damage to others
that I may cause while driving.

               (Spanish translation of the above text to be
               developed by the Department of Motor Vehicles
               and to be inserted below the above English version
               text)

Dated:                                            Signed:              ’’

   (c) The department shall also make available a translation of the
Insurance Warning notice set forth in subdivision (b) in any of the
languages used in the most recent statewide voter pamphlet.
   SEC. 3. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
4000.37 of the Vehicle Code proposed by both this bill and SB 1403. It
shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become
effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section
4000.37 of the Vehicle Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 1403,
in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 456

   An act to amend Section 124900 of the Health and Safety Code,
relating to clinics.
 3336                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 456 ]
             [Approved by Governor September 14, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 124900 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   124900. (a) (1) The State Department of Health Services shall
select primary care clinics that are licensed under paragraph (1) or (2) of
subdivision (a) of Section 1204, or are exempt from licensure under
subdivision (c) of Section 1206, to be reimbursed for delivering medical
services, including preventative health care, and smoking prevention
and cessation health education, to program beneficiaries.
   (2) Except as provided for in paragraph (3), in order to be eligible to
receive funds under this article a clinic shall meet all of the following
conditions, at a minimum:
   (A) Provide medical diagnosis and treatment.
   (B) Provide medical support services of patients in all stages of
illness.
   (C) Provide communication of information about diagnosis,
treatment, prevention, and prognosis.
   (D) Provide maintenance of patients with chronic illness.
   (E) Provide prevention of disability and disease through detection,
education, persuasion, and preventive treatment.
   (F) Meet one or both of the following conditions:
   (i) Are located in an area federally designated as a medically
underserved area or medically underserved population.
   (ii) Are clinics that are able to demonstrate that at least 50 percent of
the patients served are persons with incomes at or below 200 percent of
the federal poverty level.
   (3) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (2), all clinics that
received funds under this article in the 1997–98 fiscal year shall continue
to be eligible to receive funds under this article.
   (b) As a part of the award process for funding pursuant to this article,
the department shall take into account the availability of primary care
services in the various geographic areas of the state. The department
shall determine which areas within the state have populations which
have clear and compelling difficulty in obtaining access to primary care.
The department shall consider proposals from new and existing eligible
providers to extend clinic services to these populations.
   (c) Each primary care clinic applying for funds pursuant to this article
shall demonstrate that the funds shall be used to expand medical
services, including preventative health care, and smoking prevention
and cessation health education, for program beneficiaries above the level
[Ch. 456 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3337

of services provided in the 1988 calendar year or in the year prior to the
first year a clinic receives funds under this article if the clinic did not
receive funds in the 1989 calendar year.
   (d) (1) The department, in consultation with clinics funded under
this article, shall develop a formula for allocation of funds available. It
is the intent of the Legislature that the funds allocated pursuant to this
article promote stability for those clinics participating in programs under
this article as part of the state’s health care safety net and at the same time
be distributed in a manner that best promotes access to health care to
uninsured populations.
   (2) The formula shall be based on both of the following:
   (A) A hold harmless for clinics funded in the 1997–98 fiscal year to
continue to reimburse them for some portion of their uncompensated
care.
   (B) Demonstrated unmet need by both new and existing clinics, as
reflected in their levels of uncompensated care reported to the
department. For purposes of this article, ‘‘uncompensated care’’ means
clinic patient visits for persons with incomes at or below 200 percent of
the federal poverty level for which there is no encounter-based
third-party reimbursement which includes, but is not limited to, unpaid
expanded access to primary care claims and other unreimbursed visits
as verified by the department according to subparagraph (A) of
paragraph (5).
   (3) In the 1998–99 fiscal year, the department shall allocate funds for
a three-year period as follows:
   (A) If the funds available for the purposes of this article are equal to
or less than the prior fiscal year, clinics that received funding in the prior
fiscal year shall receive 90 percent of their prior fiscal year allocation,
subject to available funds, provided that funding award is substantiated
by the clinics’ reported levels of uncompensated care. The remaining
funds beyond 90 percent shall be awarded in the following order:
   (i) First priority shall be given to clinics that participated in the
program in prior fiscal years, withdrew from the program due to
financial considerations, were subsequently categorized as ‘‘new
applicants’’ when they reapplied to the program, and received a
significantly reduced allocation as a result. These clinics shall be
awarded 90 percent of their allocation prior to their withdrawal from the
program, subject to available funds, provided that award level is
substantiated by the clinic’s reported levels of uncompensated care.
   (ii) Second priority shall be given to those clinics that received
program funds in the prior year and continue to meet the minimum
requirements for funding under this article. In implementing this
priority, the department shall allocate funds to all eligible previously
funded clinics on a proportionate basis, based on their reported levels of
 3338                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 456 ]
uncompensated care, which may include, but is not limited to, unpaid
expanded access to primary care claims and other unreimbursed patient
visits, as verified by the department according to subparagraph (A) of
paragraph (5).
   (B) If funds available for the purposes of this article are equal to or
less than the prior fiscal year, only those clinics that received program
funds in the prior fiscal year may be awarded funds. Funds shall be
awarded in the same priority order as specified in clauses (i) and (ii) of
subparagraph (A).
   (C) If funds available for purposes of this article are greater than the
prior fiscal year, clinics that received funds in the prior fiscal year shall
be awarded 100 percent of their prior fiscal year allocation, provided that
funding award level is substantiated by the clinic’s reported levels of
uncompensated care. Remaining funds shall be awarded in the following
priority order:
   (i) First priority shall be given to clinics that participated in the
program in prior fiscal years, withdrew from the program due to
financial considerations, were subsequently categorized as ‘‘new
applicants’’ when they reapplied to the program, and received a
significantly reduced allocation as a result. These clinics shall be
awarded 100 percent of their allocation prior to their withdrawal from
the program, provided that award level is substantiated by the clinic’s
reported levels of uncompensated care.
   (ii) Second priority shall be given to new and existing applicants that
meet the minimum requirements for funding under this article. In
implementing this priority, the department shall allocate funds to all
eligible previously funded clinics on a proportionate basis, based on
their reported levels of uncompensated care, which may include, but is
not limited to, unpaid expanded access to primary care claims and other
unreimbursed patient visits, as verified by the department, according to
subparagraph (A) of paragraph (5).
   (4) In the 2001–02 fiscal year, and subsequent fiscal years, the
department shall allocate available funds, for a three-year period, as
follows:
   (A) Clinics that received funding in the prior fiscal year shall receive
90 percent of their prior fiscal year allocation, subject to available funds,
provided that the funding award is substantiated by the clinics’ reported
levels of uncompensated care.
   (B) The remaining funds beyond 90 percent shall be awarded to new
and existing applicants based on the clinic’s reported levels of
uncompensated care as verified by the department according to
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (5). The department shall seek input from
stakeholders to discuss any adjustments to award levels that the
[Ch. 456 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3339

department deems reasonable such as including base amounts for new
applicant clinics.
   (C) New applicants shall be awarded funds pursuant to this
subdivision if they meet the minimum requirements for funding under
this article based on the clinics’ reported levels of uncompensated care
as verified by the department according to subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (5). New applicants include applicants for any new site
expansions by existing applicants.
   (D) The department shall confer with clinic representatives to
develop a funding formula for the program implemented pursuant this
paragraph to use for allocations for the 2004–05 fiscal year and
subsequent fiscal years.
   (E) This paragraph shall become inoperative on July 1, 2004.
   (5) In assessing reported levels of uncompensated care, the
department shall utilize the most recent data available from the Office
of Statewide Health Planning and Development’s (OSHPD) completed
analysis of the ‘‘Annual Report of Primary Care Clinics.’’
   (A) In the 1998–99 to 2000–01 fiscal years, inclusive, clinics shall
submit updated data regarding the clinic’s levels of uncompensated care
to the department with their initial application, and for each of the two
remaining years in the three-year application period. The department
shall compare the clinic’s updated uncompensated care data to the
OSHPD uncompensated care data for that clinic for the same reporting
period. Discrepancies in uncompensated care data for any particular
clinic shall be resolved to the satisfaction of the department prior to the
award of funds to that clinic.
   (B) In the 2001–02 fiscal year, and subsequent fiscal years, clinics
may not submit updated data regarding the clinic’s levels of
uncompensated care. The department shall utilize the most recent data
available from OSHPD’s completed analysis of the ‘‘Annual Report of
Primary Care Clinics.’’
   (C) If the funds allocated to the program are less than the prior year,
the department shall allocate available funds to existing program
providers only.
   (6) The department shall establish a base funding level, subject to
available funds, of no less than thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) for
frontier clinics and Native American reservation-based clinics. For
purposes of this article, ‘‘frontier clinics’’ means clinics located in a
medical services study area with a population of fewer than 11 persons
per square mile.
   (7) The department shall develop, in consultation with clinics funded
pursuant to this article, a formula for reallocation of unused funds to
other participating clinics to reimburse for uncompensated care. The
 3340                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 456 ]
department shall allocate the unused funds to other participating clinics
to reimburse for uncompensated care.
   (e) In applying for funds, eligible clinics shall submit a single
application per clinic corporation. Applicants with multiple sites shall
apply for all eligible clinics, and shall report to the department the
allocation of funds among their corporate sites in the prior year. A
corporation may only claim reimbursement for services provided at a
program-eligible clinic site identified in the corporate entity’s
application for funds, and approved for funding by the department. A
corporation may increase or decrease the number of its program-eligible
clinic sites on an annual basis, at the time of the annual application
update for the subsequent fiscal years of any multiple-year application
period.
   (f) Grant allocations pursuant to this article shall be based on the
formula developed by the department, notwithstanding a merger of one
of more licensed primary care clinics participating in the program.
   (g) A clinic that is eligible for the program in every other respect, but
that provides dental services only, rather than the full range of primary
care medical services, shall only be eligible to receive funds under this
article on an exception basis. A dental-only provider’s application shall
include a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with a primary care
clinic funded under this article. The MOU shall include medical
protocols for making referrals by the primary care clinic to the dental
clinic and from the dental clinic to the primary care clinic, and ensure that
case management services are provided and that the patient is being
provided comprehensive primary care as defined in subdivision (a).
   (h) (1) For purposes of this article, an outpatient visit shall include
diagnosis and medical treatment services, including the associated
pharmacy, X-ray, and laboratory services, and prevention health and
case management services that are needed as a result of the outpatient
visit. For a new patient, an outpatient visit shall also include a health
assessment encompassing an assessment of smoking behavior and the
patient’s need for appropriate health education specific to related
tobacco use and exposure.
   (2) ‘‘Case management’’ includes, for this purpose, the management
of all physician services, both primary and specialty, and arrangements
for hospitalization, postdischarge care, and followup care.
   (i) (1) Payment shall be on a per visit basis at a rate that is determined
by the department to be appropriate for an outpatient visit as defined in
this section, and shall be not less than seventy-one dollars and fifty cents
($71.50).
   (2) In developing a statewide uniform rate for an outpatient visit as
defined in this article, the department shall consider existing rates of
[Ch. 457 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3341

payments for comparable outpatient visits. The department shall review
the outpatient visit rate on an annual basis.
   (j) Not later than May 1 of each year, the department shall adopt and
provide each licensed primary care clinic with a schedule for programs
under this article, including the date for notification of availability of
funds, the deadline for the submission of a completed application, and
an anticipated contract award date for successful applicants.
   (k) In administering the program created pursuant to this article, the
department shall utilize the Medi-Cal program statutes and regulations
pertaining to program participation standards, medical and
administrative recordkeeping, the ability of the department to monitor
and audit clinic records pertaining to program services rendered to
program beneficiaries and take recoupments or recovery actions
consistent with monitoring and audit findings, and the provider’s appeal
rights. Each primary care clinic applying for program participation shall
certify that it will abide by these statutes and regulations and other
program requirements set forth in this article.



                             CHAPTER 457

  An act relating to the San Francisco Unified School District, and
declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. (a) During the 2000–01 fiscal year, the San Francisco
Unified School District shall conduct an internal review of fiscal
management and operations of the school district which shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
  (1) Projection of all fund and cash balances of the San Francisco
Unified School District for the current and subsequent two fiscal years,
including a determination of the district’s ability to meet its current and
projected financial obligations.
  (2) Proposals to address, or description of actions that have been
taken to address, any deficiencies, errors, exceptions, or adverse findings
reported by the Fiscal Crisis and Management Team, or reported in any
audit of the district’s fiscal management and operations during the
current or previous three fiscal years.
 3342                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 458 ]
   (3) Proposals to address, or descriptions of actions that have been
taken to address, any fiscal management and operations concerns that
arise during the 2000–2001 fiscal year.
   (b) The San Francisco Unified School District shall report to the
Office of the Legislative Analyst and the Joint Legislative Audit
Committee on the findings, projections and proposals of its internal
review of fiscal management and operations. A first preliminary report
shall be submitted within four months of the effective date of this act.
A second preliminary report shall be submitted within eight months of
the effective date of this act. A final report shall be submitted within 12
months of the effective date of this act.
   (c) The Legislative Analyst shall review the preliminary and final
reports on fiscal management and operations submitted by the San
Francisco Unified School District and shall report concerns and
recommendations as necessary to the appropriate policy and fiscal
committees of the Legislature.
   SEC. 2. The Legislature finds and declares that due to the special
circumstances surrounding the San Francisco Unified School District
that a general statute cannot be made applicable within the meaning of
Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution, and the
enactment of a special statute is therefore necessary.
   SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district are
the result of a program for which legislative authority was requested by
that local agency or school district, within the meaning of Section 17556
of the Government Code and Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California
Constitution.
   SEC. 4. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   To immediately address the fiscal crisis in the San Francisco Unified
School District it is necessary that this act take effect immediately as an
urgency statute.



                            CHAPTER 458

  An act to add Section 17071.46 to the Education Code, relating to
school facilities.
            [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]
[Ch. 459 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3343

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 17071.46 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   17071.46. (a) When an applicant school district proposes to
demolish a single story building and replace it with a multistory building
on the same site, the State Allocation Board shall provide a supplemental
grant for 50 percent of the replacement cost of the single story building
to be demolished, if all of the following conditions are met:
   (1) The school at which the building demolition and replacement is
to occur is operating on a multitrack year-round education schedule.
   (2) The cost of the demolition and replacement is less than the total
cost of providing a new school facility, including land, on a new site for
the additional number of pupils housed as a result of the replacement
building, as determined by the State Allocation Board.
   (3) The school district will maximize the increase in pupil capacity
on the site when it builds the replacement building, subject to the limits
imposed on it pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (a).
   (4) The State Department of Education has determined that the
demolition of an existing single story building and replacement with a
multistory building at the site is the best available alternative and will
not create a school with an inappropriate number of pupils in relation to
the size of the site, as determined by the State Department of Education.
   (b) The State Allocation Board shall establish additional
requirements it deems necessary to ensure that the economic interests of
the state and the educational interests of the children of the state are
protected.



                             CHAPTER 459

  An act to add Section 224.5 to the Education Code, relating to gender
equity training, and making an appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares the following:
  (1) There are disproportionately fewer female students in advanced
classes of mathematics, science, and technology in postsecondary
institutions.
 3344                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 459 ]
   (2) Research demonstrates that the behaviors and attitudes of teachers
in kindergarten and grades 1 to 12, inclusive, may have a
disproportionate impact on the self-image and aspirations of female
pupils.
   (3) Studies have demonstrated also that teachers who have
experienced gender equity training are more adept at enhancing the
self-image of female pupils, which results in a greater number of those
female pupils being as successful as male pupils in subjects such as
mathematics, science, and technology.
   SEC. 2. Section 224.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   224.5. (a) There is hereby established the gender equity
train-the-trainer grant program. The Superintendent of Public
Instruction shall award grants from funds available for that purpose to
the governing boards of school districts and county offices of education
for the implementation of programs to train trainers in gender equity.
   (b) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall, with the approval
of the State Board of Education, develop criteria for the grant
applications . The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall select as
grant recipients applicants that have clearly demonstrated all of the
following:
   (1) Grant moneys will result in the grantee providing ongoing gender
training to all staff members, including certificated and classified staff,
and maintaining a pool of knowledgeable gender equity trainers.
   (2) The applicant has considered other available federal and state
funding resources for gender equity training and coordinated those
resources, as appropriate with a grant under this section.
   (c) A grant application shall include an evaluation plan for
determining the extent to which the expected benefits of the trainer
program are being realized. The results of the evaluation shall be
reported to the governing board of the school district or county board of
education, as appropriate.
   (d) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall implement this
section only in fiscal years in which sufficient funds have been
appropriated for this purpose. To the extent funds are available in
multiple years, the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall award
grants in a manner that ensures that training is available in all parts of
the state.
   (e) No more than a total of one hundred thirty thousand dollars
($130,000) of state funds may be expended in any fiscal year for
purposes of this section.
   SEC. 3. The sum of one hundred ten thousand dollars ($110,000) is
hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the Superintendent of
Public Instruction for purposes of awarding grants to school districts and
county offices of education pursuant to the gender equity
[Ch. 460 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3345

train-the-trainer grant program established pursuant to Section 224.5 of
the Education Code. Of the amount appropriated in this section, ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) may be expended on state administration of
the grant program.



                             CHAPTER 460

  An act to amend Sections 69618.1, 69618.2, and 69618.3 of the
Education Code, relating to student financial aid.
             [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 69618.1 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   69618.1. (a) Program participants shall meet all of the following
eligibility criteria prior to selection in the program and shall continue to
meet these criteria, as appropriate, during the payment periods:
   (1) The participant shall be a United States citizen or eligible
noncitizen.
   (2) The participant shall be a California resident attending an eligible
school or college.
   (3) The participant shall be making satisfactory academic progress.
   (4) The participant shall have complied with United States Selective
Service requirements.
   (5) The participant shall not owe a refund on any state or federal
educational grant or have delinquent or defaulted student loans.
   (b) Any person enrolled in an institution of postsecondary education
and participating in the loan assumption program set forth in this article
may be eligible to receive a conditional warrant for loan assumption, to
be redeemed pursuant to Section 69618.2 upon becoming employed as
a full-time faculty member at a California college or university or the
equivalent of full-time service as a faculty member employed part-time
at two or more California colleges or universities.
   (c) (1) The commission shall award warrants to students with
demonstrated academic ability and financial need, as determined by the
commission pursuant to Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 69503).
   (2) The applicant shall have completed a baccalaureate degree
program or be enrolled in an academic program leading to a
baccalaureate level or a graduate level degree.
 3346                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 460 ]
   (3) The applicant shall be currently enrolled in or admitted to a
program in which he or she will be enrolled on at least a half-time basis
each academic term as defined by an eligible institution. The applicant
shall agree to maintain satisfactory academic progress.
   (4) The applicant shall have been judged by his or her postsecondary
institution to have outstanding ability on the basis of criteria that may
include, but need not be limited to, any of the following:
   (A) Grade point average.
   (B) Test scores.
   (C) Faculty evaluations.
   (D) Interviews.
   (E) Other recommendations.
   (5) In order to meet the costs of obtaining a graduate degree, the
applicant shall have received, or be approved to receive, a loan under one
or more of the following designated loan programs:
   (A) The Federal Family Education Loan Program (20 U.S.C. Sec.
1071 et seq.).
   (B) Any loan program approved by the commission.
   (6) The applicant shall have agreed to teach on a full-time basis at one
or more accredited California colleges or universities for at least three
consecutive years after obtaining a graduate degree.
   (7) An applicant who teaches on less than a full-time basis may
participate in the program, but is not eligible for loan repayment until
that person teaches for the equivalent of a full-time academic year.
   (d) A person participating in the program pursuant to this section
shall not receive more than one warrant.
   SEC. 2. Section 69618.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   69618.2. The commission shall redeem an applicant’s warrant and
commence loan assumption payments as specified in Section 69618.3
upon verification that the applicant has fulfilled all of the following:
   (a) The applicant has received a graduate degree from an accredited,
participating institution.
   (b) The applicant has provided the equivalent of full-time instruction
at one or more regionally accredited California colleges or universities
for one academic year or the equivalent.
   (c) The applicant has met the requirements of the warrant and all other
conditions of this article.
   SEC. 3. Section 69618.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   69618.3. The terms of the loan assumptions granted under this
article shall be as follows, subject to the specific terms of each warrant:
   (a) After a program participant has completed one academic year, or
the equivalent of full-time teaching, at one or more regionally
accredited, eligible California colleges or universities, the Student Aid
Commission shall assume up to two thousand dollars ($2,000) of the
[Ch. 462 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3347

participant’s outstanding liability under one or more of the designated
loan programs. The initial year of eligible teaching shall begin within 10
years of receiving an initial conditional warrant from the commission.
  (b) After the program participant has completed two consecutive
academic years, or the equivalent of full-time teaching, at one or more
regionally accredited California colleges or universities, the
commission shall assume up to an additional two thousand dollars
($2,000) of the participant’s outstanding liability under one or more of
the designated loan programs, for a total loan assumption of up to four
thousand dollars ($4,000).
  (c) After a program participant has completed three consecutive
academic years, or the equivalent of full-time teaching, at one or more
regionally accredited California colleges or universities, the
commission shall assume up to an additional two thousand dollars
($2,000) of the participant’s outstanding liability under one or more of
the designated loan programs, for a total loan assumption of up to six
thousand dollars ($6,000).



                             CHAPTER 461

  An act to add Section 60501 to the Education Code, relating to
instructional materials.
             [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 60501 is added to the Education Code, to read:
  60501. A school district may review instructional materials to
determine when those materials are obsolete pursuant to the rules,
regulations, and procedures adopted pursuant to Section 60500 and may
report the results of its review and staff recommendations at a public
meeting of the school district governing board.



                             CHAPTER 462

  An act to add Chapter 18 (commencing with Section 11700) to Part
7 of the Education Code, relating to education.
             [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]
 3348                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 462 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares that the Sweetwater
Union High School District, the Southwestern Community College
District, and San Diego State University are working together with local
governmental officials to design and develop a full-service educational
complex that maximizes the effectiveness of public funding to meet a
growing demand for secondary and postsecondary enrollment in south
San Diego County. Key benefits of this complex include the following:
  (a) Multiple cross-age learning opportunities.
  (b) Improved access to higher education in an underserved area.
  (c) An integrated learning experience for pupils in grades 9 to 12,
inclusive, that provides college-level classes to high school pupils as
well as tutoring and mentoring roles for college and university students.
  (d) Attracting developing industries and providing educational
support.
  (e) Providing cross-border shared educational, applied research and
service opportunities and experiences.
  (f) Improved use of tax funds including joint-use library facilities,
common parking area and infrastructure, and shared-use of cocurricular
facilities.
  (g) Development of a national model for cooperative education.
  SEC. 2. Chapter 18 (commencing with Section 11700) is added to
Part 7 of the Education Code, to read:

  CHAPTER 18.     CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION SYNERGY

  11700. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature that the Center for
International Education Synergy be established through a joint powers
agreement, entered into pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with
Section 6500) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, between
the Sweetwater Union High School District, the Southwestern
Community College District, and San Diego State University. It is the
intent of the Legislature that a joint powers agency created pursuant to
the joint powers agreement own and maintain the land and facilities for
the Center for International Education Synergy at the Otay Mesa
Off-Campus Center.
  (b) In addition to funding appropriated by the Legislature for
purposes of the Center for International Education Synergy, entities
participating in the establishment and operation of the center are
encouraged to seek supplemental funding, including, but not limited to,
funding from foundations, corporations, and other public entities.
  (c) Any postsecondary education facilities and programs developed
pursuant to this section shall be subject to the requirements of Section
[Ch. 463 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3349

66903 as they apply to the governing boards of public postsecondary
educational institutes.
  (d) The Center for International Synergy shall be established only
upon approval by the California Postsecondary Education Commission
based on a needs study and subsequent approval from the Department
of Finance.
  SEC. 3. (a) The Otay Mesa Off-Campus Center acquired through
funding appropriated to San Diego State University from the General
Fund pursuant to Schedule 4.1 of Item 6610-301-0001 of Section 2.00
of the Budget Act of 2000, shall be known as the Center for International
Education Synergy.
  (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funding appropriated
to San Diego State University from the General Fund pursuant to
Schedule 4.1 of Item 6610-301-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act
of 2000 for the acquisition of the Otay Mesa Off-Campus Center shall
be deemed to be for purposes of capital outlay. The Director of Finance
shall deem these funds to be supplemental to, and separate from, any
existing or future capital outlay funding for the California State
University, regardless of the funding source.



                             CHAPTER 463

  An act to add Sections 17307.5 and 81133.5 to the Education Code,
and to add Section 16017.5 to the Health and Safety Code, relating to
facilities construction.
             [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 17307.5 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   17307.5. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
including, but not limited to, Title 15 (commencing with Section 3082)
of Part 4 of the Civil Code, the Department of General Services may
issue a stop work order when construction work on a public school is not
being performed in accordance with existing law and would compromise
the structural integrity of the building, thereby endangering the public
safety. The Department of General Services shall allow construction of
incidental and minor nonstructural additions or nonstructural alterations
without invoking its stop work authority.
 3350                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 463 ]
   (b) A school district, county superintendent of schools, county board
of education, or other public board, body, or officer whose construction
work on a public school is subject to a stop work order issued pursuant
to subdivision (a) shall not be held liable in any action filed against the
public board, body, or officer for stopping work as required by the stop
work order, or for any delays caused by compliance with the stop work
order, except to the extent that an error or omission by the public board,
body, or officer is the basis for the issuance of the stop work order.
   SEC. 2. Section 81133.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   81133.5. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
including, but not limited to, Title 15 (commencing with Section 3082)
of Part 4 of the Civil Code, the Department of General Services may
issue a stop work order when construction work on a community college
is not being performed in accordance with existing law and would
compromise the structural integrity of the building, thereby endangering
the public safety. The Department of General Services shall allow
construction of incidental and minor nonstructural additions or
nonstructural alterations without invoking its stop work authority.
   (b) A community college district or other public board, body, or
officer whose construction work on a community college is subject to a
stop work order issued pursuant to subdivision (a) shall not be held liable
in any action filed against the public board, body, or officer for stopping
work as required by the stop work order, or for any delays caused by
compliance with the stop work order, except to the extent that an error
or omission by the public board, body, or officer is that basis for the
issuance of the stop work order.
   SEC. 3. Section 16017.5 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   16017.5. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
including, but not limited to, Title 15 (commencing with Section 3082)
of Part 4 of the Civil Code, the Department of General Services may
issue a stop work order when construction work on an essential services
facility is not being performed in accordance with existing law and
would compromise the structural integrity of the building, thereby
endangering the public safety. The Department of General Services shall
allow construction of incidental and minor nonstructural additions or
nonstructural alterations without invoking its stop work authority.
   (b) A public board, body, or officer whose construction work on an
essential services facility is subject to a stop work order issued pursuant
to subdivision (a) shall not be held liable in any action filed against the
public board, body, or officer for stopping work as required by the stop
work order, or for any delays caused by compliance with the stop work
[Ch. 464 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3351

order, except to the extent that an error or omission by the public board,
body, or officer is the basis for the issuance of the stop work order.



                             CHAPTER 464

   An act to add and repeal Section 33054 of the Education Code, relating
to charter schools.
             [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 33054 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   33054. (a) The governing board of a charter school may request,
and the State Board of Education may approve, a waiver of any otherwise
applicable provisions of this code pursuant to this article. To be eligible
to request a waiver, a charter school shall submit its application for a
waiver to its chartering authority. The governing board of the chartering
authority shall hold the public hearing on the waiver request no later than
90 days following receipt of the request. If the chartering authority fails
to hold the public hearing within the 90 days, the charter school shall
hold a public hearing prior to submitting the waiver request directly to
the State Board of Education. If the chartering authority is a school
district or county board of education, it shall prepare a summary of the
public hearing to be forwarded with the waiver request to the State Board
of Education. If the school district or county board of education
recommends against approval of the waiver request, it shall set forth the
reasons for its disapproval in written documentation that shall be
forwarded to the state board.
   (b) For purposes of this article, a charter school shall be deemed to be
a ‘‘school district’’ that is eligible to submit a waiver application
pursuant to this section.
   (c) A charter school shall meet the same criteria that a school district
is required to meet when it requests a waiver, except that the chartering
authority shall conduct the public hearing, as required pursuant to
subdivision (a).
   (d) This section shall become inoperative on July 1, 2005, and as of
January 1, 2006, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. The addition of Section 33054 to the Education Code made
by this act does not expand upon nor diminish the authority of the State
 3352                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 465 ]
Board of Education to issue waivers pursuant to Article 3 (commencing
with Section 33050) of Chapter 1 of Part 20 of the Education Code.



                            CHAPTER 465

   An act to amend Section 48293 of the Education Code, relating to
truants.
            [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 48293 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   48293. (a) Any parent, guardian, or other person having control or
charge of any pupil who fails to comply with this chapter, unless excused
or exempted therefrom, is guilty of an infraction and shall be punished
as follows:
   (1) Upon a first conviction, by a fine of not more than one hundred
dollars ($100).
   (2) Upon a second conviction, by a fine of not more than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250).
   (3) Upon a third or subsequent conviction, if the person has willfully
refused to comply with this section, by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500). In lieu of imposing the fines prescribed in
paragraphs (1) (2), and (3), the court may order the person to be placed
in a parent education and counseling program.
   (b) A judgment that a person convicted of an infraction be punished
as prescribed in subdivision (a) may also provide for the payment of the
fine within a specified time or in specified installments, or for
participation in the program. A judgment granting a defendant time to
pay the fine or prescribing the days of attendance in a program shall order
that if the defendant fails to pay the fine, or any installment thereof, on
the date that it is due, or fails to attend a program on a prescribed date,
he or she shall appear in court on that date for further proceedings.
Willful violation of the order is punishable as contempt.
   (c) Until January 1, 2005, the court may also order that the person
convicted of the violation of subdivision (a) immediately enroll the pupil
in the appropriate school or educational program and provide proof of
enrollment to the court. Willful violation of an order under this
subdivision is punishable as civil contempt with a fine of up to one
[Ch. 466 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3353

thousand dollars ($1,000). An order of contempt under this subdivision
shall not include imprisonment.
  (d) The Legislative Analyst, in consultation with the California
District Attorney’s Association and the State Department of Education,
shall develop a report to be submitted to the Legislature on or before
January 1, 2004, concerning the implementation of this subdivision.



                             CHAPTER 466

  An act to add Section 47611.3 to the Education Code, relating to
charter schools.
             [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 47611.3 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
  47611.3. (a) At the request of a charter school, a school district or
county office of education that is the chartering authority of a charter
school shall create any reports required by the State Teachers’
Retirement System and the Public Employees’ Retirement System. The
county superintendent of schools, employing agency, or school district
that reports to those systems pursuant to Section 23004 of this code or
Section 20221 of the Government Code shall submit the required reports
on behalf of the charter school. The school district or county office of
education may charge the charter school for the actual costs of the
reporting services.
  (b) As a condition of creating and submitting reports for the State
Teachers’ Retirement System and the Public Employees Retirement
System, the school district or county office of education shall not require
a charter school to purchase payroll processing services from the
chartering authority. Information submitted on behalf of the charter
school to the State Teachers’ Retirement System, the Public Employees’
Retirement System, or both, shall be in a format conforming to the
requirements of those systems.
  SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local
agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees,
or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
 3354                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 467 ]
mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
Government Code.



                            CHAPTER 467

  An act to repeal and add Chapter 11.3 (commencing with Section
66940) of Part 40 of the Education Code, relating to distance learning.
            [Approved by Governor September 15, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature hereby finds and declares all of the
following:
   (a) The California Postsecondary Education Commission (CPEC)
and other observers have estimated that a minimum of 714,000
additional students, in excess of the number of those enrolled in 1998,
will need to be educated by California’s colleges and universities by the
year 2010.
   (b) The nature of instruction and its delivery in postsecondary
education, as well as new informational technologies and other related
innovations, can provide promising education opportunities for
individuals who are currently not being served, particularly for
individuals without easy access to traditional campus-based
postsecondary education or for whom traditional courses are a poor
match with learning, education, or training needs. Learners, including
students seeking basic or technical skills, initial postsecondary
education experience, and those limited by time and place constraints,
can benefit from nontraditional postsecondary education opportunities
and appropriate support services.
   (c) The need for high quality, nontraditional, technology-based
education opportunities is great, as is the need for measures of
educational progress and competency attainment that are valid and
widely accepted; the advancement of these measures of progress and
competency attainment will be more likely through the coordinated
efforts of agencies and institutions working with state assistance,
statewide coordination, and oversight.
   SEC. 2. Chapter 11.3 (commencing with Section 66940) of Part 40
of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Chapter 11.3 (commencing with Section 66940) is added to
Part 40 of the Education Code, to read:
[Ch. 467 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3355

    CHAPTER 11.3.     THE CALIFORNIA DISTANCE LEARNING POLICY

   66940. There is hereby established the California Distance Learning
Policy, which sets forth the guiding goal and principles for the utilization
of technology in California postsecondary education.
   66941. (a) The Legislature finds and declares that access to a high
quality education is the primary goal for the use of educational
technology in higher education. All students in California’s public
schools and colleges and all adults in the state shall have access to
educational opportunities for which they are qualified, regardless of
their income level, geographic location, or the size of the school they
attend.
   (b) Pursuant to its statutory planning and coordination functions and
responsibilities identified in Section 66900, the California
Postsecondary Education Commission shall convene an intersegmental
working group to determine state funding priorities consistent with the
institutional missions of the systems of higher education.
   (c) The intersegmental working group shall observe all of the
following principles to guide the development of priorities and the
proposed expenditure of state revenues on technology infrastructure and
applications:
   (1) Development of a statewide infrastructure that provides
compatible connectivity between all levels of education to reduce
redundancy and increase efficiency.
   (2) Adherence to nationally and internally accepted protocols and
standards.
   (3) Assurance that the standards for course and program quality
applied to distance education are rigorous in meeting accreditation
standards, Universal Design Standards, and standards currently applied
to traditional classroom instruction at higher educational institutions in
the areas of course content, student achievement levels, and coherence
of the curriculum.
   (4) Collaboration between the private sector and educational
institutions in the availability and use of technology in low-performing
schools and underserved areas.
   (5) Collaboration across departments, institutions, states, and
countries in the use of technology.
   (6) Use of technology to contain costs, improve student outcomes,
and enhance quality in instructional and noninstructional functions, such
as student services, libraries, and administrative support.
   (d) The intersegmental working group shall be composed of
representatives from public, elementary and secondary education, the
California State University, the California Community Colleges, the
University of California, independent accredited universities and
 3356                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 468 ]
colleges, state approved schools and colleges, private sector providers
of distance education, the Office of the Secretary of Education, and the
private sector.
  (e) The commission shall facilitate the development of statewide
funding priorities for technology in higher education, and shall forward
the recommendations of the working group to the Legislature and the
Governor on or before August 1, 2002.



                            CHAPTER 468

  An act to add Section 25118 to the Corporations Code, relating to
usury.
            [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 25118 is added to the Corporations Code, to
read:
   25118. (a) An evidence of indebtedness issued by an entity or
guaranteed by an entity that is an affiliate (as defined in Section 150) of
the borrower that, on the day the evidence of indebtedness issued or
guaranty is first issued or entered into, has total assets of at least two
million dollars ($2,000,000) according to its then most recent financial
statements, and the purchasers or holders thereof, shall be exempt from
the usury provisions of the Constitution. The financial statements
referred to in the preceding sentence shall be:
   (1) As of a date not more than 90 days prior to the date the evidence
of indebtedness or guaranty is first issued or entered into.
   (2) Prepared:
   (A) In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and,
if the entity has consolidated subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis.
   (B) In accordance with the rules and requirements of the Securities
and Exchange Commission, whether or not required by law to be
prepared in accordance with those rules and requirements.
   (b) Any one or more evidences of indebtedness, and the purchasers
or holders thereof, shall be exempt from the usury provisions of the
Constitution if either of the following applies:
   (1) The evidences of indebtedness aggregate at the time of issuance
at least three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) in original face
amount, or, if the evidences of indebtedness are purchased with original
[Ch. 468 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3357

issue discount, they are purchased for an aggregate purchase price at the
time of issuance of at least three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000).
   (2) The evidences of indebtedness are issued pursuant to a bona fide
written commitment for the lending to the issuer of at least three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000), or the provision of a line of credit to the
issuer in a principal amount of at least three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000). The exemption provided by this paragraph shall not be
affected by a subsequent event of default or other event not in the lender’s
control that has relieved or may relieve the lender from its commitment.
   (c) Any evidence of indebtedness described in subdivisions (a) or (b),
and the purchasers or holders thereof, shall be entitled to the benefits of
the usury exemption contained in this section regardless of whether, at
any time after the evidence of indebtedness or guaranty upon which the
exemption is based is first issued or entered into, the evidence of
indebtedness or guaranty is determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction not to be a ‘‘security.’’
   (d) This section creates and authorizes a class of transactions and
persons pursuant to Section 1 of Article XV of the California
Constitution.
   (e) This section shall not apply to:
   (1) Any evidence of indebtedness issued or guaranteed (if the
guaranty is part of the consideration for the indebtedness) by an
individual, a revocable trust having one or more individuals as trustors,
or a partnership in which, at the time of issuance, one or more individuals
are general partners.
   (2) Any transaction subject to the limitation on permissible rates of
interest set forth in paragraph (1) of the first sentence of Section 1 of
Article XV of the California Constitution.
   (f) The exemptions created by this section shall only be available in
a transaction which meets either of the following criteria:
   (1) The lender and either the issuer of the indebtedness or the
guarantor, as the case may be, or any of their respective officers,
directors, or controlling persons, or, if any party is a limited liability
company, the managers as appointed or elected by the members, have a
preexisting personal or business relationship.
   (2) The lender and the issuer, or the lender and the guarantor, by
reason of their own business and financial experience or that of their
professional advisers, could reasonably be assumed to have the capacity
to protect their own interests in connection with the transaction.
   (g) For purposes of this section, ‘‘preexisting personal or business
relationship’’ and ‘‘capacity to protect their own interests in connection
with the transaction’’ as used in subdivision (f) shall have the same
meaning as, and be determined according to the same standards as,
specified in paragraph (2) of subdivision (f) of Section 25102 and its
 3358                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 469 ]
implementing regulations provided that, solely with respect to this
section, a lender or purchaser who is represented by counsel may
designate that person as its professional adviser whether or not that
person is compensated by the issuer or guarantor, as long as that person
has a bona fide attorney-client relationship with the lender or purchaser.
  (h) This section shall not exempt any person from the application of
the California Finance Lenders Law (Division 9 (commencing with
Section 22000) of the Financial Code).
  SEC. 2. It is the intent of the Legislature that the standards contained
in Section 1 of this act are approved with respect to commercial loans
only. They do not reflect any judgment by the Legislature regarding
loans for personal, family, or household purposes. No inference should
be drawn from those standards as to the appropriate treatment of any
loans other than loans for commercial purposes that qualify for the
exemption provided therein.
  It is also the intent of the Legislature that the exemption contained in
Section 1 of this act shall not affect the application of any other provision
of law that (1) requires any person in connection with a transaction
described in Section 1 to comply with applicable licensing requirements,
(2) protects parties to a transaction described in Section 1 from unfair,
unlawful, or deceptive acts or practices, or (3) affects the availability of
the exemption provided by Section 1 to a successor in interest of the
originating lender of a loan described therein.



                             CHAPTER 469

   An act to amend Section 33334.27 of the Health and Safety Code,
relating to housing and community development.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 33334.27 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
  33334.27. (a) The Legislature finds and declares all of the
following:
  (1) The retention of the Travis Air Force Base within the County of
Solano is crucial to the economic health of its surrounding region. If the
closure of the Travis Air Force Base is not averted by using the powers
set forth in this section, it will cause serious economic hardship
throughout the State of California of an annual multibillion dollar
[Ch. 469 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3359

expenditure budget, increased unemployment, deterioration of
properties and land use, and undue disruption of the lives and activities
of the people of the area. This concern is based in large part on an
inadequate supply of affordable housing for low- and moderate-income
persons and families employed by or serving at the Travis Air Force
Base.
   (2) To avoid serious economic hardship and accompanying blight, it
is necessary to enact the act which adds this section, which shall apply
only within the County of Solano and the Cities of Fairfield, Suisun City,
and Vacaville, and which is adopted only for the purpose of retaining the
Travis Air Force Base. In enacting this act, it is the policy of the
Legislature to assist the County of Solano and the Cities of Fairfield,
Suisun City, and Vacaville in their attempt to preserve the affected
military facilities and installations for their continued use as the Travis
Air Force Base, and to protect and enhance these vital facilities by,
among other things, ensuring an adequate supply of affordable housing
in proximity to the Travis Air Force Base.
   (3) The cost and availability of land, construction costs, geophysical
and environmental constraints, household incomes, the market for
affordable housing, commuting patterns, and fiscal and other related
factors make it infeasible for a single community acting alone, limited
to its own resources, to provide the entire supply of affordable housing
necessary to ensure the retention of the Travis Air Force Base. It is,
therefore, necessary and appropriate that the agencies of the County of
Solano and the Cities of Fairfield, Suisun City, and Vacaville be
permitted, under specified conditions, to pool their resources to retain
the Travis Air Force Base. It is necessary that those agencies possess the
limited ability to use their tax-increment moneys outside their individual
communities for these limited purposes.
   (b) The agencies for the County of Solano and the Cities of Fairfield,
Suisun City, and Vacaville may create a separate joint powers agency
pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 6500) of Division 7 of
Title 1 of the Government Code, which joint powers agency shall have,
and exercise, powers of an agency within the territorial jurisdiction of
the City of Fairfield, Suisun City, the City of Vacaville or the
unincorporated area of the County of Solano to provide housing for the
retention of the Travis Air Force Base. Notwithstanding any provision
of existing law, the joint powers agency shall not have the power to levy
any tax. All land use, planning, and development decisions with regard
to real property within the City of Fairfield, the City of Suisun City, the
City of Vacaville or the unincorporated area of the County of Solano
which is to be developed or redeveloped by the joint powers agency
pursuant to this section shall continue to be under the control and
jurisdiction of the legislative body or planning commission, as
 3360                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 469 ]
applicable, of the City of Fairfield, the City of Suisun City, the City of
Vacaville, or the unincorporated area of the County of Solano.
   (c) The powers of the joint powers agency shall be used in accordance
with a ‘‘Travis Air Force Base Retention Program’’ to be formulated and
approved by the joint powers agency consistent with this section. The
Travis Air Force Base Retention Program shall not be implemented
unless and until the legislative bodies of the County of Solano and the
Cities of Fairfield, Suisun City, and Vacaville each adopts an ordinance
approving the Travis Air Force Base Retention Program. The
expenditure of tax-increment moneys outside of the territorial
jurisdiction of each agency involved, as contemplated by that program,
as well as the program itself, shall, upon the adoption of each ordinance,
be deemed to be a part of each redevelopment plan for each
redevelopment project generating the tax-increment moneys to be
expended in carrying out the program, as if each redevelopment plan had
been amended to include the program and those expenditures. However,
in adopting the ordinance, neither the legislative body nor the agency is
required to comply with Article 12 (commencing with Section 33450)
or any other provision of this part relating to the amendment of
redevelopment plans. The joint powers agency may amend the Travis
Air Force Base Retention Program from time to time. The procedure for
amending the ordinance required by this section shall be the same as for
adopting the ordinance under this section.
   (d) As used in this section, ‘‘tax-increment moneys’’ shall mean all
tax-increment moneys allocated to an agency, including, but not limited
to, tax-increment moneys deposited in an agency’s Low and Moderate
Income Fund.
   (e) Notwithstanding subdivision (c) of Section 33334.3 or Section
33670, an agency may use tax-increment moneys to develop housing
outside of the territorial jurisdiction of the agency pursuant to this
section and consistent with the provisions of a Travis Air Force Base
Retention Program approved and adopted pursuant to this section, if
each agency involved finds that no other reasonable means of financing
this housing are available in sufficient amount. The Legislature finds and
declares that the use of tax-increment funds pursuant to this section shall
be conclusively deemed to be a benefit to the project area in which those
funds were generated.
   (f) Each of the following conditions shall be met before an agency
may use tax-increment moneys to develop housing outside its territorial
jurisdiction pursuant to this section or to lend, pay, or advance these
funds to the joint powers agency pursuant to this section:
   (1) The community in which the agency is located must have met, in
the current or previous housing element cycle, at least 50 percent of its
existing share of the region’s affordable housing needs, as defined in
[Ch. 469 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3361

Section 65684 of the Government Code, for very low income
households.
  (2) The community in which the housing will be developed shall be
the City of Fairfield, the City of Suisun City, or the City of Vacaville.
  (3) The joint powers agency shall enter into a mutually acceptable,
binding agreement with the City of Fairfield, the City of Suisun City, or
the City of Vacaville where the housing will be developed. The contract
shall specify the terms and conditions under which the housing will be
developed. The contract shall specify the responsibilities of the joint
powers agency and the City of Fairfield, the City of Suisun City, or the
City of Vacaville.
  (4) The contract shall contain a provision that allows any taxpayer or
resident of the County of Solano and the Cities of Fairfield, Suisun City,
and Vacaville, the Attorney General, or any other interested person to
enforce the terms of the contract.
  (5) (A) Moneys from an agency’s Low and Moderate Income
Housing Fund shall be used in the City of Fairfield, the City of Suisun
City, or the City of Vacaville to pay for the costs of developing housing
as permitted by subdivision (e) of Section 33334.2.
  (B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), money from a Low and
Moderate Income Housing Fund shall not be used for offsite
improvements.
  (6) (A) The joint powers agency or the City of Fairfield, the City of
Suisun City, or the City of Vacaville shall not spend money from a Low
and Moderate Income Housing Fund in any way which is inconsistent
with the requirements of Section 33334.3.
  (B) Notwithstanding subdivision (e) of Section 33334.3, the joint
powers agency, the City of Fairfield, the City of Suisun City, or the City
of Vacaville or the agency of the City of Fairfield, Suisun City, the City
of Vacaville, or the County of Solano shall not spend money from a Low
and Moderate Income Housing Fund for administrative costs, salaries,
or wages, except for legal, architectural, and engineering costs and other
salaries, wages, and costs directly related to the planning and execution
of the development of the housing which is authorized by this section.
  (7) Each of the agencies whose Low and Moderate Income Housing
Fund moneys are to be expended pursuant to this section shall be in
compliance with all applicable replacement housing requirements of this
part.
  (8) The maximum aggregate number of dwelling units developed
with moneys transferred to the joint powers agency from the Low and
Moderate Income Housing Funds of its member agencies pursuant to
this section shall be no more than 500 dwelling units.
  (9) No agency shall transfer to the joint powers agency pursuant to
this section an amount more than:
 3362                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 469 ]
   (A) Fifty percent of the balance of its Low and Moderate Income
Housing Fund moneys reflected in the accounts of the agency on June
30, 1997.
   (B) Fifty percent of the total amount required by Sections 33334.2
and 33334.6 to be set aside by the agency in its Low and Moderate
Income Housing Fund for all redevelopment projects for each fiscal year
commencing with the 1997–98 fiscal year and for each fiscal year
thereafter.
   (10) The County of Solano and the Cities of Fairfield, Suisun City,
and Vacaville shall each have a complete and adequate general plan,
including a housing element that substantially complies with Article
10.6 (commencing with Section 65580) of Chapter 3 of Division 1 of
Title 7 of the Government Code.
   (g) (1) At least 60 days before the date proposed for the approval of
the contract pursuant to subdivision (f), the joint powers agency shall
send the draft contract to the department for its review, comment, and
recommendation.
   (2) Upon receipt of a draft contract, the department shall solicit public
comments from persons and organizations experienced in affordable
housing issues. After soliciting and considering these public comments,
the department shall review the draft contract for its consistency with the
requirements of this section. The department shall report its written
findings and its recommendations to the joint powers agency and the
Cities of Fairfield, Suisun City, and Vacaville, and the County of Solano,
within 45 days of receiving the draft contract. The department may
charge and the joint powers agency shall pay a fee that shall not exceed
the department’s estimated reasonable costs of complying with this
section. The joint powers agency may pay this fee from Low and
Moderate Income Housing Fund moneys.
   (3) If the department finds that the draft contract is not consistent with
the requirements of this section, the department may recommend
changes to the draft contract to achieve that consistency. The department
shall recommend that the joint powers agency approve the draft contract,
approve the draft contract after making changes, or not approve the draft
contract.
   (4) If the department recommends against the approval of the draft
contract, the joint powers agency shall not approve the contract. If the
department recommends changes to the draft contract before its
approval, the joint powers agency shall not approve the contract unless
it makes the changes recommended by the department.
   (h) The housing units to be built within the City of Fairfield, the City
of Suisun City, or the City of Vacaville with Low and Moderate Income
Housing Fund moneys transferred pursuant to this section shall be
[Ch. 469 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3363

affordable to lower income households or very low income households,
as those terms are defined in Sections 50052.5 and 50053.
   (i) The joint powers agency shall not receive more than an aggregate
total of two million dollars ($2,000,000) from the other agencies
pursuant to this section.
   (j) (1) If any housing occupied by persons or families of very low,
low, or moderate income is destroyed by the development of housing
pursuant to the authority of this section, displaced residents from the
destroyed housing shall be provided with relocation benefits which
result in the additional replacement housing payment required by
Section 7264 of the Government Code, enabling the person to lease or
rent a comparable replacement dwelling for a period not to exceed 96
months, instead of 48 months as required by Section 7264 of the
Government Code.
   (2) If any housing occupied by persons or families of very low, low,
or moderate income is destroyed by the development of housing
pursuant to the authority of this section, the destroyed housing shall be
replaced with housing of the same or greater size and shall be affordable
in direct proportion to the displaced income groups, and shall be
provided simultaneously with the housing developed pursuant to the
authority of this section.
   (k) In the event the Travis Air Force Base relocates from its current
location prior to the substantial commencement of construction of the
housing authorized to be developed pursuant to this section, all moneys
from the Low and Moderate Income Housing Funds which have been
transferred to the joint powers agency pursuant to this section shall be
returned by the joint powers agency to the agencies that originally
transferred the funds in ratable portion to the proportion of the
transferred funds that were transferred from each agency. However,
nothing in this subdivision shall require the joint powers agency to return
any funds that have been expended or committed for the purposes of the
joint powers agency or which are necessary to pay any indebtedness of
the joint powers agency.
   (l) The joint powers agency established pursuant to this section shall
require, as a condition precedent to the expenditure of any tax-increment
moneys to carry out the Travis Air Force Base Retention Program, that
the real property on which the housing is developed pursuant to that
program shall be burdened with covenants running with the land for the
period and with the substance required by Section 33334.3. The joint
powers agency shall also require that these covenants include a
mechanism that shall ensure the continued availability of the dwelling
units for very low or low-income persons and families for the period
required by Section 33334.3 in the event the Travis Air Force Base
relocates or, for any other reason, no longer uses these housing units, or,
 3364                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 470 ]
in the absence of this continued availability, implements a procedure that
protects the joint powers agency’s investment of moneys from Low and
Moderate Income Housing Funds and provides for the pro rata return of
the sales proceeds to the Low and Moderate Income Housing Funds of
those agencies expending these funds to carry out the Travis Air Force
Base Retention Program.
   (m) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2006, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which is
chaptered before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date, or unless
tax-increment moneys have, prior to that date, been received by the joint
powers agency, in which case the date of repeal of this section shall be
extended until the time that the joint powers agency shall expend these
funds in accordance with this section. This repeal shall not affect any
contract or covenant which shall have been entered into prior to January
1, 2006, to implement this section, and all contracts and covenants shall
continue after the repeal date in full force and effect in accordance with
their terms.



                            CHAPTER 470

  An act to amend Section 1871.2 of the Insurance Code, relating to
insurance.
            [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1871.2 of the Insurance Code is amended to
read:
   1871.2. (a) Any insurer who, in connection with any insurance
contract or provision of contract described in Section 108, prints,
reproduces, or furnishes a form to any person upon which that person
gives notice to the insurer or makes claim against it by reason of
accident, injury, death, or other noticed or claimed loss, or on a rider
attached thereto, shall cause to be printed or displayed in comparative
prominence with other content the statement: ‘‘Any person who
knowingly presents false or fraudulent claim for the payment of a loss
is guilty of a crime and may be subject to fines and confinement in state
prison.’’ This statement shall be preceded by the words: ‘‘For your
protection California law requires the following to appear on this form’’
or other explanatory words of similar meaning.
[Ch. 471 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3365

  (b) This section is not applicable to a contract of reinsurance as
defined in Section 620.



                             CHAPTER 471

  An act to add Section 798.13 to the Civil Code, to amend Sections
53084 and 65585 of the Government Code, and to amend Sections
17031, 17920.3, 17951, 17958.2, 17958.8, 17964, 18008.5, 18063,
18080.1, 33426.7, 50066, 50911, 51000.1, and 51005 of, to amend the
heading of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 51100) of Part 3 of
Division 31 of, to amend the heading of Part 3 (commencing with
Section 50900) of Division 31 of, to add Section 18307 to, to repeal
Section 51253 of, to repeal Article 13 (commencing with Section 33460)
of Chapter 4 of, and Article 3 (commencing with Section 33492.60) of
Chapter 4.5 of, Part 1 of Division 24 of, and to repeal Chapter 5.5
(commencing with Section 50640) of Part 2 of Division 31 of, the Health
and Safety Code, relating to housing and community development.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 798.13 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
   798.13. (a) This chapter does not apply to any area owned,
operated, or maintained by the state for the purpose of providing
employee housing or space for a mobilehome owned or occupied by an
employee of the state.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a state employer shall provide
the occupant of a privately owned mobilehome that is situated in an
employee housing area owned, operated, or maintained by the state, and
that is occupied by a state employee by agreement with his or her state
employer and subject to the terms and conditions of that state
employment, with a minimum of 60-days’ notice prior to terminating the
tenancy for any reason.
   SEC. 1.2. Section 53084 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   53084. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, a local
agency shall not provide any form of financial assistance to an
automobile dealership or big box retailer, or a business entity that sells
or leases land to an automobile dealership or big box retailer, that is
relocating from the territorial jurisdiction of one local agency to the
territorial jurisdiction of another local agency but within the same
 3366                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 471 ]
market area, unless the legislative body of the local agency to which the
relocation will occur offers the contract to the local agency from which
the relocation is occurring pursuant to this section.
   (b) If the automobile dealership or big box retailer is relocating within
the same county, including both incorporated and unincorporated
territory, or to an adjacent county or a city within an adjacent county, the
local agency proposing to offer financial assistance shall prepare a report
that describes the market area for the automobile dealership or big box
retailer that is relocating. The report shall include the information
required to be contained in the resolution pursuant to subdivision (e).
The report shall refer to and cite the independent literature, trade
publications, and recognized and established business policies and
practices describing the market area for the automobile dealership or big
box retailer that is relocating. The report shall conclude that the
relocation is occurring either within the same market area or outside the
same market area. The report shall be available to the public not later
than 45 days prior to the date of the public hearing required by
subdivision (d). In addition, the notice of the public hearing and the
report shall be mailed to the local agency from which the relocation is
occurring.
   (c) (1) If the report prepared pursuant to subdivision (b) concludes
that the automobile dealership or big box retailer is relocating within the
same market area, at least 45 days prior to the public hearing required
pursuant to subdivision (d), the agency shall notify the local agency from
which the relocation is occurring of its intent to give financial assistance
and shall send to that local agency a contract that has been approved by
a two-thirds vote of the legislative body of the local agency and that
apportions the sales tax generated from the automobile dealership or big
box retailer after the relocation between the two local agencies in the
following manner:
   (A) The annual amount of assistance shall be subtracted from the
annual sales tax.
   (B) The difference shall be divided equally between the two local
agencies for the first 10 fiscal years following the relocation. However,
in no event shall the local agency from which the relocation is occurring
receive more sales tax than it received from the automobile dealership
or big box retailer in the fiscal year prior to the relocation.
   (C) After the first 10 fiscal years following the relocation, the contract
shall terminate and the apportionment shall end unless the contract is
extended by both local agencies.
   (2) The local agency from which the relocation is occurring shall have
30 days after receipt of the contract to approve the contract by enacting
a resolution or ordinance approved by a two-thirds vote of its legislative
body.
[Ch. 471 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3367

   (d) Prior to a local agency giving any financial assistance to an
automobile dealership or big box retailer that is relocating, the agency
shall hold a public hearing. Notice of the time and place of the public
hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
local agency at least once per week for at least three successive weeks,
as specified in Section 6063 of the Government Code, prior to the
hearing.
   (e) The resolution approving financial assistance shall do all of the
following:
   (1) Identify the present name and, if different, the former name of the
relocating automobile dealership or big box retailer.
   (2) Identify the address, including the local agency, from which the
automobile dealership or big box retailer has moved or will move.
   (3) Identify the address, including the local agency, to which the
automobile dealership or big box retailer will move.
   (4) Contain one of the following findings:
   (A) That the automobile dealership or big box retailer is not
relocating within the same market area.
   (B) That the automobile dealership or big box retailer is relocating
within the same market area but that a contract containing the terms
specified in subdivision (c) has been approved by the local agency’s
legislative body, and offered to the local agency from which the
relocation has occurred, which has approved the agreement, entered into
another agreement acceptable to both local agencies, or has not accepted
the proposed contract within the 30-day period.
   These findings shall be final and conclusive as to all persons except
for the automobile dealership or big box retailer that is the subject of the
findings and the community from which the relocation has occurred, all
of which may bring an action to challenge these findings.
   (f) As used in this section, the following terms have the following
meaning:
   (1) ‘‘Big box retailer’’ means a store of greater than 75,000 square
feet of gross buildable area that will generate sales or use tax pursuant
to Part 1.5 (commencing with Section 7200) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.
   (2) ‘‘Local agency’’ means a chartered or general law city, a chartered
or general law county, or a city and county. ‘‘Local agency’’ does not
include a redevelopment agency that is subject to Section 33426.7 of the
Health and Safety Code.
   (3) ‘‘Financial assistance’’ includes, but is not limited to, any of the
following:
   (A) Any appropriation of public funds, including loans, grants, or
subsidies or the payment for or construction of parking improvements.
 3368                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 471 ]
   (B) Any tax incentive, including tax exemptions, rebates, reductions,
or moratoria of a tax, including any rebate or payment based upon the
amount of sales tax generated from the automobile dealership or big box
retailer.
   (C) The sale or lease of real property at a cost that is less than fair
market value.
   (D) Payment for, forgiveness of, or reduction of fees.
   (4) (A) ‘‘Market area’’ means a geographical area that is described
in independent and recognized commercial trade literature, recognized
and established business or manufacturing policies or practices, or
publications of recognized independent research organizations as being
an area that is large enough to support the location of the specific
automobile dealership or the specific big box retailer that is relocating.
   (B) With respect to an automobile dealership, a ‘‘market area’’ shall
not extend further than 40 miles, as measured by the most reasonable
route on roads between two points, starting from the location from which
the automobile dealership is relocating and ending at the location to
which the automobile dealership is relocating.
   (C) With respect to a big box retailer, a ‘‘market area’’ shall not extend
further than 25 miles, as measured by the most reasonable route on roads
between two points, starting from the location from which the big box
retailer is relocating and ending at the location to which the big box
retailer is relocating.
   (5) ‘‘Relocating’’ means the closing of an automobile dealership or
big box retailer in one location and the opening of an automobile
dealership or big box retailer in another location within a 365-day period
when a person or business entity has an ownership interest in both the
automobile dealership or big box retailer that has closed or will close and
the one that is opening. ‘‘Relocating’’ does not mean and shall not
include the closing of an automobile dealership or big box retailer
because the automobile dealership or big box retailer has been or will be
acquired or has been or will be closed as a result of the use of eminent
domain.
   (g) This section does not apply to local agency assistance in the
construction of public improvements that serve all or a portion of the
jurisdiction of the local agency and that are not required to be constructed
as a condition of approval of the automobile dealership or big box
retailer. This section also does not prohibit assistance in the construction
of public improvements that are being constructed for a development
other than the automobile dealership or big box retailer.
   (h) Notwithstanding Section 7550.5, on or before January 1, 2004,
the California Research Bureau shall report to the Legislature and the
Governor regarding the implementation of this section. The report shall
identify the reports prepared pursuant to subdivision (b), the contracts
[Ch. 471 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3369

offered pursuant to subdivision (c), and the resolutions approved
pursuant to subdivision (e). The report may include any additional
information that the bureau finds relevant. The report may also include
recommendations for legislative action, including, but not limited to,
amending, or extending the repeal date of, this section.
   (i) This section shall not apply to any financial assistance provided
by a local agency pursuant to a lease, contract, agreement, or other
enforceable written instrument entered into between the local agency
and an automobile dealership, big box retailer, or a business entity that
sells or leases land to an automobile dealership or big box retailer, if the
lease, contract, agreement, or other enforceable written instrument was
entered into prior to December 31, 1999.
   (j) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2005, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which is enacted
before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Section 65585 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   65585. (a) In the preparation of its housing element, each city and
county shall consider the guidelines adopted by the department pursuant
to Section 50459 of the Health and Safety Code. Those guidelines shall
be advisory to each city or county in the preparation of its housing
element.
   (b) At least 90 days prior to adoption of its housing element, or at least
60 days prior to the adoption of an amendment to this element, the
planning agency shall submit a draft element or draft amendment to the
department. The department shall review the draft and report its written
findings to the planning agency within 90 days of its receipt of the draft
in the case of an adoption or within 60 days of its receipt in the case of
a draft amendment.
   (c) In the preparation of its findings, the department may consult with
any public agency, group, or person. The department shall receive and
consider any written comments from any public agency, group, or person
regarding the draft or adopted element or amendment under review.
   (d) In its written findings, the department shall determine whether the
draft element or draft amendment substantially complies with the
requirements of this article.
   (e) Prior to the adoption of its draft element or draft amendment, the
legislative body shall consider the findings made by the department. If
the department’s findings are not available within the time limits set by
this section, the legislative body may act without them.
   (f) If the department finds that the draft element or draft amendment
does not substantially comply with the requirements of this article, the
legislative body shall take one of the following actions:
   (1) Change the draft element or draft amendment to substantially
comply with the requirements of this article.
 3370                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 471 ]
   (2) Adopt the draft element or draft amendment without changes. The
legislative body shall include in its resolution of adoption written
findings which explain the reasons the legislative body believes that the
draft element or draft amendment substantially complies with the
requirements of this article despite the findings of the department.
   (g) Promptly following the adoption of its element or amendment, the
planning agency shall submit a copy to the department.
   (h) The department shall, within 90 days, review adopted housing
elements or amendments and report its findings to the planning agency.
   SEC. 3. Section 17031 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   17031. (a) (1) The operator of employee housing on a dairy farm
that meets the requirements of Section 32505 of the Food and
Agricultural Code, consisting only of permanent single-family
employee housing, may request an exemption from the requirement of
obtaining an annual permit to operate. The employee housing camp
operator shall notify each tenant of the permanent single-family
employee housing in writing that such an exemption is being requested.
The request for exemption shall be made in writing to the enforcement
agency.
   (2) An exemption shall be granted to permanent single-family
employee housing unless the housing is in violation of the State Housing
Law, building standards published in the California Building Standards
Code relating to employee housing, or the other regulations adopted
pursuant to the State Housing Law in a manner that materially affects the
health and safety of the occupants, or in the case of a mobilehome or
manufactured home, is in violation of the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C.
Secs. 5401, et seq.) or regulations of the department pursuant to Section
18028 in a manner that materially affects the health and safety of the
occupants, or has been found in violation of this chapter within the
previous two years.
   (b) Whenever the enforcement agency issues an exemption from the
requirement of obtaining a permit to operate, it shall make written
findings indicating the reasons for issuing the exemption. Exemptions
shall be reviewed annually by the enforcement agency.
   The findings of the enforcement agency shall include, but not be
limited to, all of the following information:
   (1) The year the dwellings in the employee housing were constructed.
   (2) The number of years the employee housing has been operated
with a valid permit to operate.
   (3) The number and character of any complaints received during the
time the employee housing has been operating either with or without a
permit.
[Ch. 471 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3371

   (4) Any violations cited in the last inspection of the employee
housing.
   (c) Failure to maintain any permanent housing in accordance with the
State Housing Law, or, in the case of mobilehomes or manufactured
homes, failure to maintain these mobilehomes or manufactured homes
in accordance with the provisions of Part 2.1 (commencing with Section
18200) of Division 13, and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto, in
a manner which materially affects the health and safety of the occupants,
shall be considered cause for revocation of an exemption.
   SEC. 4. Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   17920.3. Any building or portion thereof including any dwelling
unit, guestroom or suite of rooms, or the premises on which the same is
located, in which there exists any of the following listed conditions to
an extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare
of the public or the occupants thereof shall be deemed and hereby is
declared to be a substandard building:
   (a) Inadequate sanitation shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
   (1) Lack of, or improper water closet, lavatory, or bathtub or shower
in a dwelling unit.
   (2) Lack of, or improper water closets, lavatories, and bathtubs or
showers per number of guests in a hotel.
   (3) Lack of, or improper kitchen sink.
   (4) Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a hotel.
   (5) Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a
dwelling unit.
   (6) Lack of adequate heating.
   (7) Lack of, or improper operation of required ventilating equipment.
   (8) Lack of minimum amounts of natural light and ventilation
required by this code.
   (9) Room and space dimensions less than required by this code.
   (10) Lack of required electrical lighting.
   (11) Dampness of habitable rooms.
   (12) Infestation of insects, vermin, or rodents as determined by the
health officer.
   (13) General dilapidation or improper maintenance.
   (14) Lack of connection to required sewage disposal system.
   (15) Lack of adequate garbage and rubbish storage and removal
facilities as determined by the health officer.
   (b) Structural hazards shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
   (1) Deteriorated or inadequate foundations.
   (2) Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports.
 3372                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 471 ]
   (3) Flooring or floor supports of insufficient size to carry imposed
loads with safety.
   (4) Members of walls, partitions, or other vertical supports that split,
lean, list, or buckle due to defective material or deterioration.
   (5) Members of walls, partitions, or other vertical supports that are of
insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety.
   (6) Members of ceilings, roofs, ceilings and roof supports, or other
horizontal members which sag, split, or buckle due to defective material
or deterioration.
   (7) Members of ceiling, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other
horizontal members that are of insufficient size to carry imposed loads
with safety.
   (8) Fireplaces or chimneys which list, bulge, or settle due to defective
material or deterioration.
   (9) Fireplaces or chimneys which are of insufficient size or strength
to carry imposed loads with safety.
   (c) Any nuisance.
   (d) All wiring, except that which conformed with all applicable laws
in effect at the time of installation if it is currently in good and safe
condition and working properly.
   (e) All plumbing, except plumbing that conformed with all
applicable laws in effect at the time of installation and has been
maintained in good condition, or that may not have conformed with all
applicable laws in effect at the time of installation but is currently in good
and safe condition and working properly, and that is free of cross
connections and siphonage between fixtures.
   (f) All mechanical equipment, including vents, except equipment that
conformed with all applicable laws in effect at the time of installation
and that has been maintained in good and safe condition, or that may not
have conformed with all applicable laws in effect at the time of
installation but is currently in good and safe condition and working
properly.
   (g) Faulty weather protection, which shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
   (1) Deteriorated, crumbling, or loose plaster.
   (2) Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof,
foundations, or floors, including broken windows or doors.
   (3) Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall
coverings, including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint or
other approved protective covering.
   (4) Broken, rotted, split, or buckled exterior wall coverings or roof
coverings.
   (h) Any building or portion thereof, device, apparatus, equipment,
combustible waste, or vegetation that, in the opinion of the chief of the
[Ch. 471 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3373

fire department or his deputy, is in such a condition as to cause a fire or
explosion or provide a ready fuel to augment the spread and intensity of
fire or explosion arising from any cause.
   (i) All materials of construction, except those which are specifically
allowed or approved by this code, and which have been adequately
maintained in good and safe condition.
   (j) Those premises on which an accumulation of weeds, vegetation,
junk, dead organic matter, debris, garbage, offal, rodent harborages,
stagnant water, combustible materials, and similar materials or
conditions constitute fire, health, or safety hazards.
   (k) Any building or portion thereof that is determined to be an unsafe
building due to inadequate maintenance, in accordance with the latest
edition of the Uniform Building Code.
   (l) All buildings or portions thereof not provided with adequate exit
facilities as required by this code, except those buildings or portions
thereof whose exit facilities conformed with all applicable laws at the
time of their construction and that have been adequately maintained and
increased in relation to any increase in occupant load, alteration or
addition, or any change in occupancy.
   When an unsafe condition exists through lack of, or improper location
of, exits, additional exits may be required to be installed.
   (m) All buildings or portions thereof that are not provided with the
fire-resistive construction or fire-extinguishing systems or equipment
required by this code, except those buildings or portions thereof that
conformed with all applicable laws at the time of their construction and
whose fire-resistive integrity and fire-extinguishing systems or
equipment have been adequately maintained and improved in relation to
any increase in occupant load, alteration or addition, or any change in
occupancy.
   (n) All buildings or portions thereof occupied for living, sleeping,
cooking, or dining purposes that were not designed or intended to be
used for those occupancies.
   (o) Inadequate structural resistance to horizontal forces.
   ‘‘Substandard building’’ includes a building not in compliance with
Section 13143.2.
   However, a condition that would require displacement of sound walls
or ceilings to meet height, length, or width requirements for ceilings,
rooms, and dwelling units shall not by itself be considered sufficient
existence of dangerous conditions making a building a substandard
building, unless the building was constructed, altered, or converted in
violation of those requirements in effect at the time of construction,
alteration, or conversion.
   SEC. 5. Section 17951 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
 3374                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 471 ]
   17951. (a) The governing body of any county or city, including a
charter city, may prescribe fees for permits, certificates, or other forms
or documents required or authorized by this part or rules and regulations
adopted pursuant to this part.
   (b) The governing body of any county or city, including a charter city,
or fire protection district, may prescribe fees to defray the costs of
enforcement required by this part to be carried out by local enforcement
agencies.
   (c) The amount of the fees prescribed pursuant to subdivisions (a) and
(b) shall not exceed the amount reasonably required to administer or
process these permits, certificates, or other forms or documents, or to
defray the costs of enforcement required by this part to be carried out by
local enforcement agencies, and shall not be levied for general revenue
purposes. The fees shall be imposed pursuant to Section 66016 of the
Government Code.
   (d) (1) The provisions of this part are not intended to prevent the use
of any manufactured home, mobilehome, material, appliance,
installation, device, arrangement, or method of construction not
specifically prescribed by the California Building Standards Code or this
part, provided that this alternate has been approved by the building
department.
   (2) The building department of any city or county may approve an
alternate if it finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and that the
material, appliance, installation, device, arrangement, method, or work
offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that
prescribed in the California Building Standards Code or this part in
performance, safety, and for the protection of life and health.
   (3) The building department of any city or county shall require
evidence that any material, appliance, installation, device, arrangement,
or method of construction conforms to, or that the proposed alternate is
at least equivalent to, the requirements of this part, building standards
published in the California Building Standards Code, or the other rules
and regulations promulgated pursuant to this part and in order to
substantiate claims for alternates, the building department of any city or
county may require tests as proof of compliance to be made at the
expense of the owner or the owner’s agent by an approved testing agency
selected by the owner or the owner’s agent.
   SEC. 6. Section 17958.2 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   17958.2. (a) Notwithstanding Section 17958, regulations of the
department adopted for limited-density owner-built rural dwellings,
which are codified in Article 8 (commencing with Section 74) of
Subchapter 1 of Chapter 1 of Title 25 of the California Code of
Regulations, shall not become operative within any city or county unless
[Ch. 471 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3375

and until the governing body of the city or county makes an express
finding that the application of those regulations within the city or county
is reasonably necessary because of local conditions and the city or
county files a copy of that finding with the department.
   (b) In adopting ordinances or regulations for limited-density
owner-built rural dwellings, a city or county may make any changes or
modifications in the requirements contained in Article 8 (commencing
with Section 74) of Subchapter 1 of Chapter 1 of Title 25 of the
California Code of Regulations that it determines are reasonably
necessary because of local conditions, if the city or county files a copy
of the changes or modifications and the express findings for the changes
or modifications with the department. No change or modification of that
type shall become effective or operative for any purpose until the finding
and the change or modification has been filed with the department.
   SEC. 7. Section 17958.8 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   17958.8. Local ordinances or regulations governing alterations and
repair of existing buildings shall permit the replacement, retention, and
extension of original materials and the use of original methods of
construction as long as the hotel, lodginghouse, motel, apartment house,
or dwelling, or portions thereof, or building and structure accessory
thereto, complies with the provisions published in the California
Building Standards Code and the other rules and regulations of the
department or alternative local standards adopted pursuant to Section
13143.2 and does not become or continue to be a substandard building.
   SEC. 8. Section 17964 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   17964. By charter, ordinance, or resolution, a city, county, or city
and county may designate and charge a department organized to carry
out the purposes of this part, or an officer charged with the responsibility
of carrying out this part, with the enforcement of this part, the building
standards published in the California Building Standards Code, or any
other rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this part for the
protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare as set forth in
Section 17921. However, this section shall apply to the duties and
responsibilities enumerated in Section 17962 only if, in the area
involved, there is no city, county, or city and county fire department or
district providing fire protection services. By March 1 of each year, the
designated department or officer shall provide in writing to the
department the name, address, telephone number, and contact person of
the designated department or officer.
   SEC. 9. Section 18008.5 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
 3376                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 471 ]
   18008.5. ‘‘Manufactured home or mobilehome accessory building
or structure’’ or ‘‘manufactured home or mobilehome accessory’’
includes, but is not limited to, any awning, portable, demountable, or
permanent cabana, ramada, storage cabinet, carport, skirting, heater,
cooler, fence, windbreak, or porch or other equipment established for the
use of the occupant of the manufactured home or mobilehome.
   SEC. 10. Section 18063 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   18063. It is unlawful for a salesperson to do any of the following:
   (a) At the time of employment, not deliver to his or her employing
dealer his or her salesperson’s license or 90-day certificate.
   (b) Fail to report in writing to the department every change of
residence within five days of the change.
   (c) Act or attempt to act as a salesperson while not employed by a
dealer. For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘employment by a dealer’’
means employment reported to the department pursuant to subdivision
(c) of Section 18060.
   (d) To violate Section 798.71 or 798.74 of the Civil Code, or both.
   SEC. 11. Section 18080.1 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   18080.1. The registration of a manufactured home, mobilehome,
commercial coach, truck camper, or floating home may be held in the
name of a company, an estate, a trust, a conservatorship, a guardianship,
or an individual owner’s name, as follows:
   (a) In the case of an individual owner, the manufactured home,
mobilehome, commercial coach, truck camper, or floating home shall be
registered in the true name of the individual owner only. Complimentary
or professional titles may be added to the true name only if the individual
is commonly addressed by that title.
   (b) In the case of a guardianship or conservatorship, the manufactured
home, mobilehome, commercial coach, truck camper, or floating home
shall be registered in the name of the person or persons designated as the
conservators or guardians, as evidenced by documentation of that status
deemed adequate by the department. The name shall be followed by the
word ‘‘guardian’’ or ‘‘conservator,’’ whichever is appropriate. Transfer
of ownership or encumbrance of a manufactured home, mobilehome,
commercial coach, truck camper, or floating home so registered shall
require the signatures of all designated conservators or guardians.
   (c) In the case of a trust, the manufactured home, mobilehome,
commercial coach, truck camper, or floating home shall be registered in
the name of the trust as evidenced by documentation of that status
deemed adequate by the department. Transfer of ownership or
encumbrance of a manufactured home, mobilehome, commercial coach,
[Ch. 471 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3377

truck camper, or floating home so registered shall require the signature
or signatures of the authorized trustee or trustees designated in the trust.
   (d) In the case of a manufactured home, mobilehome, commercial
coach, truck camper, or floating home registered in the name of a
company, the application for registration shall be countersigned by an
officer or authorized agent of the company. Transfer of ownership or
encumbrance of a manufactured home, mobilehome, commercial coach,
truck camper, or floating home so registered shall require the signature
of an officer or authorized agent of the company.
   (e) In the case of a manufactured home, mobilehome, commercial
coach, truck camper, or floating home registered to an estate, the
application for registration shall be signed by the appointed executor or
administrator of the estate as evidenced by documentation of that status
deemed adequate by the department. Transfer of ownership or
encumbrance of a manufactured home, mobilehome, commercial coach,
truck camper, or floating home so registered shall require the signature
of the appointed executor or administrator.
   SEC. 12. Section 18307 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   18307. (a) The department may delegate all or any portion of the
authority to enforce this part and the regulations adopted pursuant to this
part, or to enforce specific sections of this part or those regulations, to
a local building department or health department of any city, county, or
city and county, where the department is the enforcement agency, if all
of the following conditions exist:
   (1) The delegation of authority is necessary to provide prompt and
effective recovery assistance or services during or immediately
following a disaster declared by the Governor.
   (2) The local building department or health department requests the
authority and that request is approved by the governing body having
jurisdiction over the local building department or health department.
   (3) The department has determined that the local building department
or health department possesses the knowledge and expertise necessary
to administer the delegated responsibilities.
   (b) The delegation of authority shall be limited to the time established
by the department as necessary to adequately respond to the disaster, or
the time period determined by the department, but in no case shall the
period exceed 60 days. The delegation of authority may be limited to
specific geographic areas or specific mobilehome parks or recreational
vehicle parks at the sole discretion of the department.
   (c) Local building departments and health departments acting
pursuant to subdivision (a) may charge fees for services rendered, not to
exceed the department’s approved schedule of fees associated with the
services provided. The department may also reimburse these local
 3378                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 471 ]
departments if funds are received for the activities undertaken pursuant
to subdivision (a), but no obligation for reimbursement by the
department shall accrue unless funds are allocated to the department for
this purpose.
   SEC. 13. Section 33426.7 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   33426.7. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, a
redevelopment agency shall not provide any form of financial assistance
to an automobile dealership or big box retailer, or a business entity that
sells or leases land to an automobile dealership or big box retailer, that
is relocating from the territorial jurisdiction of one community to the
territorial jurisdiction of another community but within the same market
area, unless the legislative body of the community to which the
relocation will occur offers the contract to the community from which
the relocation is occurring pursuant to this section.
   (b) If the automobile dealership or big box retailer is relocating within
the same county, including both incorporated and unincorporated
territory, or to an adjacent county or a city within an adjacent county, the
redevelopment agency proposing to offer financial assistance shall
prepare a report that describes the market area for the automobile
dealership or big box retailer that is relocating. The report shall include
the information required to be contained in the resolution pursuant to
subdivision (e). The report shall refer to and cite the independent
literature, trade publications, and recognized and established business
policies and practices describing the market area for the automobile
dealership or big box retailer that is relocating. The report shall conclude
that the relocation is occurring either within the same market area or
outside the same market area. The report shall be available to the public
not later than 45 days prior to the date of the public hearing required by
subdivision (d). In addition, the notice of the public hearing and the
report shall be mailed to the community from which the relocation is
occurring.
   (c) (1) If the report prepared pursuant to subdivision (b) concludes
that the automobile dealership or big box retailer is relocating within the
same market area, at least 45 days prior to the public hearing required
pursuant to subdivision (d), the agency shall notify the community from
which the relocation is occurring of its intent to give financial assistance
and shall send to that community a contract that has been approved by
a two-thirds vote of the legislative body of the agency and that
apportions the sales tax generated from the automobile dealership or big
box retailer after the relocation between the two communities in the
following manner:
   (A) The annual amount of assistance shall be subtracted from the
annual sales tax.
[Ch. 471 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3379

   (B) The difference shall be divided equally between the two
communities for the first 10 fiscal years following the relocation.
However, in no event shall the community from which the relocation is
occurring receive more sales tax than it received from the automobile
dealership or big box retailer in the fiscal year prior to the relocation.
   (C) After the first 10 fiscal years following the relocation, the contract
shall terminate and the apportionment shall end unless the contract is
extended by both communities.
   (2) The community from which the relocation is occurring shall have
30 days after receipt of the contract to approve the contract by enacting
a resolution or ordinance approved by a two-thirds vote of its legislative
body.
   (d) Prior to a redevelopment agency giving any financial assistance
to an automobile dealership or big box retailer that is relocating, the
agency shall hold a public hearing. Notice of the time and place of the
public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the community at least once per week for at least three successive
weeks, as specified in Section 6063 of the Government Code, prior to
the hearing.
   (e) The resolution approving financial assistance shall do all of the
following:
   (1) Identify the present name and, if different, the former name of the
relocating automobile dealership or big box retailer.
   (2) Identify the address, including the city or county, from which the
automobile dealership or big box retailer has moved or will move.
   (3) Identify the address, including the city or county, to which the
automobile dealership or big box retailer will move.
   (4) Contain one of the following findings:
   (A) That the automobile dealership or big box retailer is not
relocating within the same market area.
   (B) That the automobile dealership or big box retailer is relocating
within the same market area but that a contract containing the terms
specified in subdivision (c) has been approved by the agency’s
legislative body, and offered to the community from which the
relocation has occurred, which has approved the agreement, entered into
another agreement acceptable to both communities, or has not accepted
the proposed contract within the 30-day period.
   These findings shall be final and conclusive as to all persons except
for the automobile dealership or big box retailer that is the subject of the
findings and the community from which the relocation has occurred, all
of which may bring an action to challenge these findings.
   (f) As used in this section, the following terms have the following
meaning:
 3380                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 471 ]
   (1) ‘‘Big box retailer’’ means a store of greater than 75,000 square
feet of gross buildable area that will generate sales or use tax pursuant
to Part 1.5 (commencing with Section 7200) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.
   (2) ‘‘Community’’ and ‘‘territorial jurisdiction’’ have the meanings
specified in Sections 33002 and 33120, respectively.
   (3) ‘‘Financial assistance’’ includes, but is not limited to, any of the
following:
   (A) Any appropriation of public funds, including loans, grants, or
subsidies or the payment for or construction of parking improvements.
   (B) Any tax incentive, including tax exemptions, rebates, reductions,
or moratoria of a tax, including any rebate or payment based upon the
amount of sales tax generated from the automobile dealership or big box
retailer.
   (C) The sale or lease of real property at a cost that is less than fair
market value.
   (D) Payment for, forgiveness of, or reduction of fees.
   (4) (A) ‘‘Market area’’ means a geographical area that is described
in independent and recognized commercial trade literature, recognized
and established business or manufacturing policies or practices, or
publications of recognized independent research organizations as being
an area that is large enough to support the location of the specific
automobile dealership or the specific big box retailer that is relocating.
   (B) With respect to an automobile dealership, a ‘‘market area’’ shall
not extend further than 40 miles, as measured by the most reasonable
route on roads between two points, starting from the location from which
the automobile dealership is relocating and ending at the location to
which the automobile dealership is relocating.
   (C) With respect to a big box retailer, a ‘‘market area’’ shall not extend
further than 25 miles, as measured by the most reasonable route on roads
between two points, starting from the location from which the big box
retailer is relocating and ending at the location to which the big box
retailer is relocating.
   (5) ‘‘Relocating’’ means the closing of an automobile dealership or
big box retailer in one location and the opening of an automobile
dealership or big box retailer in another location within a 365-day period
when a person or business entity has an ownership interest in both the
automobile dealership or big box retailer that has closed or will close and
the one that is opening. ‘‘Relocating’’ does not mean and shall not
include the closing of an automobile dealership or big box retailer
because the automobile dealership or big box retailer has been or will be
acquired or has been or will be closed as a result of the use of eminent
domain.
[Ch. 471 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3381

   (g) This section does not apply to agency assistance in the
construction of public improvements that serve all or a portion of a
project area and that are not required to be constructed as a condition of
approval of the automobile dealership or big box retailer. This section
also does not prohibit assistance in the construction of public
improvements that are being constructed for a development other than
the automobile dealership or big box retailer.
   (h) Notwithstanding Section 7550.5 of the Government Code, on or
before January 1, 2004, the California Research Bureau shall report to
the Legislature and the Governor regarding the implementation of this
section. The report shall identify the reports prepared pursuant to
subdivision (b), the contracts offered pursuant to subdivision (c), and the
resolutions approved pursuant to subdivision (e). The report may
include any additional information that the bureau finds relevant. The
report may also include recommendations for legislative action,
including, but not limited to, amending, or extending the repeal date of,
this section.
   (i) This section shall not apply to any financial assistance provided
by a redevelopment agency pursuant to a lease, contract, agreement, or
other enforceable written instrument entered into between the
redevelopment agency and an automobile dealership, big box retailer, or
a business entity that sells or leases land to an automobile dealership or
big box retailer, if the lease, contract, agreement, or other enforceable
written instrument was entered into prior to December 31, 1999.
   (j) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2005, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which is enacted
before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 14. Section 50066 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   50066. ‘‘Development loan’’ means a loan, made prior to the
granting of a construction loan, for planning, acquisition of land and
improvements thereon, and site preparation for a housing development
or residential structure. A development loan may include costs of
architectural, engineering, legal and consulting services, the cost of
necessary studies, surveys and governmental permits, and the cost of any
other items that the agency deems reasonable and necessary for the initial
preparation for construction or rehabilitation of a housing development
or residential structure.
   SEC. 15. Article 13 (commencing with Section 33460) of Chapter
4 of Part 2 of Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
   SEC. 16. Article 3 (commencing with Section 33492.60) of Chapter
4.5 of Part 1 of Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
   SEC. 17. Chapter 5.5 (commencing with Section 50640) of Part 2
of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
 3382                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 471 ]
  SEC. 17.5. The heading of Part 3 (commencing with Section 50900)
of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code, as amended by Section
14.5 of Chapter 94 of the Statutes of 1994, is amended to read:

     PART 3.     CALIFORNIA HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY

   SEC. 18. Section 50911 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   50911. (a) Notwithstanding Sections 11042 and 11043 of the
Government Code, the executive director may employ as general
counsel for the agency an attorney at law licensed in this state. The
general counsel shall advise the board, the chairperson, and the
executive director, when so requested, with regard to all matters in
connection with the powers and duties of the agency and the board
members and officers thereof. The general counsel shall serve as
secretary to the board and shall perform all duties and services as general
counsel to the agency that the agency may require of that person.
   (b) Except as provided in Section 11040 of the Government Code, the
Attorney General shall represent and appear for the people of the State
of California and the agency in all court proceedings involving any
question under this division or any order or act of the agency. However,
the agency may also employ private counsel to assist in any court
proceeding.
   (c) Notwithstanding Sections 11042 and 11043 of the Government
Code, the executive director may appoint as bond counsel for the agency
an attorney or attorneys. Nothing in this section or any other provision
of law shall preclude the appointment of more than one attorney to serve
as bond counsel, however, at all times at least one attorney shall be
licensed to practice law in this state. If the agency appoints more than one
bond counsel for a bond issue, the combined fees paid to all bond counsel
shall not exceed those fees that would have been paid had only one bond
counsel been appointed.
   (d) Under the authority of this section, the executive director may
appoint or retain an attorney or attorneys to undertake other appropriate
legal studies and assignments not in conflict with this section.
   SEC. 19. Section 51000.1 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   51000.1. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, except as
provided in Section 51000.3, no officer or division of state government
shall transfer any sums of money from any fund or account of the agency,
except as may be ordered or authorized by either of the following:
   (a) The executive director of the agency or his or her designee.
[Ch. 471 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3383

   (b) The designated trustee, pursuant to authority contained in
appropriate adopted resolutions pertaining to notes or bonds issued by
the agency.
   SEC. 20. Section 51005 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   51005. (a) The agency shall, by November 1 of each year, submit
an annual report of its activities under this division for the preceding year
to the Governor, the Secretary of the Business and Transportation
Agency, the Director of Housing and Community Development, the
Treasurer, the Joint Legislative Budget Committee, the Legislative
Analyst, and the Legislature. The report shall set forth a complete
operating and financial statement of the agency during the concluded
fiscal year. The report shall specify the number of units assisted, the
distribution of units among the metropolitan, nonmetropolitan, and rural
areas of the state, and shall contain a summary of statistical data relative
to the incomes of households occupying assisted units, the monthly
rentals charged to occupants of rental housing developments, and the
sales prices of residential structures purchased during the previous fiscal
year by persons or families of low or moderate income. The report shall
also include a statement of accomplishment during the previous year
with respect to the agency’s progress, priorities, and affirmative action
efforts. The agency shall specifically include in its report on affirmative
action goals, statistical data on the numbers and percentages of minority
sponsors, developers, contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, architects,
engineers, attorneys, mortgage bankers or other lenders, insurance
agents, and managing agents.
   (b) The report shall also include specific information evaluating the
extent to which the programs administered by the agency have attained
the statutory objectives of the agency, including, but not limited to, (1)
the primary purpose of the agency in meeting the housing needs of
persons and families of low or moderate income pursuant to Section
50950, (2) the occupancy requirements for very low income households
established pursuant to Sections 50951 and 51226, (3) the elderly and
orthopedic disability occupancy requirements established pursuant to
Section 51230, (4) the use of surplus moneys pursuant to Section 51007,
(5) the metropolitan, nonmetropolitan, and rural goals established
pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 50952, (6) the California
Statewide Housing Plan, as required by Section 50154, (7) the statistical
and other information developed and maintained pursuant to Section
51610, (8) the number of manufactured housing units assisted by the
agency, (9) information with respect to the proceeds derived from the
issuance of bonds or securities and any interest or other increment
derived from the investment of bonds or securities, and the uses for
which those proceeds or increments are being made as provided for in
 3384                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 471 ]
Section 51365, including the amount by which each fund balance
exceeds indenture requirements, (10) any recommendations described in
subdivision (d), (11) any recommendations described in Section 51227,
(12) the revenue bonding authority plan adopted pursuant to Section
51004.5, (13) the statistical and other information required to be
provided pursuant to Section 50156, (14) an analysis of the agency’s
compliance with the targeting requirements of subsection (d) of Section
142 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. Sec. 142) with
respect to any issue of bonds subject to those requirements under Section
103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. Sec. 103),
including the numbers of rental units subject to this reporting
requirement by categories based on the number of bedrooms per unit,
and (15) the statistical and other information relating to congregate
housing for the elderly pursuant to Section 51218.
   The agency may, at its option, include the information required by this
section in a single document or may separately report the statistical
portion of the information in a supplement appended to its annual report.
This statistical supplement shall be distributed with copies of the
agency’s annual report, but need not be provided to bond rating agencies,
underwriters, investors, developers, or financial institutions.
   (c) The agency shall cause an audit of its books and accounts with
respect to its activities under this division to be made at least once during
each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant and the
agency shall be subject to audit by the Department of Finance not more
often than once each fiscal year.
   (d) The agency shall assess any obstacles or problems that it has
encountered in meeting its mandate to serve nonmetropolitan and rural
metropolitan areas, and recommend legislative and administrative
solutions to overcome these obstacles or problems. The agency shall
separately assess its progress in meeting the rehabilitation needs of rural
areas and the new construction needs of rural areas, and separately assess
its progress as to single and multifamily units. The agency shall include
in its report a quantification and evaluation of its progress in meeting the
housing needs of communities of various sizes in rural areas.
   (e) By December 1 of each fiscal year, the agency shall ascertain that
not less than 25 percent of the total units financed by mortgage loans
during the preceding 12 months pursuant to this part were made
available to very low income households. If the agency finds that these
very low income occupancy goals have not been met, the agency shall
immediately notify the Governor, the Speaker of the Assembly, and the
Senate Committee on Rules, and shall recommend legislation or other
action as may be required to make (1) at least 25 percent of the units so
available, and (2) at least 25 percent of the units thereafter financed so
available. In housing developments for which the agency provides a
[Ch. 472 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3385

construction loan but not a mortgage loan, the agency shall report
annually on the percentage of units projected to be made available for
occupancy and actually occupied by lower income households.
   SEC. 21. The heading of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
51100) of Part 3 of Division 31 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:

      CHAPTER 5.      FINANCING OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS AND
                        RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES

  SEC. 22. Section 51253 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
  SEC. 23. The Legislature finds and declares that the amendments to
Section 53084 of the Government Code and of Section 33426.7 of the
Health and Safety Code made by this act do not constitute a change in,
but are declaratory of, existing law.



                             CHAPTER 472

   An act to add and repeal Section 6086.11 of the Business and
Professions Code, and to amend Section 1714.10 of the Civil Code,
relating to attorneys.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6068.11 is added to the Business and
Professions Code, to read:
   6068.11. (a) The Legislature finds and declares that the opinion in
State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance Company v. Federal Insurance
Company (1999) 72 Cal. App. 4th 1422, raises issues concerning the
relationship between an attorney and an insurer when the attorney is
retained by the insurer to represent the insured. These issues involve
both the Rules of Professional Conduct for attorneys and procedural
issues affecting the conduct of litigation.
   (b) The board in consultation with representatives of associations
representing the defense bar, the plaintiffs bar, the insurance industry and
the Judicial Council, shall conduct a study concerning the legal and
professional responsibility issues that may arise as a result of the
relationship between an attorney and an insurer when the attorney is
retained by the insurer to represent an insured, and subsequently, the
attorney is retained to represent a party against another party insured by
 3386                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 472 ]
the insurer. The board shall prepare a report that identifies and analyzes
the issues and, if appropriate, provides recommendations for changes to
the Rules of Professional Conduct and relevant statutes. The board shall
submit the report to the Legislature and the Supreme Court of California
on or before July 1, 2001.
   (c) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Section 1714.10 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   1714.10. (a) No cause of action against an attorney for a civil
conspiracy with his or her client arising from any attempt to contest or
compromise a claim or dispute, and which is based upon the attorney’s
representation of the client, shall be included in a complaint or other
pleading unless the court enters an order allowing the pleading that
includes the claim for civil conspiracy to be filed after the court
determines that the party seeking to file the pleading has established that
there is a reasonable probability that the party will prevail in the action.
The court may allow the filing of a pleading claiming liability based
upon such a civil conspiracy following the filing of a verified petition
therefor accompanied by the proposed pleading and supporting
affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability is based. The court
shall order service of the petition upon the party against whom the action
is proposed to be filed and permit that party to submit opposing affidavits
prior to making its determination. The filing of the petition, proposed
pleading, and accompanying affidavits shall toll the running of any
applicable statute of limitations until the final determination of the
matter, which ruling, if favorable to the petitioning party, shall permit the
proposed pleading to be filed.
   (b) Failure to obtain a court order where required by subdivision (a)
shall be a defense to any action for civil conspiracy filed in violation
thereof. The defense shall be raised by the attorney charged with civil
conspiracy upon that attorney’s first appearance by demurrer, motion to
strike, or such other motion or application as may be appropriate. Failure
to timely raise the defense shall constitute a waiver thereof.
   (c) This section shall not apply to a cause of action against an attorney
for a civil conspiracy with his or her client, where (1) the attorney has
an independent legal duty to the plaintiff, or (2) the attorney’s acts go
beyond the performance of a professional duty to serve the client and
involve a conspiracy to violate a legal duty in furtherance of the
attorney’s financial gain.
   (d) This section establishes a special proceeding of a civil nature. Any
order made under subdivision (a), (b), or (c) which determines the rights
of a petitioner or an attorney against whom a pleading has been or is
[Ch. 473 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3387

proposed to be filed, shall be appealable as a final judgment in a civil
action.
  (e) Subdivision (d) does not constitute a change in, but is declaratory
of, the existing law.



                             CHAPTER 473

  An act to amend Sections 10167, 10167.2, 10167.3, 10167.7,
10167.9, 10167.10, 10167.11, and 10167.12 of the Business and
Professions Code, relating to real estate.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10167 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   10167. The definitions used in this section shall govern the
construction and terms as used in this article:
   (a) ‘‘Prepaid rental listing service’’ means the business of supplying
prospective tenants with listings of residential real properties for
tenancy, by publication or otherwise, pursuant to an arrangement under
which the prospective tenants are required to pay an advance or
contemporaneous fee (1) specifically to obtain listings or (2) to purchase
any other product or service in order to obtain listings, but which does
not otherwise involve the negotiation of rentals by the person conducting
the service. ‘‘Prepaid rental listing service’’ does not include the
business of providing roommate referral information designed to assist
persons in locating a roommate who meets various selection criteria
related to the prospective roommate’s personal traits, characteristics,
habits or preferences, and selection criteria related to the residential real
property occupied by the prospective roommate.
   (b) ‘‘Licensee’’ means a person licensed to conduct a prepaid rental
listing service or a person engaged in the business of a prepaid rental
listing service under a real estate broker license.
   (c) ‘‘Location’’ means the place, other than the main or branch office
of a real estate broker, where a prepaid rental listing service business is
conducted.
   (d) ‘‘Designated agent’’ means the person who is in charge of the
business of a prepaid rental listing service at a given location.
 3388                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 473 ]
   (e) ‘‘Fee’’ means the charge required by a licensee (1) to obtain
listings of residential real properties for tenancy or (2) to purchase any
other product or service in order to obtain listings.
   (f) ‘‘Service charge’’ means the amount of the fee that a licensee may
retain if a prospective tenant finds housing through a source other than
the listings supplied by the licensee.
   SEC. 2. Section 10167.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   10167.2. (a) It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business
of a prepaid rental listing service unless licensed in that capacity or
unless licensed as a real estate broker.
   (b) (1) The requirements of this article apply only to the provision of
listings of residential real properties for tenancy by prepaid rental listing
services. Except if expressly provided otherwise in this article, the
requirements of this article do not apply to any other goods or services
sold by a prepaid rental listing service as long as the purchase of those
goods or services is not required to obtain those listings and as long as
the purchase of those goods or services is not included in the same
contract as the contract to provide those listings, and as long as the
contract to provide those listings clearly specifies that the purchase of
any other goods and services is optional, and as long as the price charged
for any other goods and services is fair and reasonable.
   (2) In an action alleging that the price charged for any other goods and
services is not fair and reasonable, the burden shall be on the
commissioner to demonstrate that the price charged unreasonably
exceeds the fee customarily charged for the same or comparable goods
or services in the community in which the prepaid rental listing service
operates. The fact that the price charged for goods or services exceeds
the cost incurred by the prepaid rental listing service shall not render the
price charged for the goods or services to not be fair or reasonable, so
long as the price charged does not unreasonably exceed the fee
customarily charged for the same or comparable goods or services in the
community in which the prepaid rental listing service operates.
   SEC. 3. Section 10167.3 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   10167.3. (a) A separate application for a license as a prepaid rental
listing service shall be made in writing for each location to be operated
by a licensee other than a real estate broker. Each application shall be on
forms provided by the department, shall be signed by the applicant, and
shall be accompanied by a one hundred dollar ($100) application fee for
the first location, and a twenty-five dollar ($25) application fee for each
additional location of the applicant.
   Applications to add or eliminate locations during the term of a license
shall be on forms prescribed by the department. A twenty-five dollar
[Ch. 473 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3389

($25) application fee for the remainder of a license term for each location
to be added shall accompany the application.
   (b) A real estate broker may provide a prepaid rental listing service
at a licensed office for the conduct of his or her real estate brokerage
business if the business at the office is conducted under the immediate
supervision of the broker or of a real estate salesperson licensed to, and
acting on behalf of, the broker.
   SEC. 4. Section 10167.7 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   10167.7. Except as provided in Section 10167.8, each licensee shall
provide to the department, and at all times maintain in force, a bond in
the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) for each location. The bond
may be in the form of a corporate surety bond, or a cash deposit. A cash
deposit may be deposited by the licensee in an interest-bearing account
assigned to the commissioner, with interest earned thereon payable to the
licensee. The bond or cash deposit may be utilized by the commissioner
for the benefit of any unsatisfied judgment creditor in an action pursuant
to subdivision (e) of Section 10167.10.
   SEC. 5. Section 10167.9 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   10167.9. (a) Prior to the acceptance of a fee, a licensee shall offer
the prospective tenant a written contract, either on paper or in electronic
form, which shall include at least the following:
   (1) The name of the licensee and the addresses and telephone numbers
of the principal office or location of the licensee and of the location, or
branch office of a real estate broker, providing the listing to the
prospective tenant.
   (2) Acknowledgment of receipt of the fee, including the amount.
   (3) A description of the service to be performed by the licensee,
including significant conditions, restrictions, and limitations where
applicable.
   (4) The prospective tenant’s specifications for the rental property,
including, but not limited to:
   (A) Type of structure, including, but not limited to, detached
single-family home, apartment, or duplex.
   (B) Location by commonly accepted residential area name, by
designation of boundary streets, or by any other manner affording a
reasonable means of identifying locations acceptable to the prospective
tenant.
   (C) Furnished or unfurnished.
   (D) Number of bedrooms required.
   (E) Maximum acceptable monthly rental.
   (5) The contract expiration date, which shall not be later than 90 days
from the date of execution of the contract.
 3390                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 473 ]
   (6) A clause setting forth the right to a full or partial refund of the fee
paid as provided in Section 10167.10.
   (7) The signature and printed full name of the licensee or of the
designated agent, real estate salesperson, or employee acting on behalf
of the licensee. The signature of any person, including any signature
required by the terms of the contract to be provided by the prospective
tenant, may be provided in any electronic form that provides a
reasonable method of indicating that the individual whose signature is
required authorized the contract to be signed in that electronic form.
   (8) A clause in bold type letters outlining the small claims court
remedy available to the prospective tenant.
   (9) A clause in boldface type letters clearly stating that the purchase
of any goods and services other than the provision of listings of
residential real properties for tenancy is optional.
   (b) (1) The original of each contract, any separate contracts for
required goods or services, refund claims, receipts and any other relevant
documents shall be retained by the licensee for a period of not less than
three years from the date of termination of the contract during which time
the contract shall be subject to examination by a duly authorized
representative of the commissioner. Any records retained pursuant to
this subdivision that are stored in the ordinary course of business in
digital media shall, upon request of a duly authorized representative of
the commissioner, be provided on diskette, CD-ROM or similar portable
digital storage medium. For purposes of this subdivision, the ‘‘original’’
of a contract executed in electronic form shall be either the copy of the
contract stored in digital media or a paper printout of that contract.
   (2) Any licensee, or employee thereof, shall dispose of the documents
required to be kept pursuant to paragraph (1) by shredding or other
appropriate means so that the identity of the prospective tenant may not
be determined from the disposed information alone or in combination
with other publicly available information.
   (c) The form of contract proposed to be used by a licensee to effect
compliance with this section shall be filed with the department prior to
use. Any modification of a form previously filed with the department,
including a change in the name or business address of the licensee, shall
also be filed prior to use. The department shall withhold the issuance or
renewal of a license until the department has approved the contract. If
a proposed modification to a contract has not been approved or
disapproved within 15 working days of being filed with the department,
the proposed modification shall be deemed approved. If a proposed
modification or contract provision is disapproved, the department shall
communicate that disapproval in writing to the licensee within 15
working days of being filed with the department, accompanied by a
[Ch. 473 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3391

written justification of why the modification or contract provision is
contrary to the requirements of this article.
   (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a contract for prepaid
rental listing services executed in electronic form, and signed in any
electronic form that provides a reasonable method of indicating that the
individual whose signature is required authorized the contract to be
signed in electronic form, shall be valid to the same extent as an executed
written contract. Upon request by the customer, the licensee shall deliver
an executed paper copy to the customer within five working days of
receiving the request.
   SEC. 6. Section 10167.10 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   10167.10. (a) (1) A licensee shall refund in full the fee paid by a
prospective tenant if the licensee does not, within five days after
execution of the contract, supply at least three rental properties then
available to the prospective tenant and meeting the specifications of the
contract, unless the prospective tenant obtains a rental through the
services of the licensee.
   (2) A licensee will be deemed to have supplied information meeting
the specifications of the prospective tenant if the information supplied
meets the contract specifications with reference to: (i) type of structure;
(ii) designated area; (iii) furnished or unfurnished; (iv) number of
bedrooms; (v) maximum rental; and (vi) any other specification
expressly set forth in the contract. A demand for the return of the fee shall
be made by or on behalf of the prospective tenant within 10 days
following the expiration of the five-day period referred to above by
delivery or by mailing by registered or certified mail to the address of
a location, or branch office of a real estate broker, set forth in the contract.
   (b) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (3), a licensee shall refund
any fee paid over and above the sum of a fifty dollar ($50) service charge
to the prospective tenant if the prospective tenant obtains a rental other
than through the services of the licensee during the term of the contract
or does not obtain a rental, provided that the prospective tenant demands
a return of that part of the fee within 10 days after the expiration of the
contract.
   (2) The licensee shall refund any fee paid over and above the sum of
a fifty dollar ($50) service charge to the prospective tenant within 10
days of receipt from the prospective tenant of either the documentation
specified in subparagraph (A) or the written statement specified in
subparagraph (B), as applicable:
   (A) Except as specified in subparagraph (B), a prospective tenant
demanding a refund shall provide to the licensee reasonable
documentation of the prospective tenant’s new rental or of the fact that
the prospective tenant did not move, such as a lease, rental agreement,
 3392                          STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 473 ]
or utility bill, with sufficient information to verify that the new rental
was not obtained through the services of the licensee or that the
prospective tenant did not move.
  (B) If the prospective tenant is unable to locate or provide the
documentation specified in subparagraph (A), the prospective tenant
may, at his or her option, fill out and sign a written statement, supplied
by the licensee, in the following form:

I,                                     , do swear or affirm the following:
        (name of prospective tenant)

I currently live at                                                            .
                                           (street address)

The following statement is true (check one):

___ I have rented a unit at the above address. I did not obtain this rental
through the services of
                                                        (name of licensee)
during the time of our contract.

___ I did not find a new rental and did not move. I still live at the above ad-
dress.

I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct to the
best of my knowledge.


                      (date)

                  (location)

                 (signature)

   (3) On or after January 1, 2002, the department may, from time to
time, by regulation, adjust the amount of the allowable service charge to
reflect the rate of inflation from the previous date that the amount of the
allowable service charge was established, as measured by the Consumer
Price Index or other method of measuring the rate of inflation which the
department determines is reliable and generally accepted.
   (c) Each contract shall contain provisions that shall read as follows
unless different language shall have been approved in writing by the
department prior to use:
[Ch. 473 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3393

                          ‘‘RIGHT TO REFUND
(Full capital letters, in 12-point type or greater, boldface or italicized)

   If, within five days after payment of a fee, the licensee has not supplied
the prospective tenant with at least three available rental properties
meeting the specifications of the contract as to (i) type of structure; (ii)
designated area; (iii) furnished or unfurnished; (iv) number of bedrooms;
(v) maximum rental; and (vi) any other specification expressly set forth
in the contract, the full amount of the fee paid shall be refunded to the
prospective tenant upon presentation of evidence of that failure within
10 days after the expiration of the five-day period. The prospective
tenant is not entitled to a refund if the prospective tenant obtains a rental
through the services of the licensee.
   If the prospective tenant obtains a rental other than through the
services of the licensee during the term of this contract or if the
prospective tenant does not obtain a rental through the services of the
licensee during the term of the contract, the licensee shall refund the fee
received in excess of a (insert applicable limit pursuant to subdivision
(b) of Section 10167.10 of the Business and Professions Code) service
charge to the prospective tenant within 10 days after the prospective
tenant supplies either (i) reasonable documentation of the prospective
tenant’s new rental or of the fact that the prospective tenant did not move,
such as a lease, rental agreement, or utility bill, with sufficient
information to verify that the new rental was not obtained through the
services of the licensee or that the prospective tenant did not move, or
(ii) if the prospective tenant is unable to locate or provide that
documentation, the prospective tenant may, at his or her option, fill out
a written form provided by the licensee and signed by the prospective
tenant under penalty of perjury stating that he or she did not obtain a
rental through the services of the licensee during the time of the contract.
   To be entitled to a refund in excess of the service charge, the
prospective tenant must mail or deliver the demand for refund not later
than 10 days after expiration of this contract, and must supply either (i)
reasonable documentation of the prospective tenant’s new rental or of the
fact that the prospective tenant did not move, such as a lease, rental
agreement, or utility bill, with sufficient information to verify that the
new rental was not obtained through the services of the licensee or that
the prospective tenant did not move, or (ii) a written form provided by
the licensee and signed by the prospective tenant under penalty of
perjury stating that he or she did not obtain a rental through the services
of the licensee during the time of the contract. The documentation may
be supplied after the demand for a refund is mailed or delivered, provided
that it is supplied within a reasonable time after it becomes available.’’
 3394                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 473 ]
   (d) This section shall not apply to a person purchasing rental
information for a purpose other than that of locating a rental unit for
personal use or the use of a designated person.
   (e) If the licensee fails to make a refund as provided in this section and
if the denial or delay in making the refund is found to have been done
in bad faith, a court of appropriate jurisdiction, including a small claims
court, shall be empowered to award damages to the plaintiff in an amount
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) in addition to actual
damages sustained by the plaintiff. If the licensee refuses or is unable to
pay the damages awarded by the court, the award may be satisfied out
of the security required under Section 10167.7.
   SEC. 7. Section 10167.11 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   10167.11. It shall be a violation of this article for any licensee or any
employee or agent of a licensee to do the following:
   (a) Make, or cause to be made, any false, misleading, or deceptive
advertisements or representations concerning the services that the
licensee will provide to prospective tenants.
   (b) Refer a property to a prospective tenant knowing or having reason
to know that:
   (1) The property does not exist or is unavailable for tenancy.
   (2) The property has been described or advertised by or on behalf of
the licensee in a false, misleading, or deceptive manner.
   (3) The licensee has not confirmed the availability of the property for
tenancy during the four-day period immediately preceding
dissemination of the listing information. However, it shall not be a
violation to refer a property to a prospective tenant during a period of
from five to seven days after the most recent confirmation of the
availability of the property for rental if the licensee has made a good faith
effort to confirm availability within the stated four-day period, and if the
most recent date of confirmation of availability is set forth in the referral.
   (4) The licensee has not obtained written or oral permission to list the
property from the property owner, manager, or other authorized agent.
   SEC. 8. Section 10167.12 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   10167.12. (a) The commissioner may suspend, deny, or revoke the
license of a licensee or the license of the licensee to operate at one or
more locations for either of the following:
   (1) A violation of this article by a licensee or by an employee or agent,
including a designated agent, of the licensee.
   (2) A conviction of a licensee, or a designated agent, or of an officer,
director, or owner of 25 percent or more of the shares of a corporate
licensee for a crime which is substantially related to the qualifications,
functions, or duties of a prepaid rental listing service licensee.
[Ch. 474 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3395

  (b) For the purpose of determining whether grounds exist for
suspending, denying, or revoking the license of a licensee, the
commissioner shall hold a hearing in accordance with Chapter 5
(commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of
the Government Code.
  SEC. 9. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 474

  An act to amend Sections 2025, 2025.5, 2026, and 2027 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, relating to discovery.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 2025 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
  2025. (a) Any party may obtain discovery within the scope
delimited by Section 2017, and subject to the restrictions set forth in
Section 2019, by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action. The person deposed may be a natural
person, an organization such as a public or private corporation, a
partnership, an association, or a governmental agency.
  (b) Subject to subdivisions (f) and (t), an oral deposition may be taken
as follows:
  (1) The defendant may serve a deposition notice without leave of
court at any time after that defendant has been served or has appeared in
the action, whichever occurs first.
  (2) The plaintiff may serve a deposition notice without leave of court
on any date that is 20 days after the service of the summons on, or
appearance by, any defendant. However, on motion with or without
notice, the court, for good cause shown, may grant to a plaintiff leave to
serve a deposition notice on an earlier date.
 3396                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 474 ]
   (c) A party desiring to take the oral deposition of any person shall give
notice in writing in the manner set forth in subdivision (d). However,
where under subdivision (d) of Section 2020 only the production by a
nonparty of business records for copying is desired, a copy of the
deposition subpoena shall serve as the notice of deposition. The notice
of deposition shall be given to every other party who has appeared in the
action. The deposition notice, or the accompanying proof of service,
shall list all the parties or attorneys for parties on whom it is served.
   Where, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 1985.3, the party
giving notice of the deposition is a subpoenaing party, and the deponent
is a witness commanded by a deposition subpoena to produce personal
records of a consumer, the subpoenaing party shall serve on that
consumer (1) a notice of the deposition, (2) the notice of privacy rights
specified in subdivision (e) of Section 1985.3 and in Section 1985.6, and
(3) a copy of the deposition subpoena.
   (d) The deposition notice shall state all of the following:
   (1) The address where the deposition will be taken.
   (2) The date of the deposition, selected under subdivision (f), and the
time it will commence.
   (3) The name of each deponent, and the address and telephone
number, if known, of any deponent who is not a party to the action. If
the name of the deponent is not known, the deposition notice shall set
forth instead a general description sufficient to identify the person or
particular class to which the person belongs.
   (4) The specification with reasonable particularity of any materials or
category of materials to be produced by the deponent.
   (5) Any intention to record the testimony by audiotape or videotape,
in addition to recording the testimony by the stenographic method as
required by paragraph (1) of subdivision (l) and any intention to record
the testimony by stenographic method, through the instant visual display
of the testimony. In the latter event, a copy of the deposition notice shall
also be given to the deposition officer. Any offer to provide the instant
visual display of the testimony or to provide rough draft transcripts to
any party which is accepted prior to, or offered at, the deposition shall
also be made by the deposition officer at the deposition to all parties in
attendance.
   (6) Any intention to reserve the right to use at trial a videotape
deposition of a treating or consulting physician or of any expert witness
under paragraph (4) of subdivision (u). In this event, the operator of the
videotape camera shall be a person who is authorized to administer an
oath, and shall not be financially interested in the action or be a relative
or employee of any attorney of any of the parties.
   If the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice
shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which
[Ch. 474 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3397

examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and
produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing
agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its
behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or
reasonably available to the deponent. A deposition subpoena shall
advise a nonparty deponent of its duty to make this designation, and shall
describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination
is requested.
   If the attendance of the deponent is to be compelled by service of a
deposition subpoena under Section 2020, an identical copy of that
subpoena shall be served with the deposition notice.
   (e) (1) The deposition of a natural person, whether or not a party to
the action, shall be taken at a place that is, at the option of the party giving
notice of the deposition, either within 75 miles of the deponent’s
residence, or within the county where the action is pending and within
150 miles of the deponent’s residence, unless the court orders otherwise
under paragraph (3).
   (2) The deposition of an organization that is a party to the action shall
be taken at a place that is, at the option of the party giving notice of the
deposition, either within 75 miles of the organization’s principal
executive or business office in California, or within the county where the
action is pending and within 150 miles of that office. The deposition of
any other organization shall be taken within 75 miles of the
organization’s principal executive or business office in California,
unless the organization consents to a more distant place. If the
organization has not designated a principal executive or business office
in California, the deposition shall be taken at a place that is, at the option
of the party giving notice of the deposition, either within the county
where the action is pending, or within 75 miles of any executive or
business office in California of the organization.
   (3) A party desiring to take the deposition of a natural person who is
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee
of a party may make a motion for an order that the deponent attend for
deposition at a place that is more distant than that permitted under
paragraph (1). This motion shall be accompanied by a declaration stating
facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of any issue presented by the motion.
   In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall
take into consideration any factor tending to show whether the interests
of justice will be served by requiring the deponent’s attendance at that
more distant place, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A) Whether the moving party selected the forum.
   (B) Whether the deponent will be present to testify at the trial of the
action.
 3398                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 474 ]
   (C) The convenience of the deponent.
   (D) The feasibility of conducting the deposition by written questions
under Section 2028, or of using a discovery method other than a
deposition.
   (E) The number of depositions sought to be taken at a place more
distant than that permitted under paragraph (1).
   (F) The expense to the parties of requiring the deposition to be taken
within the distance permitted under paragraph (1).
   (G) The whereabouts of the deponent at the time for which the
deposition is scheduled.
   The order may be conditioned on the advancement by the moving
party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the deponent for travel to
the place of deposition.
   The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to increase travel limits for party deponent, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the
sanction unjust.
   (f) An oral deposition shall be scheduled for a date at least 10 days
after service of the deposition notice. If, as defined in subdivision (a) of
Section 1985.3, the party giving notice of the deposition is a
subpoenaing party, and the deponent is a witness commanded by a
deposition subpoena to produce personal records of a consumer, the
deposition shall be scheduled for a date at least 20 days after issuance of
that subpoena. However, in unlawful detainer actions, an oral deposition
shall be scheduled for a date at least five days after service of the
deposition notice, but not later than five days before trial.
   On motion or ex parte application of any party or deponent, for good
cause shown, the court may shorten or extend the time for scheduling a
deposition, or may stay its taking until the determination of a motion for
a protective order under subdivision (i).
   (g) Any party served with a deposition notice that does not comply
with subdivisions (b) to (f), inclusive, waives any error or irregularity
unless that party promptly serves a written objection specifying that
error or irregularity at least three calendar days prior to the date for which
the deposition is scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition
and any other attorney or party on whom the deposition notice was
served. If an objection is made three calendar days before the deposition
date, the objecting party shall make personal service of that objection
pursuant to Section 1011 on the party who gave notice of the deposition.
Any deposition taken after the service of a written objection shall not be
used against the objecting party under subdivision (u) if the party did not
[Ch. 474 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3399

attend the deposition and if the court determines that the objection was
a valid one.
   In addition to serving this written objection, a party may also move for
an order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition
notice. This motion shall be accompanied by a declaration stating facts
showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution
of any issue presented by the motion. The taking of the deposition is
stayed pending the determination of this motion.
   The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to quash a deposition notice, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
   (h) (1) The service of a deposition notice under subdivision (c) is
effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to testify,
as well as to produce any document or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.
   (2) The attendance and testimony of any other deponent, as well as
the production by the deponent of any document or tangible thing for
inspection and copying, requires the service on the deponent of a
deposition subpoena under Section 2020.
   (i) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or
any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for
a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a declaration
stating facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.
   The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may
include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:
   (1) That the deposition not be taken at all.
   (2) That the deposition be taken at a different time.
   (3) That a videotape deposition of a treating or consulting physician
or of any expert witness, intended for possible use at trial under
paragraph (4) of subdivision (u), be postponed until the moving party has
had an adequate opportunity to prepare, by discovery deposition of the
deponent, or other means, for cross-examination.
   (4) That the deposition be taken at a place other than that specified in
the deposition notice, if it is within a distance permitted by subdivision
(e).
   (5) That the deposition be taken only on certain specified terms and
conditions.
 3400                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 474 ]
   (6) That the deponent’s testimony be taken by written, instead of oral,
examination.
   (7) That the method of discovery be interrogatories to a party instead
of an oral deposition.
   (8) That the testimony be recorded in a manner different from that
specified in the deposition notice.
   (9) That certain matters not be inquired into.
   (10) That the scope of the examination be limited to certain matters.
   (11) That all or certain of the writings or tangible things designated
in the deposition notice not be produced, inspected, or copied.
   (12) That designated persons, other than the parties to the action and
their officers and counsel, be excluded from attending the deposition.
   (13) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development,
or commercial information not be disclosed or be disclosed only to
specified persons or only in a specified way.
   (14) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents
enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the court.
   (15) That the deposition be sealed and thereafter opened only on order
of the court.
   If the motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the
court may order that the deponent provide or permit the discovery
against which protection was sought on those terms and conditions that
are just.
   The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
   (j) (1) If the party giving notice of a deposition fails to attend or
proceed with it, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Section 2023 against that party, or the attorney for that party, or both, and
in favor of any party attending in person or by attorney, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
   (2) If a deponent does not appear for a deposition because the party
giving notice of the deposition failed to serve a required deposition
subpoena, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section
2023 against that party, or the attorney for that party, or both, in favor of
any other party who, in person or by attorney, attended at the time and
place specified in the deposition notice in the expectation that the
deponent’s testimony would be taken, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
[Ch. 474 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3401

   If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails to
attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in subdivision (h) of
Section 2020.
   (3) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under subdivision (d),
without having served a valid objection under subdivision (g), fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any
document or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. This
motion (A) shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying
the production for inspection of any document or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, and (B) shall be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at
an informal resolution of each issue presented by it or, when the
deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. If this motion is granted, the court shall also impose a
monetary sanction under Section 2023 against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. On motion of
any other party who, in person or by attorney, attended at the time and
place specified in the deposition notice in the expectation that the
deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall also impose a
monetary sanction under Section 2023, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
   If that party or party-affiliated deponent then fails to obey an order
compelling attendance, testimony, and production, the court may make
those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Section 2023
against that party deponent or against the party with whom the deponent
is affiliated. In lieu of, or in addition to, this sanction, the court may
impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023 against that deponent
or against the party with whom that party deponent is affiliated, and in
favor of any party who, in person or by attorney, attended in the
expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken pursuant to
that order.
 3402                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 474 ]
   (k) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of subdivision (d) of Section
2020, the deposition shall be conducted under the supervision of an
officer who is authorized to administer an oath and is subject to all of the
following requirements:
   (1) The officer shall not be financially interested in the action and
shall not be a relative or employee of any attorney of the parties, or of
any of the parties.
   (2) Services and products offered or provided by the deposition
officer or the entity providing the services of the deposition officer to any
party or to any party’s attorney or third party who is financing all or part
of the action shall be offered to all parties or their attorneys attending the
deposition. No service or product may be offered or provided by the
deposition officer or by the entity providing the services of the
deposition officer to any party or any party’s attorney or third party who
is financing all or part of the action unless the service or product is
offered or provided to all parties or their attorneys attending the
deposition. All services and products offered or provided shall be made
available at the same time to all parties or their attorneys.
   (3) The deposition officer or the entity providing the services of the
deposition officer shall not provide to any party or any party’s attorney
or third party who is financing all or part of the action any service or
product consisting of the deposition officer’s notations or comments
regarding the demeanor of any witness, attorney, or party present at the
deposition. The deposition officer or entity providing the services of the
deposition officer shall not collect any personal identifying information
about the witness as a service or product to be provided to any party or
third party who is financing all or part of the action.
   (4) Upon the request of any party or any party’s attorney attending a
deposition, any party or any party’s attorney attending the deposition
shall enter in the record of the deposition all services and products made
available to that party or party’s attorney or third party who is financing
all or part of the action by the deposition officer or by the entity providing
the services of the deposition officer. A party in the action who is not
represented by an attorney shall be informed by the noticing party or the
party’s attorney that the unrepresented party may request this statement.
   (5) Any objection to the qualifications of the deposition officer shall
be waived unless made before the deposition begins or as soon thereafter
as the ground for that objection becomes known or could be discovered
by reasonable diligence.
   (l) (1) The deposition officer shall put the deponent under oath.
Unless the parties agree or the court orders otherwise, the testimony, as
well as any stated objections, shall be taken stenographically. The party
noticing the deposition may also record the testimony by audiotape or
videotape if the notice of deposition stated an intention also to record the
[Ch. 474 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3403

testimony by either of those methods, or if all the parties agree that the
testimony may also be recorded by either of those methods. Any other
party, at that party’s expense, may make a simultaneous audiotape or
videotape record of the deposition, provided that other party promptly,
and in no event less than three calendar days before the date for which
the deposition is scheduled, serves a written notice of this intention to
audiotape or videotape the deposition testimony on the party or attorney
who noticed the deposition, on all other parties or attorneys on whom the
deposition notice was served under subdivision (c), and on any deponent
whose attendance is being compelled by a deposition subpoena under
Section 2020. If this notice is given three calendar days before the
deposition date, it shall be made by personal service under Section 1011.
Examination and cross-examination of the deponent shall proceed as
permitted at trial under the provisions of the Evidence Code.
   (2) If the deposition is being recorded by means of audiotape or
videotape, the following procedure shall be observed:
   (A) The area used for recording the deponent’s oral testimony shall
be suitably large, adequately lighted, and reasonably quiet.
   (B) The operator of the recording equipment shall be competent to set
up, operate, and monitor the equipment in the manner prescribed in this
subdivision. The operator may be an employee of the attorney taking the
deposition unless the operator is also the deposition officer. However, if
a videotape of deposition testimony is to be used under paragraph (4) of
subdivision (u), the operator of the recording equipment shall be a
person who is authorized to administer an oath, and shall not be
financially interested in the action or be a relative or employee of any
attorney of any of the parties, unless all parties attending the deposition
agree on the record to waive these qualifications and restrictions.
Services and products offered or provided by the deposition officer or the
entity providing the services of the deposition officer to any party or to
any party’s attorney or third party who is financing all or part of the
action shall be offered or provided to all parties or their attorneys
attending the deposition. No service or product may be offered or
provided by the deposition officer or by the entity providing the services
of the deposition officer to any party or any party’s attorney or third party
who is financing all or part of the action unless the service or product is
offered or provided to all parties or their attorneys attending the
deposition. All services and products offered or provided shall be made
available at the same time to all parties or their attorneys. The deposition
officer or the entity providing the services of the deposition officer shall
not provide to any party or any other person or entity any service or
product consisting of the deposition officer’s notations or comments
regarding the demeanor of any witness, attorney, or party present at the
deposition. The deposition officer or the entity providing the services of
 3404                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 474 ]
the deposition officer shall not collect any personal identifying
information about the witness as a service or product to be provided to
any party or third party who is financing all or part of the action. Upon
the request of any party or any party’s attorney attending a deposition,
any party or any party’s attorney attending the deposition shall enter in
the record of the deposition all services and products made available to
that party or party’s attorney or third party who is financing all or part
of the action by the deposition officer or by the entity providing the
services of the deposition officer. A party in the action who is not
represented by an attorney shall be informed by the noticing party that
the unrepresented party may request this statement.
   (C) The operator shall not distort the appearance or the demeanor of
participants in the deposition by the use of camera or sound recording
techniques.
   (D) The deposition shall begin with an oral or written statement on
camera or on the audiotape that includes the operator’s name and
business address, the name and business address of the operator’s
employer, the date, time, and place of the deposition, the caption of the
case, the name of the deponent, a specification of the party on whose
behalf the deposition is being taken, and any stipulations by the parties.
   (E) Counsel for the parties shall identify themselves on camera or on
the audiotape.
   (F) The oath shall be administered to the deponent on camera or on
the audiotape.
   (G) If the length of a deposition requires the use of more than one unit
of tape, the end of each unit and the beginning of each succeeding unit
shall be announced on camera or on the audiotape.
   (H) At the conclusion of a deposition, a statement shall be made on
camera or on the audiotape that the deposition is ended and shall set forth
any stipulations made by counsel concerning the custody of the
audiotape or videotape recording and the exhibits, or concerning other
pertinent matters.
   (I) A party intending to offer an audiotaped or videotaped recording
of a deposition in evidence under subdivision (u) shall notify the court
and all parties in writing of that intent and of the parts of the deposition
to be offered within sufficient time for objections to be made and ruled
on by the judge to whom the case is assigned for trial or hearing, and for
any editing of the tape. Objections to all or part of the deposition shall
be made in writing. The court may permit further designations of
testimony and objections as justice may require. With respect to those
portions of an audiotaped or videotaped deposition that are not
designated by any party or that are ruled to be objectionable, the court
may order that the party offering the recording of the deposition at the
trial or hearing suppress those portions, or that an edited version of the
[Ch. 474 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3405

deposition tape be prepared for use at the trial or hearing. The original
audiotape or videotape of the deposition shall be preserved unaltered. If
no stenographic record of the deposition testimony has previously been
made, the party offering a videotape or an audiotape recording of that
testimony under subdivision (u) shall accompany that offer with a
stenographic transcript prepared from that recording.
   (3) In lieu of participating in the oral examination, parties may
transmit written questions in a sealed envelope to the party taking the
deposition for delivery to the deposition officer, who shall unseal the
envelope and propound them to the deponent after the oral examination
has been completed.
   (m) (1) The protection of information from discovery on the ground
that it is privileged or that it is a protected work product under Section
2018 is waived unless a specific objection to its disclosure is timely
made during the deposition.
   (2) Errors and irregularities of any kind occurring at the oral
examination that might be cured if promptly presented are waived unless
a specific objection to them is timely made during the deposition. These
errors and irregularities include, but are not limited to, those relating to
the manner of taking the deposition, to the oath or affirmation
administered, to the conduct of a party, attorney, deponent, or deposition
officer, or to the form of any question or answer. Unless the objecting
party demands that the taking of the deposition be suspended to permit
a motion for a protective order under subdivision (n), the deposition shall
proceed subject to the objection.
   (3) Objections to the competency of the deponent, or to the relevancy,
materiality, or admissibility at trial of the testimony or of the materials
produced are unnecessary and are not waived by failure to make them
before or during the deposition.
   (4) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking that
answer or production may adjourn the deposition or complete the
examination on other matters without waiving the right at a later time to
move for an order compelling that answer or production under
subdivision (o).
   (n) The deposition officer shall not suspend the taking of testimony
without stipulation of the party conducting the deposition and the
deponent unless any party attending the deposition or the deponent
demands the taking of testimony be suspended to enable that party or
deponent to move for a protective order on the ground that the
examination is being conducted in bad faith or in a manner that
unreasonably annoys, embarrasses, or oppresses that deponent or party.
This motion shall be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing
 3406                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 474 ]
a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each
issue presented by the motion. The court, for good cause shown, may
terminate the examination or may limit the scope and manner of taking
the deposition as provided in subdivision (i). If the order terminates the
examination, the deposition shall not thereafter be resumed, except on
order of the court.
   The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for this protective order, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
   (o) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking
discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or
production. This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by
a declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt
at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion. Notice
of this motion shall be given to all parties, and to the deponent either
orally at the examination, or by subsequent service in writing. If the
notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition officer shall direct the
deponent to attend a session of the court at the time specified in the
notice. Not less than five days prior to the hearing on this motion, the
moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of any parts of
the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to the
motion. If a deposition is recorded by audiotape or videotape, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any
parts of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. If the court
determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery,
it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.
   The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
   If a deponent fails to obey an order entered under this subdivision, the
failure may be considered a contempt of court. In addition, if the
disobedient deponent is a party to the action or an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party, the court may make those orders
that are just against the disobedient party, or against the party with whom
the disobedient deponent is affiliated, including the imposition of an
issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
[Ch. 474 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3407

Section 2023. In lieu of, or in addition to, this sanction, the court may
impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023 against that party
deponent or against any party with whom the deponent is affiliated.
   (p) Unless the parties agree otherwise, the testimony at any
deposition recorded by stenographic means shall be transcribed. The
party noticing the deposition shall bear the cost of that transcription,
unless the court, on motion and for good cause shown, orders that the
cost be borne or shared by another party. Notwithstanding paragraph (2)
of subdivision (k), any other party, at that party’s expense, may obtain
a copy of the transcript. If the deposition officer receives a request from
a party for an original or a copy of the deposition transcript, or any
portion thereof, and the document will be available to that party prior to
the time the original or copy would be available to any other party, the
deposition officer shall immediately notify all other parties attending the
deposition of the request, and shall, upon request by any party other than
the party making the original request, make that copy of the full or partial
deposition transcript available to all parties at the same time.
Stenographic notes of depositions shall be retained by the reporter for a
period of not less than eight years from the date of the deposition, where
no transcript is produced, and not less than one year from the date on
which the transcript is produced. Those notes may be either on paper or
electronic media, as long as it allows for satisfactory production of a
transcript at any time during the periods specified. At the request of any
other party to the action, including a party who did not attend the taking
of the deposition testimony, any party who records or causes the
recording of that testimony by means of audiotape or videotape shall
promptly (1) permit that other party to hear the audiotape or to view the
videotape, and (2) furnish a copy of the audiotape or videotape to that
other party on receipt of payment of the reasonable cost of making that
copy of the tape.
   If the testimony at the deposition is recorded both stenographically,
and by audiotape or videotape, the stenographic transcript is the official
record of that testimony for the purpose of the trial and any subsequent
hearing or appeal.
   (q) (1) If the deposition testimony is stenographically recorded, the
deposition officer shall send written notice to the deponent and to all
parties attending the deposition when the original transcript of the
testimony for each session of the deposition is available for reading,
correcting, and signing, unless the deponent and the attending parties
agree on the record that the reading, correcting, and signing of the
transcript of the testimony will be waived or that the reading, correcting,
and signing of a transcript of the testimony will take place after the entire
deposition has been concluded or at some other specific time. For 30
days following each such notice, unless the attending parties and the
 3408                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 474 ]
deponent agree on the record or otherwise in writing to a longer or shorter
time period, the deponent may change the form or the substance of the
answer to a question, and may either approve the transcript of the
deposition by signing it, or refuse to approve the transcript by not signing
it.
    Alternatively, within this same period, the deponent may change the
form or the substance of the answer to any question and may approve or
refuse to approve the transcript by means of a letter to the deposition
officer signed by the deponent which is mailed by certified or registered
mail with return receipt requested. A copy of that letter shall be sent by
first-class mail to all parties attending the deposition. For good cause
shown, the court may shorten the 30-day period for making changes,
approving, or refusing to approve the transcript.
    The deposition officer shall indicate on the original of the transcript,
if the deponent has not already done so at the office of the deposition
officer, any action taken by the deponent and indicate on the original of
the transcript, the deponent’s approval of, or failure or refusal to approve,
the transcript. The deposition officer shall also notify in writing the
parties attending the deposition of any changes which the deponent
timely made in person. If the deponent fails or refuses to approve the
transcript within the allotted period, the deposition shall be given the
same effect as though it had been approved, subject to any changes
timely made by the deponent. However, on a seasonable motion to
suppress the deposition, accompanied by a declaration stating facts
showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution
of each issue presented by the motion, the court may determine that the
reasons given for the failure or refusal to approve the transcript require
rejection of the deposition in whole or in part.
    The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to suppress a deposition, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
    (2) If there is no stenographic transcription of the deposition, the
deposition officer shall send written notice to the deponent and to all
parties attending the deposition that the recording is available for review,
unless the deponent and all these parties agree on the record to waive the
hearing or viewing of an audiotape or videotape recording of the
testimony. For 30 days following this notice the deponent, either in
person or by signed letter to the deposition officer, may change the
substance of the answer to any question.
    The deposition officer shall set forth in a writing to accompany the
recording any changes made by the deponent, as well as either the
deponent’s signature identifying the deposition as his or her own, or a
[Ch. 474 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3409

statement of the deponent’s failure to supply the signature, or to contact
the officer within the allotted period. When a deponent fails to contact
the officer within the allotted period, or expressly refuses by a signature
to identify the deposition as his or her own, the deposition shall be given
the same effect as though signed. However, on a reasonable motion to
suppress the deposition, accompanied by a declaration stating facts
showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution
of each issue presented by the motion, the court may determine that the
reasons given for the refusal to sign require rejection of the deposition
in whole or in part.
   The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to suppress a deposition, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
   (r) (1) The deposition officer shall certify on the transcript of the
deposition, or in a writing accompanying an audiotaped or videotaped
deposition as described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (q), that the
deponent was duly sworn and that the transcript or recording is a true
record of the testimony given.
   (2) When prepared as a rough draft transcript, the transcript of the
deposition may not be certified and may not be used, cited, or transcribed
as the certified transcript of the deposition proceedings. The rough draft
transcript may not be cited or used in any way or at any time to rebut or
contradict the certified transcript of deposition proceedings as provided
by the deposition officer.
   (s) (1) The certified transcript of a deposition shall not be filed with
the court. Instead, the deposition officer shall securely seal that transcript
in an envelope or package endorsed with the title of the action and
marked: ‘‘Deposition of (here insert name of deponent),’’ and shall
promptly transmit it to the attorney for the party who noticed the
deposition. This attorney shall store it under conditions that will protect
it against loss, destruction, or tampering.
   The attorney to whom the transcript of a deposition is transmitted shall
retain custody of it until six months after final disposition of the action.
At that time, the transcript may be destroyed, unless the court, on motion
of any party and for good cause shown, orders that the transcript be
preserved for a longer period.
   (2) An audiotape or videotape record of deposition testimony,
including a certified tape made by an operator qualified under
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (l), shall not be filed
with the court. Instead, the operator shall retain custody of that record
and shall store it under conditions that will protect it against loss,
 3410                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 474 ]
destruction, or tampering, and preserve as far as practicable the quality
of the tape and the integrity of the testimony and images it contains.
   At the request of any party to the action, including a party who did not
attend the taking of the deposition testimony, or at the request of the
deponent, that operator shall promptly (A) permit the one making the
request to hear or to view the tape on receipt of payment of a reasonable
charge for providing the facilities for hearing or viewing the tape, and
(B) furnish a copy of the audiotape or the videotape recording to the one
making the request on receipt of payment of the reasonable cost of
making that copy of the tape.
   The attorney or operator who has custody of an audiotape or videotape
record of deposition testimony shall retain custody of it until six months
after final disposition of the action. At that time, the audiotape or
videotape may be destroyed or erased, unless the court, on motion of any
party and for good cause shown, orders that the tape be preserved for a
longer period.
   (t) Once any party has taken the deposition of any natural person,
including that of a party to the action, neither the party who gave, nor any
other party who has been served with a deposition notice pursuant to
subdivision (c) may take a subsequent deposition of that deponent.
However, for good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a
subsequent deposition, and the parties, with the consent of any deponent
who is not a party, may stipulate that a subsequent deposition be taken.
This subdivision does not preclude taking one subsequent deposition of
a natural person who has previously been examined (1) as a result of that
person’s designation to testify on behalf of an organization under
subdivision (d), or (2), pursuant to a court order under Section 485.230,
for the limited purpose of discovering pursuant to Section 485.230 the
identity, location, and value of property in which the deponent has an
interest. This subdivision does not authorize the taking of more than one
subsequent deposition for the limited purpose of Section 485.230.
   (u) At the trial or any other hearing in the action, any part or all of a
deposition may be used against any party who was present or represented
at the taking of the deposition, or who had due notice of the deposition
and did not serve a valid objection under subdivision (g), so far as
admissible under the rules of evidence applied as though the deponent
were then present and testifying as a witness, in accordance with the
following provisions:
   (1) Any party may use a deposition for the purpose of contradicting
or impeaching the testimony of the deponent as a witness, or for any
other purpose permitted by the Evidence Code.
   (2) An adverse party may use for any purpose, a deposition of a party
to the action, or of anyone who at the time of taking the deposition was
an officer, director, managing agent, employee, agent, or designee under
[Ch. 474 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3411

subdivision (d) of a party. It is not ground for objection to the use of a
deposition of a party under this paragraph by an adverse party that the
deponent is available to testify, has testified, or will testify at the trial or
other hearing.
   (3) Any party may use for any purpose the deposition of any person
or organization, including that of any party to the action, if the court finds
any of the following:
   (A) The deponent resides more than 150 miles from the place of the
trial or other hearing.
   (B) The deponent, without the procurement or wrongdoing of the
proponent of the deposition for the purpose of preventing testimony in
open court, is (i) exempted or precluded on the ground of privilege from
testifying concerning the matter to which the deponent’s testimony is
relevant, (ii) disqualified from testifying, (iii) dead or unable to attend
or testify because of existing physical or mental illness or infirmity, (iv)
absent from the trial or other hearing and the court is unable to compel
the deponent’s attendance by its process, or (v) absent from the trial or
other hearing and the proponent of the deposition has exercised
reasonable diligence but has been unable to procure the deponent’s
attendance by the court’s process.
   (C) Exceptional circumstances exist that make it desirable to allow
the use of any deposition in the interests of justice and with due regard
to the importance of presenting the testimony of witnesses orally in open
court.
   (4) Any party may use a videotape deposition of a treating or
consulting physician or of any expert witness even though the deponent
is available to testify if the deposition notice under subdivision (d)
reserved the right to use the deposition at trial, and if that party has
complied with subparagraph (I) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (l).
   (5) Subject to the requirements of this section, a party may offer in
evidence all or any part of a deposition, and if the party introduces only
part of the deposition, any other party may introduce any other parts that
are relevant to the parts introduced.
   (6) Substitution of parties does not affect the right to use depositions
previously taken.
   (7) When an action has been brought in any court of the United States
or of any state, and another action involving the same subject matter is
subsequently brought between the same parties or their representatives
or successors in interest, all depositions lawfully taken and duly filed in
the initial action may be used in the subsequent action as if originally
taken in that subsequent action. A deposition previously taken may also
be used as permitted by the Evidence Code.
 3412                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 474 ]
   (v) Violation of subdivision (k) by any person may result in a civil
penalty of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000) imposed by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   SEC. 2. Section 2025.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   2025.5. (a) Notwithstanding paragraph (2) of subdivision (k) of
Section 2025, unless the court issues an order to the contrary, a copy of
the transcript, videotape, or other recording of testimony at the
deposition, if still in the possession of the deposition officer, shall be
made available by the deposition officer to any person requesting a copy
thereof upon payment of a reasonable charge set by the deposition
officer.
   (b) If a copy is requested from the deposition officer, the deposition
officer shall mail a notice to all parties attending the deposition and to
the deponent at his or her last known address advising them that (1) the
copy is being sought, (2) the name of the person requesting the copy, and
(3) the right to seek a protective order pursuant to subdivision (i) of
Section 2025. If a protective order is not served on the deposition officer
within 30 days of the mailing of the notice, the deposition officer shall
make the copy available to the person requesting the copy.
   (c) This section shall apply only to recorded testimony taken at
depositions occurring on or after January 1, 1998.
   SEC. 3. Section 2026 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   2026. (a) Any party may obtain discovery by taking an oral
deposition, as described in subdivision (a) of Section 2025, in another
state of the United States, or in a territory or an insular possession subject
to its jurisdiction. Except as modified in this section, the procedures for
taking oral depositions in California set forth in Section 2025 apply to
an oral deposition taken in another state of the United States, or in a
territory or an insular possession subject to its jurisdiction.
   (b) (1) If a deponent is a party to the action or an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party, the service of the deposition
notice is effective to compel that deponent to attend and to testify, as well
as to produce any document or tangible thing for inspection and copying.
The deposition notice shall specify a place in the state, territory, or
insular possession of the United States that is within 75 miles of the
residence or a business office of a deponent.
   (2) If the deponent is not a party to the action or an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party, a party serving a deposition
notice under this section shall use any process and procedures required
and available under the laws of the state, territory, or insular possession
where the deposition is to be taken to compel the deponent to attend and
[Ch. 474 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3413

to testify, as well as to produce any document or tangible thing for
inspection, copying, and any related activity.
   (c) A deposition taken under this section shall be conducted (1) under
the supervision of a person who is authorized to administer oaths by the
laws of the United States or those of the place where the examination is
to be held, and who is not otherwise disqualified under subdivision (k)
and subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (l) of Section 2025,
or (2) before a person appointed by the court. This appointment is
effective to authorize that person to administer oaths and to take
testimony. When necessary or convenient, the court shall issue a
commission on such terms and with such directions as are just and
appropriate.
   SEC. 4. Section 2027 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   2027. (a) Any party may obtain discovery by taking an oral
deposition, as described in subdivision (a) of Section 2025, in a foreign
nation. Except as modified in this section, the procedures for taking oral
depositions in California set forth in Section 2025 apply to an oral
deposition taken in a foreign nation.
   (b) (1) If a deponent is a party to the action or an officer, director,
managing agent, or employee of a party, the service of the deposition
notice is effective to compel the deponent to attend and to testify, as well
as to produce any document or tangible thing for inspection and copying.
   (2) If a deponent is not a party to the action or an officer, director,
managing agent or employee of a party, a party serving a deposition
notice under this section shall use any process and procedures required
and available under the laws of the foreign nation where the deposition
is to be taken to compel the deponent to attend and to testify, as well as
to produce any document or tangible thing for inspection, copying, and
any related activity.
   (c) A deposition taken under this section shall be conducted under the
supervision of (1) a person who is authorized to administer oaths or their
equivalent by the laws of the United States or of the foreign nation, and
who is not otherwise disqualified under subdivision (k) and
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (l) of Section 2025; (2)
a person or officer appointed by commission or under letters rogatory;
or (3) any person agreed to by all the parties.
   On motion of the party seeking to take an oral deposition in a foreign
nation, the court in which the action is pending shall issue a commission,
letters rogatory, or a letter of request, if it determines that one is
necessary or convenient. The commission, letters rogatory, or letter of
request may include any terms and directions that are just and
appropriate. The deposition officer may be designated by name or by
descriptive title in the deposition notice and in the commission. Letters
 3414                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 475 ]
rogatory or a letter of request may be addressed: ‘‘To the Appropriate
Judicial Authority in [name of foreign nation].’’



                             CHAPTER 475

  An act to amend Section 12598 of, and to add Sections 12586.1,
12586.2, 12591.1, and 12591.2 to, the Government Code, relating to
charitable fundraising.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12586.1 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   12586.1. In addition to a registration fee, a charitable corporation or
trustee, commercial fundraiser, fundraising counsel, or coventurer may
be assessed a late fee or an additional fee of twenty-five dollars ($25) for
each month or part of the month after the date on which the registration
statement and financial report were due to be filed or after the period of
extension granted for the filing if the charitable corporation or trustee,
commercial fundraiser, fundraising counsel, or coventurer does any of
the following:
   (a) Exists and operates in California without being registered.
   (b) Solicits contributions in California without being registered or, if
applicable, bonded.
   (c) Fails to file its first report no later than four months and 15 days
following the close of each calendar or fiscal year and has not requested
an extension of time to file the annual report.
   (d) Fails to file its subsequent annual report no later than four months
and 15 days following the close of each calendar or fiscal year
subsequent to the filing of the first report and has not requested an
extension of time to file the annual report.
   (e) Fails to file its annual registration/renewal form within the time
specified by the Attorney General irrespective of other report filing
requirements.
   (f) Fails to correct the deficiencies in its registration or annual report
within 10 days of receipt of written notice of those deficiencies.
   SEC. 2. Section 12586.2 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   12586.2. All fines, penalties, attorney’s fees, if any, as authorized by
law, and costs of investigation paid to the Attorney General pursuant to
Section 12598 shall be used by the Department of Justice solely for the
[Ch. 475 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3415

administration of the Attorney General’s charitable trust enforcement
responsibilities.
   SEC. 3. Section 12591.1 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   12591.1. (a) Any person who violates any provision of this article
with intent to deceive or defraud any charity or individual is liable for
a civil penalty not exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
   (b) Except as provided in subdivision (d), any person who violates
any other provision of this article is liable for a civil penalty, as follows:
   (1) For the first offense, a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000).
   (2) For any subsequent offense, a fine not exceeding two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500).
   (c) Any offense committed under this article involving a solicitation
may be deemed to have been committed at either the place at which the
solicitation was initiated or at the place where the solicitation was
received.
   (d) Any person who violates only subdivision (c), (d), (e), or (f) of
Section 12586.1 shall not be liable for a civil penalty under subdivision
(b) if the person (1) has not received reasonable notice of the violation
and (2) has not been given a reasonable opportunity to correct the
violation. The Attorney General shall notify in writing a person who
violates only subdivisions (c), (d), (e), or (f) of Section 12586.1 that he
or she has 30 days to correct the violation.
   (e) The recovery of a civil penalty pursuant to this section precludes
assessment of a late fee pursuant to Section 12586.1 for the same offense.
   SEC. 4. Section 12591.2 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   12591.2. In any case where the Attorney General has authority to
institute an action or proceeding under this article, he or she may accept
an assurance of voluntary compliance through which any person alleged
to be engaged in any method, act, or practice in violation of this article
agrees to discontinue that method, act, or practice. The assurance may,
among other terms, include a stipulation of a voluntary payment by the
person of the cost of the investigation or of an amount to be held in
escrow pending the outcome of an action or as restitution to aggrieved
persons, or both. The assurance of voluntary compliance shall not be
considered an admission of a violation for any purpose. The assurance
of compliance shall be in writing and shall be filed with a superior court
in this state for approval and if approved shall thereafter be filed with the
clerk of the court. Matters closed may at any time be reopened by the
court for further proceedings in the public interest. In the event of an
alleged violation, the Attorney General may, at his or her discretion,
either initiate contempt proceedings or proceed as if the assurance of
voluntary compliance has not been accepted.
   SEC. 5. Section 12598 of the Government Code is amended to read:
 3416                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 475 ]
   12598. (a) The primary responsibility for supervising charitable
trusts in California, for insuring compliance with trusts and articles of
incorporation, and for protection of assets held by charitable trusts and
public benefit corporations, resides in the Attorney General. The
Attorney General has broad powers under common law and California
statutory law to carry out these charitable trust enforcement
responsibilities. These powers include, but are not limited to, charitable
trust enforcement actions under all of the following:
   (1) This article.
   (2) Title 8 (commencing with Section 2223) of Part 4 of Division 3
of the Civil Code.
   (3) Division 2 (commencing with Section 5000) of Title 1 of the
Corporations Code.
   (4) Sections 8111, 11703, 15004, 15409, 15680 to 15685, 16060 to
16062, 16064, and 17200 to 17210, inclusive, of the Probate Code.
   (5) Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 17200) of Part 2 of Division
7 of the Business and Professions Code, and Sections 17500 and 17535
of the Business and Professions Code.
   (6) Sections 319, 326.5, and 532d of the Penal Code.
   (b) The Attorney General shall be entitled to recover from defendants
named in a charitable trust enforcement action all actual costs incurred
in conducting that action, including the costs of auditors, consultants,
and experts employed or retained to assist with the investigation,
preparation, and presentation in court of the charitable trust enforcement
action.
   (c) Costs shall be recovered by the Attorney General pursuant to court
order. At the time of entering judgment or approving settlement of a
charitable trust enforcement action, as defined in subdivision (a), the
court shall make findings on whether the Attorney General’s action has
resulted in pecuniary benefits or corrected a breach of trust for any
charitable organization, or charitable purpose. If the court finds in the
affirmative, the court shall award recovery of costs in the charitable trust
enforcement action to the Attorney General and shall order that costs be
paid by the charitable organization and the individuals named as
defendants in or otherwise subject to the action, in a manner that the
court finds to be equitable and fair. The court shall not award costs
pursuant to this subdivision which exceed one-third of the pecuniary
benefit to any charitable organization or charitable purpose realized by
the Attorney General’s action.
   (d) Upon a finding by the court that a lawsuit filed by the Attorney
General was frivolous or brought in bad faith, the court may award the
defendant charity the costs of that action.
   (e) (1) The Attorney General may refuse to register or may revoke or
suspend the registration of a charitable corporation or trustee,
[Ch. 476 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3417

commercial fundraiser, fundraising counsel, or coventurer whenever the
Attorney General finds that the charitable corporation or trustee,
commercial fundraiser, fundraising counsel, or coventurer has violated
or is operating in violation of any provisions of this article.
   (2) All actions of the Attorney General shall be taken subject to the
rights authorized pursuant to Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section
11400) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2.



                             CHAPTER 476

  An act to add Section 1834.8 to the Civil Code, relating to animal
testing.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1834.8 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
   1834.8. (a) Manufacturers and contract testing facilities shall not
use traditional animal test methods within this state for which an
appropriate alternative test method has been scientifically validated and
recommended by the Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee for the
Validation of Alternative Methods (ICCVAM) and adopted by the
relevant federal agency or agencies or program within an agency
responsible for regulating the specific product or activity for which the
test is being conducted.
   (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of any alternative
nonanimal test method for the testing of any product, product
formulation, chemical, or ingredient that is not recommended by
ICCVAM.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of animal tests to
comply with requirements of state agencies. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the use of animal tests to comply with requirements of federal
agencies when the federal agency has approved an alternative nonanimal
test pursuant to subdivision (a) and the federal agency staff concludes
that the alternative nonanimal test does not assure the health or safety of
consumers.
   (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the exclusive remedy
for enforcing this section shall be a civil action for injunctive relief
brought by the Attorney General, the district attorney of the county in
which the violation is alleged to have occurred, or a city attorney of a city
or a city and county having a population in excess of 750,000 and in
 3418                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 476 ]
which the violation is alleged to have occurred. If the court determines
that the Attorney General or district attorney is the prevailing party in the
enforcement action, the official may also recover costs, attorney fees,
and a civil penalty not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) in that
action.
   (e) This section shall not apply to any animal test performed for the
purpose of medical research.
   (f) For the purposes of this section, these terms have the following
meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Animal’’ means vertebrate nonhuman animal.
   (2) ‘‘Manufacturer’’ means any partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal relationship that produces chemicals,
ingredients, product formulations, or products in this state.
   (3) ‘‘Contract testing facility’’ means any partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal relationship that tests chemicals, ingredients,
product formulations, or products in this state.
   (4) ‘‘ICCVAM’’ means the Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee
for the Validation of Alternative Methods, a federal committee
comprised of representatives from 14 federal regulatory or research
agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, Environmental
Protection Agency, and Consumer Products Safety Commission, that
reviews the validity of alternative test methods. The committee is the
federal mechanism for recommending appropriate, valid test methods to
relevant federal agencies.
   (5) ‘‘Medical research’’ means research related to the causes,
diagnosis, treatment, control, or prevention of physical or mental
diseases and impairments of humans and animals or related to the
development of biomedical products, devices, or drugs as defined in
Section 321(g)(1) of Title 21 of the United States Code. Medical
research does not include the testing of an ingredient that was formerly
used in a drug, tested for the drug use with traditional animal methods
to characterize the ingredient and to substantiate its safety for human use,
and is now proposed for use in a product other than a biomedical product,
medical device, or drug.
   (6) ‘‘Traditional animal test method’’ means a process or procedure
using animals to obtain information on the characteristics of a chemical
or agent. Toxicological test methods generate information regarding the
ability of a chemical or agent to produce a specific biological effect under
specified conditions.
   (7) ‘‘Validated alternative test method’’ means a test method that does
not use animals, or in some cases reduces or refines the current use of
animals, for which the reliability and relevance for a specific purpose has
been established in validation studies as specified in the ICCVAM report
provided to the relevant federal agencies.
[Ch. 477 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3419

  (8) ‘‘Person’’ means an individual with managerial control,
partnership, corporation, association, or other legal relationship.
  (9) ‘‘Adopted by a federal agency’’ means a final action taken by an
agency, published in the Federal Register, for public notice.




                             CHAPTER 477

  An act to add Section 152.3 to the Penal Code, relating to reporting
of crimes.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. This act shall be known as, and may be cited as, the
Sherrice Iverson Child Victim Protection Act.
   SEC. 2. Section 152.3 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   152.3. (a) Any person who reasonably believes that he or she has
observed the commission of any of the following offenses where the
victim is a child under the age of 14 years shall notify a peace officer, as
defined in Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of Part
2:
   (1) Murder.
   (2) Rape.
   (3) A violation of paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 288 of
the Penal Code.
   (b) This section shall not be construed to affect privileged
relationships as provided by law.
   (c) The duty to notify a peace officer imposed pursuant to subdivision
(a) is satisfied if the notification or an attempt to provide notice is made
by telephone or any other means.
   (d) Failure to notify as required pursuant to subdivision (a) is a
misdemeanor and is punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500), by imprisonment in a county jail for not
more than six months, or by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (e) The requirements of this section shall not apply to the following:
   (1) A person who is related to either the victim or the offender,
including a husband, wife, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent,
grandchild, or other person related by consanguinity or affinity.
   (2) A person who fails to report based on a reasonable mistake of fact.
 3420                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 478 ]
  (3) A person who fails to report based on a reasonable fear for his or
her own safety or for the safety of his or her family.
  SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 478

   An act to amend Sections 417 and 417.6 of the Penal Code, relating
to firearms.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 417 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   417. (a) (1) Every person who, except in self-defense, in the
presence of any other person, draws or exhibits any deadly weapon
whatsoever, other than a firearm, in a rude, angry, or threatening manner,
or who in any manner, unlawfully uses a deadly weapon other than a
firearm in any fight or quarrel is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by
imprisonment in a county jail for not less than 30 days.
   (2) Every person who, except in self-defense, in the presence of any
other person, draws or exhibits any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded,
in a rude, angry, or threatening manner, or who in any manner,
unlawfully uses a firearm in any fight or quarrel is punishable as follows:
   (A) If the violation occurs in a public place and the firearm is a pistol,
revolver, or other firearm capable of being concealed upon the person,
by imprisonment in a county jail for not less than three months and not
more than one year, by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000), or by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (B) In all cases other than that set forth in subparagraph (A), a
misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in a county jail for not less
than three months.
   (b) Every person who, except in self-defense, in the presence of any
other person, draws or exhibits any loaded firearm in a rude, angry, or
threatening manner, or who, in any manner, unlawfully uses any loaded
[Ch. 478 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3421

firearm in any fight or quarrel upon the grounds of any day care center,
as defined in Section 1596.76 of the Health and Safety Code, or any
facility where programs, including day care programs or recreational
programs, are being conducted for persons under 18 years of age,
including programs conducted by a nonprofit organization, during the
hours in which the center or facility is open for use, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or two or three years, or
by imprisonment in a county jail for not less than three months, nor more
than one year.
   (c) Every person who, in the immediate presence of a peace officer,
draws or exhibits any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded, in a rude,
angry, or threatening manner, and who knows, or reasonably should
know, by the officer’s uniformed appearance or other action of
identification by the officer, that he or she is a peace officer engaged in
the performance of his or her duties, and that peace officer is engaged in
the performance of his or her duties, shall be punished by imprisonment
in a county jail for not less than nine months and not to exceed one year,
or in the state prison.
   (d) Except where a different penalty applies, every person who
violates this section when the other person is in the process of cleaning
up graffiti or vandalism is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by
imprisonment in a county jail for not less than three months nor more
than one year.
   (e) As used in this section, ‘‘peace officer’’ means any person
designated as a peace officer pursuant to Chapter 4.5 (commencing with
Section 830) of Title 3 of Part 2.
   (f) As used in this section, ‘‘public place’’ means any of the
following:
   (1) A public place in an incorporated city.
   (2) A public street in an incorporated city.
   (3) A public street in an unincorporated area.
   SEC. 2. Section 417.6 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   417.6. (a) If, in the commission of a violation of Section 417 or
417.8, serious bodily injury is intentionally inflicted by the person
drawing or exhibiting the firearm or deadly weapon, the offense shall be
punished by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one year or
by imprisonment in the state prison.
   (b) As used in this section, ‘‘serious bodily injury’’ means a serious
impairment of physical condition, including, but not limited to, the
following: loss of consciousness; concussion; bone fracture; protracted
loss or impairment of function of any bodily member or organ; a wound
requiring extensive suturing; and serious disfigurement.
   (c) When a person is convicted of a violation of Section 417 or 417.8
and the deadly weapon or firearm used by the person is owned by that
 3422                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 479 ]
person, the court shall order that the weapon or firearm be deemed a
nuisance and disposed of in the manner provided by Section 12028.
  SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 479

  An act relating to crime prevention, making an appropriation therefor,
and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Department of Justice shall do all of the
following:
   (a) Produce public service announcements in both English and
Spanish to inform the public on:
   (1) Changes in firearms laws and how to obtain more information on
current laws.
   (2) A gun owner’s responsibilities for the safe storage of a firearm as
included in the Department of Justice Basic Firearms Safety Course and
Section 12080 of the Penal Code.
   (b) No publicly elected official shall be identified with or involved in
the public service announcements. This provision does not preclude the
Department of Justice from producing or being identified as the producer
of the public service announcements.
   (c) The department shall seek public service announcement airtime
once the public service announcements have been produced. Nothing in
this section shall preclude the Department of Justice from seeking funds
to purchase airtime for the public service announcements.
   SEC. 2. The sum of one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars
($125,000) is hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the
Department of Justice, on a one-time basis, for the purposes of this act.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
[Ch. 481 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3423

Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to protect the public safety by ensuring that the public is
informed regarding current firearms laws and safe firearms storage
practices.



                             CHAPTER 480

  An act relating to the payment of claims against the State of California,
making an appropriation therefor, and declaring the urgency thereof, to
take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The sum of forty-eight million two hundred eighty
thousand dollars ($48,280,000) is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund to the Attorney General for allocation to pay the first of five annual
settlement payments to the United States government for the case of
Craig Brown v. United States Department of Health and Human
Services, et al. (Ninth Circuit Appeal No. 99-1692).
  SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to pay settlement claims against the state and relieve the state
of additional financial liability as soon as possible, it is necessary for this
act to take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 481

  An act to amend Section 16373 of the Government Code, and to
amend Sections 730.6, 1714, 1752.81, 1764.2, and 1767 of the Welfare
and Institutions Code, relating to youthful offenders.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 18, 2000.]
 3424                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 481 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 16373 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   16373. (a) Money that has remained unclaimed in the hands of any
state agency, or for which the claimant cannot be found, may be
deposited in the Special Deposit Fund in trust and may be withdrawn in
the same manner as other trust money. Unclaimed money of five dollars
($5) or less in an inmate’s trust account after he or she has been paroled
shall be forfeited, and deposited in the Inmate Welfare Fund of the
Department of Corrections in the State Treasury.
   (b) When the Director of the Youth Authority has in his or her
possession trust account money of an offender committed to or housed
in the Department of the Youth Authority, any unclaimed offender trust
account money of five dollars ($5) or less shall be forfeited on the date
of discharge, or one year from the date of escape or absconding from the
Department of the Youth Authority supervision, and shall be deposited
in the Benefit Fund to be expended pursuant to Section 1752.5 of the
Welfare and Institutions Code.
   SEC. 2. Section 730.6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   730.6. (a) (1) It is the intent of the Legislature that a victim of
conduct for which a minor is found to be a person described in Section
602 who incurs any economic loss as a result of the minor’s conduct shall
receive restitution directly from that minor.
   (2) Upon a minor being found to be a person described in Section 602,
the court shall consider levying a fine in accordance with Section 730.5.
In addition, the court shall order the minor to pay, in addition to any other
penalty provided or imposed under the law, both of the following:
   (A) A restitution fine in accordance with subdivision (b).
   (B) Restitution to the victim or victims, if any, in accordance with
subdivision (h).
   (b) In every case where a minor is found to be a person described in
Section 602, the court shall impose a separate and additional restitution
fine. The restitution fine shall be set at the discretion of the court and
commensurate with the seriousness of the offense as follows:
   (1) If the minor is found to be a person described in Section 602 by
reason of the commission of one or more felony offenses, the restitution
fine shall not be less than one hundred dollars ($100) and not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000). A separate hearing for the fine shall not
be required.
   (2) If the minor is found to be a person described in Section 602 by
reason of the commission of one or more misdemeanor offenses, the
[Ch. 481 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3425

restitution fine shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100). A separate
hearing for the fine shall not be required.
   (c) The restitution fine shall be in addition to any other disposition or
fine imposed and shall be imposed regardless of the minor’s inability to
pay. This fine shall be deposited in the Restitution Fund, the proceeds
of which shall be distributed pursuant to Section 13967 of the
Government Code.
   (d) (1) In setting the amount of the fine pursuant to subparagraph (A)
of paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), the court shall consider any relevant
factors including, but not limited to, the minor’s ability to pay, the
seriousness and gravity of the offense and the circumstances of its
commission, any economic gain derived by the minor as a result of the
offense, and the extent to which others suffered losses as a result of the
offense. The losses may include pecuniary losses to the victim or his or
her dependents as well as intangible losses such as psychological harm
caused by the offense.
   (2) The consideration of a minor’s ability to pay may include his or
her future earning capacity. A minor shall bear the burden of
demonstrating a lack of his or her ability to pay.
   (e) Express findings of the court as to the factors bearing on the
amount of the fine shall not be required.
   (f) Except as provided in subdivision (g), under no circumstances
shall the court fail to impose the separate and additional restitution fine
required by subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (a). This
fine shall not be subject to penalty assessments pursuant to Section 1464
of the Penal Code.
   (g) In a case in which the minor is a person described in Section 602
by reason of having committed a felony offense, if the court finds that
there are compelling and extraordinary reasons, the court may waive
imposition of the restitution fine required by subparagraph (A) of
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a). When a waiver is granted, the court
shall state on the record all reasons supporting the waiver.
   (h) Restitution ordered pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2)
of subdivision (a) shall be imposed in the amount of the losses, as
determined. The court shall order full restitution unless it finds
compelling and extraordinary reasons for not doing so, and states them
on the record. A minor’s inability to pay shall not be considered a
compelling or extraordinary reason not to impose a restitution order, nor
shall inability to pay be a consideration in determining the amount of the
restitution order. A restitution order pursuant to subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), to the extent possible, shall identify
each victim, unless the court for good cause finds that the order should
not identify a victim or victims, and the amount of each victim’s loss to
which it pertains, and shall be of a dollar amount sufficient to fully
 3426                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 481 ]
reimburse the victim or victims for all determined economic losses
incurred as the result of the minor’s conduct for which the minor was
found to be a person described in Section 602, including all of the
following:
   (1) Full or partial payment for the value of stolen or damaged
property. The value of stolen or damaged property shall be the
replacement cost of like property, or the actual cost of repairing the
property when repair is possible.
   (2) Medical expenses.
   (3) Wages or profits lost due to injury incurred by the victim, and if
the victim is a minor, wages or profits lost by the minor’s parent, parents,
guardian, or guardians, while caring for the injured minor.
   (4) Wages or profits lost by the victim, and if the victim is a minor,
wages or profits lost by the minor’s parent, parents, guardian, or
guardians, due to time spent as a witness or in assisting the police or
prosecution.
   A minor shall have the right to a hearing before a judge to dispute the
determination of the amount of restitution. The court may modify the
amount on its own motion or on the motion of the district attorney, the
victim or victims, or the minor. If a motion is made for modification of
a restitution order, the victim shall be notified of that motion at least 10
days prior to the hearing on the motion. When the amount of victim
restitution is not known at the time of disposition, the court order shall
identify the victim or victims, unless the court finds for good cause that
the order should not identify a victim or victims, and state that the
amount of restitution for each victim is to be determined. When feasible,
the court shall also identify on the court order, any cooffenders who are
jointly and severally liable for victim restitution.
   (i) A restitution order imposed pursuant to subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) shall identify the losses to which it
pertains, and shall be enforceable as a civil judgment pursuant to
subdivision (r). The making of a restitution order pursuant to this
subdivision shall not affect the right of a victim to recovery from the
Restitution Fund in the manner provided elsewhere, except to the extent
that restitution is actually collected pursuant to the order. Restitution
collected pursuant to this subdivision shall be credited to any other
judgments for the same losses obtained against the minor or the minor’s
parent or guardian arising out of the offense for which the minor was
found to be a person described in Section 602. Restitution payments
made pursuant to this subdivision shall be made to the Restitution Fund
to the extent that the victim, as defined in subdivision (j), has received
assistance pursuant to Article 1 (commencing with Section 13959) of
Chapter 5 of Part 4 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
[Ch. 481 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3427

   (j) For purposes of this section, ‘‘victim’’ shall include the immediate
surviving family of the actual victim.
   (k) Nothing in this section shall prevent a court from ordering
restitution to any corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership,
association, joint venture, government, governmental subdivision,
agency, or instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity when
that entity is a direct victim of an offense.
   (l) Upon a minor being found to be a person described in Section 602,
the court shall require as a condition of probation the payment of
restitution fines and orders imposed under this section. Any portion of
a restitution order that remains unsatisfied after a minor is no longer on
probation shall continue to be enforceable by a victim pursuant to
subdivision (r) until the obligation is satisfied in full.
   (m) Probation shall not be revoked for failure of a person to make
restitution pursuant to this section as a condition of probation unless the
court determines that the person has willfully failed to pay or failed to
make sufficient bona fide efforts to legally acquire the resources to pay.
   (n) If the court finds and states on the record compelling and
extraordinary reasons why restitution should not be required as provided
in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), the court shall order, as a condition
of probation, that the minor perform specified community service.
   (o) The court may avoid ordering community service as a condition
of probation only if it finds and states on the record compelling and
extraordinary reasons not to order community service in addition to the
finding that restitution pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (a)
should not be required.
   (p) When a minor is committed to the Department of the Youth
Authority, the court shall order restitution to be paid to the victim or
victims, if any. Payment of restitution to the victim or victims pursuant
to this subdivision shall take priority in time over payment of any other
restitution fine imposed pursuant to this section.
   (q) At its discretion, the board of supervisors of any county may
impose a fee to cover the actual administrative cost of collecting the
restitution fine, not to exceed 10 percent of the amount ordered to be
paid, to be added to the restitution fine and included in the order of the
court, the proceeds of which shall be deposited in the general fund of the
county.
   (r) If the judgment is for a restitution fine ordered pursuant to
subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), or a restitution
order imposed pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a), the judgment may be enforced in the manner provided
in Section 1214 of the Penal Code.
   SEC. 3. Section 1714 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
 3428                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 481 ]
   1714. (a) It is the intention of the Legislature that the Youthful
Offender Parole Board and the Director of the Youth Authority shall
cooperate with each other in the establishment of the classification,
transfer, discipline, training, and treatment policies of the Department of
the Youth Authority, to the end that the objectives of the state youth
correctional system can best be attained. The director and the board
shall, not less than two times each calendar year, meet for the purpose
of discussion of classification, transfer, discipline, training, and
treatment policies and problems, and for the purpose of discussion of
policies relating to the functions and duties of the board, and it is the
intent of the Legislature that whenever possible there shall be agreement
on these subjects. However, in order to maintain responsibility for the
secure and orderly administration of the Youth Authority, the Director
of the Youth Authority shall have the final right to determine the policies
on classification, transfer, discipline, training and treatment, and the
board shall have the final right to determine the policies on its duties and
functions.
   (b) The Director of the Youth Authority may transfer persons
confined in one institution or facility of the Department of the Youth
Authority to another. The Youthful Offender Parole Board may request
the director to transfer a person who is under the jurisdiction of the
department pursuant to Section 1731.5 if, after review of the case history
in the course of routine procedures, such transfer is deemed advisable for
the further diagnosis and treatment of the ward. The director shall as
soon as practicable comply with such request, provided that, if facilities
are not available he or she shall report that fact to the board and shall
make the transfer as soon as facilities become available; provided
further, that if in the opinion of the director such transfer would endanger
security he or she may report that fact to the board and refuse to make
such transfer.
   SEC. 4. Section 1752.81 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   1752.81. (a) Whenever the Director of the Youth Authority has in
his or her possession in trust funds of a ward committed to the authority,
the funds may be released for any purpose when authorized by the ward.
When the sum held in trust for any ward by the Director of the Youth
Authority exceeds five hundred dollars ($500), the amount in excess of
five hundred dollars ($500) may be expended by the director pursuant
to a lawful order of a court directing payment of the funds, without the
authorization of the ward thereto.
   (b) Whenever an adult or minor is committed to or housed in a Youth
Authority facility and he or she owes a restitution fine imposed pursuant
to Section 13967 of the Government Code, as operative on or before
September 28, 1994, or Section 1202.4 or 1203.04 of the Penal Code,
[Ch. 481 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3429

as operative on or before August 2, 1995, or pursuant to Section 729.6,
730.6 or 731.1, as operative on or before August 2, 1995, the Director
of the Youth Authority shall deduct the balance owing on the fine amount
from the trust account deposits of a ward, up to a maximum of 50 percent
of the total amount held in trust, unless prohibited by federal law. The
director shall transfer that amount to the State Board of Control for
deposit in the Restitution Fund in the State Treasury. Any amount so
deducted shall be credited against the amount owing on the fine. The
sentencing court shall be provided a record of the payments.
   (c) Whenever an adult or minor is committed to, or housed in, a Youth
Authority facility and he or she owes restitution to a victim imposed
pursuant to Section 13967 of the Government Code, as operative on or
before September 28, 1994, or Section 1202.4 or 1203.04 of the Penal
Code, as operative on or before August 2, 1995, or pursuant to Section
729.6, 730.6, or 731.1, as operative on or before August 2, 1995, the
Director of the Youth Authority shall deduct the balance owing on the
order amount from the trust account deposits of a ward, up to a maximum
of 50 percent of the total amount held in trust, unless prohibited by
federal law. The director shall transfer that amount directly to the victim.
If the restitution is owed to a person who has filed an application with
the Victims of Crime Program, the director shall transfer that amount to
the State Board of Control for direct payment to the victim or payment
shall be made to the Restitution Fund to the extent that the victim has
received assistance pursuant to that program. The sentencing court shall
be provided a record of the payments made to victims and of the
payments deposited to the Restitution Fund pursuant to this subdivision.
   (d) Any compensatory or punitive damages awarded by trial or
settlement to a minor or adult committed to the Department of the Youth
Authority in connection with a civil action brought against any federal,
state, or local jail or correctional facility, or any official or agent thereof,
shall be paid directly, after payment of reasonable attorney’s fees and
litigation costs approved by the court, to satisfy any outstanding
restitution orders or restitution fines against the minor or adult. The
balance of any award shall be forwarded to the minor or adult committed
to the Department of the Youth Authority after full payment of all
outstanding restitution orders and restitution fines subject to subdivision
(e). The Department of the Youth Authority shall make all reasonable
efforts to notify the victims of the crime for which the minor or adult was
committed concerning the pending payment of any compensatory or
punitive damages. This subdivision shall apply to cases settled or
awarded on or after April 26, 1996, pursuant to Sections 807 and 808 of
the federal Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Title 8, P.L. 104-134).
   (e) The director shall deduct and retain from the trust account deposits
of a ward, unless prohibited by federal law, an administrative fee that
 3430                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 481 ]
totals 10 percent of any amount transferred pursuant to subdivision (b)
and (c), or 5 percent of any amount transferred pursuant to subdivision
(d). The director shall deposit the administrative fee moneys in a special
deposit account for reimbursing administrative and support costs of the
restitution and victims program of the Department of the Youth
Authority. The director, at his or her discretion, may retain any excess
funds in the special deposit account for future reimbursement of the
department’s administrative and support costs for the restitution and
victims program or may transfer all or part of the excess funds for deposit
in the Restitution Fund.
   (f) When a ward has both a restitution fine and a restitution order from
the sentencing court, the Department of the Youth Authority shall collect
the restitution order first pursuant to subdivision (c).
   (g) Notwithstanding subdivisions (a), (b), and (c), whenever the
Director of the Youth Authority holds in trust a ward’s funds in excess
of five dollars ($5) and the ward cannot be located, after one year from
the date of discharge, absconding from the Department of the Youth
Authority supervision, or escape, the Department of the Youth Authority
shall apply the trust account balance to any unsatisfied victim restitution
order or fine owed by that ward. If the victim restitution order or fine has
been satisfied, the remainder of the ward’s trust account balance, if any,
shall be transferred to the Benefit Fund to be expended pursuant to
Section 1752.5. If the victim to whom a particular ward owes restitution
cannot be located, the money shall be transferred to the Benefit Fund to
be expended pursuant to Section 1752.5.
   SEC. 5. Section 1764.2 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   1764.2. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
director or the director’s designee shall release the information described
in Section 1764 regarding a person committed to the Youth Authority for
an offense described in subdivision (a) of Section 676, or an offense
described in Section 273.5, 288, or 646.9 of the Penal Code, to the victim
of the offense, the next of kin of the victim, or his or her representative
as designated by the victim or next of kin pursuant to Section 1767, upon
request, unless the court has ordered confidentiality under subdivision
(c) of Section 676. The victim or the next of kin shall be identified by
the court or the probation department in the offender’s commitment
documents before the director is required to disclose this information.
   (b) The director or the director’s designee shall, with respect to
persons committed to the Youth Authority, including persons committed
to the Department of Corrections who have been transferred to the Youth
Authority, for an offense described in subdivision (a) of Section 676, or
an offense described in Section 273.5, 288, or 646.9 of the Penal Code,
inform each victim of that offense, the victim’s next of kin, or his or her
[Ch. 481 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3431

representative as designated by the victim or next of kin pursuant to
Section 1767, of his or her right to request and receive information
pursuant to subdivision (a) and Section 1767.
   SEC. 6. Section 1767 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   1767. (a) Upon request, written notice of any hearing to consider
the release on parole of any person under the control of the Youth
Authority for the commission of a crime or committed to the authority
as a person described in Section 602 shall be sent by the Department of
the Youth Authority at least 30 days before the hearing to any victim of
a crime committed by the person, or to the next of kin of the victim if the
victim has died or is a minor. The requesting party shall keep the board
apprised of his or her current mailing address.
   (b) Any one of the following persons may appear, personally or by
counsel, at the hearing:
   (1) The victim of the offense and one support person of his or her
choosing.
   (2) In the event that the victim is unable to attend the proceeding, two
support persons designated by the victim may attend to provide
information about the impact of the crime on the victim.
   (3) If the victim is no longer living, two members of the victim’s
immediate family may attend.
   (4) If none of those persons appear personally at the hearing, any one
of them may submit a statement recorded on videotape for the board’s
consideration at the hearing. Those persons shall also have the right to
submit a written statement to the board at least 10 days prior to the
scheduled hearing for the board’s consideration at the hearing.
   (c) The board, in deciding whether to release the person on parole,
shall consider the statements of victims, next of kin, or statements made
on their behalf pursuant to this section and shall include in its report a
statement of whether the person would pose a threat to public safety if
released on parole. The provisions of this section shall not be amended
by the Legislature except by statute passed in each house by rollcall vote
entered in the journal, two-thirds of the membership concurring, or by
a statute that becomes effective only when approved by the electors.
   (d) A representative designated by the victim or the victim’s next of
kin shall be either that person’s legal counsel or a family or household
member of the victim, for the purposes of this section.
   (e) Support persons may only provide information about the impact
of the crime on the victim and provide physical and emotional support
to the victim or the victim’s family.
   (f) Nothing in this section shall prevent the board from excluding a
victim or his or her support person or persons from a hearing. The board
 3432                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 482 ]
may allow the presence of other support persons under particular
circumstances surrounding the proceeding.



                             CHAPTER 482

   An act to amend Section 31470.2 of, and to add Sections 20441.5 and
31639.76 to, the Government Code, relating to county employees’
retirement.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 20441.5 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   20441.5. ‘‘County peace officer’’ shall also include persons
employed by the county parks and recreation department in the Park
Ranger class series whose primary responsibility is maintaining the
peace and whose duties include law enforcement, emergency medical
care first response, or fire suppression and prevention.
   This section shall not apply to the employees of any contracting
agency nor to any agency unless and until the contracting agency elects
to be subject to the provisions of this section by amendment to its
contract with the board, made as provided in Section 20474 or by express
provision in its contract with the board.
   This section shall only be applicable in Santa Clara County.
   SEC. 2. Section 31470.2 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   31470.2. (a) All sheriffs, undersheriffs, chief deputies sheriff,
jailers, turnkeys, deputies sheriff, bailiffs, constables, deputies
constable, motorcycle officers, aircraft pilots, heads and assistant heads
of all divisions of the office of the sheriff, detectives and investigators
in the office of the district attorney, marshals, court service officers only
in a county of the third class, as defined in Sections 28020 and 28024,
and all regularly appointed deputy marshals are eligible.
   (b) In a county of the eighth class, as defined in Sections 28020 and
28029, both as amended by Chapter 1204 of the Statutes of 1971, all
peace officers in the Park Ranger class series in the Department of
Regional Parks, Recreation, and Open Space are eligible. This
subdivision shall not be operative until such time as the county board of
supervisors shall, by resolution adopted by a majority vote, make this
subdivision applicable in the county.
[Ch. 483 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3433

   SEC. 3. Section 31639.76 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   31639.76. Notwithstanding Section 31639.7, a safety member
described in subdivision (b) of Section 31470.2 may receive credit as a
safety member for all or any part of the time during which he or she was
not within the field of membership as a safety member to the extent and
subject to the terms and conditions provided in a memorandum of
understanding between the employer and the designated employee
representative.
   This section shall apply only to a county of the eighth class, as defined
in Sections 28020 and 28029, both as amended by Chapter 1204 of the
Statutes of 1971, if the board of supervisors in that county has elected
to make subdivision (b) of Section 31470.2 applicable in the county.



                             CHAPTER 483

  An act to amend Sections 20178 and 21337 of, and to add Section
21337.1 to, the Government Code, relating to public employees’
retirement, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 20178 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   20178. (a) The board shall credit all contributions of members in
the retirement fund with interest at an interest crediting rate of 6 percent
compounded at each June 30. The retired member reserves in the
retirement fund shall be credited with the lesser of the current actuarial
interest rate or the current annual interest rate compounded at each June
30. The interest amount that would have been credited to the member’s
account on and after June 30, 1991, had the account been credited with
the lesser of the current actuarial interest rate or the current annual
interest rate, rather than at the 6-percent interest crediting rate, shall be
credited to retired member reserves.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), the difference between the
interest amount that was credited to the account of any state or school
member of this system who was paid his or her accumulated
contributions on or after June 30, 1991, and the lesser of the current
actuarial interest rate or the current annual interest rate, shall be
transferred to the state or school account, as appropriate, established by
the board under Section 21337 to fund the purchasing power protection
 3434                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 483 ]
allowance for retirees, survivors, or beneficiaries of state or school
employers.
   (c) Notwithstanding subdivisions (a) and (b), if the current net
earnings rate for state or school members exceeds the interest rate used
to credit the retired member accounts of state or school employers, in
addition to the amounts transferred to the separate accounts established
for state and school employers under Section 21337, the remaining
amounts shall be credited to employer accounts.
   (d) The current annual interest rate may be lower than the current
actuarial interest rate.
   SEC. 2. Section 21337 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   21337. (a) On an annual basis, the board shall transfer funds to
separate supplemental state and school accounts, to fund the purchasing
power protection allowance of retirees, survivors, and beneficiaries of
state or school employers, respectively. The amounts transferred shall be
the lesser of the following:
   (1) The amount necessary to increase all monthly allowances paid by
this system to retirees, survivors, and beneficiaries of state or school
employers to 75 percent of the purchasing power of the initial monthly
allowances.
   (2) 1.1 percent of the net earnings on state or school member
contributions, as determined by Section 20178.
   (b) The funds transferred to the two separate supplemental accounts
shall be utilized to increase all monthly allowances paid by this system
to retirees, survivors, and beneficiaries of state and school employers, up
to a maximum of 75 percent of the purchasing power, as determined by
the board, of the initial monthly allowances, notwithstanding the benefit
provided by Section 21328, that were received by every retired state or
school member or survivor or beneficiary of a state or school member
or retiree who was eligible to receive any allowance at the end of each
fiscal year. Funds remaining in the state or school account after the
payment of benefits under this section shall be transferred to the
respective state or school employer accounts.
   SEC. 3. Section 21337.1 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   21337.1. (a) As of January 1, 2001, and annually thereafter, all
monthly allowances paid by the system to retirees of contracting public
agencies, and to survivors and beneficiaries of members and retirees of
those agencies, shall be increased to 80 percent of the purchasing power
of the initial monthly allowance as determined by the board.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), retirees of contracting public
agencies, and survivors and beneficiaries of members and retirees of
those agencies, who receive a monthly allowance payable by this system
shall also receive, on or after January 1, 2001, a one-time lump-sum
payment in an amount equal to the difference, if any, between the
[Ch. 484 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3435

purchasing power protection allowance paid between January 1, 2000,
and December 31, 2000, and the purchasing power protection allowance
that would have been payable if this section had been operative during
that period.
   (c) The cost of the increase in allowances paid pursuant to
subdivisions (a) and (b) shall be paid from the same assets of the
employer used in the determination of each employer contribution rate
for each membership classification under which service was credited
that affects the allowance calculation of the retirees, survivors, or
beneficiaries.
   SEC. 4. This act shall be operative on July 1, 2000.
   SEC. 5. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to limit the erosion of the purchasing power of monthly
allowances paid to retirees, survivors, and beneficiaries of contracting
agencies, it is necessary that this act take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 484

  An act to add Section 3060.6 to the Penal Code, relating to parole.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3060.6 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   3060.6. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, on or after
January 1, 2001, whenever any paroled person is returned to custody or
has his or her parole revoked for conduct described in subparagraph (A)
of paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 290, the parole authority
shall report the circumstances that were the basis for the return to custody
or revocation of parole to the law enforcement agency and the district
attorney that has primary jurisdiction over the community in which the
circumstances occurred and to the Department of Corrections. Upon the
release of the paroled person, the Department of Corrections shall inform
the law enforcement agency and the district attorney that has primary
jurisdiction over the community in which the circumstances occurred
and, if different, the county in which the person is paroled or discharged,
 3436                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 485 ]
of the circumstances that were the basis for the return to custody or
revocation of parole.



                             CHAPTER 485

  An act to amend Sections 158, 202, 301.5, 305, 306, 503, 602, 603,
5220, 5512, 7220, 7512, 9220, 9412, 12360, 12462, 25014.7, 25100,
25101, and 25117 of, and to add Section 163.1 to, the Corporations
Code, and to amend Section 11521.2 of the Insurance Code, relating to
corporations.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 158 of the Corporations Code is amended to
read:
   158. (a) ‘‘Close corporation’’ means a corporation whose articles
contain, in addition to the provisions required by Section 202, a
provision that all of the corporation’s issued shares of all classes shall be
held of record by not more than a specified number of persons, not
exceeding 35, and a statement ‘‘This corporation is a close corporation.’’
   (b) The special provisions referred to in subdivision (a) may be
included in the articles by amendment, but if such amendment is adopted
after the issuance of shares only by the affirmative vote of all of the
issued and outstanding shares of all classes.
   (c) The special provisions referred to in subdivision (a) may be
deleted from the articles by amendment, or the number of shareholders
specified may be changed by amendment, but if such amendment is
adopted after the issuance of shares only by the affirmative vote of at
least two-thirds of each class of the outstanding shares; provided,
however, that the articles may provide for a lesser vote, but not less than
a majority of the outstanding shares, or may deny a vote to any class, or
both.
   (d) In determining the number of shareholders for the purposes of the
provision in the articles authorized by this section, a husband and wife
and the personal representative of either shall be counted as one
regardless of how shares may be held by either or both of them, a trust
or personal representative of a decedent holding shares shall be counted
as one regardless of the number of trustees or beneficiaries and a
partnership or corporation or business association holding shares shall
be counted as one (except that any such trust or entity the primary
[Ch. 485 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3437

purpose of which was the acquisition or voting of the shares shall be
counted according to the number of beneficial interests therein).
   (e) A corporation shall cease to be a close corporation upon the filing
of an amendment to its articles pursuant to subdivision (c) or if it shall
have more than the maximum number of holders of record of its shares
specified in its articles as a result of an inter vivos transfer of shares
which is not void under subdivision (d) of Section 418, the transfer of
shares on distribution by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and
distribution, the dissolution of a partnership or corporation or business
association or the termination of a trust which holds shares, by court
decree upon dissolution of a marriage or otherwise by operation of law.
Promptly upon acquiring more than the specified number of holders of
record of its shares, a close corporation shall execute and file an
amendment to its articles deleting the special provisions referred to in
subdivision (a) and deleting any other provisions not permissible for a
corporation which is not a close corporation, which amendment shall be
promptly approved and filed by the board and need not be approved by
the outstanding shares.
   (f) Nothing contained in this section shall invalidate any agreement
among the shareholders to vote for the deletion from the articles of the
special provisions referred to in subdivision (a) upon the lapse of a
specified period of time or upon the occurrence of a certain event or
condition or otherwise.
   (g) The following sections contain specific references to close
corporations: 186, 202, 204, 300, 418, 421, 1111, 1201, 1800 and 1904.
   SEC. 2. Section 163.1 is added to the Corporations Code, to read:
   163.1. For purposes of Section 503, ‘‘cumulative dividends in
arrears’’ means only cumulative dividends that have not been paid as
required on a scheduled payment date set forth in, or determined
pursuant to, the articles of incorporation, regardless of whether those
dividends had been declared prior to that scheduled payment date.
   SEC. 3. Section 202 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   202. The articles of incorporation shall set forth:
   (a) The name of the corporation; provided, however, that in order for
the corporation to be subject to the provisions of this division applicable
to a close corporation (Section 158), the name of the corporation must
contain the word ‘‘corporation’’, ‘‘incorporated’’ or ‘‘limited’’ or an
abbreviation of one of such words.
   (b) (1) The applicable one of the following statements:
   (i) The purpose of the corporation is to engage in any lawful act or
activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General
Corporation Law of California other than the banking business, the trust
company business or the practice of a profession permitted to be
incorporated by the California Corporations Code; or
 3438                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 485 ]
   (ii) The purpose of the corporation is to engage in the profession of
____ (with the insertion of a profession permitted to be incorporated by
the California Corporations Code) and any other lawful activities (other
than the banking or trust company business) not prohibited to a
corporation engaging in such profession by applicable laws and
regulations.
   (2) In case the corporation is a corporation subject to the Banking
Law, the articles shall set forth a statement of purpose which is
prescribed in the applicable provision of the Banking Law.
   (3) In case the corporation is a corporation subject to the Insurance
Code as an insurer, the articles shall additionally state that the business
of the corporation is to be an insurer.
   (4) If the corporation is intended to be a ‘‘professional corporation’’
within the meaning of the Moscone-Knox Professional Corporation Act
(Part 4 (commencing with Section 13400) of Division 3), the articles
shall additionally contain the statement required by Section 13404.
   The articles shall not set forth any further or additional statement with
respect to the purposes or powers of the corporation, except by way of
limitation or except as expressly required by any law of this state other
than this division or any federal or other statute or regulation (including
the Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder as a condition of
acquiring or maintaining a particular status for tax purposes).
   (c) The name and address in this state of the corporation’s initial agent
for service of process in accordance with subdivision (b) of Section
1502.
   (d) If the corporation is authorized to issue only one class of shares,
the total number of shares which the corporation is authorized to issue.
   (e) If the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of
shares, or if any class of shares is to have two or more series:
   (1) The total number of shares of each class the corporation is
authorized to issue, and the total number of shares of each series which
the corporation is authorized to issue or that the board is authorized to
fix the number of shares of any such series;
   (2) The designation of each class, and the designation of each series
or that the board may determine the designation of any such series; and
   (3) The rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to or
imposed upon the respective classes or series of shares or the holders
thereof, or that the board, within any limits and restrictions stated, may
determine or alter the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions
granted to or imposed upon any wholly unissued class of shares or any
wholly unissued series of any class of shares. As to any series the number
of shares of which is authorized to be fixed by the board, the articles may
also authorize the board, within the limits and restrictions stated therein
or stated in any resolution or resolutions of the board originally fixing
[Ch. 485 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3439

the number of shares constituting any series, to increase or decrease (but
not below the number of shares of such series then outstanding) the
number of shares of any such series subsequent to the issue of shares of
that series. In case the number of shares of any series shall be so
decreased, the shares constituting such decrease shall resume the status
which they had prior to the adoption of the resolution originally fixing
the number of shares of such series.
   SEC. 4. Section 301.5 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   301.5. (a) A listed corporation may, by amendment of its articles or
bylaws, adopt provisions to divide the board of directors into two or
three classes to serve for terms of two or three years respectively, or to
eliminate cumulative voting, or both. After the issuance of shares, a
corporation which is not a listed corporation may, by amendment of its
articles or bylaws, adopt provisions to be effective when the corporation
becomes a listed corporation to divide the board of directors into two or
three classes to serve for terms of two or three years respectively, or to
eliminate cumulative voting, or both. An article or bylaw amendment
providing for division of the board of directors into classes, or any
change in the number of classes, or the elimination of cumulative voting
may only be adopted by the approval of the board and the outstanding
shares (Section 152) voting as a single class, notwithstanding Section
903.
   (b) If the board of directors is divided into two classes pursuant to
subdivision (a), the authorized number of directors shall be no less than
six and one-half of the directors or as close an approximation as possible
shall be elected at each annual meeting of shareholders. If the board of
directors is divided into three classes, the authorized number of directors
shall be no less than nine and one-third of the directors or as close an
approximation as possible shall be elected at each annual meeting of
shareholders. Directors of a listed corporation may be elected by classes
at a meeting of shareholders at which an amendment to the articles or
bylaws described in subdivision (a) is approved, but the extended terms
for directors are contingent on that approval, and in the case of an
amendment to the articles, the filing of any necessary amendment to the
articles pursuant to Section 905 or 910.
   (c) If directors for more than one class are to be elected by the
shareholders at any one meeting of shareholders and the election is by
cumulative voting pursuant to Section 708, votes may be cumulated only
for directors to be elected within each class.
   (d) For purposes of this section, a ‘‘listed corporation’’ means any of
the following:
   (1) A corporation with outstanding shares listed on the New York
Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange.
 3440                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 485 ]
   (2) A corporation with outstanding securities listed on the National
Market System of the Nasdaq Stock Market (or any successor to that
entity).
   (e) Subject to subdivision (h), if a listed corporation having a board
of directors divided into classes pursuant to subdivision (a) ceases to be
a listed corporation for any reason, unless the articles of incorporation
or bylaws of the corporation provide for the elimination of classes of
directors at an earlier date or dates, the board of directors of the
corporation shall cease to be divided into classes as to each class of
directors on the date of the expiration of the term of the directors in that
class and the term of each director serving at the time the corporation
ceases to be a listed corporation (and the term of each director elected to
fill a vacancy resulting from the death, resignation, or removal of any of
those directors) shall continue until its expiration as if the corporation
had not ceased to be a listed corporation.
   (f) Subject to subdivision (h), if a listed corporation having a
provision in its articles or bylaws eliminating cumulative voting
pursuant to subdivision (a) or permitting noncumulative voting in the
election of directors pursuant to that subdivision, or both, ceases to be
a listed corporation for any reason, the shareholders shall be entitled to
cumulate their votes pursuant to Section 708 at any election of directors
occurring while the corporation is not a listed corporation
notwithstanding that provision in its articles of incorporation or bylaws.
   (g) Subject to subdivision (i), if a corporation that is not a listed
corporation adopts amendments to its articles of incorporation or bylaws
to divide its board of directors into classes or to eliminate cumulative
voting, or both, pursuant to subdivision (a) and then becomes a listed
corporation, unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws provide for
those provisions to become effective at some other time and, in cases
where classes of directors are provided for, identify the directors who,
or the directorships that, are to be in each class or the method by which
those directors or directorships are to be identified, the provisions shall
become effective for the next election of directors after the corporation
becomes a listed corporation at which all directors are to be elected.
   (h) If a corporation ceases to be a listed corporation on or after the
record date for a meeting of shareholders and prior to the conclusion of
the meeting, including the conclusion of the meeting after an
adjournment or postponement that does not require or result in the
setting of a new record date, then, solely for purposes of subdivisions (e)
and (f), the corporation shall not be deemed to have ceased to be a listed
corporation until the conclusion of the meeting of shareholders.
   (i) If a corporation becomes a listed corporation on or after the record
date for a meeting of shareholders and prior to the conclusion of the
meeting, including the conclusion of the meeting after an adjournment
[Ch. 485 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3441

or postponement that does not require or result in the setting of a new
record date, then, solely for purposes of subdivision (g), the corporation
shall not be deemed to have become a listed corporation until the
conclusion of the meeting of shareholders.
   (j) If an article amendment referred to in subdivision (a) is adopted by
a listed corporation, the certificate of amendment shall include a
statement of the facts showing that the corporation is a listed corporation
within the meaning of subdivision (d). If an article or bylaw amendment
referred to in subdivision (a) is adopted by a corporation which is not a
listed corporation, the provision, as adopted, shall include the following
statement or the substantial equivalent: ‘‘This provision shall become
effective only when the corporation becomes a listed corporation within
the meaning of Section 301.5 of the Corporations Code.’’
   SEC. 5. Section 305 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   305. (a) Unless otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws and
except for a vacancy created by the removal of a director, vacancies on
the board may be filled by approval of the board (Section 151) or, if the
number of directors then in office is less than a quorum, by (1) the
unanimous written consent of the directors then in office, (2) the
affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office at a meeting
held pursuant to notice or waivers of notice complying with Section 307
or (3) a sole remaining director. Unless the articles or a bylaw adopted
by the shareholders provide that the board may fill vacancies occurring
in the board by reason of the removal of directors, such vacancies may
be filled only by approval of the shareholders (Section 153).
   (b) The shareholders may elect a director at any time to fill any
vacancy not filled by the directors. Any such election by written consent
other than to fill a vacancy created by removal, which requires the
unanimous consent of all shares entitled to vote for the election of
directors, requires the consent of a majority of the outstanding shares
entitled to vote.
   (c) If, after the filling of any vacancy by the directors, the directors
then in office who have been elected by the shareholders shall constitute
less than a majority of the directors then in office, then both of the
following shall be applicable:
   (1) Any holder or holders of an aggregate of 5 percent or more of the
total number of shares at the time outstanding having the right to vote
for those directors may call a special meeting of shareholders, or
   (2) The superior court of the proper county shall, upon application of
such shareholder or shareholders, summarily order a special meeting of
shareholders, to be held to elect the entire board. The term of office of
any director shall terminate upon that election of a successor.
   The hearing on any application filed pursuant to this subdivision shall
be held on not less than 10 business days notice to the corporation. If the
 3442                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 485 ]
corporation intends to oppose the application, it shall file with the court
a notice of opposition not later than five business days prior to the date
set for the hearing. The application and any notice of opposition shall be
supported by appropriate affidavits and the court’s determination shall
be made on the basis of the papers in the record; but, for good cause
shown, the court may receive and consider at the hearing additional
evidence, oral or documentary, and additional points and authorities.
The hearing shall take precedence over all other matters not of a similar
nature pending on the date set for the hearing.
   (d) Any director may resign effective upon giving written notice to
the chairman of the board, the president, the secretary or the board of
directors of the corporation, unless the notice specifies a later time for
the effectiveness of such resignation. If the resignation is effective at a
future time, a successor may be elected to take office when the
resignation becomes effective.
   SEC. 6. Section 306 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   306. If (a) a corporation has not issued shares and all the directors
resign, die, or become incompetent, or (b) a corporation’s initial
directors have not been named in the articles, and all the incorporators
resign, die, or become incompetent prior to the election of the initial
directors, the superior court of any county may appoint directors of the
corporation upon application by any party in interest.
   SEC. 7. Section 503 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   503. Neither a corporation nor any of its subsidiaries shall make any
distribution to the corporation’s shareholders (Section 166) on any
shares of its stock of any class or series that are junior to outstanding
shares of any other class or series with respect to payment of dividends,
and as to which senior class or series the corporation has cumulative
dividends in arrears, unless the amount of the retained earnings of the
corporation immediately prior thereto equals or exceeds the amount of
the proposed distribution plus the aggregate amount of the cumulative
dividends in arrears on all shares having a preference with respect to
payment of dividends over the class or series to which the distribution
is made; provided, however, that for the purpose of applying this section
to a distribution by a corporation of cash or property in payment by the
corporation in connection with the purchase of its shares, there shall be
added to retained earnings all amounts that had been previously
deducted therefrom with respect to obligations incurred in connection
with the corporation’s repurchase of its shares and reflected on the
corporation’s balance sheet, but not in excess of the principal of the
obligations that remain unpaid immediately prior to the distribution;
provided, further, that no addition to retained earnings shall occur on
account of any obligation that is a distribution to the corporation’s
shareholders (Section 166) at the time the obligation is incurred.
[Ch. 485 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3443

   SEC. 8. Section 602 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   602. (a) Unless otherwise provided in the articles, a majority of the
shares entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute
a quorum at a meeting of the shareholders, but in no event shall a quorum
consist of less than one-third (or, in the case of a mutual water company,
20 percent) of the shares entitled to vote at the meeting or, except in the
case of a close corporation, of more than a majority of the shares entitled
to vote at the meeting. Except as provided in subdivision (b), the
affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented and voting at a
duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting
affirmatively also constitute at least a majority of the required quorum)
shall be the act of the shareholders, unless the vote of a greater number
or voting by classes is required by this division or the articles.
   (b) The shareholders present at a duly called or held meeting at which
a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment
notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less
than a quorum, if any action taken (other than adjournment) is approved
by at least a majority of the shares required to constitute a quorum or, if
required by this division or the articles, the vote of a greater number or
voting by classes.
   (c) In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of shareholders may be
adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the shares
represented either in person or by proxy, but no other business may be
transacted, except as provided in subdivision (b).
   SEC. 9. Section 603 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   603. (a) Unless otherwise provided in the articles, any action which
may be taken at any annual or special meeting of shareholders may be
taken without a meeting and without prior notice, if a consent in writing,
setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of
outstanding shares having not less than the minimum number of votes
that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at
which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.
   (b) Unless the consents of all shareholders entitled to vote have been
solicited in writing,
      (1) Notice of any shareholder approval pursuant to Section 310,
   317, 1201 or 2007 without a meeting by less than unanimous written
   consent shall be given at least 10 days before the consummation of the
   action authorized by such approval, and
      (2) Prompt notice shall be given of the taking of any other
   corporate action approved by shareholders without a meeting by less
   than unanimous written consent,
to those shareholders entitled to vote who have not consented in writing.
Subdivision (b) of Section 601 applies to such notice.
 3444                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 485 ]
   (c) Any shareholder giving a written consent, or the shareholder’s
proxyholders, or a transferee of the shares or a personal representative
of the shareholder or their respective proxyholders, may revoke the
consent by a writing received by the corporation prior to the time that
written consents of the number of shares required to authorize the
proposed action have been filed with the secretary of the corporation, but
may not do so thereafter. Such revocation is effective upon its receipt by
the secretary of the corporation.
   (d) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), directors may not be elected by
written consent except by unanimous written consent of all shares
entitled to vote for the election of directors; provided that the
shareholders may elect a director to fill a vacancy, other than a vacancy
created by removal, by the written consent of a majority of the
outstanding shares entitled to vote.
   SEC. 10. Section 5220 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   5220. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (d), directors shall be
elected for such terms, not longer than three years, as are fixed in the
articles or bylaws. However, the terms of directors of a corporation
without members may be up to six years. In the absence of any provision
in the articles or bylaws, the term shall be one year. The articles or bylaws
may provide for staggering the terms of directors by dividing the total
number of directors into groups of one or more directors. The terms of
office of the several groups and the number of directors in each group
need not be uniform. No amendment of the articles or bylaws may extend
the term of a director beyond that for which the director was elected, nor
may any bylaw provision increasing the terms of directors be adopted
without approval of the members (Section 5034).
   (b) Unless the articles or bylaws otherwise provide, each director,
including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until the
expiration of the term for which elected and until a successor has been
elected and qualified.
   (c) The articles or bylaws may provide for the election of one or more
directors by the members of any class voting as a class.
   (d) Subdivisions (a) through (c) notwithstanding, all or any portion
of the directors authorized in the articles or bylaws of a corporation may
hold office by virtue of designation or selection as provided by the
articles or bylaws rather than by election by a member or members. Such
directors shall continue in office for the term prescribed by the governing
article or bylaw provision, or, if there is no term prescribed, until the
governing article or bylaw provision is duly amended or repealed, except
as provided in subdivision (e) of Section 5222. A bylaw provision
authorized by this subdivision may be adopted, amended, or repealed
only by approval of the members (Section 5034), subject, if so provided
[Ch. 485 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3445

in the bylaws, to the consent of the person or persons entitled to designate
or select any such director or directors.
   (e) If a corporation has not issued memberships and (1) all the
directors resign, die, or become incompetent, or (2) a corporation’s
initial directors have not been named in the articles and all incorporators
resign, die, or become incompetent before the election of the initial
directors, the superior court of any county may appoint directors of the
corporation upon application by any party in interest.
   SEC. 11. Section 5512 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   5512. (a) One-third of the voting power, represented in person or by
proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of members, but, subject
to subdivisions (b) and (c), a bylaw may set a different quorum. Any
bylaw amendment to increase the quorum may be adopted only by
approval of the members (Section 5034). If a quorum is present, the
affirmative vote of the majority of the voting power represented at the
meeting, entitled to vote, and voting on any matter shall be the act of the
members, unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes is
required by this part or the articles or bylaws.
   (b) Where a bylaw authorizes a corporation to conduct a meeting with
a quorum of less than one-third of the voting power, then the only matters
that may be voted upon at any regular meeting actually attended, in
person or by proxy, by less than one-third of the voting power are matters
notice of the general nature of which was given, pursuant to the first
sentence of subdivision (a) of Section 5511.
   (c) Subject to subdivision (b), the members present at a duly called
or held meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact
business until adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough
members to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken (other than
adjournment) is approved by at least a majority of the members required
to constitute a quorum or, if required by this division or the articles or
the bylaws, the vote of a greater number or voting by classes.
   (d) In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of members may be
adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the votes
represented either in person or by proxy, but no other business may be
transacted, except as provided in subdivision (c).
   SEC. 12. Section 7220 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   7220. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (d), directors shall be
elected for such terms, not longer than four years, as are fixed in the
articles or bylaws. However, the terms of directors of a corporation
without members may be up to six years. In the absence of any provision
in the articles or bylaws, the term shall be one year. The articles or bylaws
may provide for staggering the terms of directors by dividing the total
number of directors into groups of one or more directors. The terms of
office of the several groups and the number of directors in each group
 3446                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 485 ]
need not be uniform. No amendment of the articles or bylaws may extend
the term of a director beyond that for which the director was elected, nor
may any bylaw provision increasing the terms of directors be adopted
without approval of the members (Section 5034).
   (b) Unless the articles or bylaws otherwise provide, each director,
including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until the
expiration of the term for which elected and until a successor has been
elected and qualified.
   (c) The articles or bylaws may provide for the election of one or more
directors by the members of any class voting as a class.
   (d) Subdivisions (a) through (c) notwithstanding, all or any portion
of the directors authorized in the articles or bylaws of a corporation may
hold office by virtue of designation or selection as provided by the
articles or bylaws rather than by election by a member or members. Such
directors shall continue in office for the term prescribed by the governing
article or bylaw provision, or, if there is no term prescribed, until the
governing article or bylaw provision is duly amended or repealed, except
as provided in subdivision (e) of Section 7222. A bylaw provision
authorized by this subdivision may be adopted, amended, or repealed
only by approval of the members (Section 5034).
   (e) If a corporation has not issued memberships and (1) all the
directors resign, die, or become incompetent, or (2) a corporation’s
initial directors have not been named in the articles and all incorporators
resign, die, or become incompetent before the election of the initial
directors, the superior court of any county may appoint directors of the
corporation upon application by any party in interest.
   SEC. 13. Section 7512 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   7512. (a) One-third of the voting power, represented in person or by
proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of members, but, subject
to subdivisions (b) and (c), a bylaw may set a different quorum. Any
bylaw amendment to increase the quorum may be adopted only by
approval of the members (Section 5034). If a quorum is present, the
affirmative vote of the majority of the voting power represented at the
meeting, entitled to vote, and voting on any matter shall be the act of the
members unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes is
required by this part or the articles or bylaws.
   (b) Where a bylaw authorizes a corporation to conduct a meeting with
a quorum of less than one-third of the voting power, then the only matters
that may be voted upon at any regular meeting actually attended, in
person or by proxy, by less than one-third of the voting power are matters
notice of the general nature of which was given, pursuant to the first
sentence of subdivision (a) of Section 7511.
   (c) Subject to subdivision (b), the members present at a duly called
or held meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact
[Ch. 485 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3447

business until adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough
members to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken (other than
adjournment) is approved by at least a majority of the members required
to constitute a quorum or, if required by this division, or by the articles
or the bylaws, the vote of the greater number or voting by classes.
   (d) In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of members may be
adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the votes
represented either in person or by proxy, but no other business may be
transacted, except as provided in subdivision (c).
   SEC. 14. Section 9220 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   9220. (a) The articles or bylaws may provide for the tenure,
election, selection, designation, removal, and resignation of directors.
   (b) In the absence of any provision in the articles or bylaws, the term
of directors shall be one year.
   (c) Unless the articles or bylaws otherwise provide, each director,
including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until the
expiration of the term for which elected and until a successor has been
elected and qualified.
   (d) If a corporation has not issued memberships and (1) all the
directors resign, die, or become incompetent, or (2) a corporation’s
initial directors have not been named in the articles and all incorporators
resign, die, or become incompetent before the election of the initial
directors, the superior court of any county may appoint directors of the
corporation upon application by any party in interest.
   SEC. 15. Section 9412 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   9412. (a) One-third of the voting power, represented in person, by
written ballot, or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of
members. If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of the majority of
the voting power represented at the meeting, entitled to vote, and voting
on any matter shall be the act of the members.
   (b) The members present at a duly called or held meeting at which a
quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment
notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough members to leave less than
a quorum, if any action taken (other than adjournment) is approved by
at least a majority of the members required to constitute a quorum or, if
required by this division, or by the articles or the bylaws, the vote of the
greater number or voting by classes.
   (c) In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of members may be
adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the votes
represented either in person or by proxy, but no other business may be
transacted, except as provided in subdivision (b).
   SEC. 16. Section 12360 of the Corporations Code is amended to
read:
 3448                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 485 ]
   12360. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (d), directors shall be
elected for such terms, not longer than four years, as are fixed in the
articles or bylaws. In the absence of any provision in the articles or
bylaws, the terms shall be one year. No amendment of the articles or
bylaws may extend the term of a director beyond that for which the
director was elected, nor may any bylaw provision increasing the terms
of directors be adopted without approval of the members.
   (b) Unless the articles or bylaws otherwise provide, each director,
including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until the
expiration of the term for which elected and until a successor has been
elected and qualified.
   (c) The articles or bylaws may prescribe requirements for eligibility
for election as a director.
   (d) Subdivisions (a) through (c) notwithstanding, all or any portion
of the directors authorized in the articles or bylaws of a corporation may
hold office by virtue of designation or selection as provided by the
articles or bylaws rather than by election by a member or members. Such
directors shall continue in office for the term prescribed by the governing
article or bylaw provision, or, if there is no term prescribed, until the
governing article or bylaw provision is duly amended or repealed, except
as provided in subdivision (f) of Section 12362. A bylaw provision
authorized by this subdivision may be adopted, amended, or repealed
only by approval of the members (Section 12224).
   (e) If a corporation has not issued memberships and (1) all the
directors resign, die, or become incompetent, or (2) a corporation’s
initial directors have not been named in the articles and all incorporators
resign, die, or become incompetent before the election of the initial
directors, the superior court of any county may appoint directors of the
corporation upon application by any party in interest.
   SEC. 17. Section 12462 of the Corporations Code is amended to
read:
   12462. (a) The lesser of 250 members or members representing 5
percent of the voting power, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of
members, but, subject to subdivisions (b) and (c), a bylaw may set a
different quorum. Any bylaw amendment to increase the quorum may
be adopted only by approval of the members (Section 12224). If a
quorum is present, the affirmative vote of the majority of the voting
power represented at the meeting, entitled to vote, and voting on any
matter shall be the act of the members unless the vote of a greater number
or voting by classes is required by this part or the articles or bylaws.
   (b) Where a corporation is authorized to conduct a meeting with a
quorum of less than one-third of the voting power, then the only matters
that may be voted upon at any regular meeting actually attended by less
than one-third of the voting power are matters notice of the general
[Ch. 485 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3449

nature of which was given, pursuant to the first sentence of subdivision
(a) of Section 12461.
   (c) Subject to subdivision (b), the members present at a duly called
or held meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact
business until adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough
members to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken (other than
adjournment) is approved by at least a majority of the members required
to constitute a quorum or, if required by this division or the articles or
the bylaws, the vote of the greater number or voting by classes.
   (d) In the absence of a quorum, any meeting of members may be
adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the votes
represented in person, but no other business may be transacted, except
as provided in subdivision (c).
   SEC. 18. Section 25014.7 of the Corporations Code is amended to
read:
   25014.7. (a) ‘‘Eligible rollup transaction’’ means a rollup
transaction in which the new securities issued are either listed or
approved for listing on a national securities exchange or on the National
Market System of the Nasdaq Stock Market (or any successor to that
entity), where the national securities exchange and the Nasdaq Stock
Market (or its successor) have been certified by the commissioner under
subdivision (o) of Section 25100, if the exchange or Nasdaq Stock
Market (or its successor) requires as a condition to listing or designation
that the rollup transaction be conducted in accordance with procedures
to protect the rights of limited partners.
   (b) The rights of limited partners will be presumed to be protected if
the rollup transaction provides for the right of dissenting limited
partners:
   (1) To receive compensation for their limited partnership units based
on an appraisal of the limited partnership assets performed by an
independent appraiser unaffiliated with the sponsor or general partner of
the limited partnership and which value the assets as if sold in an orderly
manner in a reasonable period of time, plus or minus other balance sheet
items, and less the cost of sale or refinancing. Compensation to
dissenting limited partners of rollup transactions may be cash, secured
debt instruments, unsecured debt instruments, or freely tradeable
securities; provided, however, that:
   (A) Rollups which utilize debt instruments as compensation provide
for a trustee and an indenture to protect the rights of the debt holders and
provide a rate of interest based upon, but not less than, the then
applicable federal rate as determined in accordance with Section 1274
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
   (B) Rollups which utilize unsecured debt instruments as
compensation, in addition to the requirements of subparagraph (A) of
 3450                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 485 ]
paragraph (1), limit total leverage to 70 percent of the appraised value
of the assets.
   (C) All debt securities have a term no greater than seven years and
provide for prepayment with 80 percent of the net proceeds of any sale
or refinancing of the assets previously owned by the entity or any part
thereof.
   (D) Freely tradeable securities utilized as compensation to dissenting
limited partners must be issued by an issuer whose securities are listed
on a certified national securities exchange or listed on the National
Market System of the Nasdaq Market System (or its successor), if so
certified, for at least one year prior to the transaction, and the number of
securities to be received in return for limited partnership interests must
be determined by an appraisal of limited partnership assets, conducted
in a manner consistent with paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), in relation
to the average last sale price of the freely tradeable securities in the
20-day period following the transaction. If the issuer of the freely
tradeable securities is affiliated with the sponsor or general partner,
newly issued securities to be utilized as compensation to dissenting
limited partners shall not represent more than 20 percent of the issued
and outstanding shares of that class of securities after giving effect to the
issuance. For the purposes of the preceding sentence, a sponsor or
general partner is ‘‘affiliated’’ with the issuer of the freely tradeable
securities if the sponsor or general partner receives any material
compensation from the issuer or its affiliates in conjunction with the
rollup transaction or the purchase of the general partner’s interest;
provided, however, that nothing herein shall restrict the ability of a
sponsor or general partner to receive any payment for its equity interests
and compensation as otherwise provided by this section.
   (2) To receive or retain a security with substantially the same terms
and conditions as the security originally held, provided that the receipt
or retention of that security is not a step in a series of subsequent
transactions that directly or indirectly through acquisition or otherwise
involves future combinations or reorganizations of one or more rollup
participants. Securities received or retained will be considered to have
the same terms and conditions as the security originally held if:
   (A) There is no material adverse change to dissenting limited
partners’ rights, including, but not limited to, rights with respect to
voting, the business plan, or the investment, distribution, management
compensation and liquidation policies of the limited partnership or
resulting entity.
   (B) The dissenting limited partners receive the same preferences,
privileges, and priorities as they had pursuant to the security originally
held.
[Ch. 485 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3451

   The rights set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) are the only rights of
dissenting limited partners to which the presumption under subdivision
(b) applies. A general partner or sponsor shall file an application for
qualification pursuant to Section 25110 or Section 25120 with respect
to any other rights proposed to be offered to dissenting limited partners.
   At the time a registration statement is filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission with respect to an eligible rollup transaction, a
general partner or sponsor shall notify, to the maximum extent permitted
by the federal securities laws, each limited partner who has an address
in this state by certified mail of the following: That a registration
statement has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
with respect to a rollup transaction; that the general partner or sponsor
claims an exemption from the review process under the law by virtue of
Section 25014.7, which defines ‘‘eligible rollup transaction’’; that the
general partner or sponsor has the burden of proof under the law that the
transaction meets the definition of eligible rollup transaction; and that
the commissioner does not recommend or endorse the transaction.
   (c) The rights of limited partners shall be presumed not to be
protected if the general partner:
   (1) Converts an equity interest in the limited partnerships subject to
a rollup for which consideration was not paid and which was not
otherwise provided for in the limited partnership agreement and
disclosed to limited partners, into a voting interest in the new entity,
provided, however, an interest originally obtained in order to comply
with the provisions of Internal Revenue Service Revenue Proclamation
89-12 may be converted.
   (2) Fails to follow the valuation provisions in the limited partnership
agreements of the subject limited partners when valuing their limited
partnership interests.
   (3) Utilizes a future value of their equity interest rather than the
current value of their equity interest, as determined by an appraisal
conducted in a manner consistent with paragraph (1) of subdivision (b),
when determining their interest in the new entity.
   (d) The rights of limited partners shall be presumed not to be
protected as to voting rights, if:
   (1) The voting rights in the entity resulting from a rollup do not
generally follow the original voting rights of the limited partnerships
participating in the rollup transaction.
   (2) A majority of the interest in an entity resulting from a rollup
transaction may not, without concurrence by the sponsor, general
partners, board of directors or trustee, depending on the form of entity,
vote to:
   (A) Amend the limited partnership agreement, articles of
incorporation or bylaws, or indenture.
 3452                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 485 ]
   (B) Dissolve the entity.
   (C) Remove management and elect new management.
   (D) Approve or disapprove the sale of substantially all of the assets
of the entity.
   (3) The general partner or sponsor proposing a rollup is not required
to provide each person whose equity interest is subject to the rollup
transaction with a document which instructs the person on the proper
procedure for voting against or dissenting from the rollup transaction.
   (4) The general partner or sponsor does not utilize an independent
third party to receive and tabulate all votes and dissents, and require that
the third party make the tabulation available to the general partner and
any limited partner upon request at any time during and after voting
occurs.
   (e) The rights of limited partners shall be presumed not to be
protected as to transaction costs if:
   (1) Limited partners bear an unfair portion of the transaction costs of
a proposed rollup transaction that is rejected. For purposes of this
provision, transaction costs are defined as the costs of printing and
mailing the proxy, prospectus, or other documents; legal fees not related
to the solicitation of votes or tenders; financial advisory fees; investment
banking fees; appraisal fees; accounting fees; independent committee
expenses; travel expenses; and all other fees related to the preparatory
work of the transaction, but not including costs that would have
otherwise been incurred by the subject limited partnerships in the
ordinary course of business, or solicitation expenses.
   (2) Transaction costs of a rejected rollup transaction are not
apportioned between general and limited partners of the subject limited
partnerships according to the final vote on the proposed transaction as
follows:
   (A) The general partner or sponsor bears all rollup transaction costs
in proportion to the number of votes to reject the rollup transaction.
   (B) Limited partners bear transaction costs in proportion to the
number of votes to approve the rollup transaction.
   (3) The dissenting limited partnership is required to pay any of the
costs of the rollup transaction and the general partner or sponsor is not
required to pay the rollup transaction costs on behalf of the dissenting
limited partnerships in a rollup in which one or more limited
partnerships determines not to approve the transaction, but where the
rollup transaction is consummated with respect to one or more
approving limited partnerships.
   (f) The rights of limited partners shall be presumed not to be protected
as to fees of general partners and sponsors, if:
   (1) General partners and sponsors are not prevented from receiving
both unearned management fees discounted to a present value, if those
[Ch. 485 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3453

fees were not previously provided for in the limited partnership
agreement and disclosed to limited partners, and new asset-based fees.
   (2) Property management fees and other management fees are not
appropriate, not reasonable and greater than what would be paid to third
parties for performing similar services.
   (3) Changes in fees which are substantial and adverse to limited
partners are not approved by an independent committee according to the
facts and circumstances of each transaction.
   (g) A general partner or sponsor proposing a rollup transaction shall
pay all solicitation expenses related to the transaction, including all
preparatory work related thereto, in the event the rollup transaction is not
approved. For purposes of this section, ‘‘solicitation expenses’’ include
direct marketing expenses such as telephone calls, broker-dealer fact
sheets, legal and other fees related to the solicitation, as well as direct
solicitation compensation to brokers and dealers.
   (h) A broker or dealer may not receive compensation for soliciting
votes or tenders from limited partners in connection with a rollup
transaction unless that compensation:
   (1) Is payable and equal in amount regardless of whether the limited
partner votes affirmatively or negatively in the proposed rollup.
   (2) In the aggregate, does not exceed 2 percent of the exchange value
of the newly created securities.
   (3) Is paid regardless of whether the limited partners reject the
proposed rollup transaction.
   (i) As used in this section, the following terms have the following
meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Limited partnership’’ includes any entity determined to be a
‘‘partnership’’ pursuant to Section 14(h)(4)(B) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 or such other entity having a substantially
economically equivalent form of ownership instrument.
   (2) ‘‘Dissenting limited partner’’ means a holder or a beneficial
interest in a limited partnership that is the subject of a rollup transaction
who casts a vote against the rollup transaction, except that for purposes
of an exchange or tender offer dissenting limited partner means any
person who files a dissent from the terms of the transaction with the party
responsible for tabulating the votes or tenders, to be received in
connection with the transaction during the period in which the offer is
outstanding.
   (3) ‘‘Management fee’’ means a fee paid to the sponsor, general
partner, their affiliates, or other persons for management and
administration of the limited partnership.
   SEC. 19. Section 25100 of the Corporations Code is amended to
read:
 3454                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 485 ]
   25100. The following securities are exempted from Sections 25110,
25120, and 25130:
   (a) Any security (including a revenue obligation) issued or
guaranteed by the United States, any state, any city, county, city and
county, public district, public authority, public corporation, public
entity, or political subdivision of a state or any agency or corporate or
other instrumentality of any one or more of the foregoing; or any
certificate of deposit for any of the foregoing.
   (b) Any security issued or guaranteed by Canada, any Canadian
province, any political subdivision or municipality of that province, or
by any other foreign government with which the United States currently
maintains diplomatic relations, if the security is recognized as a valid
obligation by the issuer or guarantor; or any certificate of deposit for any
of the foregoing.
   (c) Any security issued or guaranteed by and representing an interest
in or a direct obligation of a national bank or a bank or trust company
incorporated under the laws of this state, and any security issued by a
bank to one or more other banks and representing an interest in an asset
of the issuing bank.
   (d) Any security issued or guaranteed by a federal savings association
or federal savings bank or federal land bank or joint land bank or national
farm loan association or by any savings association, as defined in
subdivision (a) of Section 5102 of the Financial Code, which is subject
to the supervision and regulation of the Commissioner of Financial
Institutions of this state.
   (e) Any security (other than an interest in all or portions of a parcel
or parcels of real property which are subdivided land or a subdivision or
in a real estate development), the issuance of which is subject to
authorization by the Insurance Commissioner, the Public Utilities
Commission, or the Real Estate Commissioner of this state.
   (f) Any security consisting of any interest in all or portions of a parcel
or parcels of real property which are subdivided lands or a subdivision
or in a real estate development; provided that the exemption in this
subdivision shall not be applicable to: (1) any investment contract sold
or offered for sale with, or as part of, that interest, or (2) any person
engaged in the business of selling, distributing, or supplying water for
irrigation purposes or domestic use that is not a public utility except that
the exemption is applicable to any security of a mutual water company
(other than an investment contract as described in paragraph (1)) offered
or sold in connection with subdivided lands pursuant to Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 14310) of Part 7 of Division 3 of Title 1.
   (g) Any mutual capital certificates or savings accounts, as defined in
the Savings Association Law, issued by a savings association, as defined
by subdivision (a) of Section 5102 of the Financial Code, and holding
[Ch. 485 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3455

a license or certificate of authority then in force from the Commissioner
of Financial Institutions of this state.
   (h) Any security issued or guaranteed by any federal credit union, or
by any credit union organized and supervised, or regulated, under the
Credit Union Law.
   (i) Any security issued or guaranteed by any railroad, other common
carrier, public utility, or public utility holding company which is (1)
subject to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission or its
successor or (2) a holding company registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company Act
of 1935 or a subsidiary of that company within the meaning of that act
or (3) regulated in respect of the issuance or guarantee of the security by
a governmental authority of the United States, of any state, of Canada
or of any Canadian province; and the security is subject to registration
with or authorization of issuance by that authority.
   (j) Any security (except evidences of indebtedness, whether interest
bearing or not) of an issuer (1) organized exclusively for educational,
benevolent, fraternal, religious, charitable, social, or reformatory
purposes and not for pecuniary profit, if no part of the net earnings of the
issuer inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, or
(2) organized as a chamber of commerce or trade or professional
association. The fact that amounts received from memberships or dues
or both will or may be used to construct or otherwise acquire facilities
for use by members of the nonprofit organization does not disqualify the
organization for this exemption. This exemption does not apply to the
securities of any nonprofit organization if any promoter thereof expects
or intends to make a profit directly or indirectly from any business or
activity associated with the organization or operation of that nonprofit
organization or from remuneration received from that nonprofit
organization.
   (k) Any agreement, commonly known as a ‘‘life income contract,’’
of an issuer (1) organized exclusively for educational, benevolent,
fraternal, religious, charitable, social, or reformatory purposes and not
for pecuniary profit and (2) which the commissioner designates by rule
or order, with a donor in consideration of a donation of property to that
issuer and providing for the payment to the donor or persons designated
by him or her of income or specified periodic payments from the donated
property or other property for the life of the donor or those other persons.
   (l) Any note, draft, bill of exchange, or banker’s acceptance which is
freely transferable and of prime quality, arises out of a current transaction
or the proceeds of which have been or are to be used for current
transactions, and which evidences an obligation to pay cash within nine
months of the date of issuance, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal
of that paper which is likewise limited, or any guarantee of that paper or
 3456                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 485 ]
of that renewal, provided that the paper is not offered to the public in
amounts of less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in the
aggregate to any one purchaser. In addition, the commissioner may, by
rule or order, exempt any issuer of any notes, drafts, bills of exchange
or banker’s acceptances from qualification of those securities when the
commissioner finds that the qualification is not necessary or appropriate
in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
   (m) Any security issued by any corporation organized and existing
under the provisions of Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 54001) of
Division 20 of the Food and Agricultural Code.
   (n) Any beneficial interest in an employees’ pension, profit-sharing,
stock bonus or similar benefit plan which meets the requirements for
qualification under Section 401 of the federal Internal Revenue Code or
any statute amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto. A
determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service stating that an
employees’ pension, profit-sharing, stock bonus or similar benefit plan
meets those requirements shall be conclusive evidence that the plan is
an employees’ pension, profit-sharing, stock bonus or similar benefit
plan within the meaning of the first sentence of this subdivision until the
date the determination letter is revoked in writing by the Internal
Revenue Service, regardless of whether or not the revocation is
retroactive.
   (o) Any security listed or approved for listing upon notice of issuance
on a national securities exchange or on the National Market System of
the Nasdaq Stock Market (or any successor to that entity), if the
exchange or Nasdaq Stock Market (or its successor) has been certified
by rule or order of the commissioner and any warrant or right to purchase
or subscribe to the security. The exemption afforded by this subdivision
does not apply to securities listed or approved for listing upon notice of
issuance on a national securities exchange or on the National Market
System of the Nasdaq Stock Market (or its successor), in a rollup
transaction unless the rollup transaction is an eligible rollup transaction
as defined in Section 25014.7.
   That certification of any exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market (or its
successor) shall be made by the commissioner upon the written request
of the exchange or Nasdaq Stock Market (or its successor) if the
commissioner finds that the exchange or Nasdaq Stock Market (or its
successor): (i) in acting on applications for listing of common stock
substantially applies the minimum standards set forth in either
alternative (A) or (B) of paragraph (1), and (ii) in considering suspension
or removal from listing, substantially applies each of the criteria set forth
in paragraph (2).
   (1) Listing standards:
[Ch. 485 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3457

   (A) (i) Shareholders’ equity of at least four million dollars
($4,000,000).
   (ii) Pretax income of at least seven hundred fifty thousand dollars
($750,000) in the issuer’s last fiscal year or in two of its last three fiscal
years.
   (iii) Minimum public distribution of 500,000 shares (exclusive of the
holdings of officers, directors, controlling shareholders, and other
concentrated or family holdings), together with a minimum of 800
public holders or minimum public distribution of 1,000,000 shares
together with a minimum of 400 public holders. The exchange or Nasdaq
Stock Market (or its successor) may also consider the listing of a
company’s securities if the company has a minimum of 500,000 shares
publicly held, a minimum of 400 shareholders and daily trading volume
in the issue has been approximately 2,000 shares or more for the six
months preceding the date of application. In evaluating the suitability of
an issue for listing under this trading provision, the exchange or Nasdaq
Stock Market (or its successor) shall review the nature and frequency of
that activity and any other factors as it may determine to be relevant in
ascertaining whether the issue is suitable for trading. A security that
trades infrequently shall not be considered for listing under this
paragraph even though average daily volume amounts to 2,000 shares
per day or more.
   Companies whose securities are concentrated in a limited
geographical area, or whose securities are largely held in block by
institutional investors, normally may not be considered eligible for
listing unless the public distribution appreciably exceeds 500,000
shares.
   (iv) Minimum price of three dollars ($3) per share for a reasonable
period of time prior to the filing of a listing application; provided,
however, in certain instances an exchange or Nasdaq Stock Market (or
its successor) may favorably consider listing an issue selling for less than
three dollars ($3) per share after considering all pertinent factors,
including market conditions in general, whether historically the issue
has sold above three dollars ($3) per share, the applicant’s capitalization,
and the number of outstanding and publicly held shares of the issue.
   (v) An aggregate market value for publicly held shares of at least three
million dollars ($3,000,000).
   (B) (i) Shareholders’ equity of at least four million dollars
($4,000,000).
   (ii) Minimum public distribution set forth in clause (iii) of
subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1).
   (iii) Operating history of at least three years.
   (iv) An aggregate market value for publicly held shares of at least
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
 3458                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 485 ]
   (2) Criteria for consideration of suspension or removal from listing:
   (i) If a company that (A) has shareholders’ equity of less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000) has sustained net losses in each of its two
most recent fiscal years, or (B) has net tangible assets of less than three
million dollars ($3,000,000) and has sustained net losses in three of its
four most recent fiscal years.
   (ii) If the number of shares publicly held (excluding the holdings of
officers, directors, controlling shareholders and other concentrated or
family holdings) is less than 150,000.
   (iii) If the total number of shareholders is less than 400 or if the
number of shareholders of lots of 100 shares or more is less than 300.
   (iv) If the aggregate market value of shares publicly held is less than
seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000).
   (v) If shares of common stock sell at a price of less than three dollars
($3) per share for a substantial period of time and the issuer shall fail to
effectuate a reverse stock split of the shares within a reasonable period
of time after being requested by the exchange to take that action.
   A national securities exchange or Nasdaq Stock Market (or its
successor), certified by rule or order of the commissioner under this
subdivision, shall file annual reports when requested to do so by the
commissioner. The annual reports shall contain, by issuer: the variances
granted to an exchange’s listing standards or Nasdaq Stock Market’s (or
its successor) criteria, including variances from corporate governance
and voting rights’ standards, for any security of that issuer; the reasons
for the variances; a discussion of the review procedure instituted by the
exchange or Nasdaq Stock Market (or its successor) to determine the
effect of the variances on investors and whether the variances should be
continued; and any other information that the commissioner deems
relevant. The purpose of these reports is to assist the commissioner in
determining whether the quantitative and qualitative requirements of
this subdivision are substantially being met by the exchange in general
or with regard to any particular security.
   The commissioner after appropriate notice and opportunity for
hearing in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative
Procedure Act, Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1
of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, may, in his or her
discretion, by rule or order, decertify any exchange or Nasdaq Stock
Market (or its successor) previously certified that ceases substantially to
apply the minimum standards or criteria as set forth in paragraphs (1) and
(2).
   A rule or order of certification shall conclusively establish that any
security listed or approved for listing upon notice of issuance on any
exchange, or listed on the National Market System of the Nasdaq Stock
Market (or its successor), named in a rule or order of certification, and
[Ch. 485 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3459

any warrant or right to purchase or subscribe to that security, is exempt
under this subdivision until the adoption by the commissioner of any
rule or order decertifying the exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market (or
its successor).
   (p) A promissory note secured by a lien on real property, which is
neither one of a series of notes of equal priority secured by interests in
the same real property nor a note in which beneficial interests are sold
to more than one person or entity.
   (q) Any unincorporated interindemnity or reciprocal or
interinsurance contract, that qualifies under the provisions of Section
1280.7 of the Insurance Code, between members of a cooperative
corporation, organized and operating under Part 2 (commencing with
Section 12200) of Division 3 of Title 1, and whose members consist only
of physicians and surgeons licensed in California, which contracts
indemnify solely in respect to medical malpractice claims against the
members, and which do not collect in advance of loss any moneys other
than contributions by each member to a collective reserve trust fund or
for necessary expenses of administration.
   (1) Whenever it appears to the commissioner that any person has
engaged or is about to engage in any act or practice constituting a
violation of any provision of Section 1280.7 of the Insurance Code, the
commissioner may, in the commissioner’s discretion, bring an action in
the name of the people of the State of California in the superior court to
enjoin the acts or practices or to enforce compliance with Section 1280.7
of the Insurance Code. Upon a proper showing a permanent or
preliminary injunction, a restraining order, or a writ of mandate shall be
granted and a receiver or conservator may be appointed for the defendant
or the defendant’s assets.
   (2) The commissioner may, in the commissioner’s discretion, (A)
make public or private investigations within or outside of this state as the
commissioner deems necessary to determine whether any person has
violated or is about to violate any provision of Section 1280.7 of the
Insurance Code or to aid in the enforcement of Section 1280.7, and (B)
publish information concerning the violation of Section 1280.7.
   (3) For the purpose of any investigation or proceeding under this
section, the commissioner or any officer designated by the
commissioner may administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena
witnesses, compel their attendance, take evidence, and require the
production of any books, papers, correspondence, memoranda,
agreements, or other documents or records which the commissioner
deems relevant or material to the inquiry.
   (4) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena issued to,
any person, the superior court, upon application by the commissioner,
may issue to the person an order requiring the person to appear before
 3460                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 485 ]
the commissioner, or the officer designated by the commissioner, to
produce documentary evidence, if so ordered, or to give evidence
touching the matter under investigation or in question. Failure to obey
the order of the court may be punished by the court as a contempt.
   (5) No person is excused from attending or testifying or from
producing any document or record before the commissioner or in
obedience to the subpoena of the commissioner or any officer designated
by the commissioner, or in any proceeding instituted by the
commissioner, on the ground that the testimony or evidence
(documentary or otherwise), required of the person may tend to
incriminate the person or subject the person to a penalty or forfeiture, but
no individual may be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty or forfeiture
for or on account of any transaction, matter, or thing concerning which
the person is compelled, after validly claiming the privilege against
self-incrimination, to testify or produce evidence (documentary or
otherwise), except that the individual testifying is not exempt from
prosecution and punishment for perjury or contempt committed in
testifying.
  (6) The cost of any review, examination, audit, or investigation made
by the commissioner under Section 1280.7 of the Insurance Code shall
be paid to the commissioner by the person subject to the review,
examination, audit, or investigation, and the commissioner may
maintain an action for the recovery of these costs in any court of
competent jurisdiction. In determining the cost, the commissioner may
use the actual amount of the salary or other compensation paid to the
persons making the review, examination, audit, or investigation plus the
actual amount of expenses including overhead reasonably incurred in the
performance of the work.
  The recoverable cost of each review, examination, audit, or
investigation made by the commissioner under Section 1280.7 of the
Insurance Code shall not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000),
except that costs exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) shall
be recoverable if the costs are necessary to prevent a violation of any
provision of Section 1280.7 of the Insurance Code.
  (r) Any shares or memberships issued by any corporation organized
and existing pursuant to the provisions of Part 2 (commencing with
Section 12200) of Division 3 of Title 1, provided the aggregate
investment of any shareholder or member in shares or memberships sold
pursuant to this subdivision does not exceed three hundred dollars
($300). This exemption does not apply to the shares or memberships of
that corporation if any promoter thereof expects or intends to make a
profit directly or indirectly from any business or activity associated with
the corporation or the operation of the corporation or from remuneration,
other than reasonable salary, received from the corporation. This
[Ch. 485 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3461

exemption does not apply to nonvoting shares or memberships of that
corporation issued to any person who does not possess, and who will not
acquire in connection with the issuance of nonvoting shares or
memberships, voting power (Section 12253) in the corporation. This
exemption also does not apply to shares or memberships issued by a
nonprofit cooperative corporation organized to facilitate the creation of
an unincorporated interindemnity arrangement that provides
indemnification for medical malpractice to its physician and surgeon
members as set forth in subdivision (q).
   (s) Any security consisting of or representing an interest in a pool of
mortgage loans that meets each of the following requirements:
   (1) The pool consists of whole mortgage loans or participation
interests in those loans, which loans were originated or acquired in the
ordinary course of business by a national bank or federal savings
association or federal savings bank having its principal office in this
state, by a bank incorporated under the laws of this state or by a savings
association as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 5102 of the Financial
Code and which is subject to the supervision and regulation of the
Commissioner of Financial Institutions, and each of which at the time
of transfer to the pool is an authorized investment for the originating or
acquiring institution.
   (2) The pool of mortgage loans is held in trust by a trustee which is
a financial institution specified in paragraph (1) as trustee or otherwise.
   (3) The loans are serviced by a financial institution specified in
paragraph (1).
   (4) The security is not offered in amounts of less than twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000) in the aggregate to any one purchaser.
   (5) The security is offered pursuant to a registration under the
Securities Act of 1933, or pursuant to an exemption under Regulation
A under that act, or in the opinion of counsel for the issuer, is offered
pursuant to an exemption under Section 4(2) of that act.
   (t) (1) Any security issued or guaranteed by and representing an
interest in or a direct obligation of an industrial loan company
incorporated under the laws of the state and authorized by the
Commissioner of Financial Institutions to engage in industrial loan
business.
   (2) Any investment certificate in or issued by any industrial loan
company that is organized under the laws of a state of the United States
other than this state, that is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, and that maintains a branch office in this state.
   SEC. 20. Section 25101 of the Corporations Code is amended to
read:
   25101. The following securities are exempt from the provisions of
Section 25130:
 3462                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 485 ]
   (a) Any security issued by a person that is the issuer of any security
listed on a national securities exchange, or on the National Market
System of the Nasdaq Stock Market (or any successor to that entity), if
the exchange or Nasdaq Stock Market (or its successor) is certified by
rule or order of the commissioner.
   (b) The exemption provided by subdivision (a) does not apply to
securities offered pursuant to a registration under the Securities Act of
1933 or pursuant to the exemption afforded by Regulation A under that
act if the aggregate offering price of the securities offered pursuant to that
exemption exceeds fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).
   SEC. 21. Section 25117 of the Corporations Code is amended to
read:
   25117. (a) An evidence of indebtedness, and the purchasers or
holders thereof, shall be exempt from the usury provisions of Section 1
of Article XV of the California Constitution if (1) the evidence of
indebtedness is rated or provisionally rated by Standard & Poor’s
Corporation as AAA, AA, A, BBB, or investment grade commercial
paper, or by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. as Aaa, Aa, A, Baa, or
investment grade commercial paper, including any such ratings with
‘‘+’’ or ‘‘y’’ designation or other variations that occur within these
ratings, or has a rating or a provisional rating by another nationally
recognized rating agency or system, which rating and agency or system
have been certified by rule or order of the commissioner, or (2) the issuer
thereof either (A) has any security listed or approved for listing upon
notice of issuance on a national securities exchange or on the National
Market System of the Nasdaq Stock Market (or any successor to that
entity), if the exchange or Nasdaq Stock Market (or its successor) has
been certified by the commissioner, pursuant to subdivision (o) of
Section 25100, or (B) meets each of the following requirements:
   (i) The issuer is a corporation which is subject to Section 13 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
   (ii) The issuer had total shareholders’ equity of at least one million
dollars ($1,000,000) at the end of its most recent fiscal year, and had
consolidated net income, after all charges, including taxes and
extraordinary losses, and excluding extraordinary gains, of at least five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) for three of its last four fiscal years,
including its most recent fiscal year. The determination of total
shareholders’ equity and net income shall be determined in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles applicable to that fiscal
year or years, on a consolidated basis, or (3) the evidence of indebtedness
is issued by any corporation all of the outstanding shares of which are
owned by an issuer which meets the requirements of subparagraph (A)
or (B) of paragraph (2).
[Ch. 486 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3463

   (b) This section creates and authorizes a class of transactions and
persons pursuant to Section 1 of Article XV of the California
Constitution.
   (c) Any evidence of indebtedness issued in compliance with this
section shall be entitled to the benefits of the usury exemption contained
in this section regardless of whether subsequent to its issuance the
evidence of indebtedness is determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be a ‘‘security.’’
   SEC. 22. Section 11521.2 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
   11521.2. (a) The reserve required by the table of commensurate
values for each annuity contract issued must be invested in investments
specified in Sections 1170 through 1182 except that a certificate holder
may invest in securities listed and traded on the New York Stock
Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or regional stock exchanges
or the National Market System of the Nasdaq Stock Market or successors
to such exchanges or market having the same qualifications, to the extent
of the lesser of net worth (assets over liabilities and reserves) of the
certificate holder or 10 percent of such general investments. This section
does not permit investment in options or commodity exchanges.
   (b) The certificate holder may invest in such other investments as
permitted by and subject to the written consent of the commissioner.



                             CHAPTER 486

   An act to amend Section 31520.5 of the Government Code, relating
to county employees’ retirement.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 31520.5 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   31520.5. Notwithstanding Section 31520.1, the board of retirement
of a county of the 13th or 14th class, as defined by Sections 28020,
28034, and 28035, as amended by Chapter 1204 of the Statutes of 1971,
may, by majority vote, appoint, from a list of nominees submitted by an
organization consisting solely of retired members, an alternate retired
member to the office of the eighth member, who shall serve until the
expiration of the current term of the current eighth member and
thereafter the alternate retired member shall be elected by the retired
members of the association in the same manner and at the same time as
 3464                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 487 ]
the eighth member is elected. The term of office of the alternate retired
member shall run concurrently with the term of office of the eighth
member. The alternate retired member shall vote as a member of the
board only in the event the eighth member is absent from a board meeting
for any cause. If there is a vacancy with respect to the eighth member,
the alternate retired member shall fill that vacancy until a successor
qualifies. The alternate retired member shall be entitled to the same
compensation as the eighth member only in the event the alternate retired
member is present and acting for the eighth member during the entire
meeting. In the event that this section is made applicable in any county,
by the appointment of an alternate eighth member, the alternate safety
member shall not sit and act for the eighth member.



                            CHAPTER 487

 An act to amend Section 230 of, and to add Section 230.1 to, the Labor
Code, relating to employment.
            [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. (a) This act shall be known and may be cited as the
Victims of Domestic Violence Employment Leave Act.
   (b) The Legislature finds and declares the following:
   (1) Domestic violence affects many persons without regard to age,
race, educational level, socioeconomic status, religion, or occupation.
   (2) Domestic violence is a crime that has a devastating effect on
families, communities, and the workplace.
   (3) Domestic violence impacts productivity, effectiveness,
absenteeism, and employee turnover in the workplace.
   (4) The National Crime Survey estimates that 175,000 days per year
are missed from paid work due to domestic violence.
   (5) The study also found that 56 percent of the victims were late for
work at least five times a month, 28 percent of the victims had to leave
work early at least five times a month, and 54 percent missed at least
three days a month, all due to domestic violence.
   (6) Victims of domestic violence may be vulnerable at work when
trying to end an abusive relationship because the workplace may be the
only place where the perpetrator knows to contact the victim.
[Ch. 487 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3465

   (7) Employers must be sensitive to the needs of employees who are
experiencing domestic violence and be responsive to those needs
through personnel leave and benefits policies.
   (8) Employees who commit acts of domestic violence at or away from
the workplace should be disciplined in the same manner as employees
who commit other acts of violence or harassment at or away from the
workplace.
   SEC. 2. Section 230 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
   230. (a) No employer shall discharge or in any manner discriminate
against an employee for taking time off to serve as required by law on
an inquest jury or trial jury, if the employee, prior to taking the time off,
gives reasonable notice to the employer that he or she is required to serve.
   (b) No employer shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or
retaliate against an employee, including, but not limited to, an employee
who is a victim of a crime, for taking time off to appear in court to comply
with a subpoena or other court order as a witness in any judicial
proceeding.
   (c) No employer shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or
retaliate against an employee who is a victim of domestic violence as
defined in Section 6211 of the Family Code for taking time off from
work to obtain or attempt to obtain any relief, including, but not limited
to, a temporary restraining order, restraining order, or other injunctive
relief, to help ensure the health, safety, or welfare of a domestic violence
victim or his or her child.
   (d) (1) As a condition of taking time off for a purpose set forth in
subdivision (c), the employee shall give the employer reasonable
advance notice of the employee’s intention to take time off, unless the
advance notice is not feasible.
   (2) When an unscheduled absence occurs, the employer shall not take
any action against the employee if the employee, within a reasonable
time after the absence, provides a certification to the employer.
Certification shall be sufficient in the form of any of the following:
   (A) A police report indicating that the employee was a victim of
domestic violence.
   (B) A court order protecting or separating the employee from the
perpetrator of an act of domestic violence, or other evidence from the
court or prosecuting attorney that the employee has appeared in court.
   (C) Documentation from a medical professional, domestic violence
advocate, health care provider, or counselor that the employee was
undergoing treatment for physical or mental injuries or abuse resulting
in victimization from an act of domestic violence.
   (3) To the extent allowed by law, employers shall maintain the
confidentiality of any employee requesting leave under subdivision (c).
 3466                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 487 ]
   (e) Any employee who is discharged, threatened with discharge,
demoted, suspended, or in any other manner discriminated or retaliated
against in the terms and conditions of employment by his or her
employer because the employee has taken time off for a purpose set forth
in subdivision (a), (b), or (c) shall be entitled to reinstatement and
reimbursement for lost wages and work benefits caused by the acts of the
employer. Any employer who willfully refuses to rehire, promote, or
otherwise restore an employee or former employee who has been
determined to be eligible for rehiring or promotion by a grievance
procedure or hearing authorized by law is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (f) (1) Any employee who is discharged, threatened with discharge,
demoted, suspended, or in any other manner discriminated or retaliated
against in the terms and conditions of employment by his or her
employer because the employee has exercised his or her rights as set
forth in subdivision (a), (b), or (c) may file a complaint with the Division
of Labor Standards Enforcement of the Department of Industrial
Relations pursuant to Section 98.7.
   (2) Notwithstanding any time limitation in Section 98.7, an employee
filing a complaint with the division based upon a violation of
subdivision (c) shall have one year from the date of occurrence of the
violation to file his or her complaint.
   (g) An employee may use vacation, personal leave, or compensatory
time off that is otherwise available to the employee under the applicable
terms of employment, unless otherwise provided by a collective
bargaining agreement, for time taken off for a purpose specified in
subdivision (a), (b), or (c). The entitlement of any employee under this
section shall not be diminished by any collective bargaining agreement
term or condition.
   SEC. 3. Section 230.1 is added to the Labor Code, to read:
   230.1. (a) In addition to the requirements and prohibitions imposed
on employees pursuant to Section 230, an employer with 25 or more
employees may not discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate
against an employee who is a victim of domestic violence as defined in
Section 6211 of the Family Code for taking time off from work to attend
to any of the following:
   (1) To seek medical attention for injuries caused by domestic
violence.
   (2) To obtain services from a domestic violence shelter, program, or
rape crisis center as a result of domestic violence.
   (3) To obtain psychological counseling related to an experience of
domestic violence.
   (4) To participate in safety planning and take other actions to increase
safety from future domestic violence, including temporary or permanent
relocation.
[Ch. 487 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3467

   (b) (1) As a condition of taking time off for a purpose set forth in
subdivision (a), the employee shall give the employer reasonable
advance notice of the employee’s intention to take time off, unless the
advance notice is not feasible.
   (2) When an unscheduled absence occurs, the employer shall not take
any action against the employee if the employee, within a reasonable
time after the absence, provides a certification to the employer.
Certification shall be sufficient in the form of any of the following:
   (A) A police report indicating that the employee was a victim of
domestic violence.
   (B) A court order protecting or separating the employee from the
perpetrator of an act of domestic violence, or other evidence from the
court or prosecuting attorney that the employee appeared in court.
   (C) Documentation from a medical professional, domestic violence
advocate, health care provider, or counselor that the employee was
undergoing treatment for physical or mental injuries or abuse resulting
in victimization from an act of domestic violence.
   (3) To the extent allowed by law, employers shall maintain the
confidentiality of any employee requesting leave under subdivision (a).
   (c) Any employee who is discharged, threatened with discharge,
demoted, suspended, or in any other manner discriminated or retaliated
against in the terms and conditions of employment by his or her
employer because the employee has taken time off for a purpose set forth
in subdivision (a) shall be entitled to reinstatement and reimbursement
for lost wages and work benefits caused by the acts of the employer. Any
employer who willfully refuses to rehire, promote, or otherwise restore
an employee or former employee who has been determined to be eligible
for rehiring or promotion by a grievance procedure or hearing authorized
by law is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (d) (1) Any employee who is discharged, threatened with discharge,
demoted, suspended, or in any other manner discriminated or retaliated
against in the terms and conditions of employment by his or her
employer because the employee has exercised his or her rights as set
forth in subdivision (a) may file a complaint with the Division of Labor
Standards Enforcement of the Department of Industrial Relations
pursuant to Section 98.7.
   (2) Notwithstanding any time limitation in Section 98.7, an employee
filing a complaint with the division based upon a violation of
subdivision (a) shall have one year from the date of occurrence of the
violation to file his or her complaint.
   (e) An employee may use vacation, personal leave, or compensatory
time off that is otherwise available to the employee under the applicable
terms of employment, unless otherwise provided by a collective
bargaining agreement, for time taken off for a purpose specified in
 3468                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 488 ]
subdivision (a). The entitlement of any employee under this section shall
not be diminished by any collective bargaining agreement term or
condition.
  (f) This section does not create a right for an employee to take unpaid
leave that exceeds the unpaid leave time allowed under, or is in addition
to the unpaid leave time permitted by, the federal Family and Medical
Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. Sec. 2606 et seq.).
  SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 488

   An act to amend Sections 45249 and 88069 of the Education Code,
relating to classified school employees.
            [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 45249 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
  45249. (a) (1) After January 1, 2001, the classified employees of
any school district that has already adopted this article on September 17,
1965, may, in accordance with this article, petition the governing board
to request that the process to determine how personnel commission
members are appointed be determined by a majority vote of the
classified employees entitled to vote. That petition shall read
substantially as follows:

  ‘‘We, the undersigned classified employees of the ____________
(name of school district), constituting 15 percent or more of the
classified personnel entitled to vote, request the governing board to
submit to an election the question of how personnel commission
members shall be appointed.
[Ch. 488 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3469

NAME ____ POSITION CLASSIFICATION _____________’’

   (2) ‘‘Classified employee,’’ as used in this section, shall be construed
to include all personnel who are a part of the classified service as defined
in Section 45103.
   (b) (1) Within 90 days after receipt of a petition pursuant to
subdivision (a), the governing board shall conduct an election by secret
ballot of its classified personnel to determine the following question and
the ballot shall read:

   ‘‘Shall personnel commission members in the ____________ (name
of school district) be appointed as follows:
   (A) One member appointed by the governing board of the district.
   (B) One member appointed by the classified employees of the
district.
   (C) Those two members shall, in turn, appoint the third member.
____ Yes
____ No’’
   (2) Although the ballot conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not
require the employees’ signatures or other personal identifying
requirements, the governing board shall devise an identification system
to ensure against fraud in the balloting process.
   (3) The governing board shall appoint a three- to five-person
tabulating committee. At least one member of the committee shall be a
member of the governing board, to canvass the ballots and present the
results to the governing board and one member shall be a classified
employee nominated by the exclusive representative of the classified
employees of the district. If a simple majority votes in favor of the
process for appointing personnel commission members, that process
shall become applicable in the district as follows:
   (A) The first vacancy on the commission shall be filled by a person
nominated by the classified employees of the district.
   (B) The second vacancy on the commission shall be filled by a person
appointed by the governing board of the district.
   (C) The third vacancy of the commission shall be appointed by the
first two members.
   (4) If the ballot conducted pursuant to paragraph (2) fails to pass,
personnel commission members shall be appointed in accordance with
the procedure described in subdivision (c), and a petition by the
classified employees for another election shall not occur sooner than two
years after an election.
   (c) (1) Subject to subdivisions (a) and (b), in a school district that has
already adopted this article on September 17, 1965, members of the
personnel commission shall be appointed by the Superintendent of
 3470                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 488 ]
Public Instruction who shall consider the recommendation of the
governing board and other interested parties. Subsequent appointments
shall be made in accordance with this section.
   (2) No later than 90 days before making the appointment, the
Superintendent of Public Instruction shall notify the classified
employees and the governing board, in writing, of the vacancy on the
personnel commission and provide them with guidelines and procedures
for making a recommendation and challenging a nomination. If a
vacancy occurs during the term of a member of the personnel
commission, the superintendent may appoint a new member after
providing the foregoing notice no later than 30 days before making the
appointment.
   A commissioner whose term has expired may continue to discharge
the duties of the office until a successor is appointed but for no more than
90 calendar days.
   (d) As used in this section, ‘‘classified employees’’ means an
organization of classified employees that represents the greatest number
of classified employees of the district as determined by the board. If no
organization exists within the district, the governing board, by written
rule, shall prescribe the method by which the recommendation is to be
made by its classified employees.
   SEC. 2. Section 88069 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   88069. (a) (1) After January 1, 2001, the classified employees of
any community college district that has already adopted this article on
September 17, 1965, may, in accordance with this article, petition the
governing board to request that the process to determine how personnel
commission members are appointed be determined by a majority vote
of the classified employees entitled to vote. That petition shall read
substantially as follows:
   ‘‘We, the undersigned classified employees of the ____ (name of
community college district), constituting 15 percent or more of the
classified personnel entitled to vote, request the governing board to
submit to an election the question of how personnel commission
members shall be appointed.
NAME ____ POSITION CLASSIFICATION ____’’
   (2) ‘‘Classified employee,’’ as used in this section, shall be construed
to include all personnel who are a part of the classified service as defined
in Section 88001.
   (b) (1) Within 90 days after receipt of a petition pursuant to
subdivision (a), the governing board shall conduct an election by secret
ballot of its classified personnel to determine the following question and
the ballot shall read:
   ‘‘Shall personnel commission members in the ____ (name of
community college district) be appointed as follows:
[Ch. 488 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3471

   (A) One member appointed by the governing board of the district.
   (B) One member appointed by the classified employees of the
district.
   (C) Those two members shall, in turn, appoint the third member.
   ____ Yes
   ____ No’’
   (2) Although the ballot conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not
require the employees’ signatures or other personal identifying
requirements, the governing board shall devise an identification system
to ensure against fraud in the balloting process.
   (3) The governing board shall appoint a three- to five-person
tabulating committee. At least one member of the committee shall be a
member of the governing board, to canvass the ballots and present the
results to the governing board and one member shall be a classified
employee nominated by the exclusive representative of the classified
employees of the district. If a simple majority votes in favor of the
process for appointing personnel commission members, that process
shall become applicable in the district as follows:
   (A) The first vacancy on the commission shall be filled by a person
nominated by the classified employees of the district.
   (B) The second vacancy on the commission shall be filled by a person
appointed by the governing board of the district.
   (C) The third vacancy of the commission shall be appointed by the
first two members.
   (4) If the ballot conducted pursuant to paragraph (2) fails to pass,
personnel commission members shall be appointed in accordance with
the procedure described in subdivision (c), and a petition by the
classified employees for another election shall not occur sooner than two
years after an election.
   (c) (1) Subject to subdivisions (a) and (b), in a community college
district that has already adopted this article on September 17, 1965,
members of the personnel commission shall be appointed by the
Chancellor of the California Community Colleges who shall consider
the recommendation of the governing board and other interested parties.
   (2) If the governing board and the personnel commission of a
community college district elect to increase the personnel commission
from three to five members, the Chancellor of the California Community
Colleges shall make one of the additional appointments. Subsequent
appointments shall be made in accordance with this section.
   (3) No later than 90 days before making the appointment, the
Chancellor of the California Community Colleges shall notify the
classified employees and the governing board in writing of the vacancy
on the personnel commission and provide them with guidelines and
procedures for making a recommendation and challenging a nomination.
 3472                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 489 ]
If a vacancy occurs during the term of a member of the personnel
commission, the chancellor may appoint a new member after providing
the foregoing notice no later than 30 days before making the
appointment.
   (4) A commissioner whose term has expired may continue to
discharge the duties of the office until a successor is appointed but for
no more than 90 calendar days.
   (d) As used in this section, ‘‘classified employees’’ means an
organization of classified employees that represents the greatest number
of classified employees of the district as determined by the board. If no
organization exists within the district, the governing board, by written
rule, shall prescribe the method by which the recommendation is to be
made by its classified employees.



                             CHAPTER 489

  An act to amend Sections 20320, 20322, 20324, 20325, 21006, 21007,
21008, 21013, 21020, 21021, 21023, 21023.5, 21024, 21027, 21029,
21030, and 21031 of, and to add Article 6 (commencing with Section
21050) to Chapter 11 of Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2 of, the Government
Code, relating to public employees’ retirement.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 20320 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   20320. (a) A person directly appointed by the Governor, without
the nomination of any officer or board, or directly appointed by the
Attorney General, Lieutenant Governor, Controller, Secretary of State,
Treasurer, or Superintendent of Public Instruction exempt from civil
service under Article VII of the California Constitution, except those
appointed pursuant to subdivision (i) of Section 4 thereof, is excluded
from membership in this system unless he or she files with the board an
election in writing to become a member.
   (b) Upon electing to become a member, the person may further elect
at any time prior to retirement to receive service credit for his or her prior,
excluded state service by making the contributions as specified in
Sections 21050 and 21051.
   SEC. 2. Section 20322 of the Government Code is amended to read:
[Ch. 489 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3473

   20322. (a) An elective officer is excluded from membership in this
system unless the officer files with the board an election in writing to
become a member. Upon electing to become a member, the officer may
further elect at any time prior to retirement to receive service credit for
his or her prior, excluded service by making the contributions as
specified in Sections 21050 and 21051.
   (b) As used in this part, ‘‘elective officer’’ includes any officer of the
Senate or Assembly who is elected by vote of the members of either or
both of the houses of the Legislature, and any appointive officer of a city
or county occupying a fixed term of office, as well as officers of the state
or contracting agencies elected by the people, and persons elected to a
city council or a county board of supervisors.
   (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of subdivision (a) or (b),
elected or appointed officers of a county superintendent of schools,
school district, or community college district, or of a contracting agency,
who serve on public commissions, boards, councils, or similar
legislative or administrative bodies are excluded from membership in
this system. This exclusion shall only apply to those elected or appointed
officers, other than city or county officers, who are first elected or
appointed to an office on or after July 1, 1994, or who are elected or
appointed to a term of office not consecutive with the term of office held
on June 30, 1994. For city or county elected or appointed officers, this
exclusion shall only apply to those officers who are first elected or
appointed to an office on or after January 1, 1997, or who are elected or
appointed to a term of office not consecutive with the term of office held
on December 31, 1996. This exclusion shall not apply to persons elected
to a city council or county board of supervisors.
   (d) Any person holding the office of city attorney or the office of
assistant city attorney, whether employed, appointed, or elected, is
excluded from the definition of ‘‘elective officer’’ as defined in
subdivision (b). This subdivision shall apply only to persons first
employed, elected, or appointed on or after July 1, 1994, or following
any break in state service while serving in the office if the office was held
on June 30, 1994.
   (e) In accordance with Section 20125, the board shall be the sole
judge of which elected or appointed positions qualify the incumbent as
an ‘‘elective officer’’ in this system under this section.
   (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect to
elective officers of contracting agencies, payment by a contracting
agency of employer contributions and any other amounts for employer
paid benefits under this system shall not be construed as receipt of salary
or compensation by the elective officer for purposes of any statutory
salary or compensation limitation.
   SEC. 3. Section 20324 of the Government Code is amended to read:
 3474                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 489 ]
   20324. (a) An employee of the Senate or the Assembly, or the
respective committees thereof, whose salaries or wages are paid from the
Senate Operating Fund or the Assembly Operating Fund or the
Operating Funds of the Assembly and Senate, shall be deemed a
‘‘legislative employee.’’ A legislative employee is excluded from
membership in this system unless he or she files with the board an
election in writing to become a member. The election shall not be
required of a legislative employee who was a member of this system on
October 1, 1963.
   (b) Upon electing to become a member, a legislative employee may
further elect at any time prior to retirement to receive service credit for
his or her prior, excluded legislative service and he or she shall have the
option as to how much of that prior legislative service is to be credited.
The legislative employee shall make contributions to this system as
specified in Sections 21050 and 21051 for the previous service as a
legislative employee for which he or she desires to receive service credit.
   SEC. 4. Section 20325 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   20325. (a) A county superintendent of schools, a school district, a
community college district, or a contracting agency, whose respective
resolution or contract contains an election to be subject to this section,
may offer to its part-time employees whose service is less than the
minimum service prescribed by paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of
Section 20305 the option to elect at any time to become a member by
filing an election in writing with the board to become a member. An
election by a county superintendent of schools, a school district, or a
community college district to be subject to this section shall subject all
of its employees whose service is less than the minimum service
prescribed by paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 20305 to
mandatory social security coverage but shall not, in and of itself, affect
any other county superintendent of schools, school district, or
community college district with respect to any social security coverage
of employees of the other county superintendent of schools, school
district, or community college district.
   (b) If a part-time employee elects to become a member, he or she may
further elect at any time prior to retirement to receive service credit for
past service that was less than the minimum service prescribed by
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 20305 by making the
contributions as specified in Sections 21050 and 21051.
   (c) This section shall not apply to those part-time employees of any
contracting agency nor to any contracting agency until the contracting
agency elects to be subject to this section by amendment to its contract
with the board made pursuant to Section 20474 or by express provision
in its contract with the board.
[Ch. 489 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3475

   (d) This section shall not apply to those part-time employees of any
county superintendent of schools or school district or community
college district nor to any county superintendent of schools or school
district or community college district until the county superintendent of
schools, the school district, or community college district, elects to be
subject to this section by adopting a resolution to that effect and
transmitting that resolution through the county superintendent of
schools to the board. Notwithstanding any specified effective date in a
resolution, the resolution shall not become effective until it is received
by this system.
   SEC. 5. Section 21006 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   21006. (a) ‘‘Leave of absence’’ also means any time during which
a state member was excused from performance of his or her duties on
approved leave for the purpose of further education. Any member
electing to receive service credit for that leave of absence shall make the
contributions as specified in Sections 21050 and 21052. However, any
eligible member who applies to make that election between January 1,
2001 and December 31, 2003, may, instead of making those
contributions, make the payment calculated under this article as it read
on December 31, 2000, which payment shall be made in the manner
described in Section 21050.
   (b) Credit granted under this section may not exceed two years.
   (c) This section shall be applicable to persons who are members or
became members of this system on and after January 1, 1975.
   SEC. 6. Section 21007 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   21007. ‘‘Leave of absence’’ also means any time during which a
member is granted an approved leave for the purpose of service with a
university; college; local, state, federal or foreign governmental agency;
or nonprofit organization, if he or she returns to employment within the
terms and conditions under which the leave was granted. A member may
elect to receive service credit for that leave of absence at any time prior
to retirement by making the contributions as specified in Sections 21050
and 21052. However, any eligible member who requests costing of
service credit between January 1, 2001, and December 31, 2003, may,
instead of making those contributions, make the payment calculated
under this article as it read on December 31, 2000, which payment shall
be made in the manner described in Section 21050. In no event shall a
member receive service credit in excess of two years for each approved
leave of absence.
   SEC. 7. Section 21008 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   21008. Time during which a member is excused from performance
of his or her duties, whether or not he or she is required to perform any
portion of those duties during that time, and for which he or she receives
compensation, but in an amount less than the full compensation earnable
 3476                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 489 ]
by him or her while performing his or her duties when not so excused,
such as sabbatical leave, shall be credited as service in the proportion that
the compensation paid to the member bears to the full compensation that
would be earnable by him or her while performing his or her duties on
a full-time basis. However, the member shall receive full-time credit for
the time if after returning to the employment from which he or she was
excused and at any time prior to retirement he or she elects to, and does,
make the contributions as specified in Sections 21050 and 21052.
However, any eligible member who requests costing of service credit
between January 1, 2001, and December 31, 2003, may, instead of
making those contributions, make the payment calculated under this
article as it read on December 31, 2000, which payment shall be made
in the manner described in Section 21050.
   SEC. 8. Section 21013 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   21013. ‘‘Leave of absence’’ also means any time during which a
member is granted an approved maternity or paternity leave up to one
year and returns to employment at the end of the approved leave for a
period of time at least equal to that leave. Any member electing to receive
service credit for that leave of absence shall make the contributions as
specified in Sections 21050 and 21052. This section applies to both past
and future maternity or paternity leaves of absences by members of the
system.
   SEC. 9. Section 21020 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   21020. ‘‘Public service’’ for purposes of this article means the
following:
   (a) The period of time an employee served the state, a school
employer, or a contracting agency prior to becoming a member, when the
service was rendered in a position in which the employee was excluded
provided one of the following conditions is met:
   (1) The position has since become subject to compulsory
membership in this system.
   (2) The employee was excluded because the employee was serving on
a part-time basis.
   (3) The employee was excluded because the employee failed to
exercise the right to elect membership under this part.
   (b) Employment in the State Emergency Relief Administration or the
State Relief Administration, regardless of the source of the
compensation paid for that employment.
   (c) Employment as an academic employee of the University of
California prior to October 1, 1963.
   (d) Employment by the state in which the person was not eligible for
membership in this system if the ineligibility was solely because his or
her compensation was paid from other than state-controlled funds.
However, time spent in work as a work relief recipient under programs
[Ch. 489 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3477

such as, but not limited to, the Works Progress Administration, the Civil
Works Administration, the Federal Emergency Relief Administration,
the National Youth Administration, and the Civilian Conservation
Corps, shall not constitute public service.
   (e) Employment in a function formerly performed by a public agency
other than a contracting agency and assumed by a contracting agency
where the employees who performed those functions are or were
transferred to or employed by the contracting agency without change in
occupation or position.
   (f) Civilian service as an employee or officer of an agency of the
government of the United States that performed functions the same as
or substantially similar to those performed by this state prior to January
1, 1942, and that were transferred from the state to that agency, including
military service in any branch of the Armed Forces of the United States
performed by an individual on military leave of absence from that federal
employment, if all the following conditions exist:
   (1) Prior to performing that federal service he or she was employed
by the state.
   (2) He or she was laid off from state service or would have been laid
off if he or she had not been absent in military service because of the
transfer of the functions of the state to an agency of the United States
government.
   (3) Subsequent to his or her layoff from state service he or she was
employed by the United States government in an agency performing
functions the same as or substantially similar to those of the state agency
from which he or she was laid off.
   (4) After his or her separation from federal service, he or she was
employed by a state agency.
   (5) In lieu of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), the United States
government pays to the state or an agency of the state, funds equal to
contributions that would have been made by the state had the member
been in state service for the period of his or her public service with
respect to members who were not employed by the state prior to entering
that federal employment or whose state service prior to entering that
federal employment was terminated for reasons other than the transfer
of the function.
   (g) Employment in a district, prior to the time the district became a
subsidiary district of a city, of a person who was employed by the city
following the reorganization to render service to the district and who
became a member in that employment.
   SEC. 10. Section 21021 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21021. ‘‘Public service’’ for the employee of a student body
organization, that is not a contracting agency, of a community college,
 3478                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 489 ]
means the period of employment prior to becoming a member of the
permanent classified service of the district pursuant to Section 76060 or
88020 of the Education Code.
  The county superintendent of schools or superintendent of schools of
an independently contracting community college district shall draw a
requisition against the funds of the community college district for an
amount equal to the total employer contribution that would have been
requisitioned under Section 20617 had that service been rendered in the
employ of the community college district and the employer rate and
member compensation on the date of transfer had been in effect
throughout the period of service credited.
  The governing board may, at its discretion, establish a method of
recovering a portion of, or the total liability for, the amount so
requisitioned.
  SEC. 11. Section 21023 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
  21023. (a) ‘‘Public service’’ with respect to a state member, other
than a university member, also means the following:
  (1) Time during which the member was a prisoner of war involving
the United States, plus the time, if any, during which a member was
hospitalized following his or her release from captivity for a disabling
wound, injury, or disease directly attributable to that captivity but not to
include hospitalization after the member’s honorable and permanent
medical separation from the armed forces.
  (2) Time between the onset of the member’s disabling wound, injury,
or disease, directly attributable to service in combat with the armed
forces during a war involving the United States, and the date of the
member’s honorable and permanent medical separation from the armed
forces due to the disabling condition, if the member has a permanent
disability rating in excess of 50 percent, that percentage having been
determined under applicable federal law.
  (b) For the purposes of this section, a war involving the United States
exists in any of the following circumstances:
  (1) Whenever Congress has declared war and peace has not been
formally restored.
  (2) Whenever the United States is engaged in active military
operations against any foreign power, whether or not a war has been
formally declared.
  (3) Whenever the United States is assisting the United Nations, in
actions involving the use of the armed forces, to maintain or restore
international peace and security.
  (c) A member electing to receive credit for public service under this
section shall pay the contributions and interest required pursuant to
Section 21033.
[Ch. 489 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3479

   (d) This section shall apply to a member only if the member elects to
receive credit while he or she is a state member, other than a university
member, and he or she is credited with at least 10 years of service as a
state member, other than a university member, on the date of the election.
   (e) The maximum public service credit that may be received pursuant
to this section is five years.
   (f) This section shall not apply to any member receiving military
retirement pay as described in Section 20896 or disability retirement pay
as described in Section 20897.
   (g) Except as provided in subdivision (f), this section shall apply to
a state member, other than a university member, who leaves or has left
employment with the state, subsequently meets or has subsequently met
the conditions specified in subdivisions (a) and (b), and thereafter
returns or thereafter has returned to service as a state member, other than
a university member, is not entitled to receive the service credit pursuant
to Section 20991 or 20997.
   SEC. 12. Section 21023.5 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21023.5. (a) ‘‘Public service’’ for purposes of this article also
means time served, not to exceed three years, as a volunteer in the Peace
Corps or AmeriCorps: Volunteers In Service To America.
   (b) This section shall not apply to any contracting agency nor to the
employees of any contracting agency until the agency elects to be subject
to this section by contract or by amendment to its contract made in the
manner prescribed for approval of contracts.
   (c) Any member electing to receive credit for service under this
section shall make the contributions as specified in Sections 21050 and
21052. This section applies to past and future service in the Peace Corps
or AmeriCorps: Volunteers In Service To America.
   SEC. 13. Section 21024 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21024. (a) ‘‘Public service’’ with respect to a local member, other
than a school member, also means active service with the Armed Forces
or the Merchant Marine of the United States, including time during any
period of rehabilitation afforded by the United States government other
than a period of rehabilitation for purely educational purposes, and for
six months thereafter prior to the member’s first employment by the
employer under this section in which he or she was a member.
   (b) Any member electing to receive credit for that public service shall
make the contributions as specified in Sections 21050 and 21052.
However, any eligible member who requests costing of service credit
between January 1, 2001, and December 31, 2003, may, instead of
making those contributions, make the payment calculated under this
 3480                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 489 ]
article as it read on December 31, 2000, which payment shall be made
in the manner described in Section 21050.
   (c) The public service under this section shall not include military
service (1) in any period for which credit is otherwise given under this
article or Article 4 (commencing with Section 20990), (2) that is not
continuous, or (3) to the extent that total credit under this section would
exceed four years.
   (d) Notwithstanding Section 21034, a member may select which of
two or more periods of continuous service entitles him or her to receive
public service under this section.
   (e) This section shall apply to a member only if he or she elects to
receive credit while he or she is in state service in the employment of one
employer on or after the date of the employer’s election to be subject to
this section.
   (f) This section shall not apply to any contracting agency nor to the
employees of any contracting agency until the agency elects to be subject
to this section by amendment to its contract made in the manner
prescribed for approval of contracts or in the case of contracts made after
this section takes effect, by express provision in the contract making the
contracting agency subject to this section. The amendments to this
section made during the second year of the 1999–2000 Regular Session
shall apply to contracts subject to this section on January 1, 2001.
   SEC. 14. Section 21027 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21027. (a) ‘‘Public service’’ with respect to a local member who
retired pursuant to this part before the effective date of the election of his
or her employer to be subject to Section 21024 also means active service
with the Armed Forces or the Merchant Marine of the United States,
including time during any period of rehabilitation afforded by the United
States government other than a period of rehabilitation for purely
educational purposes, and for six months thereafter prior to the person’s
first employment by the employer under this section in which he or she
was a member.
   (b) Any retired person electing to receive credit for that public service
shall make the contributions as specified in Sections 21050 and 21052.
However, any eligible member who requests costing of service credit
between January 1, 2001, and December 31, 2003, may, instead of
making those contributions, make the payment calculated under this
article as it read on December 31, 2000, which payment shall be made
in the manner described in Section 21050.
   (c) The public service shall not include military service (1) in any
period for which credit is otherwise given under this article or Article 4
(commencing with Section 20990), (2) that is not continuous, or (3) to
the extent that total credit under this section would exceed four years.
[Ch. 489 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3481

   (d) Notwithstanding Section 21034, a retired person may select
which of two or more periods of continuous service entitles him or her
to receive public service under this section.
   (e) This section shall apply to a retired person only if he or she retired
immediately following service as a local member, pursuant to this part,
and before the effective date of the election by his or her employer to be
subject to Section 21024.
   (f) The retirement allowance of a retired person who elects to receive
service credit pursuant to this section shall be increased only with respect
to the allowance payable on and after the effective date of the election.
   (g) This section shall not apply to any contracting agency nor to the
employees of any contracting agency until the agency has elected to be
subject to Section 21024 and elects to be subject to this section by
amendment to its contract made in the manner prescribed for approval
of contracts or, in the case of contacts made after January 1, 1988, by
express provision in the contract making the contracting agency subject
to both Section 21024 and this section. The amendments to this section
made during the second year of the 1999–2000 Regular Session shall
apply to contracts subject to this section on January 1, 2001.
   SEC. 15. Section 21029 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21029. (a) ‘‘Public service’’ with respect to a state member or a
school member or with respect to a retired former state employee or a
retired former school employee, who retired on or after December 31,
1981, also means active service, prior to entering this system as a state
member or as a school member, of not less than one year in the Armed
Forces of the United States, or, active service, prior to entering this
system as a state or school member, of not less than one year in the
Merchant Marine of the United States prior to January 1, 1950. Public
service credit shall not be granted if the service described above
terminated with a discharge under dishonorable conditions. The public
service credit to be granted for that service shall be on the basis of one
year of credit for each year of credited state service, but shall not exceed
a total of four years of public service credit regardless of the number of
years of either that service or subsequent state service. A state member
or a school member or a retired former state employee or a retired former
school employee electing to receive a credit for that public service shall
have been credited with at least one year of state service on the date of
election or the date of retirement.
   (b) An election by a state member or a school member with respect
to public service under this section may be made only while the member
is in state, university, or school employment, and a retired former
employee shall have retired immediately following service as a state
member or as a school member. The retirement allowance of a retired
 3482                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 489 ]
former state employee or a retired former school employee, who elects
to receive public service credit pursuant to this section shall be increased
only with respect to the allowance payable on and after the date of
election. For the purposes of this section, a member as described in
subdivision (d) of Section 20776, shall also mean a former state
employee or a former school employee, who retired on or after
December 31, 1981.
   (c) A member or retired former employee who elects to become
subject to this section shall make the contributions as specified in
Sections 21050 and 21052.
   (d) The board has no duty to locate or notify any eligible former
member who is currently retired or to provide the name or address of any
such retired person, agency, or entity for the purpose of notifying those
persons.
   SEC. 16. Section 21030 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21030. (a) ‘‘Public service’’ for purposes of this article also means
employment under a program sponsored by, and financed at least in part
by, the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act of 1973, as
amended.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a member electing to
receive credit for public service under this section shall make the
contributions as specified in Sections 21050 and 21052. However, any
eligible member who requests costing of service credit between January
1, 2001, and December 31, 2003, may, instead of making those
contributions, make the payment calculated under this article as it read
on December 31, 2000, which payment shall be made in the manner
described in Section 21050.
   (c) Benefits arising from service credited to a member under this
section shall become a liability of the employer for which the service was
rendered.
   SEC. 17. Section 21031 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   21031. (a) ‘‘Public service’’ also means employment by a
contracting agency before the effective date of its contract with the
board, and is limited to that portion of the service that the agency does
not provide in its contract for inclusion as prior service.
   (b) A member electing to receive credit for that public service shall
make the contributions as specified in Sections 21050 and 21051. The
election may be made at any time prior to retirement.
   (c) If the contracting agency subsequently amends its contract to
include a greater percentage of final compensation as prior service, the
electing member shall be refunded that portion of his or her contributions
[Ch. 489 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3483

made under this section as represents the additional prior service
percentage contracted for by the agency plus interest at the crediting rate.
   (d) If the agency pays all or a portion of the normal contributions
required to be paid by a member, the contributions required under this
section shall be based upon the normal contribution rate that would be
applicable to that member if the agency were not paying any normal
contributions under Section 20690 or 20691.
   (e) This section shall not apply to any contracting agency until the
agency elects to be subject to the provision of this section by amendment
to its contract made in the manner prescribed for approval of contracts,
except an election among the employees is not required, or, in the case
of contracts made after March 1, 1982, by express provision in the
contract making the contracting agency subject to the provisions of this
section. The amendments to this section made during the second year of
the 1999–2000 Regular Session shall apply to contracts subject to this
section on January 1, 2001.
   SEC. 18. Article 6 (commencing with Section 21050) is added to
Chapter 11 of Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2 of the Government Code,
to read:

       Article 6.   Service Credit Election and Cost Calculation

   21050. An election by a member to receive credit for service under
this part, in addition to his or her current and prior service credit, shall
be effective only if accompanied by a lump-sum payment or an
authorization for payments, other than a lump-sum payment, in
accordance with regulations of the board.
   21051. A member electing to receive credit for service subject to
this section shall contribute, in accordance with Section 21050, an
amount equal to the following:
   (a) The contributions the member would have made to the system for
the period for which current service credit is granted, assuming that the
rate of contribution under his or her employer’s formula at the rate age
applicable to him or her at the beginning of his or her first subsequent
period of service in membership and his or her compensation earnable
on that date had applied to the member during the period for which credit
is granted.
   (b) The interest that would have accrued on those contributions if they
had been deposited at the beginning date of his or her first subsequent
period of service in membership, from that date until the date of
completion of payments.
   (c) If the member is authorized under Section 21050 to contribute in
other than a lump sum, interest on the unpaid balance of the amounts
 3484                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 490 ]
payable under paragraphs (1) and (2), which interest shall begin to accrue
as of the date of the election to receive credit.
   The beginning date of the first subsequent period of service, for
purposes of computation of contributions and interest, shall be deemed
to be the end of the period of service credited for a member who has no
subsequent return to service.
   21052. A member or retired former employee who elects to receive
service credit subject to this section shall contribute, in accordance with
Section 21050, an amount equal to the increase in employer liability,
using the payrate and other factors affecting liability on the date of the
request for costing of the service credit. The methodology for calculating
the amount of the contribution shall be determined by the chief actuary
and approved by the board. A member or retired former employee
electing to receive service credit for service subject to Section 21076 or
21077 shall pay the contributions as described.
   21053. All contributions of a member under this article shall be
deemed to be and shall be administered as normal contributions.
   21054. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a member or
retired member who elected to purchase military service credit under
Section 20124 or 21027 on or after January 1, 1999, and prior to January
1, 2001, may, at any time prior to making the final payment for the
service credit, elect to have the cost of that service credit recalculated
pursuant to Section 21052. If that cost as recalculated under Section
21052 is less than the cost as originally calculated, the member or retired
member shall pay the lesser amount, with credit for the payments
previously made. However, no refund shall be payable to a member or
retired member as a result of the recalculation of cost pursuant to this
section.
   SEC. 19. The board shall inform members at least once in calendar
years 2001 and 2002, and in September 2003, that the right to request
costing of service credit under Section 21006, 21007, 21008, 21024,
21027, or 21030 of the Government Code, under the formulas applicable
prior to January 1, 2001, shall expire on December 31, 2003.
   SEC. 20. Nothing in this act shall be construed to preclude the
application of Section 20160 of the Government Code to correct errors
or omissions related to the costing of service credit.



                            CHAPTER 490

  An act to add Section 3212.8 to the Labor Code, relating to workers’
compensation.
[Ch. 491 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3485
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3212.8 is added to the Labor Code, to read:
   3212.8. (a) In the case of members of a sheriff’s office, of police or
fire departments of cities, counties, cities and counties, districts, or other
public or municipal corporations or political subdivisions, or individuals
described in Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of
Part 2 of the Penal Code, whether those persons are volunteer, partly
paid, or fully paid, and in the case of active firefighting members of the
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, or of any county forestry or
firefighting department or unit, whether voluntary, fully paid, or partly
paid, excepting those whose principal duties are clerical or otherwise do
not clearly fall within the scope of active law enforcement service or
active firefighting services, such as stenographers, telephone operators,
and other office workers, the term ‘‘injury’’ as used in this division,
includes hepatitis when any part of the hepatitis develops or manifests
itself during a period while that person is in the service of that office,
staff, division, department, or unit. The compensation that is awarded for
hepatitis shall include, but not be limited to, full hospital, surgical,
medical treatment, disability indemnity, and death benefits, as provided
by the workers’ compensation laws of this state.
   (b) The hepatitis so developing or manifesting itself in those cases
shall be presumed to arise out of and in the course of the employment
or service. This presumption is disputable and may be controverted by
other evidence, but unless so controverted, the appeals board is bound
to find in accordance with it. That presumption shall be extended to a
person covered by subdivision (a) following termination of service for
a period of three calendar months for each full year of service, but not
to exceed 60 months in any circumstance, commencing with the last date
actually worked in the specified capacity.
   (c) The hepatitis so developing or manifesting itself in those cases
shall in no case be attributed to any disease existing prior to that
development or manifestation.



                             CHAPTER 491

  An act to amend Sections 10200, 10201, 10203, 10204, 10205, 10206,
10207, and 15037.1 of, to add Section 10202.5 to, to repeal and add
Sections 10202 and 10214.5 of, and to repeal Sections 1611.6, 1612,
 3486                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 491 ]
10206.5, 10212, 10212.1, 10214.6, 10218, and 10218.5 of, the
Unemployment Insurance Code, relating to employment.
            [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1611.6 of the Unemployment Insurance Code
is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 1612 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 10200 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   10200. The Legislature finds and declares the following:
   (a) California’s economy is being challenged by competition from
other states and overseas. In order to meet this challenge, California’s
employers, workers, labor organizations, and government need to invest
in a skilled and productive workforce, and in developing the skills of
frontline workers. For purposes of this section, ‘‘frontline worker’’
means a worker who directly produces or delivers goods or services.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a strategically designed
employment training program to promote a healthy labor market in a
growing, competitive economy that shall fund only projects that meet
the following criteria:
   (1) Foster job creation of high-wage, high-skilled jobs, or foster
retention of high-wage, high-skilled jobs in manufacturing and other
industries that are threatened by out-of-state competition. Provide for
retraining contracts in companies that make a monetary or in-kind
contribution to the funded training enhancements.
   (2) Encourage industry-based investment in human resources
development that promotes the competitiveness of California industry
through productivity and product quality enhancements.
   (3) Result in secure jobs for those who successfully complete
training. All training shall be customized to the specific requirements of
one or more employers or a discrete industry and shall include general
skills that trainees can use in the future.
   (4) Supplement, rather than displace, funds available through
existing programs conducted by employers and government-funded
training programs, such as the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, the
Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act, CalWORKS, the Enterprise
Zone Act, and the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, or
apportionment funds allocated to the community colleges, regional
occupational centers and programs, or other local educational agencies.
In addition, it is further the intention of the Legislature that programs
[Ch. 491 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3487

developed pursuant to this chapter shall not replace, parallel, supplant,
compete with, or duplicate in any way already existing approved
apprenticeship programs.
   (b) The employment training panel, in funding projects that meet the
requirements of subdivision (a), shall give funding priority to those
projects that best meet the following goals:
   (1) Result in the growth of the California economy by stimulating
exports from the state, and the production of goods and services that
would otherwise be imported from outside the state.
   (2) Train new employees of firms locating or expanding in the state
that provide high-skilled, high-wage jobs and are committed to an
ongoing investment in the training of frontline workers.
   (3) Develop workers with skills that prepare them for the challenges
of a high performance workplace of the future.
   (4) Train workers who have been displaced, have received
notification of impending layoff, or are subject to displacement, because
of a plant closure, workforce reduction, changes in technology, or
significantly increasing levels of international and out-of-state
competition.
   (5) Are jointly developed by business management and worker
representatives.
   (6) Develop career ladders for workers.
   (7) Promote the retention and expansion of the state’s manufacturing
workforce.
   (c) The program established through this chapter is to be coordinated
with all existing employment training programs and economic
development programs, including, but not limited to, programs such as
the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, the California Community
Colleges, the regional occupational programs, vocational education
programs, joint labor-management training programs, and related
programs under the Employment Development Department and the
Trade and Commerce Agency.
   SEC. 5. Section 10201 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   10201. As used in this chapter:
   (a) ‘‘Department’’ means the Employment Development
Department.
   (b) ‘‘Employer’’ or ‘‘eligible employer’’ means any employer subject
to Part 1 (commencing with Section 100) of Division 1, except any
public entity, or any nonprofit organization which has elected an
alternate method of financing its liability for unemployment insurance
compensation benefits pursuant to Article 5 (commencing with Section
801), or Article 6 (commencing with Section 821) of Chapter 3.
 3488                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 491 ]
   Any public entity or nonprofit organization that has elected an
alternate method of financing its liability for unemployment insurance
compensation benefits pursuant to Article 5 (commencing with Section
801), or Article 6 (commencing with Section 821) of Chapter 3, shall be
deemed to be an employer only for purposes of placement of new hire
trainees who received training as an incidental part of a training project
designed to meet the needs of one or more private sector employers.
   (c) ‘‘Eligible participant’’ means any person who, prior to beginning
training or employment pursuant to this chapter, is any of the following:
   (1) Unemployed and has established an unemployment insurance
claim in this state, or has exhausted eligibility for unemployment
insurance benefits from this state within the previous 24 months.
   (2) Employed for a minimum of 90 days by his or her employer, or
if employed for less than 90 days, met the conditions of paragraph (1)
at the time of hire, had received a notice of layoff from the prior
employer, or was employed by an employer for a period of not less than
90 days during the 180-day period prior to the employee’s current
employment.
   (d) ‘‘Executive director’’ means the executive director appointed
pursuant to Section 10202.
   (e) ‘‘Fund’’ means the Employment Training Fund created by Section
1610.
   (f) ‘‘Job’’ means employment on a basis customarily considered full
time for the occupation and industry. The employment shall have
definite career potential and a substantial likelihood of providing
long-term job security. Furthermore, the employment shall provide
earnings, upon completion of the employment requirement specified in
subdivision (f) of Section 10209, equal to 50 percent, in the case of new
hire training, or 60 percent, in the case of retraining, of the state or
regional average hourly wage. However, in no case shall the
employment result in earnings of less than 45 percent of the state average
hourly wage for new hire training and 55 percent of the state average
hourly wage for retraining. The panel may consider the dollar value of
health benefits that are voluntarily paid for by an employer when
computing earnings to meet the minimum wage requirements.
   (g) ‘‘New hire training’’ means employment training, including
job-related literacy training, for persons who, at the start of training, are
unemployed.
   (h) ‘‘Panel’’ means the Employment Training Panel created by
Section 10202.
   (i) ‘‘Retraining’’ means employment related skill and literacy
training for persons who are employed and who meet the definition of
paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) prior to commencement of training and
[Ch. 491 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3489

will continue to be employed by the same employer for at least 90 days
following completion of training.
   (j) ‘‘State average hourly wage’’ means the average weekly wage paid
by employers to employees covered by unemployment insurance, as
reported to the Employment Development Department for the four
calendar quarters ending June 30 of the preceding calendar year, divided
by 40 hours.
   (k) ‘‘Trainee’’ means an eligible participant.
   (l) ‘‘Training agency’’ means any private training entity or local
educational agency.
   SEC. 6. Section 10202 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 10202 is added to the Unemployment Insurance
Code, to read:
   10202. (a) The Employment Training Panel is established in the
Employment Development Department.
   (b) The executive director shall be appointed by the Governor, and
shall be well qualified for the position with experience in government.
The executive director may perform all duties, exercise all powers,
discharge all responsibilities, and administer and enforce all laws, rules,
and regulations under the jurisdiction of the panel, with the approval of
the panel. The executive director shall administer this chapter, with the
approval of the panel, in the manner he or she deems necessary to
conduct the work of the panel properly. With the approval of the panel,
the executive director may create divisions and subdivisions as
necessary, and change and abolish these divisions and subdivisions from
time to time.
   (c) The panel may employ personnel necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter. All personnel shall be appointed pursuant to the
State Civil Service Act (Part 1 (commencing with Section 18000) of
Division 5 of Title 2 of the Government Code), except for an executive
director, and two assistant directors, who shall be exempt from state civil
service.
   (d) All personnel of the panel shall be appointed, directed, and
controlled only by the panel or its authorized deputies or agents to whom
it may delegate its powers.
   (e) The Governor shall appoint two assistant directors, to serve at the
pleasure of the Governor. The assistant directors shall have the duties as
assigned by the executive director, and shall be responsible to the
executive director for the performance of their duties.
   (f) One assistant director shall have experience in serving the needs
of small businesses, and shall, under the supervision of the executive
director, manage the panel’s efforts to ensure that employment training
services are available to small businesses.
 3490                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 491 ]
   SEC. 8. Section 10202.5 is added to the Unemployment Insurance
Code, to read:
   10202.5. (a) The panel shall consist of eight persons, seven of
whom shall be appointed as provided in subdivision (b), and shall have
experience and a demonstrated interest in business management and
employment relations. The Secretary of the Trade and Commerce
Agency, or his or her designee, shall also serve on the panel as an ex
officio, voting member.
   (b) (1) Two members of the panel shall be appointed by the Speaker
of the Assembly. One of those members shall be a private sector labor
representative and the other member shall be a business representative.
   (2) Two members of the panel shall be appointed by the President pro
Tempore of the Senate. One of those members shall be a private sector
labor representative and the other member shall be a business
representative.
   (3) Three members of the panel shall be appointed by the Governor.
One of those members shall be a private sector labor representative, one
member shall be a business representative, and one member shall be a
public member.
   (4) Labor appointments shall be made from nominations from state
labor federations. Business appointments shall be made from
nominations from state business organizations and business trade
associations.
   (5) The Governor shall designate a member to chair the panel, and the
person so designated shall serve as the chair of the panel at the pleasure
of the Governor.
   (c) The appointive members of the panel shall serve for two-year
terms, except that of the initial members of the panel, one initial
appointee of each appointing power shall serve for a one-year term.
   (d) Appointive members of the panel shall receive the necessary
traveling and other expenses incurred by them in the performance of
their official duties out of appropriations made for the support of the
panel. In addition, each appointive member of the panel shall receive one
hundred dollars ($100) for each day attending meetings of the panel, and
may receive one hundred dollars ($100) for each day spent conducting
other official business of the panel, but not exceeding a maximum of
three hundred dollars ($300) per month.
   SEC. 9. Section 10203 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   10203. The panel may meet as necessary at locations throughout the
state. The panel shall maintain a minimum of three regional offices. The
central office shall be located in Sacramento. Two regional offices shall
be located in the southern part of the state, and one regional office shall
be located in the northern part of the state.
[Ch. 491 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3491

   The executive director will assign one person, with experience in
meeting the needs of small businesses, to each of the regional offices for
the purpose of developing training projects for small businesses and
expediting the processing of training proposals from small businesses.
   SEC. 10. Section 10204 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   10204. (a) The panel shall coordinate its programs with local and
state partners of the federal Workforce Investment Act of 1998. This
coordination shall include, but not be limited to, the adoption of a plan,
including regular sharing of data, for the coordination of training
authorized pursuant to this chapter with programs administered under
Division 8 (commencing with Section 15000).
   (b) For purposes of serving the needs of small businesses, the panel
may delegate its authority to approve contracts for new hire training to
any entity defined in paragraphs (3) and (4) of subdivision (c) of Section
10205, provided the following conditions are met:
   (1) The panel determines that an entity to which it is delegating this
authority meets the same standards as required of training agencies in
Section 10210.
   (2) The panel delegates its authority pursuant to this section by a
contract with the entity which limits the total amount of Employment
Training Fund funds which are available to the entity, specifies a time
limit within which those funds shall either be allocated or returned to the
panel, specifies the reasonable administrative costs to be allowed in
administering the contract, and provides that no subcontract approved
by the entity shall exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per project
without prior approval by the panel.
   (3) The subcontracts with employers and training agencies approved
by the private industry council entity shall be for new hire training only
and shall meet all the requirements of this chapter and the policies
established by the panel.
   SEC. 11. Section 10205 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   10205. The panel shall do all of the following:
   (a) Establish a three-year plan that shall be updated annually, based
on the demand of employers for trained workers, changes in the state’s
economy and labor markets, and continuous reviews of the effectiveness
of panel training contracts. The initial three-year plan shall be submitted
to the Governor and the Legislature not later than January 1, 1994. The
initial update of the plan shall be submitted not later than July 1, 1994,
and annual updates of the plan thereafter shall be submitted not later than
July 1 of each year. In carrying out this section, the panel shall review
information in the following areas:
 3492                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 491 ]
   (1) Labor market information, including the state-local labor market
information program in the Employment Development Department, and
economic forecasts.
   (2) Evaluations of the effectiveness of training as measured by
increased security of employment for workers and benefits to the
California economy.
   (3) The demand for training by industry, type of training, and size of
employer.
   (4) Changes in skills necessary to perform jobs, including changes in
basic literacy skills.
   (5) Changes in the demographics of the labor force and the population
entering the labor market.
   (6) Proposed expenditures by other agencies of federal Workforce
Investment Act funds and other state and federal training and vocational
education funds on eligible participants.
   (b) The panel shall maintain a system to continuously monitor
economic and other data required under this plan. If this data changes
significantly during the life of the plan, the plan shall be amended by the
panel. Each plan shall include all of the following:
   (1) The panel’s objectives with respect to the criteria and priorities
specified in Section 10200 and the distribution of funds between
new-hire training and retraining.
   (2) The identification of specific industries, production and quality
control techniques, and regions of the state where employment training
funds would most benefit the state’s economy and plans to encourage
training in these areas, including specific standards and a system for
expedited review of proposals that meet the standards.
   (3) A system for expedited review of proposals that are substantially
similar with respect to employer needs, training curriculum, duration of
training, and costs of training, in order to encourage the development of
proposals that meet the needs identified in paragraph (2).
   (4) The panel’s goals and operational objectives with respect to
meeting the needs of small employers.
   (5) The research objectives of the panel that contribute to the
effectiveness of this chapter in benefiting the economy of the state as a
whole.
   (6) A priority list of skills that are in such short supply that employers
are choosing to not locate or expand their businesses in the state or are
importing labor in response to these skills shortages. This list should
identify those industries in which upgrade training is likely to encourage
hiring of the unemployed on a backfill basis.
   (c) Solicit proposals and write contracts on the basis of proposals
made directly to it. Contracts for the purpose of providing employment
training may be written with any of the following:
[Ch. 491 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3493

  (1) An employer or group of employers.
  (2) A training agency.
  (3) A local workforce investment board with the approval of the
appropriate local elected officials in the local workforce investment area.
  (4) A grant recipient or administrative entity selected pursuant to the
federal Workforce Investment Act of 1998, with the approval of the local
workforce investment board and the appropriate local elected officials.
  These contracts shall be in the form of fixed-fee performance
contracts. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
contracts entered into pursuant to this chapter shall not be subject to
competitive bidding procedures. Contracts for training may be written
for a period not to exceed 24 months for the purpose of administration
by the panel and the contracting employer or any group of employers
acting jointly or any training agency for the purpose of providing
employment training.
  (d) Fund training projects that best meet the priorities identified
annually. In doing so, the panel shall seek to facilitate the employment
of the maximum number of eligible participants.
  (e) Establish minimum standards for the consideration of proposals,
which shall include, but not be limited to, the identification of employers
who have been contacted by the contractor and who have provided
reasonable assurance that they will employ successful trainees, the
number of jobs available, the skill requirements for the identified jobs,
the projected cost per person trained, hired, and retained in employment,
the wages paid successful trainees upon placement, and the curriculum
for the training. No proposal shall be considered or approved that
proposes training for employment covered by a collective bargaining
agreement unless the signatory labor organization agrees in writing.
  (f) Develop a process by which local workforce investment boards
may apply for marketing resources for the purpose of identifying local
employers that have training needs that reflect the priorities of the panel.
The panel may delegate its authority to approve contracts for training to
local workforce investment boards, provided that no contract approved
exceeds $50,000 per project without prior approval of the panel and all
contracts meet the provisions of this chapter and are consistent with the
annual priorities identified by the panel.
  (g) Ensure the provision of adequate fiscal and accounting controls
for, monitoring and auditing of, and other appropriate technical and
administrative assistance to, projects funded by this chapter.
  (h) Provide for evaluation of projects funded by this chapter. The
evaluations shall assess the effectiveness of training previously funded
by the panel to improve job security and stability for workers, and benefit
participating employers and the state’s economy, and shall compare the
wages of trainees in the 12-month period prior to training as well as the
 3494                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 491 ]
12-month period subsequent to completion of training, as reflected in the
department’s unemployment insurance tax records. Individual project
evaluations shall contain a summary description of the project, the
number of persons entering training, the number of persons completing
training, the number of persons employed at the end of the project, the
number of persons still employed three months after the end of the
project, the wages paid, the total costs of the project, and the total
reimbursement received from the Employment Training Fund.
   (i) Report annually to the Legislature, by November 30, on projects
operating during the previous state fiscal year. These annual reports shall
provide separate summaries of all of the following:
   (1) Projects completed during the year, including their individual and
aggregate performance and cost.
   (2) Projects not completed during the year, briefly describing each
project and identifying approved contract amounts by contract and for
this category as a whole, and identifying any projects in which funds are
expected to be disencumbered.
   (3) Projects terminated prior to completion and the reasons for the
termination.
   (4) A description of the amount, type, and effectiveness of literacy
training funded by the panel.
   (5) Results of complete project evaluations.
   In addition, based upon its experience in administering job training
projects, the panel shall include in these reports policy recommendations
concerning the impact of job training and the panel’s program on
economic development, labor-management relations, employment
security, and other related issues.
   (j) Conduct ongoing reviews of panel policies with the goal of
developing an improved process for developing, funding, and
implementing panel contracts as described in this chapter.
   (k) Expedite the processing of contracts for firms considering
locating or expanding businesses in the state, as determined by the Trade
and Commerce Agency, in accordance with the priorities for
employment training programs set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision
(c) of Section 10200.
   (l) Coordinate and consult regularly with business groups and labor
organizations, the California Workforce Investment Board, the State
Department of Education, the office of the Chancellor of the California
Community Colleges, the Employment Development Department, and
the Trade and Commerce Agency.
   (m) Adopt by regulation procedures for the conduct of panel
business, including the scheduling and conduct of meetings, the review
of proposals, the disclosure of contacts between panel members and
parties at interest concerning particular proposals, contracts or cases
[Ch. 491 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3495

before the panel or its staff, the awarding of contracts, the administration
of contracts, and the payment of amounts due to contractors. All
decisions by the panel shall be made by resolution of the panel and any
adverse decision shall include a statement of the reason for the decision.
   (n) Adopt regulations and procedures providing reasonable
confidentiality for the proprietary information of employers seeking
training funds from the panel if the public disclosure of that information
would result in an unfair competitive disadvantage to the employer
supplying the information. In no case shall the panel withhold
information from the public regarding its operations, procedures, and
decisions which would otherwise be subject to disclosure under the
California Public Records Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section
6250) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code).
   (o) Review and comment on the budget and performance of any
program, project, or activity funded by the panel utilizing funds
collected pursuant to Section 976.6.
   SEC. 12. Section 10206 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   10206. (a) The panel may allocate money in the fund for any of the
following purposes:
   (1) Reimbursement of reasonable training costs, and administrative
costs incurred by contractors. In making a determination of costs to be
reimbursed under this paragraph, the panel may allocate funds in
accordance with any of the following methods:
   (A) For purposes of providing simplified fixed-fee performance
contracts, a flat rate per hour for categories of training that are
substantially similar with respect to content, methodology, and duration,
as determined by the panel, not to exceed the reasonable and normal
costs for the training. The panel shall periodically adjust the
standardized rates established pursuant to this paragraph to reflect
changes in training costs.
   (B) A complete review of the proposal and its costs, including a
budget listing the planned costs of training, including personnel, fringe
benefits, equipment, supplies, fees for consulting or administrative
services, and other costs attributable to training; the services provided
by subcontractors; the length and complexity of the training; the method
of training; the wages and occupations following training; whether the
trainees are new hires or retrainees; and the cost of similar training that
the panel has funded previously. The cost of administration shall not
exceed 15 percent of the training costs under this paragraph, except that
for new hire training the panel may fund administrative costs of up to 25
percent of the training cost.
 3496                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 491 ]
   (C) The panel may modify the specific requirements of this paragraph
as they apply to employers or contractors proposing projects that involve
training for a significant number of small employers in the same project.
   (D) A contractor is prohibited from utilizing any funds earned or paid
as advances or progress payments for the purpose of making payments
to any other individual or entity, either directly or indirectly, for costs
incurred as a finder’s fee or for other compensation related to the
predevelopment or development phase of a training program, which is
based on a percentage of the preliminary or final panel award to the
contractor for the training project.
   (2) (A) Costs of program administration incurred under this chapter.
These costs shall be reviewed annually by the Department of Finance
and the Legislature and determined through the normal budgetary
process.
   (B) The panel’s administrative costs, exclusive of the cost of
administering Section 976.6, shall not exceed 15 percent of the total
amount annually appropriated for expenditure by the panel.
   (C) Expenditures for marketing, research, and evaluations provided
under the contract to the panel under paragraph (1) that otherwise would
have been provided directly by the panel shall not be included in this
limitation.
   (3) Service related to the purposes of this chapter provided by the
Small Business Development Centers pursuant to an interagency
agreement with the Trade and Commerce Agency.
   (b) For all training contracts, the panel shall establish requirements
for in-kind contributions by either the contractor or the employer that
reflect a substantial commitment on the part of the contractor or the
employer to the value of the training. In developing these requirements,
the panel shall take into account the ability of the contractor or the
employer, because of size or financial condition, to make any
contribution, and the ability of the Employment Training Fund to meet
the demand for training authorized by this chapter. In developing
policies regarding in-kind contributions, the panel shall hold public
hearings.
   SEC. 13. Section 10206.5 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 14. Section 10207 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   10207. (a) The panel shall accept or reject a completed application
within 60 days of the receipt by the executive director.
   (b) The panel shall develop expedited procedures for reviewing
proposals submitted by the state agencies which are participants in a
special interagency agreement with the panel for purposes of this
chapter.
[Ch. 491 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3497

   SEC. 15. Section 10212 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 16. Section 10212.1 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 17. Section 10214.5 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 18. Section 10214.5 is added to the Unemployment Insurance
Code, to read:
   10214.5. (a) The panel may allocate up to 10 percent of the annually
available training funds for the purpose of funding special employment
training projects that improve the skills and employment security of
frontline workers, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 10200.
   (b) The panel shall, on an annual basis, identify industries and
occupations that shall be priorities for funding under this section.
Training shall be targeted to frontline workers who earn at least the state
average weekly wage.
   (c) The panel may waive the minimum wage provisions pursuant to
subdivision (f) of Section 10201 for projects in regions of the state where
the unemployment rate is significantly higher than the state average, and
may waive the employment retentions provisions specified in
subdivision (f) of Section 10209 and instead require that the trainee has
been retained in employment for a minimum of 90 days out of 120
consecutive days after the end of training with no more than three
employers.
   (d) The panel shall adopt minimum standards for consideration of
proposals to be funded pursuant to this section.
   (e) The panel may select contracts funded under this section based on
competitive bidding.
   (f) It is the intent of the Legislature in providing the authority for these
projects that the panel allocate these funds in a manner consistent with
the objectives of this chapter as provided in Section 10200.
   SEC. 19. Section 10214.6 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 20. Section 10218 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 21. Section 10218.5 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 22. Section 15037.1 of the Unemployment Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   15037.1. (a) The state council shall be responsible for developing
an education and job training report card program to assess the
accomplishments of California’s workforce preparation system.
   (1) A subcommittee of the state council shall be established for this
purpose.
 3498                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 491 ]
  (2) The subcommittee shall be comprised of three private sector
members of the state council, the director of the department, the
Superintendent of Public Instruction, the Chancellor of the California
Community Colleges, or their designees, and representatives of
programs that are to be measured under the report card program.
  (3) The subcommittee shall be responsible for designing and
implementing, or contracting with an operating entity for the
implementation of, a system that can compile, maintain, and
disseminate information on the performance of providers, programs, and
the overall workforce preparation system.
  (b) By January 1, 2001, the subcommittee or an operating entity
under contract to the subcommittee shall operate a comprehensive
performance-based accountability system that matches the social
security numbers of former participants in state education and training
programs with information in files of state and federal agencies that
maintain employment and educational records and identifies the
occupations of those former participants whose social security numbers
are found in employment records.
  (c) This system shall measure the performance of state and federally
funded education and training programs for the purpose of system,
program, and instructional improvement. Programs to be measured shall
include programs in receipt of funds from the Job Training Partnership
Act, the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education Act, the Job
Opportunities and Basic Skills program, the Food Stamp Employment
and Training program, the Wagner Peyser Act, the Employment
Training Panel, adult education programs as defined by paragraph (9) of
subdivision (b) of Section 10521, basic vocational rehabilitation
services as defined by Part B of Title 1 of the federal Vocational
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. Sec. 701 et seq.),
vocational education programs, and certificated community college
programs.
  (d) Job training and education providers receiving funding identified
in subdivision (c) shall, to the extent permitted by federal law, request
social security numbers from each participant 18 years of age and over
and not currently enrolled in high school and participating in a workforce
preparation program and shall report to the subcommittee or an
operating entity under contract to the subcommittee, as the case may be,
on participant social security numbers and economic and demographic
characteristics, including, but not limited to, age, gender, race or
ethnicity, and education achievement. The state council shall establish
the acceptable format and timeframes for data submission.
  (e) The system shall be designed to measure factors such as:
  (1) Amount and source of funding.
  (2) Program entrance and successful completion rates.
[Ch. 491 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3499

   (3) Employment and wage information for one and three years after
completion of training.
   (4) The relationship of training to employment.
   (5) Academic achievement for one and three years after completion
of training.
   (6) Achievement of industry skill standard certifications, where they
exist.
   (7) Return on public investment.
   (f) Based upon the information compiled pursuant to this section, the
subcommittee or an operating entity under contract to the subcommittee,
as the case may be, shall, by December 31, 1997, and each December 31
thereafter, do all of the following:
   (1) Prepare and disseminate report cards for all training and education
providers in receipt of funds included in the tracking system.
   (2) Prepare and disseminate local and statewide report cards that
measure the outcomes of the individual programs that operate as part of
the workforce development system.
   (3) Prepare and disseminate a state report card that measures the
performance of the entire system of workforce preparation and the
effectiveness of the system in meeting employers’ needs for educated
and trained workers and the clients’ needs for improving their economic
well-being.
   (g) The state council shall develop objective performance standards
emphasizing the principles of continuous improvement for the programs
covered under this section, and a system of sanctions and incentives to
encourage performance that meet these standards.
   (h) The state council shall explore the feasibility of including the
following persons in this system:
   (1) Attendees at private postsecondary institutions.
   (2) Recipients of federal student loans.
   (3) Recipients of Pell grants.
   (4) Pupils in grades 11 and 12.
   (5) Students enrolled in any community college, California State
University, or University of California program.
   (i) The sole purpose of this section is to assess the performance of
state and federal employment and training providers and programs in
preparing Californians for the workforce. Collection and use of social
security numbers pursuant to this section shall be consistent with the
requirements of Section 7 of the federal Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L.
93-579) and Section 405(c)(2)(C) of Title 42 of the United States Code.
Notwithstanding Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 6250) of
Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, or any other provision of
law, the social security number of any person obtained pursuant to this
section is not a public record, and shall not be disclosed except for the
 3500                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 492 ]
purpose of this section. Information obtained pursuant to this section
shall not be sold or distributed to any entity without prior consent from
the individual, or his or her parent or guardian, with respect to whom the
information is gathered. This subdivision does not prohibit the exchange
of information with other governmental departments and agencies, both
federal and state, that are concerned with the administration of
workforce development programs. Neither the subcommittee nor an
operating entity under contract to the subcommittee, as the case may be,
may make public any information that could identify an individual or his
or her employer.
  (j) An education and training program that requires information
gathered by the education and job training report card program shall use
the report card program and shall not initiate automated matching of
records in duplication of methods already in place as a result of the report
card program.
  (k) Funding for the development and maintenance of the education
and job training report card program shall be made available on a shared
basis by the programs the report card program is measuring, to the extent
authorized by federal and state law. The subcommittee, or the operating
entity under contract to the subcommittee, shall have the authority to
assess each of the programs with an appropriate share of the costs of the
report card program. Administrative funds currently used for program
followup activities for the identified programs shall be redirected for this
purpose, if authorized by federal law.
  (l) The state council shall apply for any federal waivers that may be
necessary to implement this section.



                             CHAPTER 492

  An act to amend Sections 512, 515, and 516 of, and to add Section
515.5 to, the Labor Code, relating to employment, and declaring the
urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 512 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
  512. (a) An employer may not employ an employee for a work
period of more than five hours per day without providing the employee
with a meal period of not less than 30 minutes, except that if the total
work period per day of the employee is no more than six hours, the meal
[Ch. 492 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3501

period may be waived by mutual consent of both the employer and
employee. An employer may not employ an employee for a work period
of more than 10 hours per day without providing the employee with a
second meal period of not less than 30 minutes, except that if the total
hours worked is no more than 12 hours, the second meal period may be
waived by mutual consent of the employer and the employee only if the
first meal period was not waived.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), the Industrial Welfare
Commission may adopt a working condition order permitting a meal
period to commence after six hours of work if the commission
determines that the order is consistent with the health and welfare of the
affected employees.
   SEC. 2. Section 515 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
   515. (a) The Industrial Welfare Commission may establish
exemptions from the requirement that an overtime rate of compensation
be paid pursuant to Sections 510 and 511 for executive, administrative,
and professional employees, provided that the employee is primarily
engaged in the duties that meet the test of the exemption, customarily
and regularly exercises discretion and independent judgment in
performing those duties, and earns a monthly salary equivalent to no less
than two times the state minimum wage for full-time employment. The
commission shall conduct a review of the duties that meet the test of the
exemption. The commission may, based upon this review, convene a
public hearing to adopt or modify regulations at that hearing pertaining
to duties that meet the test of the exemption without convening wage
boards. Any hearing conducted pursuant to this subdivision shall be
concluded not later than July 1, 2000.
   (b) (1) The commission may establish additional exemptions to
hours of work requirements under this division where it finds that hours
or conditions of labor may be prejudicial to the health or welfare of
employees in any occupation, trade, or industry. This paragraph shall
become inoperative on January 1, 2005.
   (2) Except as otherwise provided in this section and in subdivision (g)
of Section 511, nothing in this section requires the commission to alter
any exemption from provisions regulating hours of work that was
contained in any valid wage order in effect in 1997. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, the commission may review, retain, or
eliminate any exemption from provisions regulating hours of work that
was contained in any valid wage order in effect in 1997.
   (c) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘full-time employment’’ means
employment in which an employee is employed for 40 hours per week.
   (d) For the purpose of computing the overtime rate of compensation
required to be paid to a nonexempt full-time salaried employee, the
 3502                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 492 ]
employee’s regular hourly rate shall be 1/40th of the employee’s weekly
salary.
  (e) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘primarily’’ means more than
one-half of the employee’s worktime.
  (f) (1) In addition to the requirements of subdivision (a), registered
nurses employed to engage in the practice of nursing shall not be
exempted from coverage under any part of the orders of the Industrial
Welfare Commission, unless they individually meet the criteria for
exemptions established for executive or administrative employees.
  (2) This subdivision does not apply to any of the following:
  (A) A certified nurse midwife who is primarily engaged in
performing duties for which certification is required pursuant to Article
2.5 (commencing with Section 2746) of Chapter 6 of Division 2 of the
Business and Professions Code.
  (B) A certified nurse anesthetist who is primarily engaged in
performing duties for which certification is required pursuant to Article
7 (commencing with Section 2825) of Chapter 6 of Division 2 of the
Business and Professions Code.
  (C) A certified nurse practitioner who is primarily engaged in
performing duties for which certification is required pursuant to Article
8 (commencing with Section 2834) of Chapter 6 of Division 2 of the
Business and Professions Code.
  (D) Nothing in this paragraph shall exempt the occupations set forth
in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) from meeting the requirements of
subdivision (a).
  SEC. 3. Section 515.5 is added to the Labor Code, to read:
  515.5. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), an employee in the
computer software field shall be exempt from the requirement that an
overtime rate of compensation be paid pursuant to Section 510 if all of
the following apply:
  (1) The employee is primarily engaged in work that is intellectual or
creative and that requires the exercise of discretion and independent
judgment, and the employee is primarily engaged in duties that consist
of one or more of the following:
  (A) The application of systems analysis techniques and procedures,
including consulting with users, to determine hardware, software, or
system functional specifications.
  (B) The design, development, documentation, analysis, creation,
testing, or modification of computer systems or programs, including
prototypes, based on and related to, user or system design specifications.
   (C) The documentation, testing, creation, or modification of
computer programs related to the design of software or hardware for
computer operating systems.
[Ch. 492 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3503

   (2) The employee is highly skilled and is proficient in the theoretical
and practical application of highly specialized information to computer
systems analysis, programming, and software engineering. A job title
shall not be determinative of the applicability of this exemption.
   (3) The employee’s hourly rate of pay is not less than forty-one
dollars ($41.00). The Division of Labor Statistics and Research shall
adjust this pay rate on October 1 of each year to be effective on January
1 of the following year by an amount equal to the percentage increase in
the California Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers.
   (b) The exemption provided in subdivision (a) does not apply to an
employee if any of the following apply:
   (1) The employee is a trainee or employee in an entry-level position
who is learning to become proficient in the theoretical and practical
application of highly specialized information to computer systems
analysis, programming, and software engineering.
   (2) The employee is in a computer-related occupation but has not
attained the level of skill and expertise necessary to work independently
and without close supervision.
   (3) The employee is engaged in the operation of computers or in the
manufacture, repair, or maintenance of computer hardware and related
equipment.
   (4) The employee is an engineer, drafter, machinist, or other
professional whose work is highly dependent upon or facilitated by the
use of computers and computer software programs and who is skilled in
computer-aided design software, including CAD/CAM, but who is not
in a computer systems analysis or programming occupation.
   (5) The employee is a writer engaged in writing material, including
box labels, product descriptions, documentation, promotional material,
setup and installation instructions, and other similar written
information, either for print or for onscreen media or who writes or
provides content material intended to be read by customers, subscribers,
or visitors to computer-related media such as the World Wide Web or
CD-Roms.
   (6) The employee is engaged in any of the activities set forth in
subdivision (a) for the purpose of creating imagery for effects used in the
motion picture, television, or theatrical industry.
   SEC. 4. Section 516 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
   516. Except as provided in Section 512, the Industrial Welfare
Commission may adopt or amend working condition orders with respect
to break periods, meal periods, and days of rest for any workers in
California consistent with the health and welfare of those workers.
   SEC. 5. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
 3504                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 493 ]
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order, at the earliest possible time, to protect businesses that rely on
the computer industry as well as certain vital health care professions, it
is necessary for this act to take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 493

  An act to add Section 6332 to the Labor Code, relating to employment.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6332 is added to the Labor Code, to read:
   6332. (a) For purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Community health care worker’’ means an individual who
provides health care or health care-related services to clients in home
settings.
   (2) ‘‘Employer’’ means a person or entity that employs a community
health care worker. ‘‘Employer’’ does not include an individual who is
a recipient of home-based services and who is responsible for hiring his
or her own community health care worker.
   (3) ‘‘Violence’’ means a physical assault or a threat of a physical
assault.
   (b) Every employer shall keep a record of any violence committed
against a community health care worker and shall file a copy of that
record with the Division of Labor Statistics and Research in the form and
detail and within the time limits prescribed by the Division of Labor
Statistics and Research.



                             CHAPTER 494

   An act to amend Sections 7420 and 7441 of the Elections Code,
relating to the Republican Party.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]
[Ch. 495 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3505

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 7420 of the Elections Code is amended to
read:
   7420. (a) At every statewide direct primary election, a member
shall be elected to a county central committee to replace a member whose
term is expiring.
   (b) When district boundaries are redrawn and districts are
renumbered in accordance with the decennial census, a member of a
county central committee may run for election in a newly numbered
district at the next election even though his or her current term of office
has not expired. If a person is elected in the newly numbered district and
takes the oath of office, the person is deemed to have resigned from his
or her previous district office at that time.
   SEC. 2. Section 7441 of the Elections Code is amended to read:
   7441. (a) At the first meeting, a committee shall organize by
selecting a chairperson, a secretary, and any other officers and
committees as it deems necessary for carrying on the affairs of this party.
   (b) The members of the central committee shall assume office and
hold their first meeting during the month of December or January
following a general election. A member shall hold office for a two-year
term commencing with that first meeting held in December or January
following a general election.
   SEC. 3. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 495

  An act to add Section 31678.2 to the Government Code, relating to
county employees’ retirement.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]
 3506                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 496 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 31678.2 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
  31678.2. (a) Notwithstanding Section 31678 or any other provision
of this chapter, a board of supervisors or a governing body of a district
may, by resolution adopted by majority vote, make any section of this
chapter prescribing a formula for calculation of retirement benefits
applicable to service credit earned on and after the date specified in the
resolution, which date may be earlier than the date the resolution is
adopted.
  (b) A resolution adopted pursuant to this section may, if approved in
a memorandum of understanding executed by the board of supervisors
and the employee representatives, require members to pay all or part of
the contributions by a member or employer, or both, that would have
been required if the section or sections specified in subdivision (a), as
adopted by the board or governing body, had been in effect during the
period of time designated in the resolution. The payment by a member
shall become part of the accumulated contributions of the member.
  (c) This section shall only be applicable to members who retire on or
after the effective date of the resolution described in subdivision (a).



                            CHAPTER 496

   An act to amend Sections 9111 and 9212 of the Elections Code,
relating to local initiative measures.
            [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 9111 of the Elections Code is amended to read:
   9111. (a) During the circulation of the petition or before taking
either action described in subdivisions (a) and (b) of Section 9116, or
Section 9118, the board of supervisors may refer the proposed initiative
measure to any county agency or agencies for a report on any or all of
the following:
   (1) Its fiscal impact.
   (2) Its effect on the internal consistency of the county’s general and
specific plans, including the housing element, the consistency between
planning and zoning, and the limitations on county actions under Section
65008 of the Government Code and Chapters 4.2 (commencing with
[Ch. 496 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3507

Section 65913) and 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915) of Division
1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.
   (3) Its effect on the use of land, the impact on the availability and
location of housing, and the ability of the county to meet its regional
housing needs.
   (4) Its impact on funding for infrastructure of all types, including, but
not limited to, transportation, schools, parks, and open space. The report
may also discuss whether the measure would be likely to result in
increased infrastructure costs or savings, including the costs of
infrastructure maintenance, to current residents and businesses.
   (5) Its impact on the community’s ability to attract and retain business
and employment.
   (6) Its impact on the uses of vacant parcels of land.
   (7) Its impact on agricultural lands, open space, traffic congestion,
existing business districts, and developed areas designated for
revitalization.
   (8) Any other matters the board of supervisors request to be in the
report.
   (b) The report shall be presented to the board of supervisors within
the time prescribed by the board of supervisors, but no later than 30 days
after the county elections official certifies to the board of supervisors the
sufficiency of the petition.
   SEC. 2. Section 9212 of the Elections Code is amended to read:
   9212. (a) During the circulation of the petition, or before taking
either action described in subdivisions (a) and (b) of Section 9214, or
Section 9215, the legislative body may refer the proposed initiative
measure to any city agency or agencies for a report on any or all of the
following:
   (1) Its fiscal impact.
   (2) Its effect on the internal consistency of the city’s general and
specific plans, including the housing element, the consistency between
planning and zoning, and the limitations on city actions under Section
65008 of the Government Code and Chapters 4.2 (commencing with
Section 65913) and 4.3 (commencing with Section 65915) of Division
1 of Title 7 of the Government Code.
   (3) Its effect on the use of land, the impact on the availability and
location of housing, and the ability of the city to meet its regional
housing needs.
   (4) Its impact on funding for infrastructure of all types, including, but
not limited to, transportation, schools, parks, and open space. The report
may also discuss whether the measure would be likely to result in
increased infrastructure costs or savings, including the costs of
infrastructure maintenance, to current residents and businesses.
 3508                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 497 ]
  (5) Its impact on the community’s ability to attract and retain business
and employment.
  (6) Its impact on the uses of vacant parcels of land.
  (7) Its impact on agricultural lands, open space, traffic congestion,
existing business districts, and developed areas designated for
revitalization.
  (8) Any other matters the legislative body requests to be in the report.
  (b) The report shall be presented to the legislative body within the
time prescribed by the legislative body, but no later than 30 days after
the elections official certifies to the legislative body the sufficiency of
the petition.



                             CHAPTER 497

  An act to amend Section 31787.5 of, to add Section 31452.7 to, and
to repeal and add Section 31787 of, the Government Code, relating to
county employees’ retirement.
             [Approved by Governor September 16, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 31452.7 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   31452.7. (a) Upon the death of any member after retirement, any
retirement allowance earned but not yet paid to the member shall,
notwithstanding any other provision of law, be paid to the member’s
designated beneficiary.
   (b) Upon the death of any person receiving a survivor’s allowance
under this chapter, any allowance earned but not yet paid to the survivor
shall, notwithstanding any other provision of law, be paid to the
survivor’s designated beneficiary.
   SEC. 2. Section 31787 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 31787 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   31787. (a) If any member who would have been entitled to a
service-connected disability retirement dies prior to retirement as the
result of injury or disease arising out of and in the course of the member’s
employment, and the member leaves a surviving spouse, that spouse
shall have the right to elect, by written notice filed with the board, to
receive and be paid in lieu of the death benefit provided for in Sections
31780 and 31781, an optional death allowance as provided in this
section.
[Ch. 497 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3509

   (b) The optional death allowance shall consist of a monthly payment
equal to the monthly retirement allowance to which the member would
have been entitled if the member had retired or been retired by reason of
a service-connected disability as of the date of death.
   (c) If the surviving spouse elects to receive the optional death
allowance, the payments becoming due to the spouse shall be retroactive
to the date of the member’s death and shall continue during and
throughout the life of the spouse.
   (d) If the surviving spouse elects to receive the optional death
allowance, and thereafter dies leaving an unmarried surviving child or
unmarried children of the deceased member under the age of 18 years,
the optional death allowance shall thereafter be paid to those surviving
children collectively until they die, marry, or reach the age of 18 years;
provided, however, that the right of any of those children respectively
to share in the allowance shall cease upon their death or marriage or upon
their reaching the age of 18 years, and the entire amount of the allowance
shall thereafter be paid collectively to the remaining qualified children.
   (e) If the deceased member leaves no surviving spouse but leaves
unmarried children under the age of 18 years, the legally appointed
guardian of those children shall make the election herein provided for on
behalf of the surviving children as in the guardian’s judgment may
appear to be in their interest and advantage, and the election so made
shall be binding and conclusive upon all parties in interest.
   (f) The rights and privileges conferred by this section upon the
surviving spouse and children of a deceased member, or any of them,
shall not be dependent upon whether they or any of them shall have been
nominated by the deceased member as the beneficiary of any benefits
payable upon or by reason of the member’s death, but shall be superior
to and shall supersede the rights and claims of any other beneficiary so
nominated.
   (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the benefits
otherwise payable to the children of the member shall be paid to those
children through the age of 21 years if those children remain unmarried
and are regularly enrolled as full-time students in an accredited school
as determined by the board.
   SEC. 4. Section 31787.5 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   31787.5. (a) A surviving spouse of a member who is killed in the
performance of duty or who dies as the result of an accident or an injury
caused by external violence or physical force, incurred in the
performance of the member’s duty, now or hereafter entitled to receive
a death allowance under Section 31787, shall be paid an additional
amount for each of the member’s children during the lifetime of the
 3510                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 497 ]
child, or until the child marries or reaches the age of 18 years, as follows,
subject to the limitation in subdivision (b):
   (1) For one child, twenty-five percent (25%) of the allowance
provided in Section 31787.
   (2) For two children, forty percent (40%) of the allowance provided
in Section 31787.
   (3) For three or more children, fifty percent (50%) of the allowance
provided in Section 31787.
   (b) If a benefit payable under this section, when added to a benefit
payable under Section 31787, exceeds the maximum benefit payable by
a tax-qualified pension plan under the Internal Revenue Code (26
U.S.C.A. Sec. 401 et. seq.), the benefit payable under this section shall
be reduced to the amount required to meet that benefit limit.
   (c) If the surviving spouse does not have legal custody of the
member’s children, the allowance provided by this section shall be
payable to the person to whom custody of the children has been awarded
by a court of competent jurisdiction for each child during the lifetime of
the child, or until the child marries or reaches the age of 18 years.
   (d) The allowance provided by this section shall be payable to the
surviving spouses of members whose duties consist of active law
enforcement or active fire suppression or any other class or group of
members as the retirement board shall fix.
   (e) Any child whose eligibility for an allowance pursuant to this
section commenced on or after October 1, 1965, shall lose that eligibility
effective on the date of his or her adoption.
   (f) This section shall become operative in any county, which has
adopted the provisions of this chapter but which has not previously
adopted the provisions of this section on October 1, 1965. Each
surviving spouse of a member or other person having legal custody of
a member’s child or children who is paid an additional amount for each
of the member’s children because of the amendments to this section
enacted at the 1965 or 1967 Regular Session shall receive those
payments as they accrue from and after October 1 of the year during
which this section was amended to provide for the payment to him or her
of that allowance, but the surviving spouse or other person shall not be
given a claim for any increase in those benefits for a time prior to that
date.
   (g) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the benefits
otherwise payable to the children of the member shall be paid to those
children through the age of 21 years if the children remain unmarried and
are regularly enrolled as full-time students in an accredited school as
determined by the board.
[Ch. 499 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3511

                             CHAPTER 498

   An act to amend Section 66632.4 of the Government Code, relating
to public resources.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 66632.4 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   66632.4. Within any portion or portions of the shoreline band that
are located outside the boundaries of water-oriented priority land uses,
as fixed and established pursuant to Section 66611, the commission may
deny an application for a permit for a proposed project only on the
grounds that the project fails to provide maximum feasible public access,
consistent with the proposed project, to the bay and its shoreline. When
considering whether a project provides maximum feasible public access
in areas of sensitive habitat, including tidal marshlands and mudflats, the
commission shall, after consultation with the Department of Fish and
Game, and using the best available scientific evidence, determine
whether the access is compatible with wildlife protection in the bay.



                             CHAPTER 499

   An act to amend Section 5011.5 of the Public Resources Code, relating
to parks and recreation.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 5011.5 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
  5011.5. (a) A veteran of any war in which the United States has
been, or may be engaged, who is a resident of this state, upon
presentation to the department of proof of disability or proof of being
held captive as a prisoner of war and of an honorable discharge from
service, upon application therefor and payment of three dollars and fifty
cents ($3.50), shall be issued a pass entitling the bearer to the use of all
facilities, including boat launching facilities, in units of the state park
system.
 3512                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 500 ]
   (b) As used in this section:
   (1) ‘‘Veteran’’ means any former member of the Armed Forces of the
United States who has a 50 percent or greater service-connected
disability, or who was held as a prisoner of war by forces hostile to the
United States, as certified by the United States Department of Veterans
Affairs, and who was honorably discharged from service.
   (2) ‘‘War’’ means that period of time commencing when Congress
declares war or when the Armed Forces of the United States are engaged
in active military operations against any foreign power, whether or not
war has been formally declared, and ending upon the termination of
hostilities as proclaimed by the President of the United States.
   SEC. 2. On or before January 1, 2004, the Department of Parks and
Recreation shall report, in writing, to the chairpersons of the legislative
fiscal committees and the chairpersons of the appropriate legislative
policy committees its findings regarding the frequency of the use of the
passes issued pursuant to Section 5011.5 of the Public Resources Code.



                            CHAPTER 500

  An act to add Section 40459 to the Health and Safety Code, relating
to air pollution.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
  (a) California law provides for the measurement of the level of
carcinogens in the air and water and requires that notice be given to the
public regarding the level of various toxic pollutants in the air.
  (b) Petroleum coke is material produced in the oil-refining process
that is exported widely to Asia as an alternative energy source.
  (c) The purpose of this act is to reduce the emission of airborne
particulate matter from the storage, handling, and transportation of
petroleum coke.
  SEC. 2. Section 40459 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
  40459. (a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (4), on or before
January 1, 2001, the operator of any facility within either the Port of Los
Angeles or the Port of Long Beach that stores, handles, or transports
petroleum coke and is subject to the enclosed storage pile deadlines of
Rule 1158 shall comply with the enclosure requirement of Rule 1158.
[Ch. 500 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3513

   (2) Except as provided in paragraph (4), on or before January 1, 2002,
the facility operator at the Port of Los Angeles shall enclose the ready
pile referenced in subparagraph (k)(10) of Rule 1158.
   (3) On or before January 1, 2004, the facility operator at the Port of
Long Beach shall discontinue the use of, or replace the shiploader
referenced in subparagraph (k)(6) of Rule 1158.
   (4) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), if the construction of
additional enclosed storage within the Port of Los Angeles is
commenced on or before April 1, 2001, the facility operator is not
required to comply with subparagraph (k)(10) of Rule 1158 until April
1, 2002.
   For purposes of this paragraph, ‘‘construction of additional enclosed
storage’’ means any storage enclosure for which the south coast district
issues a permit to construct on or after January 1, 2001, but before April
1, 2001, and construction begins on or before April 1, 2001.
   (b) The south coast district, in conjunction with the state board, shall
annually submit a study to the Legislature that examines the frequency
and severity of violations of south coast district rules related to the
storage, transportation, and handling of petroleum coke.
   (c) Until the facility operator at the Port of Los Angeles encloses the
outdoor ready pile, as specified in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), the
south coast district shall monitor the size of that ready pile to ensure
compliance with the 50,000 metric ton limit requirement in that facility’s
March 31, 1999, Rule 1158 interim storage plan.
   (d) On and after January 1, 2003, the south coast district shall
maintain a program to monitor particulates within the Port of Los
Angeles and the Port of Long Beach and shall assess prevalent coke
particulates and improvements in air quality.
   (e) For purposes of this section, ‘‘Rule 1158’’ means the rule adopted
by the south coast district on December 2, 1983, and amended June 11,
1999, pursuant to this chapter. Any terms used in this section and in Rule
1158 shall have the same meaning as provided in Rule 1158.
   SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution for certain
costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because
in that regard this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a
crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   In addition, no reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local
agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees,
or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
 3514                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 501 ]
mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
Government Code.



                             CHAPTER 501

  An act to add Section 40723 to the Health and Safety Code, relating
to air pollution.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 40723 is added to the Health and Safety Code,
to read:
   40723. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature that, when an air district
establishes best available control technology or lowest achievable
emission rate requirements based in part on vendor representations, the
requirements be achievable for the applicable source category.
   (b) Upon the request of any owner or operator of equipment that is
subject to best available control technology or lowest achievable
emission rate requirements, the district shall review whether the
applicable requirements have been achieved and whether the
requirements should be required for the source category or source if the
owner or operator demonstrates that all of the following conditions are
true:
   (1) The owner or operator purchased equipment that was subject to
or intended by the manufacturer or vendor to satisfy federal, state, or
local air district rules or permitting requirements that impose best
available control technology or lowest achievable emission rate
requirements.
   (2) An express warranty was provided to the owner or operator by the
manufacturer or vendor that the equipment would achieve the best
available control technology or lowest achievable emission rate
requirements, or any specified emission rate or standard intended to
satisfy those requirements.
   (3) The owner or operator made a reasonable effort, for a reasonable
period of time, to operate the equipment in accordance with the operating
conditions specified by the equipment manufacturer or vendor.
   (4) The equipment failed to meet the best available control
technology or lowest achievable emission rate requirements covered by
the warranty provided by the equipment manufacturer or vendor.
[Ch. 502 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3515

   (5) The applicable best available control technology or lowest
achievable emission rate requirements were established primarily on the
basis of the representations and data provided by the equipment
manufacturer or vendor.
   (c) (1) If, after conducting a review pursuant to subdivision (b), the
district determines that the applicable best available control technology
or lowest achievable emission rate requirements are not achievable by
a source, the district shall revise those requirements to a level achievable
by that source.
   (2) If, after conducting a review pursuant to subdivision (b), the
district determines that the applicable best available control technology
or lowest achievable emission rate requirements are not achievable by
a source category, the district shall revise those requirements to a level
achievable by that source category.
   (d) This section shall be implemented in a manner consistent with
applicable federal and state statutes, regulations, and requirements for
the establishment of best available control technology and lowest
achievable emission rate requirements.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local
agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees,
or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
Government Code.



                             CHAPTER 502

 An act to amend Section 668 of, and to add Section 654.3 to, the
Harbors and Navigation Code, relating to vessels.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 654.3 is added to the Harbors and Navigation
Code, to read:
  654.3. (a) Each diesel powered vessel operating exclusively in
California, engaged in the commercial transport of passengers with the
capacity to transport 75 passengers or more, shall use only California
diesel fuel formulated as specified in Sections 2281 and 2282 of Title 13
of the California Code of Regulations.
  (b) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2003.
 3516                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 502 ]
   SEC. 2. Section 668 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   668. (a) Any person who violates subdivision (c) of Section 652,
Section 654, 654.05, 654.06, 655.7, 658.3, 659, 673, 674, or 754, or any
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, or any regulation adopted pursuant
to Section 655.3 relating to vessel equipment requirements, is guilty of
an infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250).
   (b) (1) Any person who violates Section 655.2, or any regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, or, except as provided in subdivision (a), any
regulation adopted pursuant to Section 655.3, is guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100) or imprisonment in the county jail for not more than five days,
or by both that fine and imprisonment, for each violation.
   (2) Any person who violates subdivision (a) or (b) of Section 658 is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than
two hundred dollars ($200) for each violation.
   (3) Any person who violates subdivision (d) of Section 652, Section
652.5, subdivision (a) of Section 655, Section 655.05, 656, or 656.1,
subdivision (d) or (e) of Section 658, Section 663.6 or 665, or any rules
and regulations adopted pursuant to subdivision (b) or (c) of Section 660,
is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000) or imprisonment in the county jail for
not more than six months, or by both that fine and imprisonment, for
each violation.
   (c) (1) Any person convicted of a violation of Section 656.2 or 656.3
shall be punished by a fine of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000)
or more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the
state prison or in the county jail for not more than one year, or by both
that fine and imprisonment.
   (2) In imposing the minimum fine required by this subdivision, the
court shall take into consideration the defendant’s ability to pay the fine
and, in the interest of justice for reasons stated in the record, may reduce
the amount of that minimum fine to less than the amount otherwise
required by this subdivision.
   (d) Any person convicted of a violation of Section 658.5 shall be
punished by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100).
   (e) Any person convicted of a first violation of subdivision (b), (c),
(d), or (e) of Section 655, or of a violation of Section 655.4, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) or
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six months, or by both
that fine and imprisonment. If probation is granted, the court, as a
condition of probation, may require the person to participate in, and
successfully complete, an alcohol or drug education, training, or
[Ch. 502 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3517

treatment program, in addition to imposing any penalties required by
this code. In order to enable all persons to participate in licensed
programs, every person referred to a program licensed pursuant to
Section 11836 of the Health and Safety Code shall pay that program’s
costs commensurate with that person’s ability to pay as determined by
Section 11837.4 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (f) Any person convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
subdivision (b), (c), (d), or (e) of Section 655 within seven years of the
first conviction of any of those subdivisions or subdivision (f) of Section
655, or any person convicted of a violation of subdivision (b), (c), (d),
or (e) of Section 655 within seven years of a separate conviction of
Section 191.5 or subdivision (c) of Section 192.5 of the Penal Code,
when the separate conviction resulted from the operation of a vessel, or
a separate conviction of Section 23152 or 23153 of the Vehicle Code or
of Section 191.5 or paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 192 of the
Penal Code, when the separate conviction resulted from the operation of
a motor vehicle, shall be punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000) or imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than one year, or by both that fine and imprisonment. If probation
is granted, the court, as a condition of probation, may require the person
to do either of the following, if available in the county of the person’s
residence or employment:
   (1) Participate, for at least 18 months subsequent to the underlying
conviction and in a manner satisfactory to the court, in a program
licensed pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 11836) of Part
2 of Division 10.5 of the Health and Safety Code, as designated by the
court. In order to enable all required persons to participate, each person
shall pay the program costs commensurate with the person’s ability to
pay as determined pursuant to Section 11837.4 of the Health and Safety
Code.
   (2) Participate, for at least 30 months subsequent to the underlying
conviction and in a manner satisfactory to the court, in a program
licensed pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 11836) of Part
2 of Division 10.5 of the Health and Safety Code. A person ordered to
treatment pursuant to this paragraph shall apply to the court or to a board
of review, as designated by the court, at the conclusion of the program
to obtain the court’s order of satisfaction. Only upon the granting of that
order of satisfaction by the court may the program issue its certificate of
successful completion. A failure to obtain an order of satisfaction at the
conclusion of the program is a violation of probation. In order to enable
all required persons to participate, each person shall pay the program
costs commensurate with the person’s ability to pay as determined
pursuant to Section 11837.4 of the Health and Safety Code. No condition
 3518                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 502 ]
of probation required pursuant to this paragraph is a basis for reducing
any other probation requirement.
   (g) Any person convicted of a violation of subdivision (f) of Section
655 shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison, or in the
county jail for not less than 90 days or more than one year, and by a fine
of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) or more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000). If probation is granted, the court, as a
condition of probation, may require the person to participate in, and
successfully complete, a program licensed pursuant to Chapter 9
(commencing with Section 11836) of Part 2 of Division 10.5 of the
Health and Safety Code, if available in the person’s county of residence
or employment, as designated by the court. In order to enable all required
persons to participate, each person shall pay the program costs
commensurate with the person’s ability to pay as determined pursuant
to Section 11837.4 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (h) (1) If any person is convicted of a violation of subdivision (f) of
Section 655 within seven years of a separate conviction of a violation of
subdivision (b), (c), (d), or (e) of Section 655 and is granted probation,
the court shall impose as a condition of probation that the person be
confined in the county jail for not less than five days or more than one
year and pay a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) or
more than five thousand dollars ($5,000).
   (2) If any person is convicted of a violation of subdivision (f) of
Section 655 within seven years of a separate conviction of a violation of
subdivision (f) of Section 655, of Section 191.5 or subdivision (c) of
Section 192.5 of the Penal Code, when the prior conviction resulted from
the operation of a vessel, or Section 23152 or 23153 of the Vehicle Code
or Section 191.5 or paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 192 of the
Penal Code, when the separate conviction resulted from the operation of
a motor vehicle, and is granted probation, the court shall impose as a
condition of probation that the person be confined in the county jail for
not less than 90 days or more than one year, and pay a fine of not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250) or more than five thousand dollars
($5,000), and the court, as a condition of probation, may order that the
person participate in a manner satisfactory to the court, in a program
licensed pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 11836) of Part
2 of Division 10.5 of the Health and Safety Code, if available in the
county of the person’s residence or employment. In order to enable all
required persons to participate, each person shall pay the program costs
commensurate with the person’s ability to pay as determined pursuant
to Section 11837.4 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (i) The court shall not absolve a person who is convicted of a violation
of subdivision (f) of Section 655 within seven years of a separate
conviction of a violation of subdivision (b), (c), (d), (e), or (f) of Section
[Ch. 502 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3519

655, of Section 191.5 or subdivision (c) of Section 192.5 of the Penal
Code, when the separate conviction resulted from the operation of a
vessel, or Section 23152 or 23153 of the Vehicle Code or Section 191.5
or paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 192 of the Penal Code,
when the separate conviction resulted from the operation of a motor
vehicle, from the minimum time in confinement provided in this section
and a fine of at least two hundred fifty dollars ($250), except as provided
in subdivision (h).
   (j) Except in unusual cases where the interests of justice demand an
exception, the court shall not strike a separate conviction of an offense
under subdivision (b), (c), (d), (e), or (f) of Section 655 or of Section
191.5 or subdivision (c) of Section 192.5 of the Penal Code, when the
prior conviction resulted from the operation of a vessel, or Section 23152
or 23153 of the Vehicle Code or Section 191.5 or paragraph (3) of
subdivision (c) of Section 192 of the Penal Code, when the separate
conviction resulted from the operation of a motor vehicle, for purposes
of sentencing in order to avoid imposing, as part of the sentence or as a
term of probation, the minimum time in confinement and the minimum
fine, as provided in this section. When a separate conviction is stricken
by the court for purposes of sentencing, the court shall specify the reason
or reasons for the striking order. On appeal by the people from an order
striking a separate conviction, it shall be conclusively presumed that the
order was made only for the reasons specified in the order, and the order
shall be reversed if there is no substantial basis in the record for any of
those reasons.
   (k) A person who flees the scene of the crime after committing a
violation of Section 191.5, paragraph (1) or (3) of subdivision (c) of
Section 192, or subdivision (a) or (c) of Section 192.5 of the Penal Code
shall be subject to subdivision (c) of Section 20001 of the Vehicle Code.
   (l) Any person who violates Section 654.3 is guilty of an infraction
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500) for
each separate violation.
   SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution for certain
costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because
in that regard this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a
crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   However, notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
other costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and
school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7
 3520                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 503 ]
(commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the
Government Code. If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement
does not exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall
be made from the State Mandates Claims Fund.



                            CHAPTER 503

  An act relating to public health, and declaring the urgency thereof, to
take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. (a) On or before January 1, 2002, the State
Department of Health Services shall conduct a baseline health study of
the effects of the possible exposure to soil contamination from
Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) on the residents of the
William Mead Homes public housing project, located in Lincoln
Heights in the County of Los Angeles.
  (b) The study required by this section shall focus on the health
conditions of the residents of the William Mead Homes public housing
project.
  SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  Due to the potential health threats to the residents of the William Mead
Homes public housing project from possible exposure to soil
contamination from Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons and the health
impact of current cleanup efforts upon residents of the William Mead
Homes public housing project, it is necessary for this act to take effect
immediately.



                            CHAPTER 504

  An act to add and repeal Division 37 (commencing with Section
72300) to the Public Resources Code, relating to water.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]
[Ch. 504 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3521

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Division 37 (commencing with Section 72300) is
added to the Public Resources Code, to read:

  DIVISION 37.       LARGE PASSENGER VESSELS PROGRAM

                       CHAPTER 1.     DEFINITIONS

   72300. Unless the context otherwise requires, the definitions set
forth in this chapter govern the construction of this division:
   (a) ‘‘Air contaminant’’ has the meaning set forth in Section 39013 of
the Health and Safety Code.
   (b) ‘‘Calendar quarter’’ or ‘‘quarter’’ means the three-month periods
ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31.
  (c) ‘‘Emission’’ means a release of an air contaminant into the
atmosphere.
  (d) ‘‘Graywater’’ means drainage from dishwasher, shower, laundry,
bath, and wash basin drains, but does not include drainage from toilets,
urinals, hospitals, and cargo spaces.
  (e) ‘‘Hazardous waste’’ has the meaning set forth in Section 25117 of
the Health and Safety Code.
  (f) ‘‘Large passenger vessel’’ or ‘‘vessel’’ means a vessel of 300 gross
registered tons or greater that is engaged in the carrying of passengers
for hire, excluding all of the following vessels:
  (1) Vessels without berths or overnight accommodations for
passengers.
  (2) Noncommercial vessels, warships, vessels operated by nonprofit
entities as determined by the Internal Revenue Service, and vessels
operated by the state, the United States, or a foreign government.
  (g) ‘‘Marine waters of the state’’ means ‘‘coastal waters’’ as defined
by Section 13181 of the Water Code.
  (h) ‘‘Medical waste’’ means medical waste subject to regulation
pursuant to Part 14 (commencing with Section 117600) of Division 104
of the Health and Safety Code.
  (i) ‘‘Offloading’’ means the removal of waste onto or into a controlled
storage, processing, or disposal facility or treatment works.
  (j) ‘‘Oil’’ has the meaning set forth in Section 8750.
  (k) ‘‘Operator’’ has the meaning set forth in Section 651 of the
Harbors and Navigation Code.
  (l) ‘‘Owner’’ has the meaning set forth in Section 651 of the Harbors
and Navigation Code.
  (m) ‘‘Release’’ means discharging or disposing of wastes into the
environment.
 3522                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 504 ]
  (n) ‘‘Sewage’’ has the meaning set forth in Section 775.5 of the
Harbors and Navigation Code, and also includes material that has been
collected or treated through a marine sanitation device as that term is
used in paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of Section 1322 of Title 33 of the
United States Code.
  (o) ‘‘Solid waste’’ has the meaning set forth in Section 40191.
  (p) ‘‘Waste’’ means an air contaminant, graywater, sewage, solid
waste other than hazardous waste, including incinerator residue and
medical waste, hazardous waste, or oily waste.

               CHAPTER 2.     LARGE PASSENGER VESSELS

  72301. (a) The Cruise Ship Environmental Task Force is hereby
created to evaluate environmental practices and waste streams of large
passenger vessels. The task force shall be convened by the California
Environmental Protection Agency, and shall consist of representatives
of the State Water Resources Control Board, the Department of Fish and
Game, the Department of Toxic Substances Control, the Integrated
Waste Management Board, the State Lands Commission, and the State
Air Resources Board. The California Environmental Protection Agency
shall request the United States Coast Guard to participate as a member
of the task force. The task force may also consult with the Office of
Environmental Health Hazard Assessment and shall establish a process
for receiving comments from the public and the cruise ship industry on
matters to be considered by the task force.
  (b) The purpose of the task force is to gather information necessary
for the preparation of the report required by Section 72304.
  (1) The task force shall gather reports and manifests of waste released
and offloaded that are submitted by large passenger vessels to state
entities under state and federal law.
  (2) As requested by the task force, owners or operators of large
passenger vessels agree to submit copied excerpts of records and
manifests, including oil record books, garbage record books, engine
room log books, or other records of waste released or offloaded after
January 1, 2001, from the vessels in California.
  (3) To the extent permitted by state and federal law, the task force may
request an owner or operator to submit supplemental or additional
information.
  (c) This section does not relieve an owner or operator from complying
with any other reporting requirement imposed pursuant to any other state
or federal law.
  72302. The owner or operator of a vessel, not later than 10 days from
the close of a calendar quarter in which the owner or operator has
operated, or caused to be operated, a vessel in the marine waters of the
[Ch. 504 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3523

state, shall submit to the State Water Resources Control Board a report
of any release of graywater or sewage that occurred during the previous
calendar quarter while the vessel was located in the marine waters of the
state, to the extent that these releases can be reasonably quantified.
   72303. The State Air Resources Board shall measure and record the
opacity of visible emissions, excluding condensed water vapor, of a
representative sample of large passenger vessels while at berth or at
anchor in a port of this state.
   72304. The California Environmental Protection Agency shall
utilize the information gathered by the task force and prepare and submit
a report to the Legislature, on or before June 1, 2003, that includes all
of the following information:
   (a) A summary review of environmental rules, regulations, reports,
reporting procedures, and mechanisms for the management of waste
applicable to large passenger vessels based on international, federal, and
state law.
   (b) A review and analysis of information contained in any report
submitted to any state or federal entity by the owner or operator of a large
passenger vessel related to the matters subject to this division, as well
as reports and other records submitted to the task force under this
division.
   (c) Identification of areas of concern that may not be covered by
existing reporting requirements that should be included in federal or
state reporting requirements.
   (d) Identification of mechanisms to better coordinate the activities of
the various state and federal agencies that regulate the operation of large
passenger vessels.
   (e) Observations regarding the potential impacts of reported
quantities and characteristics of releases of waste on water quality, the
marine environment, and human health, taking into consideration
applicable water quality standards, and an evaluation of the air
contaminant emissions on air quality and human health, taking into
consideration applicable air quality standards.
   (f) Recommendations to the Coast Guard and state agencies, as
appropriate, to address any areas where additional regulations or
reporting may be appropriate.
   72305. This division shall remain in effect only until July 1, 2003,
and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is
enacted before July 1, 2003, deletes or extends that date.
 3524                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 505 ]
                            CHAPTER 505

  An act to amend Section 29736 of, and to repeal Section 29759 of, the
Public Resources Code, relating to delta protection.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 29736 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
   29736. The term of office of the members of the commission shall
be for four years, and a member may serve for one or more consecutive
terms.
   SEC. 2. Section 29759 of the Public Resources Code is repealed.



                            CHAPTER 506

   An act to amend Sections 14482 and 14483 of the Business and
Professions Code, to repeal Section 1279 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
to amend Section 18025 of the Education Code, to amend Sections 3102,
3105, 6523.5, 6523.6, 6523.7, 15365.30, 23119, 23130, 23212, 23285,
29321, 36501, 51283.4, 54988, 61737.05, 65400, 66412, 66451.17,
66463.5, and 66499.19 of, to amend and renumber Section 6523.75 of,
to add Section 6500.1 to, to repeal Section 16153 of, to repeal Division
2 (commencing with Section 60400) of Title 6 of, and to repeal and add
Article 7 (commencing with Section 51296) of Chapter 7 of Part 1 of
Division 1 of Title 5 of, the Government Code, to repeal Division 36
(commencing with Section 56000) of the Health and Safety Code, to
amend Sections 3211.92 and 3211.93a of the Labor Code, to amend
Section 26593 of the Public Resources Code, to amend Section 21670
of the Public Utilities Code, to amend Sections 10 and 10.2 of the County
Water Authority Act (Chapter 545 of the Statutes of 1943), and to repeal
Section 901 of the Pajaro River Watershed Flood Prevention Authority
Act (Chapter 963 of the Statutes of 1999), relating to local agencies.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. (a) This act shall be known and may be cited as the
Local Government Omnibus Act of 2000.
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3525

   (b) The Legislature finds and declares that Californians desire their
government to be run efficiently and economically, and that public
officials should avoid waste and duplication whenever possible. The
Legislature further finds and declares that it desires to control its own
operating costs by reducing the number of separate bills. Therefore, it is
the intent of the Legislature in enacting this act to combine several
minor, noncontroversial statutory changes relating to local agencies into
a single measure.
   SEC. 2. Section 14482 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   14482. In order to register a name, mark or device under this article,
the supplier shall do all of the following:
   (a) File in the office of the Secretary of State a description of the
names, marks, or devices so used.
   (b) Cause the description of the name, mark or device to be printed
once a week for three successive weeks in a newspaper published in the
county in which the principal place of business of the supplier is located.
   SEC. 3. Section 14483 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   14483. The registrant shall pay to the Secretary of State for filing
each laundry supply designation described and for issuing a certificate
of filing a fee as set forth in subdivision (e) of Section 12193 of the
Government Code.
   SEC. 4. Section 1279 of the Code of Civil Procedure is repealed.
   SEC. 5. Section 18025 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   18025. (a) For the 1982–83 fiscal year and each fiscal year
thereafter, the State Librarian shall determine the amount to which each
public library is entitled for support of the library during the fiscal year.
The amount shall be equal to 10 percent of the cost of the foundation
program as determined pursuant to Section 18022.
   (b) If local revenues appropriated for a public library for the 1982–83
fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, including tax revenues made
available under Chapter 282 of the Statutes of 1979, total less than 90
percent of the cost of the foundation program as determined pursuant to
Section 18022, the state allocation for that fiscal year shall be reduced
proportionately. A proportional reduction in the state allocation as
described in this subdivision shall not be made, however, commencing
with the 1997–98 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, if the amount
appropriated to the Public Library Fund for that fiscal year is equal to or
greater than the amount necessary to fund each public library in the
amount it received for the prior fiscal year, thus providing the state’s
share of the cost of the foundation program to each library based only on
its population served, as certified by the State Librarian. After the first
fiscal year in which the proportional reduction is not made, no further
 3526                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 506 ]
reductions based on this subdivision shall be made in any future fiscal
year. It is the intent of this subdivision to make this change without harm
to any library currently receiving an unreduced share of the state’s cost
of the foundation program.
   (c) If local revenues appropriated for a public library for the 1982–83
fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, including tax revenues made
available under the provisions of Chapter 282 of the Statutes of 1979,
total more than 90 percent of the cost of the foundation program as
determined pursuant to Section 18022, the state allocation for that fiscal
year shall remain at 10 percent of the cost of the foundation program as
determined pursuant to Section 18022.
   (d) In order for a public library to receive state funds under this
chapter in the 1983–84 fiscal year and any fiscal year thereafter, the total
amount of local revenues appropriated for the public library for that
fiscal year, including tax revenues made available under Chapter 282 of
the Statutes of 1979 and other revenues deemed to be local revenues
according to Section 18023, shall be equal to at least the total amount of
local revenues, as defined, appropriated for the public library in the
previous fiscal year. State funds provided under this chapter shall
supplement, but not supplant, local revenues appropriated for the public
library.
   (e) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (d), or any other provision of
law, in the 1993–94 fiscal year, any city, county, district, or city and
county, that reduces local revenues appropriated for the public library for
the 1993–94 fiscal year shall continue to receive state funds appropriated
under this chapter for the 1993–94 fiscal year only, provided that the
amount of the reduction to the appropriation to that public library for the
1993–94 fiscal year is no more than 20 percent of the 1992–93 fiscal year
appropriation made to that public library as certified by the fiscal officer
of the public library and transmitted to the State Librarian pursuant to
Section 18023.
   (2) Commencing with the 1993–94 fiscal year, and each fiscal year
thereafter, any city, county, district, or city and county may request from
the State Librarian a waiver of the requirements of subdivision (d) or of
paragraph (1) by demonstrating that the percentage of the reduction in
local revenues appropriated for the public library is no greater than the
percentage of the reduction of local revenues received by the city,
county, district, or city and county operating the public library as a result
of changes made to Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 95) of Part 0.5
of the Revenue and Taxation Code by statutes enacted during or after the
1991–92 Regular Session having the effect of shifting property tax
revenues from cities, counties, special districts, and redevelopment
agencies to school districts and community colleges. Requests for the
waiver and the substantiating documentation shall be submitted to the
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3527

State Librarian along with the annual report of appropriation required by
Section 18023 or any other report of appropriations applying to public
libraries required by any other provision of law.
   (3) Commencing with the 1997-98 fiscal year, and each fiscal year
thereafter, any city, county, district, or city and county may request from
the State Librarian a waiver of the requirements of subdivision (d) by
demonstrating that the percentage of reduction in local revenues
appropriated for the public library is no greater than the percentage of
reduction of local revenues received by the city, county, district, or city
and county operating the public library as a result of the addition of
Article XIII D, otherwise known as the Right to Vote on Taxes Act, to
the California Constitution as approved by the voters at the November
5, 1996, general election. Requests for the waiver and the substantiating
documentation shall be submitted to the State Librarian along with the
annual report of appropriation required by Section 18023 or any other
report of appropriations applying to public libraries required by any
other provision of law.
   (4) Commencing with the 2000–01 fiscal year, and each fiscal year
thereafter, any city, county, district, or city and county may request from
the State Librarian a waiver of the requirements of subdivision (d) or of
paragraph (1) by demonstrating that the reduction in local revenues
appropriated for the public library is no greater than the reduction in local
revenues received by the city, county, district, or city and county
operating the public library as a result of the automatic termination of a
locally approved special tax or benefit assessment for that public library.
Requests for the waiver and substantiating documentation shall be
submitted to the State Librarian along with the annual report of
appropriation required by Section 18023 or any other report of
appropriations applying to public libraries required by any other
provision of law.
   (f) If the state allocations computed pursuant to this section exceed
the total amount of funds appropriated for purposes of this section in any
fiscal year, the State Librarian shall adjust on a pro rata basis public
library allocations prescribed by this section so that the total amount in
each fiscal year does not exceed this amount.
   SEC. 6. Section 3102 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   3102. (a) All disaster service workers shall, before they enter upon
the duties of their employment, take and subscribe to the oath or
affirmation required by this chapter.
   (b) In the case of intermittent, temporary, emergency or successive
employments, then in the discretion of the employing agency, an oath
taken and subscribed as required by this chapter shall be effective for the
purposes of this chapter for all successive periods of employment which
commence within one calendar year from the date of that subscription.
 3528                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 506 ]
   (c) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), the oath taken and subscribed
by a person who is a member of an emergency organization sanctioned
by a state agency or an accredited disaster council, whose members are
duly enrolled or registered with the Office of Emergency Services, or any
accredited disaster council of any political subdivision, shall be effective
for the period the person remains a member with that organization.
   SEC. 7. Section 3105 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   3105. (a) The oath or affirmation of any disaster service worker of
the state shall be filed as prescribed by State Personnel Board rule within
30 days of the date on which it is taken and subscribed.
   (b) The oath or affirmation of any disaster service worker of any
county shall be filed in the office of the county clerk of the county or in
the official department personnel file of the county employee who is
designated as a disaster service worker. The oath may be destroyed
without duplication five years after the termination of the employee’s
employment by the county.
   (c) The oath or affirmation of any disaster service worker of any city
shall be filed in the office of the city clerk of the city.
   (d) The oath or affirmation of any disaster service worker of any other
agency or district shall be filed with any officer or employee of the
agency or district that may be designated by the agency or district.
   SEC. 8. Section 6500.1 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   6500.1. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Joint
Exercise of Powers Act.
   SEC. 9. Section 6523.5 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   6523.5. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a
private, nonprofit hospital in the County of Contra Costa may enter into
a joint powers agreement with a public agency, as defined in Section
6500.
   SEC. 10. Section 6523.6 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   6523.6. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a
private, nonprofit hospital in the County of Tulare may enter into a joint
powers agreement with a public agency, as defined in Section 6500.
   (b) Nonprofit hospitals and public agencies participating in a joint
powers agreement entered into pursuant to subdivision (a) shall not
reduce or eliminate any emergency services, as a result of that
agreement, following the creation of the joint powers authority without
a public hearing by the authority. The joint powers authority shall
provide public notice of the hearing to the communities served by the
authority not less than 14 days prior to the hearing and the notice shall
contain a description of the proposed reductions or changes.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to grant any power to
any nonprofit hospital that participates in an agreement authorized under
[Ch. 506 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3529

this section to levy any tax or assessment. Nothing in this section shall
permit any entity, other than a nonprofit hospital corporation or a public
agency, to participate as a party to an agreement authorized under this
section.
   SEC. 11. Section 6523.7 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   6523.7. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a
private, nonprofit hospital in the County of Kings may enter into a joint
powers agreement with a public agency, as defined in Section 6500.
   (b) Nonprofit hospitals and public agencies participating in a joint
powers agreement entered into pursuant to subdivision (a) shall not
reduce or eliminate any emergency services, as a result of that
agreement, following the creation of the joint powers authority without
a public hearing by the authority. The joint powers authority shall
provide public notice of the hearing to the communities served by the
authority not less than 14 days prior to the hearing and the notice shall
contain a description of the proposed reductions or changes.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to grant any power to
any nonprofit hospital that participates in an agreement authorized under
this section to levy any tax or assessment. Nothing in this section shall
permit any entity, other than a nonprofit hospital corporation or a public
agency, to participate as a party to an agreement authorized under this
section.
   SEC. 12. Section 6523.75 of the Government Code is amended and
renumbered to read:
  6523.9. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a
nonprofit hospital in the County of San Diego may enter into a joint
powers agreement with any public agency, as defined in Section 6500.
  (b) Nonprofit hospitals and public agencies participating in a joint
powers agreement entered into pursuant to subdivision (a) shall not
reduce or eliminate any emergency services, as a result of that
agreement, following the creation of the joint powers authority without
a public hearing by the authority.
  (c) The joint powers authority shall provide public notice of the
hearing to the communities served by the authority not less than 14 days
prior to the hearing and the notice shall contain a description of the
proposed reductions or changes.
  (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to grant any power to
any nonprofit hospital that participates in an agreement authorized under
this section to levy any tax or assessment. Nothing in this section shall
permit any entity, other than a nonprofit hospital corporation or a public
agency, to participate as a party to an agreement authorized under this
section.
 3530                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 506 ]
  SEC. 13. Section 15365.30 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
  15365.30. (a) The California Central Valley International Trade
Center in Tulare County has been created for the purpose of assisting
Central Valley businesses interested in expanding their markets.
  (b) It is the intent of the Legislature that the Central Valley
International Trade Center in Tulare County coordinate and work
cooperatively with other ongoing international trade efforts in the
Central Valley, including the Counties of Fresno, Kern, Kings, Madera,
Merced, San Joaquin, Stanislaus, and Tulare.
  SEC. 14. Section 16153 of the Government Code is repealed.
  SEC. 15. Section 23119 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
  23119. The boundaries of Los Angeles County are as follows:
  Beginning at a point in the southwesterly boundary line of the State
of California, said point being on the southerly prolongation of the
westerly boundary line of Rancho Topanga Malibu Sequit; thence
northerly along said prolongation and westerly line of said rancho to the
northwesterly corner thereof; thence northeasterly in a direct line to
corner number seven of the boundary of Rancho Simi; thence easterly
along line number seven, northerly along line number eight, easterly
along line number nine of the boundary of Rancho Simi to corner
number ten of the boundary of Rancho Simi; thence following the
boundary line as surveyed by E. T. Wright and J. T. Stow, county
surveyors, in June and July, 1881, as shown on map recorded in book 43,
page 25 et seq., miscellaneous records of Los Angeles County as
follows: north 105.01 chains to a point; thence north 07 degrees 29
minutes W., 157.50 chains to a point; thence north 21 degrees 57 minutes
W., to a point in the north line of Sec. 4, T. 8 N., R. 19 W., S. B. M.,
distant westerly along said north line 1,400 feet, more or less, from the
northeast corner of said Sec. 4, said point being common to the
boundaries of Kern, Ventura and Los Angeles; thence east along the
north line of T. 8 N., S. B. M., to the northeast corner of T. 8 N., R. 8 W.,
S. B. M., said corner being a point common to the boundaries of San
Bernardino, Kern, and Los Angeles;
  Thence south along the range line between R. 7 and 8 W., to the
southeast corner of T. 6 N., R. 8 W., S. B. M.; thence east along the
township line between T. 5 and 6 N., to the northeast corner of T. 5 N.,
R. 8 W., S. B. M.; thence south along the range line between R. 7 and
8 W., to a point in the east line of Sec. 12, T. 4 N., R. 8 W., S. B. M.,
distant southerly 940 feet, measured along said east line, from the
northeast corner of said Sec. 12; thence southerly in a direct line to the
summit of San Antonio Peak; thence southerly along a straight line
which passes through the northwest corner of the Rancho Cucamonga
[Ch. 506 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3531

to a point in said straight line distant south 11_51i04I west thereon,
333.81 feet from its intersection with the north line of Tract 37, T. 2 N.,
R. 7 W., S. B. M.; thence north 25_38i59I west, 15.06 feet; thence south
70_15i29I west, 47.76 feet; thence south 09_57i30I east, 62.51 feet;
thence south 34_17i02I east, 36.94 feet to said straight line; thence
continuing southerly along said straight line to a point in said straight
line distant north 11_51i04I east, 547.37 feet from its intersection with
the south line of said Tract 37; thence south 84_57i02I west, 35.25 feet;
thence south 23_47i27I west, 75.70 feet to the beginning of a
nontangent curve concave to the southwest having a radius of 181.00 feet
and to which beginning a radial line bears south 29_24i24I west; thence
southeasterly along said curve through a central angle of 12_08i32I an
arc distance of 38.36 feet to the beginning of a reverse curve concave to
the northeast having a radius of 169.00 feet; thence southeasterly 16.07
feet along said curve through a central angle of 05_26i52I to said straight
line; thence southwest in a direct line to the northwest corner of Rancho
Cucamonga, thence southwesterly along the northwesterly boundary
line of Rancho Cucamonga to the most westerly corner of Rancho
Cucamonga; thence southwesterly in a direct line to the northeast corner
of Rancho San Jose; thence southwesterly and westerly along the
easterly and southerly boundary lines of Rancho San Jose to the range
line between R. 8 and 9 W. in T. 2 S., S. B. M.;
   Thence south along the range line between R. 8 and 9 W., to the
southeast corner of Sec. 12, T. 2 S., R. 9 W., S. B. M., said corner being
an angle point in the boundary line of the Rancho Santa Ana del Chino;
thence westerly, southwesterly, southerly, easterly, and southerly along
the boundary line of the Rancho Santa Ana del Chino to the southwest
corner of the Rancho Santa Ana del Chino, said corner being the center
of Sec. 35, T. 2 S., R. 9 W., S. B. M.; thence southeasterly in a straight
line to a point in the south line of Sec. 36, T. 2 S., R. 9 W., S. B. M.,
distant 52.84 feet easterly thereon from the southwest corner of said Sec.
36, said point being common to the boundaries of San Bernardino,
Orange, and Los Angeles; thence westerly along the northern line of
Orange to the southeasterly corner of Tract No. 46685 filed in Book
1209, pages 56 and 57, of Maps, in the office of the Recorder of the
County of Los Angeles, said southeasterly corner being common to the
boundaries of Orange and Los Angeles; thence northerly following
along the boundary of said Tract No. 46685, the following courses: north
13_53i07I east 100.12 feet, north 76_01i25I west 1018.58 feet, north
85_34i56I west 163.25 feet, and south 00_57i29I west 47.01 feet to a
point in the northerly line of Tract No. 25335, filed in Book 775, pages
35 and 36, of said Maps, said point distant westerly along said northerly
line 10.26 feet from the northeasterly corner of said Tract No. 25335;
thence northwesterly following along the boundary of said Tract No.
 3532                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 506 ]
25335 the following courses: north 76_00i59I west 1224.52 feet and
south 00_52i39I west 564.75 feet to a point on the boundary common
to Orange and Los Angeles; thence westerly along the northern line of
Orange to the southwesterly boundary line of the State of California;
thence northwesterly along the southwesterly boundary line of the State
of California to the point of beginning. Also the islands of Santa Catalina
and San Clemente.
   SEC. 16. Section 23130 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   23130. The boundaries of Orange County are as follows:
   Beginning at the northwest corner of San Diego County at a point in
the Pacific Ocean opposite San Mateo point; thence northerly along the
San Diego County line to the southerly line of the Rancho Mission Viejo
as shown on the survey on file in book 8, pages 34 through 46 inclusive
of Records of Survey in the office of the County Recorder of Orange
County;
   Thence, easterly and northeasterly to an angle point therein, said point
being Rancho Mission Viejo Corner No. 7, as shown on said Record of
Survey; thence northerly 12,693.95 feet along the northwestern
boundary of San Diego County to the southwest corner of Section 33,
T. 7 S., R. 6 W., said point being also the most southwest corner of
Riverside County; thence northerly 1,324.46 feet along the western
boundary of said Riverside County to the southwesterly corner of
Government Lot 3, Fractional Section 33, T. 7 S., R. 6 W., S.B.M., as
shown on that survey on file in book 122, pages 17 and 18 of Records
of Survey in the office of the County Recorder of Orange County;
   Thence leaving said western boundary south 89_25i11I east, 2,042.68
feet to the southeast corner of the NE. 1/4 of the SE. 1/4 of said Section
33; thence north 01_00i50I east, 1,320.33 feet to the northeast corner of
the NE. 1/4 of the SE. 1/4 of said Section 33; thence north 00_27i14I east,
2,647.46 feet to the northeast corner of said Section 33; thence along the
north line of said section north 89_16i14I west, 2,086.39 feet to the
northwest corner of Government Lot 1 of said section, being a point on
the existing western boundary of said Riverside County;
   Thence along said boundary of Riverside County northerly,
northeasterly, northwesterly, westerly, northerly, westerly and
northwesterly to a point on the south line of Section 36, T. 3 S., R. 8 W.,
as shown on that survey on file in book 131, pages 24 and 25 of Records
of Survey in the office of the Orange County Recorder, said point lying
distant therein north 89_05i38I west 151.58 feet from the southeast
corner of said Section 36;
   Thence leaving said existing boundary of Riverside County and along
said south line north 89_05i38I west, 2,484.00 feet; thence continuing
along said south line, north 89_07i27I west, 818.46 feet to the easterly
[Ch. 506 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3533

line of the Rancho Lomas de Santiago; thence along said easterly line
north 02_53i27I west, 3,273.18 feet to a point on a nontangent curve,
concave to the northwest and having a radius of 1,550.00 feet, a radial
from said point bears north 14_05i30I west; thence easterly, leaving said
east line, along said curve through a central angle of 15_01i17I and arc
length of 406.35 feet; thence nontangent to said curve, south 84_32i29I
east, 155.61 feet; thence north 65_40i06I east, 75.15 feet; thence north
48_16i56I east, 150.70 feet; thence north 68_49i57I east, 35.37 feet to
said existing boundary of Riverside County;
   Thence northwesterly along the said boundary to the corner common
to Riverside, San Bernardino, and Orange Counties; thence
northwesterly along the southwest boundary of San Bernardino County
to the point of intersection of said boundary with the southerly line of
T. 2 S., R. 9 W., being also the corner common to San Bernardino and
Los Angeles Counties; thence westerly along the township line between
T. 2 and 3 S., to the northeast corner of Annexation 69-1 (Ryness-Smith
No. 2) to the City of Brea, said point also being the southeast corner of
Tract No. 46685, per map filed in Book 1209, pages 56 and 57, of Maps,
in the office of the Recorder of the County of Los Angeles, being distant
north 89_00i53I west, 1670.40 feet from the northeast corner of Section
3, Township 3 South, Range 10 West; thence, leaving the Township line
between T. 2 and 3 S., along the boundary line of said Tract No. 46685,
the following courses: north 13_53i07I east, along the easterly line of
said Tract, 100.12 feet to the northeast corner thereof; thence, north
76_01i25I west, along the northeasterly line of said Tract, 1018.58 feet
to the easterly terminus of that course shown as ‘‘north 86_32i58I west,
163.32 feet’’ on said Tract; thence, north 85_34i56I west, along the
northerly line of said Tract, 163.25 feet to the northwest corner thereof;
thence, south 00_57i29I west, along the most westerly line of said Tract,
47.01 feet, to the northeasterly boundary line of Tract No. 25335, per
map filed in Book 775, pages 35 and 36, of Maps, in the office of the
Recorder of the County of Los Angeles, said point being north
76_00i59I west, along said northeasterly line 10.26 feet, from the
northeast corner of said Tract; thence along the boundary of said Tract
No. 25335, the following courses: north 76_00i59I west, along said
northeasterly line of said Tract, 1224.52 feet to the northwest corner
thereof; thence south 00_52i39I west, along the westerly line of said
Tract, 564.75 feet to the southwest corner of said Tract, being a point of
intersection with the Township line between T. 2 and 3 S., distant south
89_00i53I east, 1449.86 feet from the northwest corner of said Section
3, Township 3 South, Range 10 West; thence, leaving said boundary of
Tract No. 25335, westerly along the Township line between T. 2 and 3
S., to the corner common to T. 2 and 3 S., R. 10 and 11 W.; thence
southerly along the range line between R. 10 and 11 W., to the southeast
 3534                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 506 ]
corner of Section 13, T. 3 S., R. 11 W., in the Rancho Los Coyotes;
thence in a general southwesterly direction along section lines, quarter
section lines and quarter quarter section lines in the Rancho Los
Coyotes, as follows: westerly along the section line to the quarter corner
on the south line of said Section 13; thence southerly along the quarter
section line to the center of Section 24, T. 3 S., R. 11 W.; thence westerly
along the quarter section line to the quarter corner on the west line of said
Section 24; thence southerly along the section line to the southwest
corner of said Section 24; thence westerly along the section line to the
quarter corner on the north line of Section 26, T. 3 S., R. 11 W.; thence
southerly along the quarter section line to the center of said Section 26;
   Thence westerly along the quarter section line to the quarter corner on
the west line of said Section 26; thence southerly along the section line
to the southwest corner of said Section 26; thence westerly along the
section line to the northeast corner of Section 33, T. 3 S., R. 11 W.; thence
southerly along the section line to the quarter corner on the east line of
said Section 33; thence westerly along the quarter section line to the
center of said Section 33; thence southerly along the quarter section line
to the northeast corner of the SE. 1/4 of the SW. 1/4 of said Section 33;
thence westerly along the quarter quarter section line to the center of the
SW. 1/4 of said Section 33; thence southerly along the quarter quarter
section line to the south line of said Section 33; thence westerly along
the township line between T. 3 and 4 S., to the northeast corner of Section
5, T. 4 S., R. 11 W.; thence southerly along the section line to the
northeast corner of the SE. 1/4 of said Section 5; thence westerly along
the quarter section line to the northwest corner of the NE. 1/4 of the SE.
1/ of said Section 5; thence southerly along the quarter quarter section
  4
line to the center of the SE. 1/4 of said Section 5; thence westerly along
the quarter quarter section line to the westerly line of the SE. 1/4 of said
Section 5; thence southerly along the quarter section line to the quarter
corner on the south line of said Section 5; thence westerly along the
section line to the northeast corner of the NW. 1/4 of the NW. 1/4 of
Section 8, T. 4 S., R. 11 W.;
   Thence southerly along the quarter quarter section lines to the
northeast corner of the SW. 1/4 of the SW. 1/4 of said Section 8; thence
southwesterly in a straight line to a point on the south line of the Moody
Creek Channel as shown on that survey on file in book 120, page 5 of
Records of Survey in the office of the Recorder of Orange County, said
point being on a nontangent curve, concave southeasterly and having a
radius of 950.00 feet, a radial from said point bears south 03_41i24I
east; thence westerly along said south line and said curve through a
central angle of 26_34i39I and an arc length of 440.67 feet to its point
of intersection with the east line of the Coyote Creek Channel, said point
being on a nontangent curve concave northwesterly and having a radius
[Ch. 506 ]             STATUTES OF 2000                           3535

of 5,200.00 feet, a radial from said point bears north 75_11i46I west;
thence southwesterly along said easterly line and said curve through a
central angle of 03_10i38I and an arc length of 288.36 feet; thence
continuing along said easterly line, tangent to said curve, south
17_58i52I west, 132.27 feet to a point on the existing boundary of Los
Angeles County; thence southwesterly along said boundary in a straight
line to the southwest corner of Section 8, T. 4 S., R. 11 W. said corner
also being Los Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 11 as shown on Los
Angeles County Surveyor’s Map No. 8175 on file in the office of the
Surveyor of the County of Los Angeles;
   Thence south 00_11i50I east, along the section line to a point on the
boundary line between Rancho Los Coyotes and Rancho Los Alamitos,
said point also being Los Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 10;
   Thence south 59_07i40I west, a distance of 3,391.48 feet to Los
Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 9;
   Thence south 39_48i20I west, a distance of 5,650.97 feet to Los
Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 8;
   Thence south 11_36i55I west, a distance of 2,241.41 feet to Los
Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 7;
   Thence south 27_55i55I west, a distance of 8,375.40 feet to Los
Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 6;
   Thence south 31_22i50I east, a distance of 1,296.21 feet to Los
Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 5;
   Thence south 27_12i00I east, a distance of 2,106.10 feet to Los
Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 4;
   Thence south 16_46i45I east, a distance of 1,444.82 feet to Los
Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 3;
   Thence south 2_48i35I east, a distance of 2,207.94 feet to Los
Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 2;
   Thence south 57_10i40I west, a distance of 8,238.78 feet to Los
Angeles/Orange County Corner No. 1;
   Thence south 33_00i00I west, a distance of 622.43 feet to a point on
the northeasterly line of block 59, Alamitos Bay tract, as shown on the
map recorded in map book 5, page 137, on file in the office of the
Recorder of the County of Los Angeles, distant thereon south 57_50i45I
east, a distance of 428.91 feet from the most northerly corner of said
block 59; thence continuing south 33_00i00I west, a distance of three
miles, more or less to the southwesterly boundary line of the State of
California (the boundary line between Los Angeles and Orange
hereinabove described and established being shown on said county
surveyor’s map No. 8175; and likewise on map No. 300 on file in the
office of the Surveyor of Orange County); thence southeasterly along the
state line to the point of beginning.
 3536                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 506 ]
   SEC. 17. Section 23212 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   23212. When a county boundary is changed pursuant to this article,
the boards of supervisors of the affected counties shall file before the
following December 1, with the State Board of Equalization and with the
assessors of the affected counties, a statement setting forth the legal
description of the boundary, as changed, together with a map or plat
indicating the boundary. The change of the boundary shall not be
effective for purposes of assessment or taxation unless the statement,
together with the map or plat is filed with the assessors and the State
Board of Equalization on or before December 1 of the year immediately
preceding the year in which the assessments or taxes are to be levied.
   SEC. 18. Section 23285 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   23285. Whenever county boundaries are changed pursuant to this
article, the board of supervisors of both affected counties shall cause to
be filed before the following December 1, with the State Board of
Equalization and with the assessors of both affected counties, a
statement setting forth the legal description of the boundaries, as
changed, together with a map or plat indicating those boundaries. The
change of the boundaries shall not be effective for purposes of
assessment or taxation unless the statement, together with the map or
plat required by this section, is filed with the county assessors and with
the State Board of Equalization on or before December 1 of the year
immediately preceding the year in which the assessments or taxes are to
be levied.
   SEC. 19. Section 29321 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   29321. The board of supervisors may establish a revolving fund for
the use of any officer of the county by adopting a resolution setting forth:
(a) the necessity for the fund, (b) the office, department, service, or
institution for which the fund is available, and (c) the amount of the
fund, which shall not exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000).
   SEC. 20. Section 36501 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   36501. The government of a general law city is vested in:
   (a) A city council of at least five members.
   (b) A city clerk.
   (c) A city treasurer.
   (d) A chief of police.
   (e) A fire chief.
   (f) Any subordinate officers or employees provided by law.
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3537

   SEC. 21. Section 51283.4 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   51283.4. (a) Upon tentative approval of a petition accompanied by
a proposal for a specified alternative use of the land, the clerk of the board
or council shall record in the office of the county recorder of the county
in which is located the land as to which the contract is applicable a
certificate of tentative cancellation, which shall set forth the name of the
landowner requesting the cancellation, the fact that a certificate of
cancellation of contract will be issued and recorded at the time that
specified conditions and contingencies are satisfied, a description of the
conditions and contingencies which must be satisfied, and a legal
description of the property. Conditions to be satisfied shall include
payment in full of the amount of the fee computed under the provisions
of Section 51283, together with a statement that unless the fee is paid,
or a certificate of cancellation of contract is issued within one year from
the date of the recording of the certificate of tentative cancellation, the
fee shall be recomputed as of the date of notice described in subdivision
(b). Any provisions related to the waiver of the fee or portion thereof
shall be treated in the manner provided for in the certificate of tentative
cancellation. Contingencies to be satisfied shall include a requirement
that the landowner obtain all permits necessary to commence the project.
The board or council may, at the request of the landowner, amend a
tentatively approved specified alternative use if it finds that the
amendment is consistent with the findings made pursuant to subdivision
(a) of Section 51282.
   (b) The landowner shall notify the board or council when he or she
has satisfied the conditions and contingencies enumerated in the
certificate of tentative cancellation. Within 30 days of receipt of the
notice, and upon a determination that the conditions and contingencies
have been satisfied, the board or council shall execute a certificate of
cancellation of contract and cause the same to be recorded.
   (c) If the landowner has been unable to satisfy the conditions and
contingencies enumerated in the certificate of tentative cancellation, the
landowner shall notify the board or council of the particular conditions
or contingencies he or she is unable to satisfy. Within 30 days of receipt
of the notice, and upon a determination that the landowner is unable to
satisfy the conditions and contingencies listed, the board or council shall
execute a certificate of withdrawal of tentative approval of a cancellation
of contract and cause the same to be recorded. However, the landowner
shall not be entitled to the refund of any cancellation fee paid.
   SEC. 22. Article 7 (commencing with Section 51296) of Chapter 7
of Part 1 of Division 1 of Title 5 of the Government Code is repealed.
 3538                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 506 ]
  SEC. 23. Article 7 (commencing with Section 51296) is added to
Chapter 7 of Part 1 of Division 1 of Title 5 of the Government Code, to
read:

                 Article 7.   Farmland Security Zones

   51296. The Legislature finds and declares that it is desirable to
expand options available to landowners for the preservation of
agricultural land. It is therefore the intent of the Legislature in enacting
this article to encourage the creation of longer term voluntary
enforceable restrictions within agricultural preserves.
   51296.1. A landowner or group of landowners may petition the
board to rescind a contract or contracts entered into pursuant to this
chapter in order to simultaneously place the land subject to that contract
or those contracts under a new contract designating the property as a
farmland security zone. A landowner or group of landowners may also
petition the board to create a farmland security zone for the purpose of
entering into farmland security zone contracts pursuant to this section.
   (a) Before approving the rescission of a contract or contracts entered
into pursuant to this chapter in order to simultaneously place the land
under a new farmland security zone contract, the board shall create a
farmland security zone, pursuant to the requirements of Section 51230,
within an existing agricultural preserve.
   (b) No land shall be included in a farmland security zone unless
expressly requested by the landowner. Any land located within a city’s
sphere of influence shall not be included within a farmland security zone,
unless the creation of the farmland security zone within the sphere of
influence has been expressly approved by resolution by the city with
jurisdiction within the sphere of influence.
   (c) If more than one landowner requests the creation of a farmland
security zone and the parcels are contiguous, the county shall place those
parcels in the same farmland security zone.
   (d) A contract entered into pursuant to this section shall be for an
initial term of no less than 20 years. Each contract shall provide that on
the anniversary date of the contract or on another annual date as specified
by the contract, a year shall be added automatically to the initial term
unless a notice of nonrenewal is given pursuant to Section 51245.
   (e) Upon termination of a farmland security zone contract, the
farmland security zone designation for that parcel shall simultaneously
be terminated.
   51296.2. Both of the following shall apply to land within a
designated farmland security zone:
   (a) The land shall be eligible for property tax valuation pursuant to
Section 423.4 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3539

   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any special tax
approved by the voters for urban-related services on or after January 1,
1999, on the land or any living improvement shall be levied at a reduced
rate unless the tax directly benefits the land or the living improvements.
   51296.3. Notwithstanding any provision of the Cortese-Knox Local
Government Reorganization Act of 1985 (Division 3 (commencing with
Section 56000)), a local agency formation commission shall not approve
a change of organization or reorganization that would result in the
annexation of land within a designated farmland security zone to a city.
However, this subdivision shall not apply under any of the following
circumstances:
   (a) If the farmland security zone is located within a designated,
delineated area that has been approved by the voters as a limit for
existing and future urban facilities, utilities, and services.
   (b) If annexation of a parcel or a portion of a parcel is necessary for
the location of a public improvement, as defined in Section 51290.5,
except as provided in subdivision (f) or (g) of this section.
   (c) If the landowner consents to the annexation.
   51296.4. Notwithstanding any provision of the Cortese-Knox Local
Government Reorganization Act of 1985 (Division 3 (commencing with
Section 56000)), a local agency formation commission shall not approve
a change of organization or reorganization that would result in the
annexation of land within a designated farmland security zone to a
special district that provides sewers, nonagricultural water, or streets and
roads, unless the facilities or services provided by the special district
benefit land uses that are allowed under the contract and the landowner
consents to the change of organization or reorganization.
   51296.5. Notwithstanding Article 5 (commencing with Section
53090) of Chapter 1 of Division 2 of Title 5, a school district shall not
render inapplicable a county zoning ordinance to the use of land by the
school district if the land is within a designated farmland security zone.
   51296.6. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a school
district shall not acquire any land that is within a designated farmland
security zone.
   51296.7. The board shall not approve any use of land within a
designated farmland security zone based on the compatible use
provisions contained in subdivision (c) of Section 51238.1.
   51296.8. Sections 51296 to 51297.4, inclusive, shall only apply to
land that is designated on the Important Farmland Series maps, prepared
pursuant to Section 65570 as predominantly one or more of the
following:
   (a) Prime farmland.
   (b) Farmland of statewide significance.
   (c) Unique farmland.
 3540                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 506 ]
   (d) Farmland of local importance.
   If the proposed farmland security zone is in an area that is not
designated on the Important Farmland Series maps, the land shall
qualify if it is predominantly prime agricultural land, as defined in
subdivision (c) of Section 51201.
   51296.9. Nonrenewal of a farmland security zone contract shall be
pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 51240), except as
otherwise provided in this article.
   51297. A petition for cancellation of a farmland security zone
contract created under this article may be filed only by the landowner
with the city or county within which the contracted land is located. The
city or county may grant a petition only in accordance with the
procedures provided for in Article 5 (commencing with Section 51280)
and only if all the following requirements are met:
   (a) The city or county shall make both of the findings specified in
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 51282, based on
substantial evidence in the record. Subdivisions (b) to (e), inclusive, of
Section 51282 shall apply to the findings made by the city or county.
   (b) In its resolution tentatively approving cancellation of the contract,
the city or county shall find all of the following:
   (1) That no beneficial public purpose would be served by the
continuation of the contract.
   (2) That the uneconomic nature of the agricultural use is primarily
attributable to circumstances beyond the control of the landowner and
the local government.
   (3) That the landowner has paid a cancellation fee equal to 25 percent
of the cancellation valuation calculated in accordance with subdivision
(b) of Section 51283.
   (c) The Director of Conservation approves the cancellation. The
director may approve the cancellation after reviewing the record of the
tentative cancellation provided by the city or county, only if he or she
finds both of the following:
   (1) That there is substantial evidence in the record supporting the
decision.
   (2) That no beneficial public purpose would be served by the
continuation of the contract.
   (d) A finding that no authorized use may be made of a remnant
contract parcel of five acres or less left by public acquisition pursuant to
Section 51295, may be substituted for the finding in subdivision (a).
   51297.1. All of the provisions of Article 6 (commencing with
Section 51290) shall apply to farmland security zones created pursuant
to this article except as specifically provided in this article.
   51297.2. No state agency, as defined in Section 65934, or local
agency, as defined in Section 65930, shall require any land to be placed
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3541

under a farmland security zone contract as a condition of the issuance of
any entitlement to use or the approval of a legislative or adjudicative act
involving, but not limited to, the planning, use, or development of real
property, or a change of organization or reorganization, as defined in
Section 56021 or 56073. No contract shall be executed as a condition of
an entitlement to use issued by an agency of the United States
government.
   51297.3. Sections 51296.3 and 51296.4 shall not apply during the
three-year period preceding the termination of a farmland security zone
contract.
   51297.4. Nothing in Sections 51296 to 51297.4, inclusive, shall be
construed to limit the authority of a board to rescind a portion or portions
of a Williamson Act contract or contracts for the purpose of immediately
enrolling the land in a farmland security zone contract so long as the
remaining land is retained in a Williamson Act contract and the board
determines that its action would improve the conservation of agricultural
land within the county where the rescission occurs. The creation of
multiple contracts under this section does not constitute a subdivision of
the land.
   SEC. 24. Section 54988 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   54988. (a) (1) In addition to any other remedy provided by law,
including the current powers of charter cities, the legislative body of a
city, county, or city and county may collect any fee, cost, or charge
incurred in (A) the abatement of public nuisances; (B) the correction of
any violation of any law or regulation that would also be a violation of
Section 1941.1 of the Civil Code; (C) the enforcement of zoning
ordinances adopted pursuant to Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
65800) of Division 1 of Title 7 or any other constitutional or statutory
authority; (D) inspections and abatement of violations of Article 1
(commencing with Section 13100) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 12
of the Health and Safety Code; (E) inspections and abatement of
violations of the State Housing Law, Part 1.5 (commencing with Section
17910) of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto; (F) inspections and abatement of violations of
the California Building Standards Code, Title 24 of the California Code
of Regulations; or (G) inspections and abatement related to local
ordinances and regulations that implement any of the foregoing, if the
fee, cost, or charge has not been paid within 45 days of notice thereof,
by making the amount of the unpaid fee, cost, or charge a proposed lien
against the property that is the subject of the enforcement activity.
Except as provided in subdivision (c), the amount of the proposed lien
may be collected at the same time and in the same manner as property
taxes are collected. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and
 3542                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 506 ]
enforcement of ad valorem taxes shall be applicable to the proposed lien,
except that if any real property to which the lien would attach has been
transferred or conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a lien of
a bona fide encumbrancer for value has been created and attaches
thereon, prior to the date on which the first installment of taxes would
become delinquent, then the lien that would otherwise be imposed by
this section shall not attach to real property and the costs of enforcement
relating to the property shall be transferred to the unsecured roll for
collection.
   (2) The amount of any fee, cost, or charge shall not exceed the actual
cost incurred performing the inspections and enforcement activity,
including permit fees, fines, late charges, and interest.
   (3) This section shall not apply to owner-occupied residential
dwelling units.
   (4) This section does not apply to any enforcement, abatement,
correction, or inspection activity regarding a violation in which the
violation was evident on the plans that received a building permit.
   (b) (1) A city, county, or city and county shall provide the owner of
the property with written notice in plain language of the proposed lien,
a description of the basis for the amounts comprising the lien, a
minimum of 45 days after notice to pay the fee, cost, or charge, and an
opportunity to appear before the legislative body and be heard regarding
the amount of the proposed lien. The notice shall be mailed by certified
mail to the last known address of the owner of the property.
   (2) In any city, county, or city and county, the legislative body may
delegate the holding of the hearing required by paragraph (1) to a hearing
board designated by the legislative body. The hearing board may be the
housing appeals board established pursuant to Section 17920.5 of the
Health and Safety Code or any other body designated by the legislative
body. The hearing board shall make a written recommendation to the
legislative body which shall include factual findings based on evidence
introduced at the hearing. The legislative body may adopt the
recommendation without further notice of hearing, or may set the matter
for a de novo hearing before the legislative body. Notice in writing of the
de novo hearing shall be provided to the property owner at least 10 days
in advance of the scheduled hearing.
   (c) If the legislative body determines that the proposed lien
authorized pursuant to subdivision (a) shall become a lien, the body may
also cause a notice of lien to be recorded. This lien shall attach upon
recordation in the office of the county recorder of the county in which
the property is situated and shall have the same force, priority, and effect
as a judgment lien, not a tax lien. The notice shall, at a minimum, identify
the record owner or possessor of the property, set forth the last known
address of the record owner or possessor, set forth the date upon which
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3543

the lien was created against the property, and include a description of the
real property subject to the lien and the amount of the lien.
   SEC. 25. Division 2 (commencing with Section 60400) of Title 6 of
the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 26. Section 61737.05 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   61737.05. (a) Bond principal and interest and salaries shall be paid
when due. Except as provided in subdivisions (b) and (c), all other claims
and demands shall be approved in an open meeting by a majority of the
members of the board.
   (b) Warrants drawn in payment of claims and demands approved by
the finance officer as conforming to an approved budget need not be
approved by the board prior to payment.
   (c) Claims and demands paid by warrants pursuant to subdivision (b)
shall be presented to the board for ratification and approval in the audited
comprehensive annual financial report.
   SEC. 27. Section 65400 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   65400. After the legislative body has adopted all or part of a general
plan, the planning agency shall do both of the following:
   (a) Investigate and make recommendations to the legislative body
regarding reasonable and practical means for implementing the general
plan or element of the general plan, so that it will serve as an effective
guide for orderly growth and development, preservation and
conservation of open-space land and natural resources, and the efficient
expenditure of public funds relating to the subjects addressed in the
general plan.
   (b) (1) Provide an annual report to the legislative body, the Office of
Planning and Research, and the Department of Housing and Community
Development on the status of the plan and progress in its
implementation, including the progress in meeting its share of regional
housing needs determined pursuant to Section 65584 and local efforts
to remove governmental constraints to the maintenance, improvement,
and development of housing pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (c)
of Section 65583.
   (2) The housing portion of the annual report required to be provided
to the Office of Planning and Research and the Department of Housing
and Community Development pursuant to this subdivision shall be
prepared through the use of forms and definitions adopted by the
Department of Housing and Community Development pursuant to the
Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section
11340) of, Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 11370) of, and Chapter
5 (commencing with Section 11500) of, Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2).
This report shall be provided to the legislative body, the Office of
 3544                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 506 ]
Planning and Research, and the Department of Housing and Community
Development on or before October 1 of each year.
   SEC. 28. Section 66412 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   66412. This division shall be inapplicable to:
   (a) The financing or leasing of apartments, offices, stores, or similar
space within apartment buildings, industrial buildings, commercial
buildings, mobilehome parks, or trailer parks.
   (b) Mineral, oil, or gas leases.
   (c) Land dedicated for cemetery purposes under the Health and Safety
Code.
   (d) A lot line adjustment between two or more existing adjacent
parcels, where the land taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent
parcel, and where a greater number of parcels than originally existed is
not thereby created, provided the lot line adjustment is approved by the
local agency, or advisory agency. A local agency or advisory agency
shall limit its review and approval to a determination of whether or not
the parcels resulting from the lot line adjustment will conform to local
zoning and building ordinances. An advisory agency or local agency
shall not impose conditions or exactions on its approval of a lot line
adjustment except to conform to local zoning and building ordinances,
to require the prepayment of real property taxes prior to the approval of
the lot line adjustment, or to facilitate the relocation of existing utilities,
infrastructure, or easements. No tentative map, parcel map, or final map
shall be required as a condition to the approval of a lot line adjustment.
The lot line adjustment shall be reflected in a deed, which shall be
recorded. No record of survey shall be required for a lot line adjustment
unless required by Section 8762 of the Business and Professions Code.
   (e) Boundary line or exchange agreements to which the State Lands
Commission or a local agency holding a trust grant of tide and
submerged lands is a party.
   (f) Any separate assessment under Section 2188.7 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.
   (g) Unless a parcel or final map was approved by the legislative body
of a local agency, the conversion of a community apartment project, as
defined in Section 1351 of the Civil Code, to a condominium, as defined
in Section 783 of the Civil Code, but only if all of the following
requirements are met:
   (1) At least 75 percent of the units in the project were occupied by
record owners of the project on March 31, 1982.
   (2) A final or parcel map of the project was properly recorded, if the
property was subdivided, as defined in Section 66424, after January 1,
1964, with all of the conditions of that map remaining in effect after the
conversion.
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3545

   (3) The local agency certifies that the above requirements were
satisfied if the local agency, by ordinance, provides for that certification.
   (4) Subject to compliance with subdivision (e) of Section 1351 of the
Civil Code, all conveyances and other documents necessary to effectuate
the conversion shall be executed by the required number of owners in the
project as specified in the bylaws or other organizational documents. If
the bylaws or other organizational documents do not expressly specify
the number of owners necessary to execute the conveyances and other
documents, a majority of owners in the project shall be required to
execute the conveyances or other documents. Conveyances and other
documents executed under the foregoing provisions shall be binding
upon and affect the interests of all parties in the project.
   (h) Unless a parcel or final map was approved by the legislative body
of a local agency, the conversion of a stock cooperative, as defined in
Section 1351 of the Civil Code, to a condominium, as defined in Section
783 of the Civil Code, but only if all of the following requirements are
met:
   (1) At least 51 percent of the units in the cooperative were occupied
by stockholders of the cooperative on January 1, 1981, or individually
owned by stockholders of the cooperative on January 1, 1981. As used
in this paragraph, a cooperative unit is ‘‘individually owned’’ if and only
if the stockholder of that unit owns or partially owns an interest in no
more than one unit in the cooperative.
   (2) No more than 25 percent of the shares of the cooperative were
owned by any one person, as defined in Section 17, including an
incorporator or director of the cooperative, on January 1, 1981.
   (3) A person renting a unit in a cooperative shall be entitled at the time
of conversion to all tenant rights in state or local law, including, but not
limited to, rights respecting first refusal, notice, and displacement and
relocation benefits.
   (4) The local agency certifies that the above requirements were
satisfied if the local agency, by ordinance, provides for that certification.
   (5) Subject to compliance with subdivision (e) of Section 1351 of the
Civil Code, all conveyances and other documents necessary to effectuate
the conversion shall be executed by the required number of owners in the
cooperative as specified in the bylaws or other organizational
documents. If the bylaws or other organizational documents do not
expressly specify the number of owners necessary to execute the
conveyances and other documents, a majority of owners in the
cooperative shall be required to execute the conveyances or other
documents. Conveyances and other documents executed under the
foregoing provisions shall be binding upon and affect the interests of all
parties in the cooperative.
 3546                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 506 ]
   (i) The leasing of, or the granting of an easement to, a parcel of land,
or any portion or portions thereof, in conjunction with the financing,
erection, and sale or lease of a windpowered electrical generation device
on the land, if the project is subject to discretionary action by the
advisory agency or legislative body.
   (j) The leasing or licensing of a portion of a parcel, or the granting of
an easement, use permit, or similar right on a portion of a parcel, to a
telephone corporation as defined in Section 234 of the Public Utilities
Code, exclusively for the placement and operation of cellular radio
transmission facilities, including, but not limited to, antennae support
structures, microwave dishes, structures to house cellular
communications transmission equipment, power sources, and other
equipment incidental to the transmission of cellular communications, if
the project is subject to discretionary action by the advisory agency or
legislative body.
   (k) Leases of agricultural land for agricultural purposes. As used in
this subdivision, ‘‘agricultural purposes’’ means the cultivation of food
or fiber, or the grazing or pasturing of livestock.
   SEC. 29. Section 66451.17 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   66451.17. If, within the 30-day period specified in Section
66451.14, the owner does not file a request for a hearing in accordance
with Section 66451.16, the local agency may, at any time thereafter,
make a determination that the affected parcels are to be merged or are not
to be merged. A determination of merger shall be recorded as provided
for in Section 66451.12 no later than 90 days following the mailing of
notice required by Section 66451.13.
   SEC. 30. Section 66463.5 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   66463.5. (a) When a tentative map is required, an approved or
conditionally approved tentative map shall expire 24 months after its
approval or conditional approval, or after any additional period of time
as may be prescribed by local ordinance, not to exceed an additional 12
months.
   (b) The expiration of the approved or conditionally approved
tentative map shall terminate all proceedings and no parcel map of all or
any portion of the real property included within the tentative map shall
be filed without first processing a new tentative map. Once a timely
filing is made, subsequent actions of the local agency, including, but not
limited to, processing, approving, and recording, may lawfully occur
after the date of expiration of the tentative map. Delivery to the county
surveyor or city engineer shall be deemed a timely filing for purposes of
this section.
[Ch. 506 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3547

  (c) Upon application of the subdivider filed prior to the expiration of
the approved or conditionally approved tentative map, the time at which
the map expires may be extended by the legislative body or by an
advisory agency authorized to approve or conditionally approve
tentative maps for a period or periods not exceeding a total of five years.
Prior to the expiration of an approved or conditionally approved
tentative map, upon the application by the subdivider to extend that map,
the map shall automatically be extended for 60 days or until the
application for the extension is approved, conditionally approved, or
denied, whichever occurs first. If the advisory agency denies a
subdivider’s application for an extension, the subdivider may appeal to
the legislative body within 15 days after the advisory agency has denied
the extension.
  (d) (1) The period of time specified in subdivision (a) shall not
include any period of time during which a development moratorium,
imposed after approval of the tentative map, is in existence. However,
the length of the moratorium shall not exceed five years.
  (2) Once a moratorium is terminated, the map shall be valid for the
same period of time as was left to run on the map at the time that the
moratorium was imposed. However, if the remaining time is less than
120 days, the map shall be valid for 120 days following the termination
of the moratorium.
  (e) The period of time specified in subdivision (a), including any
extension thereof granted pursuant to subdivision (c), shall not include
the period of time during which a lawsuit involving the approval or
conditional approval of the tentative map is, or was, pending in a court
of competent jurisdiction, if the stay of the time period is approved by
the local agency pursuant to this section. After service of the initial
petition or complaint in the lawsuit upon the local agency, the subdivider
may apply to the local agency for a stay pursuant to the local agency’s
adopted procedures. Within 40 days after receiving the application, the
local agency shall either stay the time period for up to five years or deny
the requested stay. The local agency may, by ordinance, establish
procedures for reviewing the requests, including, but not limited to,
notice and hearing requirements, appeal procedures, and other
administrative requirements.
  (f) For purposes of this section, a development moratorium shall
include a water or sewer moratorium or a water and sewer moratorium,
as well as other actions of public agencies that regulate land use,
development, or the provision of services to the land, including the
public agency with the authority to approve or conditionally approve the
tentative map, which thereafter prevents, prohibits, or delays the
approval of a parcel map.
 3548                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 506 ]
   (g) Notwithstanding subdivisions (a), (b), and (c), for the purposes of
Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 66498.1), subdivisions (b), (c),
and (d) of Section 66498.5 shall apply to vesting tentative maps prepared
in connection with a parcel map except that, for purposes of this section,
the time periods specified in subdivisions (b), (c), and (d) of Section
66498.5 shall be determined from the recordation of the parcel map
instead of the final map.
   SEC. 31. Section 66499.19 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   66499.19. When a reversion is effective, all fees and deposits shall
be returned to the current owner of the property and all improvement
security released, except those retained pursuant to Section 66499.17.
   SEC. 32. Division 36 (commencing with Section 56000) of the
Health and Safety Code is repealed.
   SEC. 33. Section 3211.92 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
   3211.92. (a) ‘‘Disaster service worker’’ means any natural person
who is registered with an accredited disaster council or a state agency for
the purpose of engaging in disaster service pursuant to the California
Emergency Services Act without pay or other consideration.
   (b) ‘‘Disaster service worker’’ includes public employees performing
disaster work that is outside the course and scope of their regular
employment without pay and also includes any unregistered person
impressed into service during a state of war emergency, a state of
emergency, or a local emergency by a person having authority to
command the aid of citizens in the execution of his or her duties.
   (c) Persons registered with a disaster council at the time that council
becomes accredited need not reregister in order to be entitled to the
benefits provided by Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 4351).
   (d) ‘‘Disaster service worker’’ does not include any member
registered as an active firefighting member of any regularly organized
volunteer fire department, having official recognition, and full or partial
support of the county, city, or district in which the fire department is
located.
   SEC. 34. Section 3211.93a of the Labor Code is amended to read:
   3211.93a. ‘‘Disaster service’’ does not include any activities or
functions performed by a person if the accredited disaster council with
which that person is registered receives a fee or other compensation for
the performance of those activities or functions by that person.
   SEC. 35. Section 26593 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   26593. A district may borrow money from or otherwise incur an
indebtedness to a local agency, the state, any instrumentality or political
subdivision thereof, the federal government, or any private source, and
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3549

may comply with any conditions imposed upon the incurring of that
indebtedness.
   SEC. 36. Section 21670 of the Public Utilities Code is amended to
read:
   21670. (a) The Legislature hereby finds and declares that:
   (1) It is in the public interest to provide for the orderly development
of each public use airport in this state and the area surrounding these
airports so as to promote the overall goals and objectives of the
California airport noise standards adopted pursuant to Section 21669
and to prevent the creation of new noise and safety problems.
   (2) It is the purpose of this article to protect public health, safety, and
welfare by ensuring the orderly expansion of airports and the adoption
of land use measures that minimize the public’s exposure to excessive
noise and safety hazards within areas around public airports to the extent
that these areas are not already devoted to incompatible uses.
   (b) In order to achieve the purposes of this article, every county in
which there is located an airport which is served by a scheduled airline
shall establish an airport land use commission. Every county, in which
there is located an airport which is not served by a scheduled airline, but
is operated for the benefit of the general public, shall establish an airport
land use commission, except that the board of supervisors of the county
may, after consultation with the appropriate airport operators and
affected local entities and after a public hearing, adopt a resolution
finding that there are no noise, public safety, or land use issues affecting
any airport in the county which require the creation of a commission and
declaring the county exempt from that requirement. The board shall, in
this event, transmit a copy of the resolution to the Director of
Transportation. For purposes of this section, ‘‘commission’’ means an
airport land use commission. Each commission shall consist of seven
members to be selected as follows:
   (1) Two representing the cities in the county, appointed by a city
selection committee comprised of the mayors of all the cities within that
county, except that if there are any cities contiguous or adjacent to the
qualifying airport, at least one representative shall be appointed
therefrom. If there are no cities within a county, the number of
representatives provided for by paragraphs (2) and (3) shall each be
increased by one.
   (2) Two representing the county, appointed by the board of
supervisors.
   (3) Two having expertise in aviation, appointed by a selection
committee comprised of the managers of all of the public airports within
that county.
   (4) One representing the general public, appointed by the other six
members of the commission.
 3550                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 506 ]
  (c) Public officers, whether elected or appointed, may be appointed
and serve as members of the commission during their terms of public
office.
  (d) Each member shall promptly appoint a single proxy to represent
him or her in commission affairs and to vote on all matters when the
member is not in attendance. The proxy shall be designated in a signed
written instrument which shall be kept on file at the commission offices,
and the proxy shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing member. A
vacancy in the office of proxy shall be filled promptly by appointment
of a new proxy.
  (e) A person having an ‘‘expertise in aviation’’ means a person who,
by way of education, training, business, experience, vocation, or
avocation has acquired and possesses particular knowledge of, and
familiarity with, the function, operation, and role of airports, or is an
elected official of a local agency which owns or operates an airport.
  (f) It is the intent of the Legislature to clarify that, for the purposes of
this article, special districts are included among the local agencies that
are subject to airport land use laws and other requirements of this article.
  SEC. 37. Section 10 of the County Water Authority Act (Chapter
545 of the Statutes of 1943), as amended by Section 66 of Chapter 829
of the Statutes of 1998, is amended to read:
  Sec. 10. (a) For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions apply to the terms used: the term ‘‘city’’ means and includes
any municipal corporation or municipality of the State of California,
whether organized under a freeholder’s charter or under the provisions
of general law of the type and class of cities and incorporated towns; and
the term ‘‘water district’’ means and includes any municipal water
district, municipal utility district, public utility district, county water
district, irrigation district, or any other public corporation or agency of
the State of California of similar character.
  (b) Territory may be annexed to any county water authority organized
under this act by one of the following methods:
  (1) By annexation to, or consolidation with, the area of any city, the
area of which, as a separate unit, has become a part of any county water
authority organized under this act, the annexation or consolidation to
occur upon compliance with the provisions of law governing the
annexation to, or consolidation with, the area of the city. Upon
completion of the annexation to, or consolidation with, the city in
compliance with the provisions of law applicable thereto, the territory
shall become, and be, a part of the county water authority, and the taxable
property therein shall be subject to taxation thereafter for the purposes
of the county water authority, including the payment of bonds and other
obligations of the authority at the time authorized or outstanding.
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3551

   (2) By annexation to, or consolidation with, any city which, as a
separate unit, has become a part of any water district whose area, as a
separate unit, has become a part of any county water authority organized
under this act, in instances where, under the applicable provisions of law
governing the change of boundaries of the water district, the annexation
or consolidation automatically will result in the enlargement of the area
of the water district, the annexation or consolidation to occur upon
compliance with the provisions of law governing the annexation to, or
consolidation with, the area of the city. Upon completion of the
annexation to, or consolidation with, the city in compliance with the
provisions of law applicable thereto, the territory shall become, and be,
a part of the water district and of the county water authority, and the
taxable property therein shall be subject to taxation thereafter for the
purposes of the water district and of the county water authority,
including payment of bonds and other obligations of the water district
and of the county water authority at the time authorized or outstanding.
If any territory has been so annexed to, or consolidated with, any city
prior to the effective date of this paragraph, under conditions which
would have resulted in the enlargement of the area of the county water
authority had this paragraph then been in effect, upon compliance with
the following provisions of this paragraph, the territory shall be annexed
to, and shall become and be part of, the county water authority and shall
be a part of the water district for all purposes, the last-mentioned
provisions being as follows:
   (A) The governing body of the city, at any time after the effective date
of this paragraph, may adopt an ordinance which, after reciting that the
territory has been annexed to, or consolidated with, the city by
proceedings previously taken under statutory authority, and after
referring to the applicable statutes and to the date and place of filing of
the certificate or certificates evidencing the annexation or consolidation,
shall describe the territory and shall determine and declare that the
territory shall be, and thereby is, annexed to the county water authority,
and the ordinance shall further determine and declare that the territory
shall become and be, and thereby is, a part of the county water authority,
and shall be, and thereby is, a part of the water district for all purposes.
   (B) The governing body, or clerk thereof, of the city shall file a
certified copy of the ordinance with the county clerk of the county in
which the county water authority is situated. Upon the filing of the
certified copy of the ordinance in the office of the county clerk of the
county in which the county water authority is situated, the territory shall
become, and be, a part of the county water authority and shall be a part
of the water district for all purposes, and the taxable property therein
shall be subject to taxation thereafter for the purposes of the county water
authority and of the water district, including the payment of bonds and
 3552                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 506 ]
other obligations of the county water authority at the time authorized or
outstanding.
   (C) Upon the filing of the certified copy of the ordinance, the county
clerk of the county in which the county water authority is situated shall,
within 10 days, issue a certificate, describing the territory, reciting the
filing of the certified copy of the ordinance and the annexation of the
territory to the county water authority, and declaring that the territory is
a part of the county water authority and of the water district. The county
clerk of the county in which the county water authority is situated shall
transmit the original of the certificate to the secretary of the county water
authority and a duplicate of the original certificate to the clerk of the
governing body of the water district.
   (3) Upon terms and conditions fixed by the board of directors of the
county water authority and in the manner provided in subdivision (c), by
direct annexation, as a separate unit, of the corporate area of any water
district or city.
   (4) Upon terms and conditions fixed by the board of directors of the
county water authority and in the manner provided in subdivision (d),
by annexation to, or consolidation with, any water district, the area of
which, in whole or in part, is included within the county water authority
as a separate unit; provided that, unless the territory is so annexed to the
county water authority with the consent of the board of directors, the
annexation of territory to, or the consolidation of the territory with, the
water district does not authorize or entitle the water district or the
territory to demand or receive any water from the county water authority
for use in the territory; and provided further, that, except where
automatic annexation results under the conditions specified in paragraph
(2), nothing in this act prevents the annexation of territory to, or the
consolidation of territory with, any water district for its local purposes
only and without annexing their territory to the county water authority,
and the local annexation or consolidation may occur without requesting
or obtaining the consent thereto of the board of directors of the county
water authority.
   (c) The governing body of any water district or city may apply to the
board of directors of the county water authority for consent to annex the
corporate area of the water district or city to the county water authority.
The board of directors may grant or deny the application and, in granting
the application, may fix the terms and conditions upon which the
corporate area of the water district or city may be annexed to, and become
a part of, the county water authority. These terms and conditions may
provide, among other things, for the levy by the county water authority
of special taxes upon taxable property within the water district or city,
in addition to the taxes authorized to be levied by the county water
authority by other provisions of this act. In case these terms and
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3553

conditions provide for the levy of these special taxes, the board of
directors, in fixing these terms and conditions, shall specify the
aggregate amount to be so raised and the number of years prescribed for
raising the aggregate sum, and that substantially equal annual levies will
be made for the purpose of raising the sum over the period so prescribed.
The action of the board of directors, evidenced by resolution, shall be
promptly transmitted to the governing body of the applying water
district or city and, if the action grants consent to the annexation, the
governing body may thereupon submit, to the qualified electors of the
water district or city at any general or special election held therein, the
proposition of the annexation subject to the terms and conditions. Notice
of the election shall be mailed to each voter qualified to vote at the
election and shall be given by posting or publication. When notice is
given by posting, the notices shall be posted at least 10 days and in three
public places in the water district or city. When notice is given by
publication, the notice shall be published in the water district or city
pursuant to Section 6061 of the Government Code, at least 10 days
before the date fixed for the election. The notice shall contain the
substance of the terms and conditions fixed by the board of directors. The
election shall be conducted and the returns thereof canvassed in the
manner provided by law for elections in the water district or city. If the
proposition receives the affirmative vote of a majority of electors of the
water district or city voting thereon at the election, the governing body
of the water district or city shall certify the result of the election on the
proposition to the board of directors of the county water authority,
together with a legal description of the boundaries of the corporate area
of the water district or city, accompanied by a map or plat indicating
those boundaries. A certificate of proceedings shall be made by the
secretary of the county water authority and filed with the county clerk
of the county in which the county water authority is situated. Upon the
filing thereof in the office of the county clerk of the county in which the
county water authority is situated, the corporate area of the water district
or city shall become, and be, an integral part of the county water
authority, and the taxable property therein shall be subject to taxation
thereafter for the purposes of the county water authority, including the
payment of bonds and other obligations of the county water authority at
the time authorized or outstanding, and the board of directors of the
county water authority may do all things necessary to enforce and make
effective the terms and conditions of annexation fixed as authorized.
Upon the filing of the certificate of proceedings, the county clerk of the
county in which the county water authority is situated shall, within 10
days, issue a certificate, reciting the filing of the papers and the
annexation of the corporate area of the water district or city to the county
water authority. The county clerk of the county in which the county water
 3554                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 506 ]
authority is situated shall transmit the original of the certificate to the
secretary of the county water authority.
   (1) If a water district applies to a county water authority for consent
to annex its corporate area, as a separate unit, the water district shall
include as a part of its corporate area the corporate areas of any cities
(whether one or more) which are already included within the county
water authority as separate units, or the water district shall include as a
part of its corporate area the corporate areas, or portion thereof, already
included within the county water authority, of any water districts
(whether one or more) whose corporate areas, in whole or in part, are
already included within the county water authority as separate units.
That fact shall be taken into consideration by the board of directors of
the county water authority in fixing the terms and conditions upon which
the applying water district may be annexed to the county water authority,
to the end that the areas within the unit member cities or water districts
which are already a part of the county water authority, shall not be
required to assume any greater financial burden or obligation to the
county water authority than they would have had if they had remained
a part of the county water authority as separate units.
   Concurrently with any election called by an applying water district to
submit to the qualified electors of the water district the question of
whether the terms and conditions fixed by the board of directors of the
county water authority for annexation shall be approved, the governing
bodies of the unit member cities or water districts may call and hold
elections within their respective corporate limits or portions thereof
already included within the county water authority, to determine whether
or not the cities or water districts shall withdraw from the county water
authority as separate units, and the proposed withdrawal may be made
and submitted conditioned upon and effective when the applying water
district has finally been annexed to the county water authority.
   The effect of the concurrent elections, if a majority of the electors of
the applying water district voting thereat vote in favor of annexation, and
a majority of the electors of the unit member cities or water districts
voting thereat vote in favor of withdrawing, shall be that the annexing
water district thereafter shall be authorized to exercise the privileges and
to discharge the duties prescribed in this act for public agencies whose
areas, as separate units, are included within the county water authority,
in place of and instead of the cities or water districts so withdrawing.
Notwithstanding Section 11 of this act, the areas within the withdrawing
cities or water districts shall remain a part of the county water authority
and shall not be excluded therefrom, notwithstanding the fact that the
cities or water districts, as corporate entities, have withdrawn from the
authority.
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3555

  If the water district does annex to the county water authority, the
directors representing the withdrawing cities or water districts on the
board of directors of the county water authority shall continue to act until
their successors have been chosen and designated by the appropriate
officers of the annexing water district and have qualified as members of
the board of directors of the county water authority, after which time the
directors representing the withdrawing cities or water districts shall no
longer sit or vote on the board.
  (2) If a water district applies to a county water authority for consent
to annex its corporate area as a separate unit, the water district shall
include as a part of its corporate area lands which are in public ownership
exempt from taxation by a county water authority, and not within or
adjacent to the area within the water district served with water by the
district, and which are not to be supplied by the water district with water
obtained from, and by reason of, its annexation to the county water
authority. That fact may be taken into consideration by the board of
directors of the county water authority in fixing the terms and conditions
upon which the water district may be annexed to the county water
authority and in determining the boundaries of the area to be annexed,
and the county water authority may, in the discretion of its board of
directors, annex all of the corporate area of the water district as a separate
unit excepting that portion consisting of the publicly owned and
tax-exempt lands.
  (d) The governing body of any water district, the area of which, in
whole or in part, is included within a county water authority as a separate
unit, may apply to the board of directors of the county water authority
for consent to annex to the county water authority territory which the
water district seeks to annex to, or consolidate with, the water district,
or territory which, without making the territory a part of the county water
authority, already has been annexed to, or consolidated with, the water
district. The board of directors may grant or deny the application and, in
granting the application, may fix the terms and conditions upon which
the territory may be annexed to, and become a part of, the county water
authority. The terms and conditions may provide, among other things,
for the levy by the county water authority of special taxes upon taxable
property within the territory in addition to the taxes authorized to be
levied by the county water authority by other provisions of this act. In
case the terms and conditions provide for the levy of those special taxes,
the board of directors, in fixing those terms and conditions, shall specify
the aggregate amount to be so raised and the number of years prescribed
for raising that aggregate sum and that substantially equal annual levies
will be made for the purpose of raising that sum over the period so
prescribed. The action of the board of directors evidenced by resolution
shall be promptly transmitted to the governing body of the applying
 3556                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 506 ]
water district and to the executive officer of the local agency formation
commission of the county in which the county water authority is
situated, who may defer the issuance of a certificate of filing until receipt
of that resolution, and if the action grants consent to the annexation, the
territory may be annexed to the county water authority as provided in
paragraph (1) or (2).
   (1) If the territory has not been previously annexed to, or consolidated
with, the water district, upon completion of the annexation to, or
consolidation with, the water district in compliance with the provisions
of law applicable thereto, including this section, the territory shall
become and be a part of the county water authority and the taxable
property therein shall be subject to taxation thereafter for the purposes
of the county water authority, including the payment of bonds and other
obligations of the county water authority at the time authorized or
outstanding, and the board of directors of the county water authority may
do all things necessary to enforce and make effective the terms and
conditions of annexation fixed; provided that, if the applicable
provisions of law governing the annexation to, or consolidation with, the
water district require any notice of any election called for the purpose of
determining whether the proposed annexation or consolidation shall
occur, or shall require any notice of hearing or other notice to be given
to the residents or electors of, or owners of property in, the territory, the
notice shall contain the substance of the terms and conditions of
annexation to the county water authority fixed by the board of directors
of the county water authority; and provided further, that the local agency
formation commission shall require that the annexation to the water
district be subject to the terms and conditions fixed by the board of
directors of the county water authority in addition to any other terms and
conditions that may be required by the commission; and provided
further, that the executive officer of the local agency formation
commission having the duty of preparing, executing, and filing a
certificate of completion resulting in the annexation to, or consolidation
with, the water district, pursuant to the provisions of law applicable
thereto, shall include in the certificate of completion the terms and
conditions fixed by the board of directors of the county water authority
in accordance with the provisions of this act, and shall file a duplicate
of the certificate with the board of directors of the county water authority.
   (2) If the territory sought to be annexed to a county water authority
has been previously annexed to, or consolidated with, the water district,
the governing body of the water district, upon being advised of the action
of the board of directors of the county water authority, and if the action
grants consent to the annexation, may submit to the qualified electors of
the territory, if the territory has 12 or more registered voters, at any
general or special election held therein, the proposition of the annexation
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3557

to the county water authority subject to the terms and conditions fixed
by the board of directors of the county water authority. Notice of the
election shall be given by publication. When the notice is given by
posting, the notice shall be posted at least 10 days and in three public
places in the territory. When the notice is given by publication, the notice
shall be published in the water district pursuant to Section 6061 of the
Government Code at least 10 days before the date fixed for the election.
The notice shall contain the substance of the terms and conditions fixed
by the board of directors. The election shall be conducted and the returns
thereof canvassed by the governing body of the water district in the
manner provided by law for elections in the water district. If the
proposition receives the affirmative vote of a majority of electors of the
territory voting thereon at the election, the governing body of the water
district shall certify the result of the election on the proposition to the
board of directors of the county water authority. If the territory has less
than 12 registered voters, no election shall be required, and, following
written notice to each owner of property shown on the last equalized
assessment roll and the holding of a hearing not less than 10 days after
that notice, the annexation may be approved upon the written consent of
the owners of more than 50 percent of the assessed valuation of the
territory. A certificate of proceedings shall be made by the secretary of
the county water authority and filed with the county clerk of the county
in which the county water authority is situated. Upon the filing thereof
in the office of the county clerk of the county in which the county water
authority is situated, the territory shall become, and be, a part of the
county water authority, and the taxable property therein shall be subject
to taxation thereafter for the purposes of the county water authority,
including the payment of bonds and other obligations of the county
water authority at the time authorized or outstanding, and the board of
directors of the county water authority may do all things necessary to
enforce and make effective the terms and conditions of annexation of the
territory to the county water authority fixed by its board of directors.
Upon the filing of the certificate of proceedings, the county clerk of the
county in which the county water authority is situated shall, within 10
days, issue a certificate reciting the filing of the papers and the
annexation of the territory to the county water authority. The county
clerk of the county in which the county water authority is situated shall
transmit the original of the certificate to the secretary of the county water
authority.
   (e) Should the corporate area, or all portions thereof already included
within a county water authority, of any water district or city, the
corporate area of which, in whole or in part, already is included within
the county water authority as a separate unit, annex to a water district or
city the corporate area of which, in whole or in part, already is a part of
 3558                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 506 ]
the county water authority as a separate unit, upon the completion of the
annexation pursuant to the law pertaining thereto, the water district or
city, the corporate area (or portions thereof) of which is so annexed, shall
automatically cease to be a separate unit member of the county water
authority, but the corporate area (or portions thereof) shall remain a part
of the county water authority as a part of the unit member water district
or city to which it was annexed. The executive officer of the local agency
formation commission having the duty of preparing, executing, and
filing the certificate of completion shall file, in addition to any other
filings that may be required by law, a duplicate of the certificate with the
board of directors of the county water authority.
   Should any water district or city, the corporate area of which, in whole
or in part, already is included within a county water authority as a
separate unit, consolidate with a water district or city the corporate area
of which, in whole or in part, already is a part of the county water
authority as a separate unit, under the provisions of any law by the terms
of which, after consolidation, a new district or city will result and the
former water districts or cities participating in the consolidation shall no
longer exist, the resulting new water district or city shall be substituted
for the water districts or cities whose corporate existence has been
terminated by the consolidation as a unit member of the county water
authority, and the corporate areas (or portions thereof) of the former
water district or cities shall remain a part of the county water authority
as a part of the consolidation. The executive officer of the local agency
formation commission having the duty of preparing, executing, and
filing a certificate of completion shall file, in addition to any other filings
that may be required by law, a duplicate of the certificate with the board
of directors of the county water authority.
   (f) The validity of any proceedings for the annexation to any county
water authority organized under this act, of the corporate area of a water
district or city as a separate unit, or of territory annexed to, or
consolidated with, a water district or city which, as a unit, has been
included within a county water authority, shall not be contested in any
action unless the action has been brought within three months after the
completion of the annexation or, in case the annexation is completed
prior to the time that this subdivision takes effect, then within three
months after this subdivision became effective.
   (g) Whenever territory is annexed to or consolidated with any water
district, the corporate area of which, as a unit, has become a part of any
county water authority organized under this act, regardless of whether
the territory is annexed to and becomes a part of the county water
authority, or whenever territory is annexed to any city under the
conditions specified in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (b), or
whenever territory previously annexed to any city is annexed to the
[Ch. 506 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3559

county water authority under the conditions specified in paragraph (2)
of subdivision (b), the governing or legislative body, or clerk thereof, of
the water district or city, shall file with the board of directors of the
county water authority a statement of the change of boundaries of the
water district or city, setting forth the legal description of the boundaries
of the water district or city, as so changed, and of the part thereof within
the county water authority, which statement shall be accompanied by a
map or plat indicating those boundaries.
   (h) The inclusion in a county water authority of the corporate area, in
whole or in part, of any municipal water district, municipal utility
district, public utility district, county water district, irrigation district, or
other public corporation or agency of the state of similar character,
referred to in Section 2, shall not destroy the identity or legal existence
or impair the powers of any municipal water district, municipal utility
district, public utility district, county water district, irrigation district, or
other public corporation or agency of the state of similar character,
notwithstanding the identity of purpose or substantial identity of
purpose of the county water authority.
   (i) In determining the number of members of the board of directors
of a county water authority organized under this act from the component
public agencies, the corporate areas of which, in whole or in part, are
included as units within the county water authority, there shall be
considered only the assessed valuation of the property taxable for county
water authority purposes lying in the public agencies and in the county
water authority. The directors shall be appointed by the chief executive
officers, with the consent and approval of the governing bodies, of the
component public agencies, respectively, without regard to whether the
chief executive officers or members of the governing bodies have been
chosen from, or represent, areas of their respective public agencies
which lie outside of the county water authority. The phrase ‘‘any water
district, the corporate area of which is included within the county water
authority’’ and the phrase ‘‘each city, the area of which shall be a part of
any county water authority incorporated under this act,’’ and like
phrases, used elsewhere in this act, shall be deemed to mean and refer
to any water district or city, the corporate area of which, either in whole
or in part, is included within the county water authority, but the duties
and obligations of the county water authority shall extend only to that
part of the corporate area of the water district or city that lies within the
county water authority. As to the water district, city, or public agency,
the corporate area of which lies partly within and partly without the
county water authority, the word ‘‘therein’’ and the phrase ‘‘within the
city’’ and like words and phrases, used elsewhere in this act, shall be
deemed to mean and refer to that part of the corporate area of the water
district, city, or public agency which lies within the county water
 3560                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 506 ]
authority. The charges for water supplied by the county water authority
to any component public agency, pursuant to its request, shall be and
become an obligation of the public agency, regardless of whether the
entire corporate area of the public agency is included within the county
water authority, and the county water authority, in administrative and
contractual matters, shall deal with the chief executive officers and
governing bodies and other proper officials of the component public
agencies as chosen or constituted under applicable laws governing the
respective public agencies.
   SEC. 38. Section 10.2 of the County Water Authority Act (Chapter
545 of the Statutes of 1943), as amended by Section 67 of Chapter 829
of the Statutes of 1998, is amended to read:
   Sec. 10.2. (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this act,
territory within a federal military reservation may be annexed to any
county water authority organized hereunder as a single member of an
authority in the manner provided in this section. As used in this section,
‘‘federal military reservation’’ or ‘‘military reservation’’ means a single
federal military reservation or separate but contiguous federal military
reservations which are jointly annexed to a county water authority as a
single member agency of an authority.
   (b) Proceedings for the annexation of a military reservation shall be
initiated by the adoption by the board of directors of an authority of a
resolution proposing annexation of a military reservation to an authority
as a member of an authority.
   (c) The resolution proposing the annexation may provide that the
annexation shall include one or more separate areas, which may be
separately identified for assessing and tax collecting purposes, and that
each such area may be subject to one or more of the following terms and
conditions:
   (1) The fixing and establishment of priorities for the use of, or right
to use, water, or capacity rights in any public improvement or facilities,
and the determination of, or limitation on, the quantity of, the purposes
for which, and the places where, water may be delivered by the authority
to the military reservation for military purposes and uses incidental
thereto, as well as for nonmilitary purposes.
   (2) The levying by the authority of special taxes upon any private
leasehold, possessory interest or other taxable property within the
territory annexed, and the imposition and collection of special fees or
charges prior to the annexation.
   (3) Should portions of any area annexed hereunder be subsequently
made available for nonmilitary purposes not in existence at the time of
the annexation of the area, the board of directors of the authority may
impose new terms and conditions for any subsequent service of water,
directly or indirectly, by the authority to that area, including the
[Ch. 506 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3561

separation of such an area for assessing and tax collecting purposes and
the levying by the authority of special taxes on those portions.
   (4) The effective date of the annexation.
   (5) Any other matters necessary or incidental to any of the foregoing.
   (d) A certified copy of the resolution proposing annexation shall be
sent to the official in authority over the military reservation. If the
military reservation consents in writing to the annexation and to the
terms and conditions established by the board of directors, the board
may, by resolution, order the annexation to the authority of the territory
situated within the military reservation, subject to said terms and
conditions.
   (e) A certificate of proceedings taken hereunder shall be made by the
secretary of the authority and filed with the county clerk of the county
in which the county water authority is situated. Upon the filing in his or
her office of the certificate of proceedings, the county clerk of the county
in which the county water authority is situated shall, within 10 days,
issue a certificate reciting the filing of those papers in his or her office
and the annexation of the territory to the authority. The county clerk of
the county in which the county water authority is situated shall transmit
the original of said certificate to the secretary of the authority.
   (f) Upon the filing of the certificate of proceedings with the county
clerk of the county in which the county water authority is situated, or
upon the effective date of the annexation provided for in the terms and
conditions, whichever is later, the territory within the military
reservation shall become and be an integral part of the authority, and the
taxable property therein shall be subject to taxation thereafter for the
purposes of said authority, including the payment of bonds and other
obligations of the authority at the time authorized or outstanding, and the
board of directors of the authority shall be empowered to do all things
necessary to enforce and make effective the terms and conditions of
annexation fixed as hereinabove authorized.
   (g) On and after the effective date of the annexation, the military
reservation shall be a separate unit member of the authority and shall be
entitled to one representative on the board of directors of the authority.
For the purposes of this act, a military reservation shall be deemed a
public agency. The representative shall be designated and appointed by
the official in authority over the military reservation, shall hold office for
a term of six years or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified,
and may be recalled by that official.
   (h) The transfer of ownership of the fee title of a military reservation,
or of any portion thereof, to nonmilitary ownership after annexation to
the authority pursuant to this section shall result in the automatic
exclusion from the authority of the territory transferred to that
ownership.
 3562                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 507 ]
   (i) If a county water authority is a member public agency of a
metropolitan water district organized under the Metropolitan Water
District Act (Chapter 200 of the Statutes of 1969), that metropolitan
water district may impose any or all of the terms and conditions that may
be imposed by a county water authority pursuant to subdivisions (a)
through (h) of this section in any resolution fixing the terms and
conditions for the concurrent annexation of territory in a military
reservation.
   SEC. 39. Section 901 of the Pajaro River Watershed Flood
Prevention Authority Act (Chapter 963 of the Statutes of 1999), is
repealed.
   SEC. 40. (a) The County of Riverside and the legislative body of
Community Facilities District No. 89-5 of the County of Riverside may
transfer the governance of that district to the Rancho California Water
District consistent with Article 6 (commencing with Section 53368) of
Chapter 2.5 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code.
   (b) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘city,’’ as defined in Section
53368 of the Government Code, shall include the Rancho California
Water District.
   (c) In enacting this section, the Legislature finds and declares that a
special law is necessary and that a general law cannot be made applicable
within the meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California
Constitution because of the unique geographical and fiscal
circumstances involving Community Facilities District No. 89-5 of the
County of Riverside.



                            CHAPTER 507

   An act to amend Section 32515 of the Public Resources Code, relating
to the San Joaquin River Conservancy.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature to provide adequate
state resources for future maintenance and operation of the San Joaquin
River Parkway.
   SEC. 2. Section 32515 of the Public Resources Code is amended to
read:
   32515. (a) The governing board of the conservancy shall consist of
15 voting members.
[Ch. 507 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3563

   (b) The 15 voting members of the board shall consist of the following:
   (1) One member of the Board of Supervisors of Fresno County
appointed by a majority of the members of that board. A majority of the
members of the Board of Supervisors of Fresno County may appoint an
alternate member from that board.
   (2) The Mayor of the City of Fresno or a member of the Fresno City
Council designated by the Mayor of the City of Fresno. The Mayor of
the City of Fresno may designate an alternate member from the Fresno
City Council.
   (3) One member of the Board of Supervisors of Madera County
appointed by a majority of the members of that board. A majority of the
members of the Board of Supervisors of Madera County may appoint an
alternate from that board.
   (4) The Mayor of the City of Madera or a member of the Madera City
Council designated by the Mayor of the City of Madera. The Mayor of
the City of Madera may designate an alternate member from the Madera
City Council.
   (5) (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), one resident of
Fresno County appointed by the Governor from a list of candidates
provided by the Board of Supervisors of Fresno County. The board of
supervisors shall develop its list from a list submitted by environmental
organizations within that county. The board of supervisors may establish
additional criteria for that appointment.
   (B) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), one resident of Madera
County appointed by the Governor from a list of property owners of San
Joaquin River bottom in that county submitted by the Board of
Supervisors of Madera County. The board of supervisors may establish
additional criteria for that appointment.
   (C) Fresno County and Madera County shall rotate appointment
qualifications pursuant to this paragraph so that each alternative time the
Board of Supervisors of Madera County shall submit a list of candidates
to the Governor derived from a list submitted by environmental
organizations within that county and the Board of Supervisors of Fresno
County shall submit a list of candidates to the Governor of property
owners of San Joaquin River bottom in that county.
   (6) One resident of the City of Fresno appointed by the Governor
from a list submitted by the Fresno City Council. The city council may
establish criteria for that appointment.
   (7) The Executive Director of the Wildlife Conservation Board or a
member of his or her staff designated by the executive director.
   (8) The Secretary of Resources or a member of his or her staff
designated by the secretary.
   (9) The Director of Fish and Game or a member of his or her staff
designated by the director.
 3564                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 508 ]
   (10) The Director of Parks and Recreation or a member of his or her
staff designated by the director.
   (11) The Director of Finance or a member of his or her staff
designated by the director.
   (12) The Executive Officer of the State Lands Commission or a
member of his or her staff designated by the executive officer.
   (13) The Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Fresno
Metropolitan Flood Control District, or his or her designee.
   (14) The Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Madera
Irrigation District, or his or her designee.



                             CHAPTER 508

   An act to amend Section 17375 of, and to add Section 13401.3 to, the
Corporations Code, and to amend Sections 714, 720, 732, 733, and 739
of, and to add Section 729.5 to, the Harbors and Navigation Code,
relating to yacht and ship brokers.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13401.3 is added to the Corporations Code, to
read:
  13401.3. As used in this part, ‘‘professional services’’ also means
any type of professional services that may be lawfully rendered only
pursuant to a license, certification, or registration authorized by the
Yacht and Ship Brokers Act (Article 2 (commencing with Section 700)
of Chapter 5 of Division 3 of the Harbors and Navigations Code).
  SEC. 1.5. Section 17375 of the Corporations Code is amended to
read:
  17375. Nothing in this title shall be construed to permit a domestic
or foreign limited liability company to render professional services, as
defined in subdivision (a) of Section 13401 and in Section 13401.3, in
this state.
  SEC. 2. Section 714 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
  714. A licensed broker who accepts funds from others in connection
with any transaction subject to this article who does not, as soon as
possible, place those funds into a neutral escrow depository, shall place
the funds into a trust fund account maintained by the broker in some bank
or recognized depository and shall retain all the funds in the account until
[Ch. 508 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3565

the broker makes a disbursement of the funds in accordance with written
instructions from the person entrusting the money. The written
instructions shall also set forth the specific purposes for which the broker
may use money deposited with him or her. If the broker wishes to use
money from the deposit for a purpose not included in the written
instructions, the broker shall first obtain the written consent of the person
entrusting the money specifically authorizing the use proposed by the
broker for the money. The written consent may be given to the broker by
a letter or facsimile. A separate record shall be maintained of all moneys
received subject to this section and shall further indicate the disposition
thereof. Any funds received by a licensed salesperson shall be delivered
by the salesperson to the broker under whom the salesperson is at the
time licensed.
   As used in this section, ‘‘neutral escrow’’ means an escrow business
conducted by a person licensed under Division 6 (commencing with
Section 17000) of the Financial Code or by any person described by
subdivision (a) or (c) of Section 17006 of the Financial Code.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 720 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   720. The department may require proof as it deems advisable
concerning the honesty, truthfulness, and good reputation of the
applicant for a broker’s or salesperson’s license or of the officers of any
corporation making application before the issuance of a broker’s license.
For this purpose, the director may call a hearing in accordance with this
article, and at the request of the applicant shall call a hearing.
   SEC. 3. Section 729.5 is added to the Harbors and Navigation Code,
to read:
   729.5. (a) Any limited liability company licensed by the
department as a yacht broker on July 1, 2001, in order to continue to be
licensed after that date, shall apply to the department in the form of an
individual, partnership, or corporation for a broker’s license on or before
the expiration date of its existing license.
   (b) On or before February 1, 2001, the department shall provide
notice of the requirements imposed by subdivision (a) to any limited
liability company licensed by the department.
   SEC. 4. Section 732 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   732. The department may deny an application or temporarily
suspend or permanently revoke the license of a broker or a salesperson
at any time if the licensee, while a broker or salesperson, in performing
or attempting to perform any of the acts within the scope of this article,
has committed any of the following acts:
 3566                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 508 ]
   (a) Makes any substantial misrepresentation, including a false
advertisement or an omission of relevant facts upon which any person
has relied.
   (b) Makes a false warranty of a character likely to influence,
persuade, or induce any person with whom business is transacted under
this article.
   (c) Engages in a continued and flagrant course of misrepresentation
or makes false warranties whether or not relied upon by another person.
   (d) Acts for the buyer and seller in a transaction without full
disclosure of that fact to the buyer and seller and their written consent,
except in the case where the selling broker is not the listing broker.
   (e) Commingles the money or other property of his or her principal
with that of his or her own or uses it for any purpose other than that for
which it was entrusted, when the yacht involved in the transaction is not
his or her own.
   (f) Disburses or uses entrusted money for purposes other than those
specifically authorized by Section 714.
   (g) Uses coercive or oppressive methods for the purpose of obtaining
business or of procuring a listing or participating in a transaction.
   (h) Quotes prices different from the gross listing prices without the
consent of the seller.
   (i) Engages in any other conduct constituting fraud or dishonest
dealings, either with respect to his or her principal or other persons.
   (j) Permits his or her name to be used for the purpose of assisting any
person who is not a licensed broker or salesperson to evade this article.
   (k) Demonstrates negligence or incompetence in performing any act
for which he or she is required to hold a license.
   (l) As a broker licensee, fails to exercise reasonable supervision over
the activities of his or her salespersons, or, as the person designated by
a corporate or partnership licensee, fails to exercise reasonable
supervision and control over the activities of the corporation or
partnership for which a yacht and ship broker’s license is required.
   (m) Fails to act in accordance with, or disregards, his or her fiduciary
duty toward a principal.
   (n) Violates any provisions of Section 708, 712, 714, 715, 716, 730,
or 731, or the rules and regulations of the department implementing this
article.
   SEC. 5. Section 733 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   733. The department may deny an application or may suspend or
revoke the license of a yacht broker or yacht salesperson who, within
four years immediately preceding, has committed any of the following
acts:
[Ch. 509 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3567

   (a) Has procured a license under this article for himself or herself or
another by fraud, misrepresentation, or deceit.
   (b) Has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude.
   (c) Has withheld information from the department that he or she at
any time has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude.
   (d) Knowingly authorizes, directs, connives, or aids in the
publication, advertisement, distribution, or circulation of any material
false statements or misrepresentation concerning his or her business or
any transaction under this article.
   (e) Has acted or conducted himself or herself in a manner that would
warrant the denial of his or her application for a broker’s or salesperson’s
license pursuant to Section 720.
   SEC. 6. Section 739 of the Harbors and Navigation Code is
amended to read:
   739. Any person who violates any provision of this article, or any
regulation adopted pursuant to this article, is liable for a penalty in an
amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100) and not to exceed one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) for each separate violation. The
penalties provided in this section are in addition to the remedies or
penalties available under all other laws of this state.
   Every civil or administrative action brought under this article at the
request of the director shall be brought by the Attorney General in the
name of the people of the State of California, in any court of competent
jurisdiction, or through the Office of Administrative Hearings pursuant
to Section 737, except that, when the civil action is to be filed in a small
claims court, the director may bring the action.
   The amount of penalty that is assessed pursuant to this section on each
count of violation shall be based upon the nature of the violation and the
seriousness of the effect of the violation upon the implementation of the
purposes and provisions of this article. Any sum that is recovered under
this section shall be deposited in the State Treasury to the credit of the
Harbors and Watercraft Revolving Fund.



                             CHAPTER 509

 An act to amend Sections 8880.12 and 8880.56 of the Government
Code, relating to the California State Lottery.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]
 3568                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 509 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8880.12 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   8880.12. ‘‘Lottery Game’’
   ‘‘Lottery Game’’ means any procedure authorized by the commission
whereby prizes are distributed among persons who have paid, or who
have unconditionally agreed to pay, for tickets or shares which provide
the opportunity to win those prizes.
   SEC. 2. Section 8880.56 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   8880.56. (a) Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the director
may purchase or lease goods and services as are necessary for
effectuating the purposes of this chapter. The director may not contract
with any private party for the operation and administration of the
California State Lottery, created by this chapter. However, this section
does not preclude procurements which integrate functions such as game
design, supply, advertising, and public relations. In all procurement
decisions, the director shall, subject to the approval of the commission,
award contracts to the responsible supplier submitting the lowest and
best proposal that maximizes the benefits to the state in relation to the
areas of security, competence, experience, and timely performance, shall
take into account the particularly sensitive nature of the California State
Lottery and shall act to promote and ensure integrity, security, honesty,
and fairness in the operation and administration of the lottery and the
objective of raising net revenues for the benefit of the public purpose
described in this chapter.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the
following shall apply to contracts or procurement by the lottery:
   (1) To ensure the fullest competition, the commission shall adopt and
publish competitive bidding procedures for the award of any
procurement or contract involving an expenditure of more than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). The competitive bidding
procedures shall include, but not be limited to, requirements for
submission of bids and accompanying documentation, guidelines for the
use of requests for proposals, invitations to bid, or other methods of
bidding, and a bid protest procedure. The director shall determine
whether the goods or services subject to this paragraph are available
through existing contracts or price schedules of the Department of
General Services.
   (2) The contracting standards, procedures, and rules contained in this
subdivision shall also apply with respect to any subcontract involving
an expenditure of more than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000).
The commission shall establish, as part of its bidding procedures for
[Ch. 509 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3569

general contracts, subcontracting guidelines that implement this
requirement.
  (3) The provisions of Article 1 (commencing with Section 11250) of
Chapter 3 of Part 1 of Division 3 apply to the commission.
  (4) The commission is subject to the Small Business Procurement
and Contract Act, as provided in Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section
14835) of Part 5.5 of Division 3.
  (5) In advertising or awarding any general contract for the
procurement of goods and services exceeding five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000), the commission and the director shall require all
bidders or contractors, or both, to include specific plans or arrangements
to utilize subcontracts with socially and economically disadvantaged
small business concerns. The subcontracting plans shall delineate the
nature and extent of the services to be utilized, and those concerns or
individuals identified for subcontracting if known.
  It is the intention of the Legislature in enacting this section to establish
as an objective of the utmost importance the advancement of business
opportunities for these small business concerns in the private business
activities created by the California State Lottery. In that regard, the
commission and the director shall have an affirmative duty to achieve the
most feasible and practicable level of participation by socially and
economically disadvantaged small business concerns in its procurement
programs.
  By July 1, 1986, the commission shall adopt proposal evaluation
procedures, criteria, and contract terms which are consistent with the
advancement of business opportunities for small business concerns in
the private business activities created by the California State Lottery and
which will achieve the most feasible and practicable level of
participation by socially and economically disadvantaged small
business concerns in its procurement programs. The proposal evaluation
procedures, criteria, and contract terms adopted shall be reported in
writing to both houses of the Legislature on or before July 1, 1986.
  For the purposes of this section, socially and economically
disadvantaged persons include women, Black Americans, Hispanic
Americans, Native Americans (including American Indians, Eskimos,
Aleuts, and Native Hawaiians), Asian-Pacific Americans (including
persons whose origins are from Japan, China, the Philippines, Vietnam,
Korea, Samoa, Guam, the United States Trust Territories of the Pacific,
Northern Marianas, Laos, Cambodia, and Taiwan), and other minorities
or any other natural persons found by the commission to be
disadvantaged.
  The commission shall report to the Legislature by July 1, 1987, and
by each July 1 thereafter, on the level of participation of small
 3570                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 510 ]
businesses, socially and economically disadvantaged businesses, and
California businesses in all contracts awarded by the commission.
   (6) The commission shall prepare and submit to the Legislature by
October 1 of each year a report detailing the lottery’s purchase of goods
and services through the Department of General Services. The report
shall also include a listing of contracts awarded for more than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), the name of the contractor,
amount and term of the contract, and the basis upon which the contract
was awarded.
   The lottery shall fully comply with the requirements of paragraphs (2)
to (5), inclusive, except that any function or role which is otherwise the
responsibility of the Department of Finance or the Department of
General Services shall instead, for purposes of this subdivision, be the
sole responsibility of the lottery, which shall have the sole authority to
perform that function or role.
   SEC. 3. The Legislature finds and declares that this act furthers the
purpose of the California State Lottery Act of 1984 enacted by
Proposition 37 at the November 6, 1984, general election.



                            CHAPTER 510

 An act to add Article 10.9 (commencing with Section 65601) to
Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code, relating to
water recycling.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Article 10.9 (commencing with Section 65601) is
added to Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code, to
read:

         Article 10.9.   Water Recycling in Landscaping Act

  65601. This article shall be known and may be cited as the Water
Recycling in Landscaping Act.
  65602. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
  (a) The waters of the state are of limited supply and are subject to
ever-increasing demands.
  (b) The continuation of California’s economic prosperity is
dependent on adequate supplies of water being available for future uses.
[Ch. 510 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3571

   (c) It is the policy of the state to promote the efficient use of water
through the development of water recycling facilities.
   (d) Landscape design, installation, and maintenance can and should
be water efficient.
   (e) The use of potable domestic water for landscaped areas is
considered a waste or unreasonable use of water within the meaning of
Section 2 of Article X of the California Constitution if recycled water is
available that meets the conditions described in Section 13550 of the
Water Code.
   65603. Unless the context requires otherwise, the definitions used
in this section govern the construction of this article:
   (a) ‘‘Designated recycled water use area’’ means areas within the
boundaries of the local agency that can or may in the future be served
with recycled water in lieu of potable water and are so designated by the
local agency.
   (b) ‘‘Local agency’’ means any city, county, or city and county.
   (c) ‘‘Recycled water producer’’ means any local public or private
entity that produces recycled water in accordance with the conditions
described in Section 13550 of the Water Code.
   65604. If a recycled water producer determines that within 10 years
the recycled water producer will provide recycled water within the
boundaries of a local agency that meets all of the conditions described
in Section 13550 of the Water Code, the recycled water producer shall
notify the local agency of that fact and shall identify in the notice the area
that is eligible to receive the recycled water, and the necessary
infrastructure that the recycled water producer or retail water supplier
will provide to support delivery of the recycled water.
   65605. (a) Within 180 days of receipt of notification from a
recycled water producer pursuant to Section 65604, the local agency
shall adopt and enforce a recycled water ordinance pursuant to this
article.
   (b) The ordinance shall include, but not be limited to, provisions that
do all of the following:
   (1) State that it is the policy of the local agency that recycled water
determined to be available pursuant to Section 13550 of the Water Code
shall be used for nonpotable uses within the designated recycled water
use area set forth by the local agency when the local agency determines
that there is not an alternative higher or better use for the recycled water,
its use is economically justified, and its use is financially and technically
feasible for projects under consideration by the local agency.
   (2) Designate the areas within the boundaries of the local agency that
can or may in the future use recycled water, including, but not limited
to, existing urban areas in lieu of potable water.
 3572                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 510 ]
   (3) Establish general rules and regulations governing the use and
distribution of recycled water in accordance with applicable laws and
regulations.
   (4) Establish that the use of the recycled water is determined to be
available pursuant to Section 13550 of the Water Code in new industrial,
commercial, or residential subdivisions located within the designated
recycled water use areas for which a tentative map or parcel map is
required pursuant to Section 66426. These provisions shall require a
separate plumbing system to serve nonpotable uses in the common areas
of the subdivision, including, but not limited to, golf courses, parks,
greenbelts, landscaped streets, and landscaped medians. The separate
plumbing system to serve nonpotable uses shall be independent of the
plumbing system provided to serve domestic, residential, and other
potable water uses in the subdivision.
   (5) Require that recycled water service shall not commence within the
designated recycled water use area in any service area of a private utility,
as defined in Section 1502 of the Public Utilities Code, or to any service
area of a public agency retail water supplier that is not a local agency, as
defined in subdivision (b) of Section 65603, except in accordance with
a written agreement between the recycled water producer and the private
utility or public agency retail water supplier that shall be made available
in a timely manner by the recycled water producer to the local agency
adopting the ordinance pursuant to this article.
   65606. The recycled water ordinance adopted by a local agency
pursuant to Section 65605 shall not apply to either of the following:
   (a) A tentative map as defined in Section 66424.5, or a development,
as defined in Section 65927, that was approved by the local agency prior
to the receipt of notification from a recycled water producer pursuant to
Section 65604.
   (b) A subdivision map application that is deemed complete pursuant
to Section 65943 prior to the local agency’s receipt of a notice from a
recycled water producer pursuant to Section 65604.
   65607. (a) This article shall not apply to any local agency that
adopted a recycled water ordinance or other regulation requiring the use
of recycled water in its jurisdiction prior to January 1, 2001.
   (b) This article does not alter any rights, remedies, or obligations that
may exist pursuant to Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 13500) of
Division 7 of the Water Code.
   (c) This article does not alter any rights, remedies, or obligations that
may exist pursuant to Chapter 8.5 (commencing with Section 1501) of
Part 1 of Division 1 of the Public Utilities Code.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local
agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees,
[Ch. 511 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3573

or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
Government Code.



                             CHAPTER 511

 An act to amend Section 12209.6 of the Business and Professions
Code, relating to parking meters.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares the following:
  (a) Parking meter agencies and operators are encouraged to provide
consumers with maximum value for payment made for parking space
rental, and accuracy in time measurement is an important component of
providing this value.
  (b) Parking meter agencies and operators should take advantage of
new technology, and are encouraged to enter into public-private
partnerships for the acquisition, installation, and maintenance of parking
control systems currently available in the marketplace.
  SEC. 2. Section 12209.6 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  12209.6. (a) A county sealer may test and certify the accuracy of all
parking meters located in the county in which the sealer has jurisdiction,
including, but not limited to, parking meters owned or operated by a city,
county, or a city and county.
  (b) If the county sealer determines that a specific parking meter is
inaccurate, the sealer shall notify the owner or operator of the meter, may
immediately close the meter, and any person may park a vehicle free of
charge in the parking space to which the inaccurate meter corresponds
until the owner or operator replaces or repairs the inaccurate parking
meter.
  (c) For purposes of this section, an ‘‘inaccurate parking meter’’
means a parking meter that provides less time than is paid for by a person
using the metered parking space.
 3574                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 512 ]
                             CHAPTER 512

  An act to amend Sections 12015.3 and 12246 of the Business and
Professions Code, relating to weights and measures.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12015.3 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   12015.3. (a) The sealer may levy a civil penalty against a person
violating any provision of this division or a regulation adopted pursuant
to any of these provisions, of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000) for each violation. It is a complete defense to a criminal
prosecution for a violation of any provision of this division or a
regulation adopted pursuant to any provision of this division that the
defendant has been assessed and has paid a civil penalty under this
section for the same act or acts constituting the violation. Any civil
penalty under this section shall be cumulative to civil remedies or
penalties imposed under any other law.
   (b) Before a civil penalty is levied, the person charged with the
violation shall be given a written notice of the proposed action including
the nature of the violation and the amount of the proposed penalty, and
shall have the right to request a hearing. The request shall be made within
20 days after receiving notice of the proposed action. A notice of the
proposed action that is sent by certified mail to the last known address
of the person charged shall be considered received even if delivery is
refused or the notice is not accepted at that address. If a hearing is
requested, notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given at
least 10 days before the date set for the hearing. At the hearing, the person
shall be given an opportunity to review the sealer’s evidence and to
present evidence on his or her own behalf. If a hearing is not timely
requested, the sealer may take the action proposed without a hearing.
   (c) If the person upon whom the sealer levied a civil penalty requested
and appeared at a hearing, the person may appeal the sealer’s decision
to the secretary within 30 days of the date of receiving a copy of the
sealer’s decision. The following procedures apply to the appeal:
   (1) The appeal shall be in writing and signed by the appellant or his
or her authorized agent, state the grounds for the appeal, and include a
copy of the sealer’s decision. The appellant shall file a copy of the appeal
with the sealer at the same time it is filed with the secretary.
   (2) The appellant and the sealer may, at the time of filing the appeal
or within 10 days thereafter or at a later time prescribed by the secretary,
[Ch. 512 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3575

present the record of the hearing including written evidence that was
submitted at the hearing and a written argument to the secretary stating
grounds for affirming, modifying, or reversing the sealer’s decision.
   (3) The secretary may grant oral arguments upon application made at
the time written arguments are filed.
   (4) If an application to present an oral argument is granted, written
notice of the time and place for the oral argument shall be given at least
10 days before the date set therefor. The times may be altered by mutual
agreement of the appellant, the sealer, and the secretary.
   (5) The secretary shall decide the appeal on the record of the hearing,
including the written evidence and the written argument described in
paragraph (2), that he or she has received. If the secretary finds
substantial evidence in the record to support the sealer’s decision, the
secretary shall affirm the decision.
   (6) The secretary shall render a written decision within 45 days of the
date of appeal or within 15 days of the date of oral arguments or as soon
thereafter as practical.
   (7) On an appeal pursuant to this section, the secretary may affirm the
sealer’s decision, modify the sealer’s decision by reducing or increasing
the amount of the penalty levied so that it is within the secretary’s
guidelines for imposing civil penalties, or reverse the sealer’s decision.
Any civil penalty increased by the secretary shall not be higher than that
proposed in the sealer’s notice of proposed action given pursuant to
subdivision (b). A copy of the secretary’s decision shall be delivered or
mailed to the appellant and the sealer.
   (8) Any person who does not request a hearing pursuant to
subdivision (b) may not file an appeal pursuant to this subdivision.
   (9) Review of a decision of the secretary may be sought by the
appellant within 30 days of the date of the decision pursuant to Section
1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (d) After the exhaustion of the appeal and review procedures
provided in this section, the sealer, or his or her representative, may file
a certified copy of a final decision of the sealer that directs the payment
of a civil penalty and, if applicable, a copy of any decision of the
secretary or his or her authorized representative rendered on an appeal
from the sealer’s decision and a copy of any order that denies a petition
for a writ of administrative mandamus, with the clerk of the superior
court of any county. Judgment shall be entered immediately by the clerk
in conformity with the decision or order. No fees shall be charged by the
clerk of the superior court for the performance of any official service
required in connection with the entry of judgment pursuant to this
section.
   (e) If the civil penalty is levied by the State Sealer, the revenues
derived therefrom shall be deposited in the Department of Food and
 3576                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 513 ]
Agriculture Fund and, upon appropriation, shall be used by the State
Sealer to carry out his or her responsibilities under this division. If the
civil penalty is levied by the county sealer, the revenues shall be
deposited in the general fund of the county and, upon appropriation by
the board of supervisors, shall be used by the county sealer to carry out
his or her responsibilities under this division.
  (f) This section does not apply to violations involving utility meters,
or to violations involving the testing and inspection of utility meters, in
mobilehome parks, recreational vehicle parks, or apartment complexes,
where the owner of the park or complex owns and is responsible for the
utility meters.
  (g) Upon the written request of the Attorney General of California,
any district attorney, or any city prosecutor or city attorney described in
subdivision (a) of Section 17206, the State Sealer or the county sealer
within their respective jurisdictions, shall provide all reports and records
regarding any actions that occurred within the four months prior to the
date of the written request in which civil penalties were levied pursuant
to this section or liability for costs incurred are determined pursuant to
Section 12015.5.
  (h) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2006, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.
  SEC. 2. Section 12246 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  12246. This article shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2006,
and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted
before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.



                             CHAPTER 513

  An act to amend Sections 2560.5, 2561.3, 2561.5, 2562, 2562.3,
2562.5, 2563, and 2564 of, to add Section 2565 to, and to repeal Sections
2563.5 and 2564.5 of, the Streets and Highways Code, relating to
highways.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (a) California’s freeway service patrols are a critical element in the
state’s efforts to keep our freeways safe and operating efficiently.
[Ch. 513 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3577

   (b) Freeway service patrols provide an effective freeway congestion
relief program on the state highway system.
   (c) Los Angeles County pioneered the state’s first freeway service
patrol program in 1991, and, since that time, 11 programs have been
implemented as a partnership between the Department of
Transportation, the Department of the California Highway Patrol, and
local and regional entities.
   (d) Freeway service patrols, composed of teams of specially trained
tow truck drivers, patrol 1,220 miles of California’s most congested
freeways, offering stranded motorists help that is free of charge and
includes services such as changing a flat tire, ‘‘jump starting’’ a dead
battery, repairing hoses, refilling radiators, and providing a gallon of fuel
or a tow to a predetermined safe location off the freeway.
   (e) Since the state first implemented freeway service patrol programs
on a demonstration basis in 1992, some 4.5 million motorists statewide
have received assistance. Further, studies performed by the University
of California at Berkeley’s Institute for Transportation Studies, as
required by the initial legislation, conclude that for every dollar invested
in the program, the state receives from three dollars ($3) to five dollars
($5) back in benefits,including time savings.
   (f) Accordingly, California’s freeway service patrol programs, which
were implemented initially as a demonstration program, merit
permanent status as part of the state’s overall program to keep
California’s highways safe and free of traffic congestion.
   SEC. 2. Section 2560.5 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   2560.5. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for permanent
implementation of a freeway service patrol system on traffic-congested
urban freeways throughout the state, involving a cooperative effort
between state and local agencies.
   SEC. 3. Section 2561.3 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   2561.3. The freeway service patrol in any particular area shall be
operated pursuant to a memorandum of understanding between the
Department of the California Highway Patrol, the department, and the
appropriate regional or local entity.
   SEC. 4. Section 2561.5 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   2561.5. (a) Funding for the freeway service patrols established
pursuant to this chapter shall be provided, upon annual appropriation,
from the State Highway Account in the State Transportation Fund. In
addition, the appropriate regional or local entity shall ensure that local
resources are expended on freeway service patrols in an amount not less
 3578                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 513 ]
than 25 percent of the amount provided from the State Highway
Account.
   (b) In locations where there already is a freeway service patrol, the
department shall coordinate and integrate the funds appropriated
pursuant to this section into the existing program. In the allocation of
these funds, no local entity may be penalized for having an existing
freeway service patrol program.
   (c) No state funding may be released prior to the execution of the
memorandum of understanding developed under Section 2561.3.
   (d) No program funded under this chapter may supplant emergency
response towing services provided by the department as of January 1,
1992.
   (e) It is the intent of the Legislature that funding for programs funded
under this chapter be consistent from year to year in order to facilitate
the awarding of multiyear contracts between participating regional and
local entities and providers of freeway patrol services.
   SEC. 5. Section 2562 of the Streets and Highways Code is amended
to read:
   2562. Funding for a freeway service patrol in a participating area
shall be based 25 percent on the number of urban freeway lane miles in
the participating area to the total number of freeway lane miles in all the
participating areas, 50 percent on the basis of the ratio of the population
of the participating area to the total population of all the participating
areas, and 25 percent on the basis of traffic congestion as ascertained by
the department pursuant to the most recent Statewide Highway Traffic
Congestion Monitoring Program.
   SEC. 6. Section 2562.3 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   2562.3. In determining the annual funding allocation, regional or
local entities shall apply to the department in accordance with program
guidelines.
   SEC. 7. Section 2562.5 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   2562.5. Each tow truck participating in a freeway service patrol
shall bear a logo comprised of, at a minimum, a circle, a triangle, and a
tow truck silhouette, with the words ‘‘Freeway Service Patrol,’’ which
identifies the Department of the California Highway Patrol and the
department, and, at the option of the entity, the participating regional or
local entity. Participating regional or local entities may place an
approved logo on participating tow trucks.
   SEC. 8. Section 2563 of the Streets and Highways Code is amended
to read:
   2563. Tow truck drivers and employers participating in a freeway
service patrol pursuant to this chapter are subject to the standards and
[Ch. 514 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3579

qualifications established under Article 3.3 (commencing with Section
2430) of Chapter 2 of Division 2 of the Vehicle Code.
   SEC. 9. Section 2563.5 of the Streets and Highways Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 10. Section 2564 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   2564. Not more than 2 percent of the state funds appropriated for
purposes of this chapter shall be used for administrative overhead
expenses or purposes by state agencies. No state funds shall be used for
administrative purposes by the participating local and regional entities.
   SEC. 11. Section 2564.5 of the Streets and Highways Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 12. Section 2565 is added to the Streets and Highways Code,
to read:
   2565. The department, the Department of the California Highway
Patrol, and participating regional and local entities shall develop and
periodically update guidelines for program operations, as those
guidelines and updates may be required.



                             CHAPTER 514

  An act to amend Section 662 of the Public Resources Code, relating
to mining.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 662 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   662. (a) One member of the board shall be a registered geologist
with background and experience in mining geology; one member shall
be a mining engineer with background and experience in mining
minerals in California; one member shall have background and
experience in groundwater hydrology, water quality, and rock chemistry;
one member shall be a representative of local government with
background and experience in urban planning; one member shall have
background and experience in the field of environmental protection or
the study of ecosystems; one member shall be a registered geologist,
registered geophysicist, registered civil engineer, or registered structural
engineer with background and experience in seismology; one member
shall be a landscape architect with background and experience in soil
 3580                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 515 ]
conservation or revegetation of disturbed soils; one member shall have
background and experience in mineral resource conservation,
development, and utilization; and one member shall not be required to
have specialized experience.
  (b) All members of the board shall represent the general public
interest, but not more than one-third of the members at any one time may
be currently employed by, or receive more than 25 percent of their annual
income, not to exceed $25,000 a year per member, from an entity that
owns or operates a mine in California. The representative of local
government shall not be considered an employee of an entity that owns
or operates a mine if the lead agency employing the representative owns
or operates a mine. For purposes of this section, retirement or other
benefits paid by a mining entity to an individual who is no longer
employed by that entity are not considered to be compensation, if those
benefits were earned prior to the date the individual terminated his or her
employment with the entity.
   (c) If a member of the board determines that he or she has a conflict
of interest on a particular matter before the board pursuant to subdivision
(b) or Section 663, he or she shall provide the clerk of the board with a
brief written explanation of the basis for the conflict of interest, which
shall become a part of the public record of the board. The written
explanation shall be delivered prior to the time the matter to which it
pertains is voted on by the board. This disclosure requirement is in
addition to any other conflict-of-interest disclosure requirement
imposed by law.



                            CHAPTER 515

  An act to add Sections 2770.6, 2772.5, and 2772.6 to the Public
Resources Code, relating to surface mining.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2770.6 is added to the Public Resources Code,
to read:
   2770.6. (a) Whenever surface mining operations are proposed
within the boundaries of the San Gabriel Basin Water Quality Authority
that may penetrate the groundwater, and whenever proposed reclamation
activities may impact groundwater quality, the lead agency reviewing an
application to conduct surface mining operations, or reviewing an
[Ch. 515 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3581

application for the approval of a reclamation plan, shall notify and
provide copies of the subject application to the appropriate California
regional water quality control board, and any watermaster for the
groundwater recharge basin. Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the appropriate California regional water quality control board may
impose an administrative fee on the applicant to cover its costs
associated with the review of, and preparation of, comments on the
subject application, as required pursuant to this section.
   (b) Each agency shall have 60 days to review and comment on the
proposed surface mining operation described in subdivision (a) and the
adoption of any reclamation plan therefor. Each agency shall comment
on the existing groundwater quality and the potential impacts to water
quality that may result from the mining operations and the proposed
reclamation plan, and shall recommend methods and procedures to
protect groundwater quality and prevent groundwater degradation. Each
agency shall also comment on the proposed mining activities, including
the conduct of excavation and backfilling operations in contact with
groundwater, and the impact of any proposed alternative land uses on
groundwater quality. When the proposed surface mining operations or
reclamation plan will impact the groundwater, the lead agency shall not
approve the reclamation plan without requiring actions to ensure the
reasonable protection of the beneficial uses of groundwater and the
prevention of nuisance. Each agency shall have 60 days to review and
comment or until 60 days from the date of application, whichever occurs
first.
   (c) This section applies to activities otherwise subject to this chapter
conducted within the boundaries of the San Gabriel Basin Water Quality
Authority. To the extent of any conflict between this section and any
other provision of this chapter, this section shall prevail.
   SEC. 2. Section 2772.5 is added to the Public Resources Code, to
read:
   2772.5. (a) A reclamation plan by any person who owns, leases, or
otherwise controls or operates on all, or any portion of any, mined lands
within the boundaries of the San Gabriel Basin Water Quality Authority,
and who plans to conduct surface mining operations on those lands, in
addition to the information required pursuant to subdivision (c) of
Section 2772, shall include a description of any programs necessary to
monitor the effects of mining and reclamation operations on air, water,
and soil quality, on the surrounding area, backfill characteristics,
geologic conditions, and slope stability, similar to the California
Environmental Quality Act document for the reclamation project.
   (b) This section applies to activities otherwise subject to this chapter
conducted within the boundaries of the San Gabriel Basin Water Quality
 3582                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 516 ]
Authority. To the extent of any conflict between this section and any
other provision of this chapter, this section shall prevail.
  SEC. 3. Section 2772.6 is added to the Public Resources Code, to
read:
  2772.6. (a) In addition to meeting the requirements of Section
2773.1, the amount of financial assurances required of a surface mining
operation within the boundaries of the San Gabriel/Basin Water Quality
Authority for any one year shall be in an amount not less than that
required to ensure reclamation of the disturbed areas is completed in
accordance with the approved reclamation plan.
  (b) This section applies to activities otherwise subject to this chapter
conducted within the boundaries of the San Gabriel Basin Water Quality
Authority. To the extent of any conflict between this section and any
other provision of this chapter, this section shall prevail.
  SEC. 4. The Legislature finds and declares that a special law is
necessary and that a general law cannot be made applicable within the
meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution as a
result of the unique circumstances affecting surface mining operations
within the boundaries of the San Gabriel Basin Water Quality Authority.
  SEC. 5. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local
agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees,
or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
Government Code.



                            CHAPTER 516

  An act to add Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 36970) to Division
27 of the Public Resources Code, relating to ocean resources.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 36970) is added
to Division 27 of the Public Resources Code, to read:
[Ch. 516 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3583

CHAPTER 8.     THE CALIFORNIA OCEAN RESOURCES STEWARDSHIP ACT
                             OF 2000

                    Article 1.   General Provisions

   36970. This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as the
California Ocean Resources Stewardship Act of 2000 (CORSA).
   36971. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (a) The Pacific Ocean and its rich and varied resources provide great
environmental, economic, aesthetic, recreational, educational, and
scientific benefits to the people of California and the nation. The state’s
ocean resources contribute greatly to the economy and the quality of life
of its residents, and California’s growing population increasingly lives,
works, and recreates on or near the coast. Ocean and coast-dependent
industries contributed over $17 billion to the state’s economy and
supported over 500,000 jobs in 1999, and ocean and coastal tourism and
recreational activities, which are increasing rapidly in popularity and
economic value, contributed nearly $10 billion to the state’s economy.
Port activity and ship building also contributed an additional $6 billion,
and recreational and commercial fishing and marine aquaculture added
nearly $1 billion to the state’s economy. In addition, activities of the
United States Department of the Navy that depend on continued access
to California’s coastal resources add a direct annual economic
contribution of more than $19 billion.
   (b) Much of the quality of life and economic vibrancy supported by
the state’s ocean resources depends on successful management of those
resources, and successful management depends on an adequate
understanding of the natural, ecological, oceanographic, and coastal
processes and their interactions with varied human activities.
   (c) The state is working to maintain and increase the benefits of its
ocean resources to the public; a goal that increases the need for sound
management and greater practical understanding of the state’s ocean and
coastal resources.
   (d) Although California is making progress in ocean management
efforts, unsolved existing challenges also point to the need for greater
improvements in management and the basic information needed for
sound management. Examples of existing challenges include depressed
populations of many species that are the targets of state and federally
managed fisheries, pollution that results in beach and fishery closures,
dredging and dredge spoils disposal necessary to keep the state’s ports
competitive, and coastal erosion that threatens structures and reduces the
quality of beaches.
   (e) State and federal agencies with ocean and coastal resource
management responsibility often lack basic information on which to
 3584                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 516 ]
base decisions, and many management issues are broader than the
mandates of individual agencies, and existing means for coordinating
agency efforts need to be improved. The result can be ad hoc, short-term
management decisions based on inadequate information.
   (f) California has a wealth of outstanding public and private marine
science institutions that have increased their commitments to excellence
in applied ocean resource science. Approximately one hundred million
dollars ($100,000,000) in current, recent, or planned marine science
projects funded by the federal government, foundations, the University
of California and California State University systems, and private
institutions could be of great benefit to the state’s coastal and ocean
resource management agencies.
   (g) The obstacles to collaborative efforts involving those institutions
and agencies include all of the following:
   (1) Inadequate coordination among marine science institutions.
   (2) Inadequate guidance from management agencies about
information needs for management.
   (3) Important gaps in information, duplication of effort, missed
opportunities, and unusable information due to the lack of standardized
and coordinated information management techniques. The
circumstances and needs identified in the findings in this section are
among those recognized in this chapter and in the 1997 report prepared
by the Resources Agency entitled ‘‘California’s Ocean Resources: An
Agenda for the Future.’’ This chapter is intended to address some of the
basic objectives of that report.
   36972. The Legislature further finds that it is the policy of the state
to do all of the following:
   (a) Ensure adequate coordination of ocean resources management
science among state, regional, and federal agencies and marine science
institutions.
   (b) Ensure the most efficient and effective use of state resources
devoted to ocean resource management science and encourage the
contribution of federal and nongovernmental resources.
   (c) Advance applied ocean science, graduate-level education, and
technology development to meet current and future California ocean
resource management needs.
   36973. (a) No authority is established by this chapter, nor shall any
of its purposes or provisions be used by any public or private agency or
person, to delay or deny any existing or future project or activity.
   (b) No authority is established by this chapter to supersede current
state agency statutory authority.
[Ch. 516 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3585

                        Article 2.   Definitions

  36979. For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
  (a) ‘‘Ocean resources’’ means all living and nonliving resources
found in the Pacific Ocean and its contiguous saline or brackish bays and
estuaries.
  (b) ‘‘Trust’’ means the California Ocean Trust authorized by Section
36990.
  (c) ‘‘Trustees’’ means the trustees of the trust.

               Article 3.   Ocean Science Coordination

   36980. The Secretary of the Resources Agency shall report to the
Legislature on or before September 1, 2002, on the steps taken to ensure
adequate coordination of ocean resource management science among
state, regional, and federal agencies and marine science institutions. The
purposes of this coordination shall be to provide adequate information
to marine science institutions about the information needs of agencies
and to maximize the usefulness of ongoing and proposed ocean science
projects to ocean resource management agencies.

                  Article 4.   California Ocean Trust

  36990. (a) The Secretary of the Resources Agency may enter into
an agreement with an existing nonprofit corporation with broad
experience as the trustee of public funds, court-ordered mitigation funds,
or other funds used to assist public agencies in carrying out their
responsibilities to establish a nongovernmental trust, to be known as the
California Ocean Trust.
  (b) The purposes of the trust shall be all of the following:
  (1) To seek funds for California ocean resource science projects,
emphasizing the development of new funding sources.
  (2) To fund California ocean resource science projects that help fulfill
the missions of the state’s ocean resource management agencies.
  (3) To encourage coordinated, multiagency, multiinstitution
approaches to ocean resource science.
  (4) To      encourage       graduate     education      programs      in
management-oriented ocean resource science in public and private
universities and colleges in California.
  (5) To encourage new technologies that reduce the cost, increase the
amount, or improve the quality of ocean resource management
information.
 3586                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 516 ]
   (6) To promote more effective coordination of California ocean
resource science useful to management agencies.
   36991. The trust shall be subject to the Nonprofit Public Benefit
Corporation Law, Part 2 (commencing with Section 5110) of Division
2 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code. To the extent of any conflict
between this chapter and the Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation Law,
this division shall prevail.
   36992. The trust shall have 10 trustees, who shall be appointed as
follows:
   (a) The Secretary of the Resources Agency shall appoint the
following trustees, who shall serve at the pleasure of the secretary:
   (1) One trustee who shall represent the Resources Agency and the
departments and commissions within the Resources Agency with ocean
resource management responsibilities and who may be an employee of
the state.
   (2) Three trustees from a list of candidates submitted jointly by the
President of the University of California and the Chancellor of the
California State University, who shall be chosen for their broad
knowledge of ocean resource management and science. At least one of
the three trustees shall not be an employee or on the faculty of the
University of California or California State University.
   (3) Two trustees who shall be representatives of the public selected
primarily for their experience as trustees or directors of for-profit or
nonprofit corporations.
   (4) Two trustees from nominees submitted by coast and ocean interest
groups including, but not limited to, interest groups representing sport
fishing, commercial fishing, coast and ocean recreation and tourism,
marine conservation, and ocean-dependent industries. In making the
appointments pursuant to this paragraph, the factors to be considered
shall include the nominees’ acceptability to a range of coast and ocean
interests, and their experience as trustees or directors of for profit or
nonprofit corporations.
   (b) The Secretary for Environmental Protection shall appoint one
trustee, who shall serve at the pleasure of the secretary, and who shall
have broad knowledge of water quality concerns as they relate to ocean
resource management.
   (c) The Director of Finance shall appoint one trustee, who shall serve
at the pleasure of the director.
   (d) To the extent feasible, the trustees appointed to the trust pursuant
to subdivisions (a), (b), and (c) shall balance, and reflect the breadth of,
public interests concerned with ocean resources.
   36993. (a) Any person who might reasonably be expected at some
time to derive a direct financial benefit from the activities of the trust
shall be ineligible to serve as a trustee.
[Ch. 517 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3587

   (b) Subject to the approval of the Secretary for Resources, the trustees
shall adopt definitions and rules for the trust with respect to indirect
conflicts of interest.
   (c) All trustees shall serve without compensation. However, trustees
may be reimbursed by the trust for reasonable expenses.
   36994. (a) The trust shall do all of the following:
   (1) Expend funds only for the purposes of the trust enumerated in
Section 36990 and as further restricted by the sources of the trust’s
funding.
   (2) Make written findings for funds committed for projects,
indicating how the projects further the purposes of the trust enumerated
in Section 36990.
   (3) Require the recipient of funds to keep records necessary to
disclose whether the funds were used for the purposes specified by the
trust.
   (4) Invest and manage the funds of the trust in accordance with the
Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation Law (Part 2 (commencing with
Section 5110) of Division 2 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code).
   (5) The trust shall report in writing annually to the Legislature and to
the Chair of the Joint Committee on Fisheries and Aquaculture. The
annual report shall include the most recent financial audit of the trust and
the written findings required pursuant to paragraph (2). The activities of
the trust for any financial year may be audited by the Bureau of State
Audits.
   (b) The trustees shall ensure that the trust, individual trustees acting
on behalf of the trust and employees or agents of the trust do not engage
in lobbying or contribute to, or otherwise support, any political party,
candidate, or ballot issue.
   (c) This chapter does not expand the authority of the trust to contract
for professional services beyond the authority to contract for those
services in Section 19130 of the Government Code.
   36995. (a) The trust may seek the assistance of advisers, form
advisory committees, or otherwise consult with knowledgeable
individuals in regard to the business of the trust.
   (b) Advisers shall serve without compensation. However, advisers
may be reimbursed by the trust for reasonable expenses.



                            CHAPTER 517

  An act to amend Sections 15432, 15438, 15438.5, 15439, and 15440
of, and to repeal Sections 15438.1, 15461, and 15463 of, the
Government Code, and to amend Section 127300 of the Health and
 3588                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 517 ]
Safety Code, relating to health facility financing, and making an
appropriation therefor.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 15432 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
  15432. As used in this part, the following words and terms shall
have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates or
requires another or different meaning or intent:
  (a) ‘‘Act’’ means the California Health Facilities Financing Authority
Act.
  (b) ‘‘Authority’’ means the California Health Facilities Financing
Authority created by this part or any board, body, commission,
department, or officer succeeding to the principal functions thereof or to
which the powers conferred upon the authority by this part shall be given
by law.
  (c) ‘‘Cost,’’ as applied to a project or portion of a project financed
under this part, means and includes all or any part of the cost of
construction and acquisition of all lands, structures, real or personal
property, rights, rights-of-way, franchises, easements, and interests
acquired or used for a project, the cost of demolishing or removing any
buildings or structures on land so acquired, including the cost of
acquiring any lands to which those buildings or structures may be
moved, the cost of all machinery and equipment, financing charges,
interest prior to, during, and for a period not to exceed the later of one
year or one year following completion of construction, as determined by
the authority, the cost of funding or financing noncapital expenses,
reserves for principal and interest and for extensions, enlargements,
additions, replacements, renovations and improvements, the cost of
engineering, reasonable financial and legal services, plans,
specifications, studies, surveys, estimates, administrative expenses, and
other expenses of funding or financing or necessary or incident to
determining the feasibility of constructing, any project or incident to the
construction or acquisition or financing of any project.
  (d) ‘‘Health facility’’ means any facility, place, or building which is
organized, maintained, and operated for the diagnosis, care, prevention,
and treatment of human illness, physical or mental, or developmental
disability, including convalescence and rehabilitation and including care
during and after pregnancy, or for any one or more of these purposes, for
one or more persons, to which the persons are admitted for a 24-hour stay
or longer, except in the cases of county outpatient facilities, adult day
[Ch. 517 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3589

care facilities, as defined under paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of
Section 1502 of the Health and Safety Code, which provide services to
developmentally disabled or mentally impaired persons, community
clinics, as defined in paragraph (6), and child day care facilities, as
defined in paragraph (10), and includes all of the following types:
   (1) A general acute care hospital which is a health facility having a
duly constituted governing body with overall administrative and
professional responsibility and an organized medical staff which
provides 24-hour inpatient care, including the following basic services:
medical, nursing, surgical, anesthesia, laboratory, radiology, pharmacy,
and dietary services.
   (2) An acute psychiatric hospital which is a health facility having a
duly constituted governing body with overall administrative and
professional responsibility and an organized medical staff which
provides 24-hour inpatient care for mentally disordered, incompetent, or
other patients referred to in Division 5 (commencing with Section 5000)
or Division 6 (commencing with Section 6000) of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, including the following basic services: medical,
nursing, rehabilitative, pharmacy, and dietary services.
   (3) A skilled nursing facility which is a health facility which provides
the following basic services: skilled nursing care and supportive care to
patients whose primary need is for availability or skilled nursing care on
an extended basis.
   (4) An intermediate care facility which is a health facility which
provides the following basic services: inpatient care to ambulatory or
semiambulatory patients who have recurring need for skilled nursing
supervision and need supportive care, but who do not require availability
or continuous skilled nursing care.
   (5) A special health care facility which is a health facility having a
duly constituted governing body with overall administrative and
professional responsibility and an organized medical or dental staff
which provides inpatient or outpatient, acute or nonacute care,
including, but not limited to, medical, nursing, rehabilitation, dental, or
maternity.
   (6) A community clinic which is a clinic operated by a tax-exempt
nonprofit corporation which is supported and maintained in whole or in
part by donations, bequests, gifts, grants, government funds or
contributions, which may be in the form of money, goods, or services.
In a community clinic, any charges to the patient shall be based on the
patient’s ability to pay, utilizing a sliding fee scale. No corporation other
than a nonprofit corporation, exempt from federal income taxation under
paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of Section 501 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1954 as amended, or a statutory successor thereof, shall operate
a community clinic. However, the licensee of any community clinic so
 3590                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 517 ]
licensed on September 26, 1978, shall not be required to obtain
tax-exempt status under either federal or state law. No natural person or
persons shall operate a community clinic.
   (7) An adult day health center which is a facility, as defined under
subdivision (b) of Section 1570.7 of the Health and Safety Code, which
provides adult day health care, as defined under subdivision (a) of
Section 1570.7 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (8) Any other type of facility for the provision of inpatient or
outpatient care which is a county health facility, as defined in
subdivision (a) of Section 16715 of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
(without regard to whether funding is provided for the facility under that
section).
   (9) A multilevel facility is an institutional arrangement where a
residential facility for the elderly is operated as a part of, or in
conjunction with, an intermediate care facility, a skilled nursing facility,
or a general acute care hospital. ‘‘Elderly,’’ for the purposes of this
paragraph, means a person 62 years of age or older.
   (10) A child day care facility operated in conjunction with a health
facility. A child day care facility is a facility, as defined in Section
1596.750 of the Health and Safety Code. For purposes of this paragraph,
‘‘child’’ means a minor from birth to 18 years of age.
   (11) An intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled
habilitative which is a health facility, as defined under subdivision (e) of
Section 1250 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (12) An intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled-nursing
which is a health facility, as defined under subdivision (h) of Section
1250 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (13) A community care facility which is a facility, as defined under
subdivision (a) of Section 1502 of the Health and Safety Code, which
provides care, habilitation, rehabilitation, or treatment services to
developmentally disabled or mentally impaired persons.
   (14) A nonprofit community care facility, as defined in subdivision
(a) of Section 1502 of the Health and Safety Code, other than a facility
which, as defined in that subdivision, is a residential facility for the
elderly, a foster family agency, a foster family home, a full service
adoption agency, or a noncustodial adoption agency.
   (15) A nonprofit accredited community work-activity program, as
specified in subdivision (e) of Section 19352 and Section 19355 of the
Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (16) A community mental health center, as defined in paragraph (3)
of subdivision (b) of Section 5667 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   ‘‘Health facility’’ includes a clinic which is described in subdivision
(l) of Section 1206 of the Health and Safety Code.
[Ch. 517 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3591

   ‘‘Health facility’’ includes the following facilities, if operated in
conjunction with one or more of the above types of facilities: a
laboratory, laundry, nurses or interns residence, housing for staff or
employees and their families, patients or relatives of patients,
physicians’ facility, administration building, research facility,
maintenance, storage, or utility facility and all structures or facilities
related to any of the foregoing or required or useful for the operation of
a health facility, and the necessary and usual attendant and related
facilities and equipment and including parking and supportive service
facilities or structures required or useful for the orderly conduct of such
health facility.
   ‘‘Health facility’’ does not include any institution, place, or building
used or to be used primarily for sectarian instruction or study or as a place
for devotional activities or religious worship.
   (e) ‘‘Participating health institution’’ means a city, city and county,
county, a district hospital, or a private nonprofit corporation or
association authorized by the laws of this state to provide or operate a
health facility and which, pursuant to the provisions of this part,
undertakes the financing or refinancing of the construction or acquisition
of a project or of working capital as provided in this part.
   (f) ‘‘Project’’ means construction, expansion, remodeling,
renovation, furnishing, or equipping, or funding or financing of a health
facility or acquisition of a health facility to be financed or refinanced
with funds provided in whole or in part pursuant to this part. ‘‘Project’’
may include any combination of one or more of the foregoing
undertaken jointly by any participating health institution with one or
more other participating health institutions.
   (g) ‘‘Revenue bond’’ means any bond, warrant, note, lease, or
installment sale obligation that is evidenced by a certificate of
participation or other evidence of indebtedness issued by the authority.
   (h) ‘‘Working capital’’ means moneys to be used by, or on behalf of,
a participating health institution to pay or prepay maintenance or
operation expenses or any other costs that would be treated as an expense
item, under generally accepted accounting principles, in connection with
the ownership or operation of a health facility, including, but not limited
to, reserves for maintenance or operation expenses, interest for not to
exceed one year on any loan for working capital made pursuant to this
part, and reserves for debt service with respect to, and any costs
necessary or incidental to, that financing.
   SEC. 2. Section 15438 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   15438. The authority may do any of the following:
   (a) Adopt bylaws for the regulation of its affairs and the conduct of
its business.
   (b) Adopt an official seal.
 3592                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 517 ]
   (c) Sue and be sued in its own name.
   (d) Receive and accept from any agency of the United States or any
agency of the State of California or any municipality, county or other
political subdivision thereof, or from any individual, association, or
corporation gifts, grants, or donations of moneys for achieving any of the
purposes of this chapter.
   (e) Engage the services of private consultants to render professional
and technical assistance and advice in carrying out the purposes of this
part.
   (f) Determine the location and character of any project to be financed
under this part, and to acquire, construct, enlarge, remodel, renovate,
alter, improve, furnish, equip, fund, finance, own, maintain, manage,
repair, operate, lease as lessee or lessor and regulate the same, to enter
into contracts for any or all of those purposes, to enter into contracts for
the management and operation of a project or other health facilities
owned by the authority, and to designate a participating health institution
as its agent to determine the location and character of a project
undertaken by that participating health institution under this chapter and
as the agent of the authority, to acquire, construct, enlarge, remodel,
renovate, alter, improve, furnish, equip, own, maintain, manage, repair,
operate, lease as lessee or lessor and regulate the same, and as the agent
of the authority, to enter into contracts for any or all of those purposes,
including contracts for the management and operation of that project or
other health facilities owned by the authority.
   (g) Acquire, directly or by and through a participating health
institution as its agent, by purchase solely from funds provided under the
authority of this part, or by gift or devise, and to sell, by installment sale
or otherwise, any lands, structures, real or personal property, rights,
rights-of-way, franchises, easements, and other interests in lands,
including lands lying under water and riparian rights, which are located
within the state the authority determines necessary or convenient for the
acquisition, construction, or financing of a health facility or the
acquisition, construction, financing, or operation of a project, upon the
terms and at the prices considered by the authority to be reasonable and
which can be agreed upon between the authority and the owner thereof,
and to take title thereto in the name of the authority or in the name of a
participating health institution as its agent.
   (h) Receive and accept from any source loans, contributions, or
grants for, or in aid of, the construction, financing, or refinancing of a
project or any portion of a project in money, property, labor, or other
things of value.
   (i) Make secured or unsecured loans to, or purchase secured or
unsecured loans of, any participating health institution in connection
with the financing of a project or working capital in accordance with an
[Ch. 517 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3593

agreement between the authority and the participating health institution.
However, no loan to finance a project shall exceed the total cost of the
project, as determined by the participating health institution and
approved by the authority. Funds for secured loans may be provided
from the California Health Facilities Financing Fund pursuant to
subdivision (b) of Section 15439 to small or rural health facilities
pursuant to authority guidelines.
   (j) Make secured or unsecured loans to, or purchase secured or
unsecured loans of, any participating health institution in accordance
with an agreement between the authority and the participating health
institution to refinance indebtedness incurred by that participating health
institution in connection with projects undertaken or for health facilities
acquired or for working capital. Funds for secured loans may be
provided from the California Health Facilities Financing Fund pursuant
to subdivision (b) of Section 15439 to small or rural health facilities
pursuant to authority guidelines.
   (k) Mortgage all or any portion of interest of the authority in a project
or other health facilities and the property on which that project or other
health facilities are located, whether owned or thereafter acquired,
including the granting of a security interest in any property, tangible or
intangible, and to assign or pledge all or any portion of the interests of
the authority in mortgages, deeds of trust, indentures of mortgage or trust
or similar instruments, notes, and security interests in property, tangible
or intangible, of participating health institutions to which the authority
has made loans, and the revenues therefrom, including payments or
income from any thereof owned or held by the authority, for the benefit
of the holders of bonds issued to finance the project or health facilities
or issued to refund or refinance outstanding indebtedness of
participating health institutions as permitted by this part.
   (l) Lease to a participating health institution the project being
financed or other health facilities conveyed to the authority in
connection with that financing, upon the terms and conditions the
authority determines proper, and to charge and collect rents therefor and
to terminate the lease upon the failure of the lessee to comply with any
of the obligations of the lease; and to include in that lease, if desired,
provisions granting the lessee options to renew the term of the lease for
the period or periods and at the rent, as determined by the authority, to
purchase any or all of the health facilities or that upon payment of all of
the indebtedness incurred by the authority for the financing of that
project or health facilities or for refunding outstanding indebtedness of
a participating health institution, then the authority may convey any or
all of the project or the other health facilities to the lessee or lessees
thereof with or without consideration.
 3594                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 517 ]
   (m) Charge and equitably apportion among participating health
institutions, the administrative costs and expenses incurred by the
authority in the exercise of the powers and duties conferred by this part.
   (n) Obtain, or aid in obtaining, from any department or agency of the
United States or of the State of California or any private company, any
insurance or guarantee as to, or of, or for the payment or repayment of,
interest or principal, or both, or any part thereof, on any loan, lease, or
obligation, or any instrument evidencing or securing the loan, lease, or
obligation, made or entered into pursuant to this part; and
notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, to enter into any
agreement, contract, or any other instrument whatsoever with respect to
that insurance or guarantee, to accept payment in the manner and form
as provided therein in the event of default by a participating health
institution, and to assign that insurance or guarantee as security for the
authority’s bonds.
   (o) Enter into any and all agreements or contracts, including
agreements for liquidity and credit enhancement, interest rate swaps or
hedges, execute any and all instruments, and do and perform any and all
acts or things necessary, convenient, or desirable for the purposes of the
authority or to carry out any power expressly granted by this part.
   (p) Invest any moneys held in reserve or sinking funds, or any moneys
not required for immediate use or disbursement, at the discretion of the
authority, in any obligations authorized by the resolution authorizing the
issuance of the bonds secured thereof or authorized by law for the
investment of trust funds in the custody of the Treasurer.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 15438 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   15438. The authority may do any of the following:
   (a) Adopt bylaws for the regulation of its affairs and the conduct of
its business.
   (b) Adopt an official seal.
   (c) Sue and be sued in its own name.
   (d) Receive and accept from any agency of the United States or any
agency of the State of California or any municipality, county or other
political subdivision thereof, or from any individual, association, or
corporation gifts, grants, or donations of moneys for achieving any of the
purposes of this chapter.
   (e) Engage the services of private consultants to render professional
and technical assistance and advice in carrying out the purposes of this
part.
   (f) Determine the location and character of any project to be financed
under this part, and to acquire, construct, enlarge, remodel, renovate,
alter, improve, furnish, equip, fund, finance, own, maintain, manage,
repair, operate, lease as lessee or lessor and regulate the same, to enter
[Ch. 517 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3595

into contracts for any or all of those purposes, to enter into contracts for
the management and operation of a project or other health facilities
owned by the authority, and to designate a participating health institution
as its agent to determine the location and character of a project
undertaken by that participating health institution under this chapter and
as the agent of the authority, to acquire, construct, enlarge, remodel,
renovate, alter, improve, furnish, equip, own, maintain, manage, repair,
operate, lease as lessee or lessor and regulate the same, and as the agent
of the authority, to enter into contracts for any or all of those purposes,
including contracts for the management and operation of that project or
other health facilities owned by the authority.
   (g) Acquire, directly or by and through a participating health
institution as its agent, by purchase solely from funds provided under the
authority of this part, or by gift or devise, and to sell, by installment sale
or otherwise, any lands, structures, real or personal property, rights,
rights-of-way, franchises, easements, and other interests in lands,
including lands lying under water and riparian rights, which are located
within the state the authority determines necessary or convenient for the
acquisition, construction, or financing of a health facility or the
acquisition, construction, financing, or operation of a project, upon the
terms and at the prices considered by the authority to be reasonable and
which can be agreed upon between the authority and the owner thereof,
and to take title thereto in the name of the authority or in the name of a
participating health institution as its agent.
   (h) Receive and accept from any source loans, contributions, or
grants for, or in aid of, the construction, financing, or refinancing of a
project or any portion of a project in money, property, labor, or other
things of value.
   (i) Make secured or unsecured loans to, or purchase secured or
unsecured loans of, any participating health institution in connection
with the financing of a project or working capital in accordance with an
agreement between the authority and the participating health institution.
However, no loan to finance a project shall exceed the total cost of the
project, as determined by the participating health institution and
approved by the authority. Funds for secured loans may be provided
from the California Health Facilities Financing Fund pursuant to
subdivision (b) of Section 15439 to small or rural health facilities
pursuant to authority guidelines.
   (j) Make secured or unsecured loans to, or purchase secured or
unsecured loans of, any participating health institution in accordance
with an agreement between the authority and the participating health
institution to refinance indebtedness incurred by that participating health
institution in connection with projects undertaken or for health facilities
acquired or for working capital . Funds for secured loans may be
 3596                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 517 ]
provided from the California Health Facilities Financing Fund pursuant
to subdivision (b) of Section 15439 to small or rural health facilities
pursuant to authority guidelines.
   (k) Mortgage all or any portion of interest of the authority in a project
or other health facilities and the property on which that project or other
health facilities are located, whether owned or thereafter acquired,
including the granting of a security interest in any property, tangible or
intangible, and to assign or pledge all or any portion of the interests of
the authority in mortgages, deeds of trust, indentures of mortgage or trust
or similar instruments, notes, and security interests in property, tangible
or intangible, of participating health institutions to which the authority
has made loans, and the revenues therefrom, including payments or
income from any thereof owned or held by the authority, for the benefit
of the holders of bonds issued to finance the project or health facilities
or issued to refund or refinance outstanding indebtedness of
participating health institutions as permitted by this part.
   (l) Lease to a participating health institution the project being
financed or other health facilities conveyed to the authority in
connection with that financing, upon the terms and conditions the
authority determines proper, and to charge and collect rents therefor and
to terminate the lease upon the failure of the lessee to comply with any
of the obligations of the lease; and to include in that lease, if desired,
provisions granting the lessee options to renew the term of the lease for
the period or periods and at the rent, as determined by the authority, to
purchase any or all of the health facilities or that upon payment of all of
the indebtedness incurred by the authority for the financing of that
project or health facilities or for refunding outstanding indebtedness of
a participating health institution, then the authority may convey any or
all of the project or the other health facilities to the lessee or lessees
thereof with or without consideration.
   (m) Charge and equitably apportion among participating health
institutions, the administrative costs and expenses incurred by the
authority in the exercise of the powers and duties conferred by this part.
   (n) Obtain, or aid in obtaining, from any department or agency of the
United States or of the State of California or any private company, any
insurance or guarantee as to, or of, or for the payment or repayment of,
interest or principal, or both, or any part thereof, on any loan, lease, or
obligation, or any instrument evidencing or securing the loan, lease, or
obligation, made or entered into pursuant to this part; and
notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, to enter into any
agreement, contract, or any other instrument whatsoever with respect to
that insurance or guarantee, to accept payment in the manner and form
as provided therein in the event of default by a participating health
[Ch. 517 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3597

institution, and to assign that insurance or guarantee as security for the
authority’s bonds.
   (o) Enter into any and all agreements or contracts, including
agreements for liquidity and credit enhancement, interest rate swaps or
hedges, execute any and all instruments, and do and perform any and all
acts or things necessary, convenient, or desirable for the purposes of the
authority or to carry out any power expressly granted by this part.
   (p) Invest any moneys held in reserve or sinking funds, or any moneys
not required for immediate use or disbursement, at the discretion of the
authority, in any obligations authorized by the resolution authorizing the
issuance of the bonds secured thereof or authorized by law for the
investment of trust funds in the custody of the Treasurer.
   (q) Award grants to any eligible clinic pursuant to Section 15438.6.
   SEC. 3. Section 15438.1 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 15438.5 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   15438.5. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this part
to provide financing only, and, except as provided in subdivisions (b),
(c), and (d), only to health facilities which can demonstrate the financial
feasibility of their projects without regard to the more favorable interest
rates anticipated through the issuance of revenue bonds under this part.
It is further the intent of the Legislature that all or part of any savings
experienced by a participating health institution, as a result of that
tax-exempt revenue bond funding, be passed on to the consuming public
through lower charges or containment of the rate of increase in hospital
rates. It is not the intent of the Legislature in enacting this part to
encourage unneeded health facility construction. Further, it is not the
intent of the Legislature to authorize the authority to control or
participate in the operation of hospitals, except where default occurs or
appears likely to occur.
   (b) When determining the financial feasibility of projects for county
health facilities, the authority shall consider the more favorable interest
rates reasonably anticipated through the issuance of revenue bonds
under this part. It is the intent of the Legislature that the authority attempt
in whatever ways possible to assist counties to arrange projects which
will meet the financial feasibility standards developed under this part.
   (c) The authority may issue revenue bonds pursuant to this part to
finance the development of a multilevel facility, or any portion of a
multilevel facility, including the portion licensed as a residential facility
for the elderly, if the skilled nursing facility, intermediate care facility,
or general acute care hospital is operated or provided by an eligible
participating health institution.
   (d) If a health facility seeking financing for a project pursuant to this
part does not meet the guidelines established by the authority with
 3598                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 517 ]
respect to bond rating, the authority may nonetheless give special
consideration, on a case-by-case basis, to financing the project if the
health facility demonstrates to the satisfaction of the authority the
financial feasibility of the project, and the performance of significant
community service. For the purposes of this part, a health facility which
performs a significant community service is one that contracts with
Medi-Cal or that can demonstrate, with the burden of proof being on the
health facility, that it has fulfilled at least two of the following criteria:
   (1) On or before January 1, 1991, has established, and agrees to
maintain, a 24-hour basic emergency medical service open to the public
with a physician and surgeon on duty, or is a children’s hospital as
defined in Section 14087.21 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, which
jointly provides basic or comprehensive emergency services in
conjunction with another licensed hospital. This criterion shall not be
utilized in a circumstance where a small and rural hospital, as defined in
Section 442.2 of the Health and Safety Code, has not established a
24-hour basic emergency medical service with a physician and surgeon
on duty; or will operate a designated trauma center on a continuing basis
during the life of the revenue bonds issued by the authority.
   (2) Has adopted, and agrees to maintain on a continuing basis during
the life of the revenue bonds issued by the authority, a policy, approved
and recorded by the facility’s board of directors, of treating all patients
without regard to ability to pay, including, but not limited to, emergency
room walk-in patients.
   (3) Has provided and agrees to provide care, on a continuing basis
during the life of the revenue bonds issued by the authority, to Medi-Cal
and uninsured patients in an amount not less than 5 percent of the
facility’s adjusted inpatient days as reported on an annual basis to the
Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development.
   (4) Has budgeted at least 5 percent of its net operating income to
meeting the medical needs of uninsured patients and to providing other
services, including, but not limited to, community education, primary
care outreach in ambulatory settings, and unmet nonmedical needs, such
as food, shelter, clothing, or transportation for vulnerable populations in
the community, and agrees to continue that policy during the life of the
revenue bonds issued by the authority.
   On or before January 1, 1992, the authority shall report to the
Legislature regarding the implementation of this subdivision. The report
shall provide information on the number of applications for financing
sought under this subdivision, the number of applications approved and
denied under this subdivision, and a brief summary of the reason for any
denial of an application submitted under this subdivision.
[Ch. 517 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3599

   (e) Enforcement of the conditions under which the authority issues
bonds pursuant to this section shall be governed by the enforcement
conditions under Section 15459.4.
   SEC. 5. Section 15439 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   15439. (a) The California Health Facilities Authority Fund is
continued in existence in the State Treasury as the California Health
Facilities Financing Authority Fund. All money in the fund is hereby
continuously appropriated to the authority for carrying out the purposes
of this division. The authority may pledge any or all of the moneys in the
fund as security for payment of the principal of, and interest on, any
particular issuance of bonds issued pursuant to this part, or any particular
secured or unsecured loan made pursuant to subdivision (i) or (j) of
Section 15438, and, for that purpose or as necessary or convenient to the
accomplishment of any other purpose of the authority, may divide the
fund into separate accounts. All moneys accruing to the authority
pursuant to this part from whatever source shall be deposited in the fund.
   (b) Subject to the priorities which may be created by the pledge of
particular moneys in the fund to secure any issuance of bonds of the
authority, and subject further to the cost of loans provided by the
authority pursuant to subdivisions (i) and (j) of Section 15438, and
subject further to any reasonable costs which may be incurred by the
authority in administering the program authorized by this division, all
moneys in the fund derived from any source shall be held in trust for the
security and payment of bonds of the authority and shall not be used or
pledged for any other purpose so long as such bonds are outstanding and
unpaid. However, nothing in this section shall limit the power of the
authority to make loans with the proceeds of bonds in accordance with
the terms of the resolution authorizing the same.
   (c) Pursuant to any agreements with the holders of particular bonds
pledging any particular assets, revenues, or moneys, the authority may
create separate accounts in the fund to manage assets, revenues, or
moneys in the manner set forth in the agreements.
   (d) The authority may, from time to time, direct the State Treasurer
to invest moneys in the fund which are not required for its current needs,
including proceeds from the sale of any bonds, in the eligible securities
specified in Section 16430 as the agency shall designate. The authority
may direct the State Treasurer to deposit moneys in interest-bearing
accounts in state or national banks or other financial institutions having
principal offices in this state. The authority may alternatively require the
transfer of moneys in the fund to the Surplus Money Investment Fund
for investment pursuant to Article 4 (commencing with Section 16470)
of Chapter 3 of Part 2 of Division 4. All interest or other increment
resulting from an investment or deposit shall be deposited in the fund,
notwithstanding Section 16305.7. Moneys in the fund shall not be
 3600                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 518 ]
subject to transfer to any other fund pursuant to any provision of Part 2
(commencing with Section 16300) of Division 4, excepting the Surplus
Money Investment Fund.
   (e) All moneys accruing to the authority from whatever source shall
be deposited in the fund.
   SEC. 6. Section 15440 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   15440. All expenses of the authority incurred in carrying out the
provisions of this part shall be payable solely from funds provided
pursuant to this part, and no liability shall be incurred by the authority
beyond the extent to which moneys shall have been provided under this
part.
   SEC. 7. Section 15461 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 8. Section 15463 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 9. Section 127300 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   127300. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, on and after
January 1, 1987, the requirement that health facilities and specialty
clinics apply for, and obtain, certificates of need or certificates of
exemption is indefinitely suspended.
   SEC. 10. Section 2.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 15438 of the Government Code proposed by both this bill and
AB 2875. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 15438 of the Government Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after
AB 2875, in which case Section 2 of this bill shall not become operative.



                            CHAPTER 518

  An act to amend Sections 5806, 5811, 5814, and 5814.5 of the Welfare
and Institutions Code, relating to mental health, and declaring the
urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. (a) The Legislature finds and declares as follows:
  (1) In 1999, the Legislature recognized the longstanding problem of
the underfunded community mental health care system and the
consequences of severely mentally ill adults not getting treatment
resulting in these adults being homeless, incarcerated in jails, and
hospitalized.
[Ch. 518 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3601

   (2) The Legislature began to address this problem by funding three
pilot programs in Los Angeles, Sacramento, and Stanislaus Counties to
provide extended community mental health services and outreach to
mentally ill adults who are homeless or at risk of homelessness.
   (3) The legislation, Chapter 617 of the Statutes of 1999 (AB 34),
required the State Department of Mental Health to evaluate these
programs and determine if they were effective in reducing the risk of
continued homelessness, incarceration, or hospitalization.
   (4) The response to the offer of outreach services to severely mentally
ill persons has been overwhelming, with more than 1,000 additional
people now stabilized and in treatment with a greatly reduced risk of
further homelessness, incarcerations, or hospitalizations.
   (5) Based upon this success and the dramatic and unfortunate
consequences of two decades of not providing adequate community
mental health services, it is now time for the state to make a significant
effort to substantially increase these programs and realize a measurable
reduction in homelessness of people with mental illness by dramatically
expanding these programs.
   (b) It is the intent of the Legislature to enact legislation that will do
all of the following:
   (1) Provide funds in the 2000-01 fiscal year to allow the three
counties that currently conduct programs to continue successful
program expansions, based upon remaining unmet needs.
   (2) Permit, in addition to the initial demonstration counties, counties
that have or can develop adult system of care programs to have an
opportunity to participate in these programs, based upon unmet needs,
successful existing programs, and each county’s capacity to increase
services.
   SEC. 2. Section 5806 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   5806. The State Department of Mental Health shall establish service
standards that ensure that members of the target population are
identified, and services provided to assist them to live independently,
work, and reach their potential as productive citizens. The department
shall provide annual oversight of grants issued pursuant to this part for
compliance with these standards. These standards shall include, but are
not limited to:
   (a) A service planning and delivery process that is target population
based and includes the following:
   (1) Determination of the numbers of clients to be served and the
programs and services that will be provided to meet their needs. The
local director of mental health shall consult with the sheriff, the police
chief, the probation officer, the mental health board, contract agencies,
 3602                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 518 ]
and family, client, ethnic and citizen constituency groups as determined
by the director.
   (2) Plans for services, including outreach to families whose severely
mentally ill adult is living with them, design of mental health services,
coordination and access to medications, psychiatric and psychological
services, substance abuse services, supportive housing or other housing
assistance, vocational rehabilitation, and veterans’ services. Plans shall
also contain evaluation strategies, that shall consider cultural, linguistic,
gender, age, and special needs of minorities in the target populations.
Provision shall be made for staff with the cultural background and
linguistic skills necessary to remove barriers to mental health services
due to limited-English-speaking ability and cultural differences.
   (3) Provisions for services to meet the needs of target population
clients who are physically disabled.
   (4) Provision for services to meet the special needs of older adults.
   (5) Provision for family support and consultation services, parenting
support and consultation services, and peer support or self-help group
support, where appropriate.
   (6) Provision for services to be client-directed and that employ
psychosocial rehabilitation and recovery principles.
   (7) Provision for psychiatric and psychological services that are
integrated with other services and for psychiatric and psychological
collaboration in overall service planning.
   (8) Provision for services specifically directed to seriously mentally
ill young adults 25 years of age or younger who are homeless or at
significant risk of becoming homeless. These provisions may include
continuation of services that would still be received through other funds
had eligibility not been terminated due to age.
   (9) Services reflecting special needs of women from diverse cultural
backgrounds, including supportive housing that accepts children,
personal services coordinator therapeutic treatment, and substance
treatment programs that address gender specific trauma and abuse in the
lives of persons with mental illness, and vocational rehabilitation
programs that offer job training programs free of gender bias and
sensitive to the needs of women.
   (10) Provision for housing for clients that is immediate, transitional,
permanent, or all of these.
   (b) Each client shall have a clearly designated mental health personal
services coordinator who may be part of a multidisciplinary treatment
team who is responsible for providing or assuring needed services.
Responsibilities include complete assessment of the client’s needs,
development of the client’s personal services plan, linkage with all
appropriate community services, monitoring of the quality and follow
through of services, and necessary advocacy to ensure each client
[Ch. 518 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3603

receives those services which are agreed to in the personal services plan.
Each client shall participate in the development of his or her personal
services plan, and responsible staff shall consult with the designated
conservator, if one has been appointed, and, with the consent of the
client, consult with the family and other significant persons as
appropriate.
   (c) The individual personal services plan shall ensure that members
of the target population involved in the system of care receive age,
gender, and culturally appropriate services, to the extent feasible, that are
designed to enable recipients to:
   (1) Live in the most independent, least restrictive housing feasible in
the local community, and for clients with children, to live in a supportive
housing environment that strives for reunification with their children or
assists clients in maintaining custody of their children as is appropriate.
   (2) Engage in the highest level of work or productive activity
appropriate to their abilities and experience.
   (3) Create and maintain a support system consisting of friends,
family, and participation in community activities.
   (4) Access an appropriate level of academic education or vocational
training.
   (5) Obtain an adequate income.
   (6) Self-manage their illness and exert as much control as possible
over both the day-to-day and long-term decisions which affect their
lives.
   (7) Access necessary physical health care and maintain the best
possible physical health.
   (8) Reduce or eliminate serious antisocial or criminal behavior and
thereby reduce or eliminate their contact with the criminal justice
system.
   (9) Reduce or eliminate the distress caused by the symptoms of
mental illness.
   (10) Have freedom from dangerous addictive substances.
   (d) The individual personal services plan shall describe the service
array that meets the requirements of subdivision (c), and to the extent
applicable to the individual, the requirements of subdivision (a).
   SEC. 3. Section 5811 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   5811. The State Department of Mental Health shall provide
participating counties all of the following:
   (a) Request for proposals, application guidelines, and format, and
coordination and oversight of the selection process as described in
Article 2 (commencing with Section 5803).
   (b) Contracts with each state funded county stipulating the approved
budget, performance outcomes, and scope of work.
 3604                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 518 ]
   (c) Training, consultation, and technical assistance for county
applicants.
   SEC. 4. Section 5814 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   5814. (a) (1) This part shall be implemented only to the extent that
funds are appropriated for purposes of this part. To the extent that funds
are made available, the first priority shall go to maintain funding for the
existing programs that meet adult system of care contract goals. The next
priority for funding shall be given to counties with a high incidence of
persons who are severely mentally ill and homeless or at risk of
homelessness, and meet the criteria developed pursuant to paragraphs
(3) and (4).
   (2) The director shall establish a methodology for awarding grants
under this part consistent with the legislative intent expressed in Section
5802, and in consultation with the advisory committee established in
this subdivision.
   (3) The director shall establish an advisory committee for the purpose
of providing advice regarding the development of criteria for the award
of grants, and the identification of specific performance measures for
evaluating the effectiveness of grants. The committee shall review
evaluation reports and make findings on evidence based on best
practices and recommendations for grant conditions. The committee
shall include, but not be limited to, representatives from state, county,
and community veterans’ services and disabled veterans outreach
programs, supportive housing and other housing assistance programs,
law enforcement, county mental health and private providers of local
mental health services and mental health outreach services, the Board of
Corrections, the State Department of Alcohol and Drug Programs, local
substance abuse services providers, the Department of Rehabilitation,
providers of local employment services, the State Department of Social
Services, the Department of Housing and Community Development, a
service provider to transition youth, the United Advocates for Children
of California, the California Mental Health Advocates for Children and
Youth, the Mental Health Association of California, the California
Alliance for the Mentally Ill, the California Network of Mental Health
Clients, the Mental Health Planning Council, and other appropriate
entities.
   (4) The criteria for the award of grants shall include, but not be limited
to, all of the following:
   (A) A description of a comprehensive strategic plan for providing
outreach, prevention, intervention, and evaluation in a cost appropriate
manner corresponding to the criteria specified in subdivision (c).
   (B) A description of the local population to be served, ability to
administer an effective service program, and the degree to which local
[Ch. 518 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3605

agencies and advocates will support and collaborate with program
efforts.
   (C) A description of efforts to maximize the use of other state, federal,
and local funds or services that can support and enhance the effectiveness
of these programs.
   (b) In each year in which additional funding is provided by the State
Budget the department shall establish programs that offer individual
counties sufficient funds to comprehensively serve severely mentally ill
adults who are homeless, recently released from a county jail or the state
prison, or others who are untreated, unstable, and at significant risk of
incarceration or homelessness unless treatment is provided to them and
who are severely mentally ill adults. For purposes of this subdivision,
‘‘severely mentally ill adults’’ are those individuals described in
subdivision (b) of Section 5600.3. In consultation with the advisory
committee established pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), the
department shall report to the Legislature on or before May 1 of each year
in which additional funding is provided, and shall evaluate, at a
minimum, the effectiveness of the strategies in providing successful
outreach and reducing homelessness, involvement with local law
enforcement, and other measures identified by the department. The
evaluation shall include, as much of the following as available
information permits:
   (1) The number of persons served, and of those, the number who are
able to maintain housing, and the number who receive extensive
community mental health services.
   (2) The number of persons with contacts with local law enforcement
and the extent to which local and state incarceration has been reduced or
avoided.
   (3) The number of persons participating in employment service
programs including competitive employment.
   (4) The number of persons contacted in outreach efforts who appear
to be severely mentally ill, as described in Section 5600.3, who have
refused treatment after completion of all applicable outreach measures.
   (5) The amount of hospitalization that has been reduced or avoided.
   (6) The extent to which veterans identified through these programs’
outreach are receiving federally funded veterans’ services for which they
are eligible.
   (c) Each project shall include outreach and service grants in
accordance with a contract between the state and approved counties that
reflects the number of anticipated contacts with people who are
homeless or at risk of homelessness, and the number of those who are
severely mentally ill and who are likely to be successfully referred for
treatment and will remain in treatment as necessary.
 3606                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 518 ]
   (d) All counties that receive funding shall be subject to specific terms
and conditions of oversight and training which shall be developed by the
department, in consultation with the advisory committee.
   (e) (1) As used in this part, ‘‘receiving extensive mental health
services’’ means having a personal services coordinator, as described in
subdivision (b) of Section 5806, and having an individual personal
service plan, as described in subdivision (c) of Section 5806.
   (2) The funding provided pursuant to this part shall be sufficient to
provide mental health services, medically necessary medications to treat
severe mental illnesses, alcohol and drug services, transportation,
supportive housing and other housing assistance, vocational
rehabilitation and supported employment services, money management
assistance for accessing other health care and obtaining federal income
and housing support, accessing veterans’ services, stipends, and other
incentives to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified
professionals as necessary to provide the necessary levels of these
services. These grants shall, however, pay for only that portion of the
costs of those services not otherwise provided by federal funds or other
state funds.
   (3) Methods used by counties to contract for services pursuant to
paragraph (2) shall promote prompt and flexible use of funds, consistent
with the scope of services for which the county has contracted with each
provider.
   (f) Contracts awarded pursuant to this part shall be exempt from the
Public Contract Code and the state administrative manual and shall not
be subject to the approval of the Department of General Services.
   (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds awarded to
counties pursuant to this part and Part 4 (commencing with Section
5850) shall not require a local match in funds.
   SEC. 5. Section 5814.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   5814.5. (a) (1) In any year in which funds are appropriated for this
purpose through the annual Budget Act, counties funded under this part
in the 1999–2000 fiscal year are eligible for funding to continue their
programs if they have successfully demonstrated the effectiveness of
their grants received in that year and to expand their programs if they also
demonstrate significant continued unmet need and capacity for
expansion without compromising quality or effectiveness of care.
   (2) In any year in which funds are appropriated for this purpose
through the annual Budget Act, other counties or portions of counties,
or cities that operate independent public mental health programs
pursuant to Section 5615 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, are
eligible for funding to establish programs if a county or eligible city
demonstrates that it can provide comprehensive services, as set forth in
[Ch. 518 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3607

this part, to a substantial number of adults who are severely mentally ill,
as defined in Section 5600.3, and are homeless or recently released from
the county jail or who are untreated, unstable, and at significant risk of
incarceration or homelessness unless treatment is provided.
   (b) (1) Counties eligible for funding pursuant to subdivision (a) shall
be those that have or can develop integrated adult service programs that
meet the criteria for an adult system of care, as set forth in Section 5806,
and that have, or can develop, integrated forensic programs with similar
characteristics for parolees and those recently released from county jail
who meet the target population requirements of Section 5600.3 and are
at risk of incarceration unless the services are provided. Local
enrollment for integrated adult service programs and for integrated
forensic programs funded pursuant to subdivision (a) shall adhere to all
conditions set forth by the department, including the total number of
clients to be enrolled, the providers to which clients are enrolled and the
maximum cost for each provider, the maximum number of clients to be
served at any one time, the outreach and screening process used to
identify enrollees, and the total cost of the program. Local enrollment of
each individual for integrated forensic programs shall be subject to the
approval of the county mental health director or his or her designee.
   (2) Each county shall ensure that funds provided by these grants are
used to expand existing integrated service programs that meet the criteria
of adults system of care to provide new services in accordance with the
purpose for which they were appropriated and allocated, and that none
of these funds shall be used to supplant existing services to severely
mentally ill adults. In order to ensure that this requirement is met, the
department shall develop methods and contractual requirements, as it
determines necessary. At a minimum, these assurances shall include that
state and federal requirements regarding tracking of funds are met and
that patient records are maintained in a manner that protects privacy and
confidentiality, as required under federal and state law.
   (c) Each county selected to receive a grant pursuant to this section
shall provide data as the department may require, that demonstrates the
outcomes of these adult system of care programs, shall specify the
additional numbers of severely mentally ill adults to whom they will
provide comprehensive services for each million dollars of additional
funding that may be awarded through either an integrated adult service
grant or an integrated forensic grant, and shall agree to provide services
in accordance with Section 5806. Each county’s plan shall identify and
include sufficient funding to provide housing for the individuals to be
served, and shall ensure that any hospitalization of individuals
participating in the program are coordinated with the provision of other
mental health services provided under the program.
 3608                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 519 ]
  SEC. 6. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to maintain the pilot programs and funding for the homeless
mentally ill as indicated within this act without disruption, it is necessary
that this act go into effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 519

  An act to amend Section 6924 of the Family Code, and to amend
Section 123115 of the Health and Safety Code, relating to health.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6924 of the Family Code is amended to read:
   6924. (a) As used in this section:
   (1) ‘‘Mental health treatment or counseling services’’ means the
provision of mental health treatment or counseling on an outpatient basis
by any of the following:
   (A) A governmental agency.
   (B) A person or agency having a contract with a governmental agency
to provide the services.
   (C) An agency that receives funding from community united funds.
   (D) A runaway house or crisis resolution center.
   (E) A professional person, as defined in paragraph (2).
   (2) ‘‘Professional person’’ means any of the following:
   (A) A person designated as a mental health professional in Sections
622 to 626, inclusive, of Article 8 of Subchapter 3 of Chapter 1 of Title
9 of the California Code of Regulations.
   (B) A marriage and family therapist as defined in Chapter 13
(commencing with Section 4980) of Division 2 of the Business and
Professions Code.
   (C) A licensed educational psychologist as defined in Article 5
(commencing with Section 4986) of Chapter 13 of Division 2 of the
Business and Professions Code.
   (D) A credentialed school psychologist as described in Section 49424
of the Education Code.
   (E) A clinical psychologist as defined in Section 1316.5 of the Health
and Safety Code.
[Ch. 519 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3609

   (F) The chief administrator of an agency referred to in paragraph (1)
or (3).
   (G) A marriage and family therapist registered intern, as defined in
Chapter 13 (commencing with Section 4980) of Division 2 of the
Business and Professions Code, while working under the supervision of
a licensed professional specified in subdivision (f) of Section 4980.40
of the Business and Professions Code.
   (3) ‘‘Residential shelter services’’ means any of the following:
   (A) The provision of residential and other support services to minors
on a temporary or emergency basis in a facility that services only minors
by a governmental agency, a person or agency having a contract with a
governmental agency to provide these services, an agency that receives
funding from community funds, or a licensed community care facility
or crisis resolution center.
   (B) The provision of other support services on a temporary or
emergency basis by any professional person as defined in paragraph (2).
   (b) A minor who is 12 years of age or older may consent to mental
health treatment or counseling on an outpatient basis, or to residential
shelter services, if both of the following requirements are satisfied:
   (1) The minor, in the opinion of the attending professional person, is
mature enough to participate intelligently in the outpatient services or
residential shelter services.
   (2) The minor (A) would present a danger of serious physical or
mental harm to self or to others without the mental health treatment or
counseling or residential shelter services, or (B) is the alleged victim of
incest or child abuse.
   (c) A professional person offering residential shelter services,
whether as an individual or as a representative of an entity specified in
paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), shall make his or her best efforts to
notify the parent or guardian of the provision of services.
   (d) The mental health treatment or counseling of a minor authorized
by this section shall include involvement of the minor’s parent or
guardian unless, in the opinion of the professional person who is treating
or counseling the minor, the involvement would be inappropriate. The
professional person who is treating or counseling the minor shall state
in the client record whether and when the person attempted to contact the
minor’s parent or guardian, and whether the attempt to contact was
successful or unsuccessful, or the reason why, in the professional
person’s opinion, it would be inappropriate to contact the minor’s parent
or guardian.
   (e) The minor’s parents or guardian are not liable for payment for
mental health treatment or counseling services provided pursuant to this
section unless the parent or guardian participates in the mental health
treatment or counseling, and then only for services rendered with the
 3610                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 519 ]
participation of the parent or guardian. The minor’s parents or guardian
are not liable for payment for any residential shelter services provided
pursuant to this section unless the parent or guardian consented to the
provision of those services.
   (f) This section does not authorize a minor to receive convulsive
therapy or psychosurgery as defined in subdivisions (f) and (g) of
Section 5325 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or psychotropic drugs
without the consent of the minor’s parent or guardian.
   SEC. 2. Section 123115 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   123115. (a) The representative of a minor shall not be entitled to
inspect or obtain copies of the minor’s patient records in either of the
following circumstances:
   (1) With respect to which the minor has a right of inspection under
Section 123110.
   (2) Where the health care provider determines that access to the
patient records requested by the representative would have a detrimental
effect on the provider’s professional relationship with the minor patient
or the minor’s physical safety or psychological well-being. The decision
of the health care provider as to whether or not a minor’s records are
available for inspection under this section shall not attach any liability
to the provider, unless the decision is found to be in bad faith.
   (b) When a health care provider determines there is a substantial risk
of significant adverse or detrimental consequences to a patient in seeing
or receiving a copy of mental health records requested by the patient, the
provider may decline to permit inspection or provide copies of the
records to the patient, subject to the following conditions:
   (1) The health care provider shall make a written record, to be
included with the mental health records requested, noting the date of the
request and explaining the health care provider’s reason for refusing to
permit inspection or provide copies of the records, including a
description of the specific adverse or detrimental consequences to the
patient that the provider anticipates would occur if inspection or copying
were permitted.
   (2) The health care provider shall permit inspection by, or provide
copies of the mental health records to, a licensed physician and surgeon,
licensed psychologist, licensed marriage and family therapist, or
licensed clinical social worker, designated by request of the patient. Any
marriage and family therapist registered intern, as defined in Chapter 13
(commencing with Section 4980) of Division 2 of the Business and
Professions Code, may not inspect the patient’s mental health records or
obtain copies thereof, except pursuant to the direction or supervision of
a licensed professional specified in subdivision (f) of Section 4980.40
of the Business and Professions Code. Prior to providing copies of
[Ch. 520 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3611

mental health records to a marriage and family therapist registered
intern, a receipt for those records shall be signed by the supervising
licensed professional. The licensed physician and surgeon, licensed
psychologist, licensed marriage and family therapist, licensed clinical
social worker, or marriage and family therapist registered intern to
whom the records are provided for inspection or copying shall not permit
inspection or copying by the patient.
   (3) The health care provider shall inform the patient of the provider’s
refusal to permit him or her to inspect or obtain copies of the requested
records, and inform the patient of the right to require the provider to
permit inspection by, or provide copies to, a licensed physician and
surgeon, licensed psychologist, licensed marriage and family therapist,
or licensed clinical social worker, designated by written authorization of
the patient.
   (4) The health care provider shall indicate in the mental health records
of the patient whether the request was made under paragraph (2).



                             CHAPTER 520

  An act to amend Sections 5851, 5852.5, 5855.5, 5857, 5859, 5860,
5863, 5865, 5866, 5869, and 5880 of, and to add Sections 5856.2 ,
5865.1, and 5865.3 to, the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to
child care.
             [Approved by Governor September 17, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 5851 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
  5851. (a) The Legislature finds and declares that there is no
comprehensive county interagency system throughout California for the
delivery of mental health services to seriously emotionally and
behaviorally disturbed children and their families. Specific problems to
be addressed include the following:
  (1) The population of children which should receive highest priority
for services has not been defined.
  (2) Clear and objective client outcome goals for children receiving
services have not been specified.
  (3) Although seriously emotionally and behaviorally disturbed
children usually have multiple disabilities, the many different state and
county agencies, particularly education, social services, juvenile justice,
 3612                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 520 ]
health, and mental health agencies, with shared responsibility for these
individuals, do not always collaborate to develop and deliver integrated
and cost-effective programs.
   (4) A range of community-based treatment, case management, and
interagency system components required by children with serious
emotional disturbances has not been identified and implemented.
   (5) Service delivery standards that ensure culturally competent care
in the most appropriate, least restrictive environment have not been
specified and required.
   (6) The mental health system lacks accountability and methods to
measure progress towards client outcome goals and cost-effectiveness.
There are also no requirements for other state and county agencies to
collect or share relevant data necessary for the mental health system to
conduct this evaluation.
   (b) The Legislature further finds and declares that the model
developed in Ventura County beginning in the 1984–85 fiscal year
through the implementation of Chapter 1474 of the Statutes of 1984 and
expanded to the Counties of Santa Cruz, San Mateo, and Riverside in the
1989–90 fiscal year pursuant to Chapter 1361 of the Statutes of 1987,
provides a comprehensive, interagency system of care for seriously
emotionally and behaviorally disturbed children and their families and
has successfully met the performance outcomes required by the
Legislature. The Legislature finds that this accountability for outcome
is a defining characteristic of a system of care as developed under this
part. It finds that the system established in these four counties can be
expanded statewide to provide greater benefit to children with serious
emotional and behavioral disturbances at a lower cost to the taxpayers.
It finds further that substantial savings to the state and these four counties
accrue annually, as documented by the independent evaluator provided
under this part. Of the amount continuing to be saved by the state in its
share of out-of-home placement costs and special education costs for
those counties and others currently funded by this part, a portion is
hereby reinvested to expand and maintain statewide the system of care
for children with serious emotional and behavioral disturbances.
   (c) Therefore, using the Ventura County model guidelines, it is the
intent of the Legislature to accomplish the following:
   (1) To phase in the system of care for children with serious emotional
and behavioral problems developed under this part to all counties within
the state.
   (2) To require that 100 percent of the new funds appropriated under
this part be dedicated to the targeted population as defined in Sections
5856 and 5856.2. To this end, it is the intent of the Legislature that
families of eligible children be involved in county program planning and
[Ch. 520 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3613

design and, in all cases, be involved in the development of individual
child treatment plans.
   (3) To expand interagency collaboration and shared responsibility for
seriously emotionally and behaviorally disturbed children in order to do
the following:
   (A) Enable children to remain at home with their families whenever
possible.
   (B) Enable children placed in foster care for their protection to remain
with a foster family in their community as long as separation from their
natural family is determined necessary by the juvenile court.
   (C) Enable special education pupils to attend public school and make
academic progress.
   (D) Enable juvenile offenders to decrease delinquent behavior.
   (E) Enable children requiring out-of-home placement in licensed
residential group homes or psychiatric hospitals to receive that care in
as close proximity as possible to the child’s usual residence.
   (F) Separately identify and categorize funding for these services.
   (4) To increase accountability by expanding the number of counties
with a performance contract that requires measures of client outcome
and cost avoidance.
   (d) It is the intent of the Legislature that the outcomes prescribed by
this section shall be achieved regardless of the cultural or ethnic origin
of the seriously emotionally and behaviorally disturbed children and
their families.
   SEC. 2. Section 5852.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   5852.5. The department shall review those counties that have been
awarded funds to implement a comprehensive system for the delivery of
mental health services to children with serious emotional disturbance
and to their families or foster families to determine compliance with
either of the following:
   (a) The total estimated cost avoidance in all of the following
categories shall equal or exceed the applications for funding award
moneys:
   (1) Group home costs paid by Aid to Families with Dependent
Children-Foster Care (AFDC-FC) program.
   (2) Children and adolescent state hospital and acute inpatient
programs.
   (3) Nonpublic school residential placement costs.
   (4) Juvenile justice reincarcerations.
   (5) Other short- and long-term savings in public funds resulting from
the applications for funding award moneys.
   (b) If the department determines that the total cost avoidance listed
in subdivision (a) does not equal or exceed applications for funding
 3614                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 520 ]
award amounts, the department shall determine that the county that has
been awarded funding shall achieve substantial compliance with all of
the following goals:
   (1) Total cost avoidance in the categories listed in subdivision (a) to
exceed 50 percent of the applications for funding award moneys.
   (2) A 20-percent reduction in out-of-county ordered placements of
juvenile justice wards and social service dependents.
   (3) A statistically significant reduction in the rate of recidivism by
juvenile offenders.
   (4) A 25-percent reduction in the rate of state hospitalization of
minors from placements of special education pupils.
   (5) A 10-percent reduction in out-of-county nonpublic school
residential placements of special education pupils.
   (6) Allow at least 50 percent of children at risk of imminent
placement served by the intensive in-home crisis treatment programs,
which are wholly or partially funded by applications for funding award
moneys, to remain at home at least six months.
   (7) Statistically significant improvement in school attendance and
academic performance of seriously emotionally disturbed special
education pupils treated in day treatment programs which are wholly or
partially funded by applications for funding award moneys.
   (8) Statistically significant increases in services provided in
nonclinic settings among agencies.
   (9) Increase in ethnic minority and gender access to services
proportionate to the percentage of these groups in the county’s
school-age population.
   SEC. 3. Section 5855.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   5855.5. (a) Projects funded pursuant to Part 4 (commencing with
Section 5850) of Division 5, as added by Chapter 89 of the Statutes of
1991, shall continue under the terms of this part.
   (b) The department shall negotiate with each participating county to
establish appropriate evaluation measures for the county’s children’s
system of care program after the initial three-year implementation
funding period as established in Section 5854. The department shall, on
an annual basis, negotiate a performance contract with each county
electing to continue its children’s system of care program. The annual
performance contract shall be consistent county to county, and shall
include, but not be limited to, a scope of work plan consistent with the
provisions of this part and shall contain a budget that has sufficient detail
to meet the requirements of the department.
   SEC. 4. Section 5856.2 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
[Ch. 520 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3615

  5856.2. (a) Eligible children shall include seriously disturbed
children who meet the requirements of Section 5856 and who are
referred by collaborating programs, including wrap-around programs
(Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 18250) of Part 6 of Division 9),
Family Preservation programs (Part 4.4 (commencing with Section
16600) of Division 9), Juvenile Crime Enforcement and Accountability
Challenge Grant programs (Article 18.7 (commencing with Section
749.2) of Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 1), programs serving children
with dual diagnosis including substance abuse or whose emotional
disturbance is related to family substance abuse, and children whose
families are enrolled in CalWORKs (Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 11200.5) of Part 3 of Division 9).
  (b) Counties shall ensure, within available resources, that programs
are designed to serve young children from zero to five years of age,
inclusive, their families, and adolescents in transition from 15 to 21
years of age, inclusive.
  SEC. 5. Section 5857 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
  5857. (a) The State Department of Mental Health shall issue a
request for applications for funding for new children’s system of care
programs to nonparticipating counties in each year that additional funds
are provided for statewide expansion pursuant to this part.
  (b) Applications shall be submitted to the department by a county
mental health department with joint approval of collaborating local
agencies including, but not limited to, special education, juvenile court,
probation, child protective services agencies, the board of supervisors,
and the mental health advisory board.
  (c) Program staff from the department shall review all applications
for funding for compliance with all requirements of law and the
application guidelines established by the department.
  (d) The department may accept letters of intent from a county in lieu
of an application if moneys are not available to the county, to affirm
commitment by the county to participate in the request for applications
for funding process when moneys become available. Upon approval of
an application by the director, a county shall be funded for an initial
three-year contract period as described in Section 5854 and annually
thereafter, consistent with the provisions of this part. If a county is
complying with the provisions of this part, the department shall assure
that the county receives an annual allocation consistent with
departmental guidelines for full funding, as resources are made
available.
  SEC. 6. Section 5859 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
 3616                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 520 ]
  5859. If applications are deficient and not ready for approval,
department program staff shall provide specific written descriptions of
areas of deficiency to counties and provide, to the extent feasible, any
requested training, consultation, and technical assistance to assist the
applicant county to achieve necessary compliance and department
approval.
  SEC. 7. Section 5860 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
  5860. (a) Final selection of county proposals shall be subject to the
amount of funding approved for expansion of services under this part.
  (b) Counties shall use funds distributed under this part only in support
of a mental health system serving seriously emotionally disturbed
children in accordance with the principles and program requirements
associated with the system of care model described in this part. The State
Department of Mental Health shall audit and monitor the use of these
funds to ensure that the funds are used solely in support of the children’s
system of care program and in accordance with the performance contract
described in subdivision (c). If county programs receiving children’s
system of care funding do not comply with program and audit
requirements determined by the department, funds shall be redistributed
to other counties to implement, expand, or model children’s system of
care programs.
  (c) The department shall enter into annual performance contracts with
the selected counties and enter into training and consultation contracts
as necessary to fulfill its obligations under this part. These annual
performance contracts shall be in addition to the county mental health
services performance contracts submitted to the department under
Section 5650. Any changes in the staffing patterns or protocols, or both,
approved in the original program proposal shall be identified and
justified in these annual performance contracts. Annual performance
contracts filed by counties operating the program as of January 1, 2001,
shall, if approved by the department, serve as the baseline contract for
purposes of this subdivision. The contracts shall be exempt from the
requirements of the Public Contract Code and the State Administrative
Manual and shall be exempt from approval by the Department of General
Services.
  SEC. 8. Section 5863 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
  5863. In addition to the requirements of Section 5862, each county
program proposal shall contain all of the following:
  (a) Methods and protocols for the county mental health department
to identify and screen the eligible target population children. These
protocols shall be developed with collaborative partners and shall ensure
that eligible children can be referred from all collaborating agencies.
[Ch. 520 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3617

   (b) Measurable system performance goals for client outcome and cost
avoidance. Outcomes shall be made available to collaborating partners
and used for program improvement.
   (c) Methods to achieve interagency collaboration by all publicly
funded agencies serving children experiencing emotional disturbances.
   (d) Appropriate written interagency protocols and agreements with
all other programs in the county that serve similar populations of
children. Agreements shall exist with wrap-around programs (Chapter
4 (commencing with Section 18250) of Part 6 of Division 9), Family
Preservation programs (Part 4.4 (commencing with Section 16600) of
Division 9), Juvenile Crime Enforcement and Accountability Challenge
Grant programs (Article 18.7 (commencing with Section 749.2) of
Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 1), programs serving children with a dual
diagnosis including substance abuse or whose emotional disturbance is
related to family substance abuse, and programs serving families
enrolled in CalWORKs (Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 11200.5)
of Part 3 of Division 9).
   (e) A description of case management services for the target
population. Each county program proposal shall include protocols
developed in the county for case management designed to provide
assessment, linkage, case planning, monitoring, and client advocacy to
facilitate the provision of appropriate services for the child and family
in the least restrictive environment as close to home as possible.
   (f) Mental health services that enable a child to remain in his or her
usual family setting and that offer an appropriate alternative to
out-of-home placement.
   (g) Methods to conduct joint interagency placement screening of
target population children prior to out-of-home placement.
   (h) Identification of the number and level of county evaluation staff
and the resources necessary to meet requirements established by the
State Department of Mental Health to measure client and cost outcome
and other system performance measures.
   (i) A budget specifying all new and currently funded mental health
expenditures provided as part of the proposed system of care. The
department shall establish reporting requirements for direct and indirect
administrative overhead, to be included in the request for proposals.
Weight shall be given to counties with lower administrative overhead
costs. In no case shall administrative costs exceed those of existing
county mental health programs and services. Expenditures for
evaluation staff and resources shall not be considered administrative
costs for this purpose.
   (j) Any requirements for interagency collaboration, agreements, or
protocols contained in this section shall not diminish requirements for
 3618                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 520 ]
the confidentiality of medical information or information maintained by
a county agency or department.
   SEC. 9. Section 5865 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   5865. Each county shall have in place, with qualified mental health
personnel, all of the following within three years of funding by the state:
   (a) A comprehensive, interagency system of care that serves the target
population as defined in Section 5856.
   (b) A method to screen and identify children in the target population.
County mental health staff shall consult with the representatives from
special education, social services, and juvenile justice agencies, the
mental health advisory board, family advocacy groups, and others as
necessary to help identify all of the persons in the target populations,
including persons from ethnic minority cultures which may require
outreach for identification.
   (c) A defined mental health case management system designed to
facilitate the outcome goals for children in the target population.
   (d) A defined range of mental health services and program standards
that involve interagency collaboration and ensure appropriate service
delivery in the least restrictive environment with community-based
alternatives to out-of-home placement.
   (e) A defined mechanism to ensure that services are culturally
competent.
   (f) A defined mechanism to ensure that services are child-centered
and family-focused, with parent participation in planning and delivery
of services.
   (g) A method to show measurable improvement in individual and
family functional status for children enrolled in the system of care.
   (h) A method to measure and report cost avoidance and client
outcomes for the target population which includes, but is not limited to,
state hospital utilization, group home utilization, nonpublic school
residential placement, school attendance and performance, and
recidivism in the juvenile justice system.
   (i) A plan to ensure that system of care services are planned to
complement and coordinate with services provided under the federal
Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment services
(Section 1396d(a)(4)(B) of Title 42 of the United States Code),
including foster children served under Section 5867.5, where those
services are medically necessary but children do not meet the
requirements of Section 5600.3.
   (j) A plan to ensure that system of care services are planned to
complement and coordinate with services provided to CalWORKs
(Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 11200.5) of Part 3 of Division 9)
recipients whose families receive mental health treatment services.
[Ch. 520 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3619

   (k) A defined partnership between the children’s system of care
program and family members of children who have been or are currently
being served in the county mental health system. This partnership shall
include family member involvement in ongoing discussions and
decisions regarding policy development, program administration,
service development, and service delivery.
   SEC. 10. Section 5865.1 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
   5865.1. When a county system of care serves children 15 to 21 years
of age, the following structures and services shall, to the extent possible,
be available, and if not available, the county plan shall identify a timeline
for the development of these services:
   (a) Collaborative agreements with schools, community colleges,
independent living programs, child welfare services, job training
agencies, CalWORKs providers, regional center services, and
transportation and recreation services as needed.
   (b) Collaborative teams involving the youth and two or more
agencies to develop a transition plan that identifies needs and resources
required to successfully transition to independent living as an adult.
   (c) Service plans that identify the needs of the youth in the areas of
employment, job training, health care, education, counseling,
socialization, housing, and independent living skills, to be provided by
any of the collaborative agencies and access points for the youth
identified.
   (d) Assistance with identifying the means for health insurance and
educational linkages when the young person is more than 18 years of
age.
   (e) Specific plans for the young adult to identify individuals and
community services that can provide support during the transition to 21
years of age.
   (f) Assurances that goals for young adults are individual, identified
by the youth, and developmentally appropriate.
   (g) Any requirements for interagency collaboration, agreements, or
protocols contained in this section shall not diminish requirements for
the confidentiality of medical information or information maintained by
a county agency or department.
   SEC. 11. Section 5865.3 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
   5865.3. When a county system of care services children, zero to five
years of age, the following structures and services shall be available, and
when not available, the county plan shall identify a timeline for the
development of these services:
   (a) Collaborative agreements with public health systems, regional
center services, child care programs, CalWORKs providers, drug and
 3620                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 520 ]
alcohol treatment programs, child welfare services, and other agencies
that may identify children and families at risk of mental health problems
that affect young children.
   (b) Outreach protocols that can assist parents to identify child
behaviors that may be addressed early to prevent mental or emotional
disorders and assure normal child development.
   (c) Identification of trained specialists that can assist the parents of
very young children at risk for emotional, social, or developmental
problems with treatment.
   (d) Performance measures that ensure that services to families of very
young children are individual, identified by the family, and
developmentally appropriate.
   SEC. 12. Section 5866 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   5866. (a) Counties shall develop a method to encourage
interagency collaboration with shared responsibility for services and the
client and cost outcome goals.
   (b) The local mental health director shall form or facilitate the
formation of a county interagency policy and planning committee. The
members of the council shall include, but not be limited to, family
members of children who have been or are currently being served in the
county mental health system and the leaders of participating local
government agencies, to include a member of the board of supervisors,
a juvenile court judge, the district attorney, the public defender, the
county counsel, the superintendent of county schools, the public social
services director, the chief probation officer, and the mental health
director.
   (c) The duties of the committee shall include, but not be limited to,
all of the following:
   (1) Identifying those agencies that have a significant joint
responsibility for the target population and ensuring collaboration on
countywide planning and policy.
   (2) Identifying gaps in services to members of the target population,
developing policies to ensure service effectiveness and continuity, and
setting priorities for interagency services.
   (3) Implementing public and private collaborative programs
whenever possible to better serve the target population.
   (d) The local mental health director shall form or facilitate the
formation of a countywide interagency case management council whose
function shall be to coordinate resources to specific target population
children who are using the services of more than one agency
concurrently. The members of this council shall include, but not be
limited to, representatives from the local special education, juvenile
probation, children’s social services, and mental health services
[Ch. 520 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3621

agencies, with necessary authority to commit resources from their
agency to an interagency service plan for a child and family. The roles,
responsibilities, and operation of these councils shall be specified in
written interagency agreements or memoranda of understanding, or
both.
  (e) The local mental health director shall develop written interagency
agreements or memoranda of understanding with the agencies listed in
this subdivision, as necessary. Written interagency agreements or
memoranda shall specify jointly provided or integrated services, staff
tasks and responsibilities, facility and supply commitments, budget
considerations, and linkage and referral services. The agreements shall
be reviewed and updated annually.
  (f) The agreements required by subdivision (e) may be established
with any of the following:
  (1) Special education local planning area consortiums.
  (2) The court juvenile probation department.
  (3) The county child protective services agency.
  (4) The county public health department.
  (5) The county department of drug and alcohol services.
  (6) Other local public or private agencies serving children.
  SEC. 13. Section 5869 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
  5869. The department shall provide participating counties with all
of the following:
  (a) Applications for funding guidelines and format, and coordination
and oversight of the selection process as described in Article 4
(commencing with Section 5857).
  (b) Contracts with each state funded county specifying the approved
budget, performance outcomes, and a scope of work plan for each year
of participation in the children’s system of care program.
  (c) A contract with an independent evaluator for the purpose of
measuring performance outcomes and providing technical assistance to
the state and counties related to system evaluation.
  (d) Training, consultation, and technical assistance for county
applicants and participants, either directly or through contract.
  SEC. 14. Section 5880 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
  5880. For each selected county the department shall define and
establish client and cost outcome and other system performance goals,
and negotiate the expected levels of attainment for each year of
participation. Expected levels of attainment shall include a breakdown
by ethnic origin and shall be identified by a county in its proposal. These
goals shall include, but not be limited to, both of the following:
 3622                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 520 ]
   (a) Client improvement and cost avoidance outcome measures, as
follows:
   (1) To reduce the number of child months in group homes, residential
placements pursuant to Chapter 26.5 (commencing with Section 7570)
of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, and state hospital
placements.
   (2) To reduce the cost of AFDC-FC group home care, residential
placements as described in paragraph (1), and state hospital utilization,
by an amount which equals at least 50 percent of the third year project
cost. Cost avoidance shall be based on data comparisons of statewide
average expenditure and population.
   (3) To increase school attendance for pupils in targeted programs.
   (4) To increase the grade level equivalent of pupils in targeted
programs from admission to discharge.
   (5) To reduce the rate of recidivism incurred for wards in targeted
juvenile justice programs.
   (6) To show measurable improvement in individual and family
functional status for a representative sample of children enrolled in the
system of care.
   (7) To achieve statistically significant increases in services provided
in nonclinic settings among agencies.
   (8) To increase ethnic minority and gender access to services
proportionate to the percentage of these groups in the county’s
school-age population.
   (b) System development and operation measures, as follows:
   (1) To provide an integrated system of care that includes multiagency
programs and joint case planning, to children who are seriously
emotionally and behaviorally disturbed as defined in Section 5856.
   (2) To identify and assess children who comprise the target
population in the county evidenced by a roster which contains all
children receiving mental health case management and treatment
services. This roster shall include necessary standardized and uniform
identifying information and demographics about the children served.
   (3) To develop and maintain individualized service plans that will
facilitate interagency service delivery in the least restrictive
environment.
   (4) To develop or provide access to a range of intensive services that
will meet individualized service plan needs. These services shall
include, but not be limited to, case management, expanded treatment
services at schoolsites, local juvenile corrections facilities, and local
foster homes, and flexible services.
   (5) To ensure the development and operation of the interagency
policy council and the interagency case management council.
[Ch. 521 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3623

  (6) To provide culturally competent programs that recognize and
address the unique needs of ethnic populations in relation to equal
access, program design and operation, and program evaluation.
  (7) To develop parent education and support groups, and linkages
with parents to ensure their involvement in the planning process and the
delivery of services.
  (8) To provide a system of evaluation that develops outcome criteria
and which will measure performance, including client outcome and cost
avoidance.
  (9) To gather, manage, and report data in accordance with the
requirements of the state funded outcome evaluation.
  SEC. 15. This act shall be known, and may be cited, as the Cathie
Wright Children’s Mental Health Services Act.



                             CHAPTER 521

   An act to amend Sections 22352 and 40802 of the Vehicle Code,
relating to vehicles.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 22352 of the Vehicle Code, as amended by
Section 1 of Chapter 421 of the Statutes of 1997, is amended to read:
  22352. (a) The prima facie limits are as follows and shall be
applicable unless changed as authorized in this code and, if so changed,
only when signs have been erected giving notice thereof:
  (1) Fifteen miles per hour:
  (A) When traversing a railway grade crossing, if during the last 100
feet of the approach to the crossing the driver does not have a clear and
unobstructed view of the crossing and of any traffic on the railway for
a distance of 400 feet in both directions along the railway. This
subdivision does not apply in the case of any railway grade crossing
where a human flagman is on duty or a clearly visible electrical or
mechanical railway crossing signal device is installed but does not then
indicate the immediate approach of a railway train or car.
  (B) When traversing any intersection of highways if during the last
100 feet of the driver’s approach to the intersection the driver does not
have a clear and unobstructed view of the intersection and of any traffic
upon all of the highways entering the intersection for a distance of 100
feet along all those highways, except at an intersection protected by stop
 3624                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 521 ]
signs or yield right-of-way signs or controlled by official traffic control
signals.
   (C) On any alley.
   (2) Twenty-five miles per hour:
   (A) On any highway other than a state highway, in any business or
residence district unless a different speed is determined by local
authority under procedures set forth in this code.
   (B) When approaching or passing a school building or the grounds
thereof, contiguous to a highway and posted with a standard
‘‘SCHOOL’’ warning sign, while children are going to or leaving the
school either during school hours or during the noon recess period. The
prima facie limit shall also apply when approaching or passing any
school grounds which are not separated from the highway by a fence,
gate or other physical barrier while the grounds are in use by children and
the highway is posted with a standard ‘‘SCHOOL’’ warning sign. For
purposes of this subparagraph, standard ‘‘SCHOOL’’ warning signs may
be placed at any distance up to 500 feet away from school grounds.
   (C) When passing a senior center or other facility primarily used by
senior citizens, contiguous to a street other than a state highway and
posted with a standard ‘‘SENIOR’’ warning sign. A local authority is not
required to erect any sign pursuant to this paragraph until donations from
private sources covering those costs are received and the local agency
makes a determination that the proposed signing should be
implemented. A local authority may, however, utilize any other funds
available to it to pay for the erection of those signs.
   (3) Thirty-five miles per hour on any highway, other than a state
highway, in any moderate density residential district, as defined in
subdivision (b) of Section 22352.1, when posted with a sign giving
notice of that speed limit, unless a different speed is determined by local
authority under procedures set forth in this code.
   (b) This section shall remain in effect only until March 1, 2001, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
on or before March 1, 2001, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Section 22352 of the Vehicle Code, as added by Section 2
of Chapter 421 of the statutes of 1997, is amended to read:
   22352. (a) The prima facie limits are as follows and shall be
applicable unless changed as authorized in this code and, if so changed,
only when signs have been erected giving notice thereof:
   (1) Fifteen miles per hour:
   (A) When traversing a railway grade crossing, if during the last 100
feet of the approach to the crossing the driver does not have a clear and
unobstructed view of the crossing and of any traffic on the railway for
a distance of 400 feet in both directions along the railway. This
subdivision does not apply in the case of any railway grade crossing
[Ch. 521 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3625

where a human flagman is on duty or a clearly visible electrical or
mechanical railway crossing signal device is installed but does not then
indicate the immediate approach of a railway train or car.
   (B) When traversing any intersection of highways if during the last
100 feet of the driver’s approach to the intersection the driver does not
have a clear and unobstructed view of the intersection and of any traffic
upon all of the highways entering the intersection for a distance of 100
feet along all those highways, except at an intersection protected by stop
signs or yield right-of-way signs or controlled by official traffic control
signals.
   (C) On any alley.
   (2) Twenty-five miles per hour:
   (A) On any highway other than a state highway, in any business or
residence district unless a different speed is determined by local
authority under procedures set forth in this code.
   (B) When approaching or passing a school building or the grounds
thereof, contiguous to a highway and posted with a standard
‘‘SCHOOL’’ warning sign, while children are going to or leaving the
school either during school hours or during the noon recess period. The
prima facie limit shall also apply when approaching or passing any
school grounds which are not separated from the highway by a fence,
gate, or other physical barrier while the grounds are in use by children
and the highway is posted with a standard ‘‘SCHOOL’’ warning sign.
For purposes of this subparagraph, standard ‘‘SCHOOL’’ warning signs
may be placed at any distance up to 500 feet away from school grounds.
   (C) When passing a senior center or other facility primarily used by
senior citizens, contiguous to a street other than a state highway and
posted with a standard ‘‘SENIOR’’ warning sign. A local authority is not
required to erect any sign pursuant to this paragraph until donations from
private sources covering those costs are received and the local agency
makes a determination that the proposed signing should be
implemented. A local authority may, however, utilize any other funds
available to it to pay for the erection of those signs.
   (b) This section shall become operative on March 1, 2001.
   SEC. 3. Section 40802 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   40802. (a) A ‘‘speed trap’’ is either of the following:
   (1) A particular section of a highway measured as to distance and with
boundaries marked, designated, or otherwise determined in order that
the speed of a vehicle may be calculated by securing the time it takes the
vehicle to travel the known distance.
   (2) A particular section of a highway with a prima facie speed limit
that is provided by this code or by local ordinance under subparagraph
(A) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 22352, or established
under Section 22354, 22357, 22358, or 22358.3, if that prima facie speed
 3626                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 521 ]
limit is not justified by an engineering and traffic survey conducted
within five years prior to the date of the alleged violation, and
enforcement of the speed limit involves the use of radar or any other
electronic device that measures the speed of moving objects. This
paragraph does not apply to a local street, road, or school zone.
   (b) (1) For purposes of this section, a local street or road is defined
by the latest functional usage and federal-aid system maps submitted to
the federal Highway Administration, except that when these maps have
not been submitted, or when the street or road is not shown on the maps,
a ‘‘local street or road’’ means a street or road that primarily provides
access to abutting residential property and meets the following three
conditions:
   (A) Roadway width of not more than 40 feet.
   (B) Not more than one-half of a mile of uninterrupted length.
Interruptions shall include official traffic control signals as defined in
Section 445.
   (C) Not more than one traffic lane in each direction.
   (2) For purposes of this section ‘‘school zone’’ means that area
approaching or passing a school building or the grounds thereof that is
contiguous to a highway and on which is posted a standard ‘‘SCHOOL’’
warning sign, while children are going to or leaving the school either
during school hours or during the noon recess period. ‘‘School zone’’
also includes the area approaching or passing any school grounds that are
not separated from the highway by a fence, gate, or other physical barrier
while the grounds are in use by children if that highway is posted with
a standard ‘‘SCHOOL’’ warning sign.
   (c) (1) When all of the following criteria are met, paragraph (2) of
this subdivision shall be applicable and subdivision (a) shall not be
applicable:
   (A) When radar is used, the arresting officer has successfully
completed a radar operator course of not less than 24 hours on the use
of police traffic radar, and the course was approved and certified by the
Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
   (B) When laser or any other electronic device is used to measure the
speed of moving objects, the arresting officer has successfully
completed the training required in subparagraph (A) and an additional
training course of not less than two hours approved and certified by the
Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training.
   (C) (i) The prosecution proved that the arresting officer complied
with subparagraphs (A) and (B) and that an engineering and traffic
survey has been conducted in accordance with subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (2). The prosecution proved that, prior to the officer issuing
the notice to appear, the arresting officer established that the radar, laser,
[Ch. 521 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3627

or other electronic device conformed to the requirements of
subparagraph (D).
   (ii) The prosecution proved the speed of the accused was unsafe for
the conditions present at the time of alleged violation unless the citation
was for a violation of Section 22349, 22356, or 22406.
   (D) The radar, laser, or other electronic device used to measure the
speed of the accused meets or exceeds the minimal operational standards
of the National Traffic Highway Safety Administration, and has been
calibrated within the three years prior to the date of the alleged violation
by an independent certified laser or radar repair and testing or calibration
facility.
   (2) A ‘‘speed trap’’ is either of the following:
   (A) A particular section of a highway measured as to distance and
with boundaries marked, designated, or otherwise determined in order
that the speed of a vehicle may be calculated by securing the time it takes
the vehicle to travel the known distance.
   (B) (i) A particular section of a highway or state highway with a
prima facie speed limit that is provided by this code or by local ordinance
under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section
22352, or established under Section 22354, 22357, 22358, or 22358.3,
if that prima facie speed limit is not justified by an engineering and traffic
survey conducted within one of the following time periods, prior to the
date of the alleged violation, and enforcement of the speed limit involves
the use of radar or any other electronic device that measures the speed
of moving objects:
   (I) Except as specified in subclause (II), seven years.
   (II) If an engineering and traffic survey was conducted more than
seven years prior to the date of the alleged violation, and a registered
engineer evaluates the section of the highway and determines that no
significant changes in roadway or traffic conditions have occurred,
including, but not limited to, changes in adjoining property or land use,
roadway width, or traffic volume, 10 years.
   (ii) This subparagraph does not apply to a local street, road, or school
zone.
   SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
 3628                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 522 ]
                             CHAPTER 522

 An act to amend Sections 11003.5, 11018.1, and 11018.10 of the
Business and Professions Code, relating to real estate.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 11003.5 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   11003.5. (a) A ‘‘time-share project’’ is one in which a purchaser
receives the right in perpetuity, for life, or for a term of years, to the
recurrent, exclusive use or occupancy of a lot, parcel, unit, or segment
of real property, annually or on some other periodic basis, for a period
of time that has been or will be allotted from the use or occupancy
periods into which the project has been divided.
   (b) A ‘‘time-share estate’’ is a right of occupancy in a time-share
project which is coupled with an estate in the real property.
   (c) A ‘‘time-share use’’ is a license or contractual or membership right
of occupancy in a time-share project which is not coupled with an estate
in the real property.
   (d) An ‘‘exchange program’’ is any method, arrangement, or
procedure for the voluntary exchange of the right to use and occupy
accommodations and facilities among purchasers of time-share interests
or other property interests. An ‘‘exchange program’’ does not include the
assignment of the right to use and occupy accommodations and facilities
to purchasers of time-share interests pursuant to a reservation system.
Any method, arrangement, or procedure that otherwise meets this
definition, wherein the purchaser’s total contractual financial obligation
exceeds three thousand dollars ($3,000) per time-share interest shall be
regulated as a multisite time-share project and shall be subject to the
provisions of this article.
   (e) An ‘‘incidental benefit’’ is an accommodation, product, service,
discount, or other benefit, other than an exchange program, which is
offered to a prospective purchaser of a time-share interest prior to the end
of the rescission period set forth in Section 11024, the continuing
availability of which for the use and enjoyment of owners of time-share
interests in the time-share project is limited to a term of not more than
five years.
   (f) A ‘‘multisite time-share project’’ is any method, arrangement, or
procedure, with respect to which a purchaser obtains, by any means, a
recurring right to use and occupy accommodations or facilities in a
time-share project consisting of more than one component site, only
[Ch. 522 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3629

through use of a reservation system, on a nonpriority basis. The term
does not include an exchange program wherein the purchaser’s total
contractual financial obligation does not exceed three thousand dollars
($3,000) per time-share interest or a single-site time-share project.
   (g) A ‘‘reservation system’’ is the method, arrangement, or procedure
by which a purchaser of a time-share interest, (1) in order to reserve the
use and occupancy of any accommodation or facility of a multisite
time-share project or qualified resort vacation club for one or more use
periods is required to compete with other owners of time-share interests
in that multisite time-share project or qualified resort vacation club or
(2) in order to reserve the use and occupancy of any accommodation or
facility of a component site associated with a single-site time-share
project is required to compete with other owners of time-share interests
in those component sites, regardless of whether that reservation system
is operated and maintained by (A) the person responsible for the
operation and administration of that time-share project, (B) an exchange
company, or (C) any other person. In the event that an owner of a
time-share interest is required to use an exchange program as the owner’s
principal means of obtaining the right to use and occupy the
accommodations and facilities of any time-share project, that
arrangement shall be a reservation system.
   (h) (1) A ‘‘single-site time-share project’’ is a time-share project
consisting of a single geographic site wherein a purchaser of a time-share
interest in that site receives a recurring right to reserve, on a priority
basis, the use or occupancy of accommodations and facilities at that site.
A single-site time-share project may be associated with other time-share
projects, or other accommodations under a contractual or membership
program through a reservation system.
   (2) (A) A single-site time-share project shall not be deemed to be a
multisite time-share project solely on the basis of the required use of a
reservation system. If use of the reservation system is mandatory, the
agreement for affiliation of the single-site time-share project shall
provide for an initial term of not more than five years, and may further
provide for automatic term renewals for additional successive terms of
five years, unless at a duly noticed meeting of the membership of the
association, or pursuant to an action without a meeting taken in
accordance with subdivisions (a), (b), (c), and (d) of Section 7513 of the
Corporations Code, a motion to terminate the reservation system
affiliation agreement is approved by the membership pursuant to
subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D).
   (B) A motion on the question of termination of a reservation system
affiliation agreement may be initiated by any person specified in
subdivision (e) of Section 7510 of the Corporations Code, and shall be
 3630                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 522 ]
considered by the membership not more than 120 and not less than 30
days prior to expiration of its term.
   (C) The quorum for any meeting of the membership to consider the
termination of a reservation system affiliation agreement shall be not
more than 30 percent of the voting power of the association residing in
members other than the subdivider. The vote necessary to terminate the
reservation system affiliation agreement in an action without a meeting
or at a meeting at which a quorum is present by ballot, in person, or by
proxy shall be the greater of (i) 25 percent of the voting power of the
association residing in members other than the subdivider, or (ii) a
majority of the voting power of the association voting at a meeting or in
an action without a meeting by ballot, in person or by proxy, residing in
members other than the subdivider.
   (D) Notwithstanding subdivision (a) of Section 7513 of the
Corporations Code, an action without a meeting on the question of
termination of a reservation system affiliation agreement may be taken
even if prohibited by the association’s articles or bylaws.
   (E) The cost assessed to a time-share owner or to an association of
time-share owners for the reservation system that is more than 10 percent
greater than the reservation system assessment for the immediately
preceding fiscal year may not be levied without the vote or written assent
of the same percentage of the voting power of the association set forth
in subparagraph (C).
   SEC. 2. Section 11018.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   11018.1. (a) A copy of the public report of the commissioner, when
issued, shall be given to the prospective purchaser by the owner,
subdivider or agent prior to the execution of a binding contract or
agreement for the sale or lease of any lot or parcel in a subdivision. The
requirement of this section extends to lots or parcels offered by the
subdivider after repossession. A receipt shall be taken from the
prospective purchaser in a form and manner as set forth in regulations
of the Real Estate Commissioner.
   (b) A copy of the public report shall be given by the owner, subdivider
or agent at any time, upon oral or written request, to any member of the
public. A copy of the public report and a statement advising that a copy
of the public report may be obtained from the owner, subdivider or agent
at any time, upon oral or written request, shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at any office where sales or leases or offers to sell or lease lots
within the subdivision are regularly made.
   (c) At the same time that a public report is required to be given by the
owner, subdivider, or agent pursuant to subdivision (a) with respect to
a common interest development, as defined, in subdivision (c) of Section
[Ch. 522 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3631

1351 of the Civil Code, the owner, subdivider, or agent shall give the
prospective purchaser a copy of the following statement:

      ‘‘COMMON INTEREST DEVELOPMENT GENERAL INFORMATION

   The project described in the attached Subdivision Public Report is
known as a common-interest development. Read the public report
carefully for more information about the type of development. The
development includes common areas and facilities which will be owned
or operated by an owners’ association. Purchase of a lot or unit
automatically entitles and obligates you as a member of the association
and, in most cases, includes a beneficial interest in the areas and
facilities. Since membership in the association is mandatory, you should
be aware of the following information before you purchase:
   Your ownership in this development and your rights and remedies as
a member of its association will be controlled by governing instruments
which generally include a Declaration of Restrictions (also known as
CC&R’s), Articles of Incorporation (or association) and bylaws. The
provisions of these documents are intended to be, and in most cases are,
enforceable in a court of law. Study these documents carefully before
entering into a contract to purchase a subdivision interest.
   In order to provide funds for operation and maintenance of the
common facilities, the association will levy assessments against your lot
or unit. If you are delinquent in the payment of assessments, the
association may enforce payment through court proceedings or your lot
or unit may be liened and sold through the exercise of a power of sale.
The anticipated income and expenses of the association, including the
amount that you may expect to pay through assessments, are outlined in
the proposed budget. Ask to see a copy of the budget if the subdivider
has not already made it available for your examination.
   A homeowner association provides a vehicle for the ownership and
use of recreational and other common facilities which were designed to
attract you to buy in this development. The association also provides a
means to accomplish architectural control and to provide a base for
homeowner interaction on a variety of issues. The purchaser of an
interest in a common-interest development should contemplate active
participation in the affairs of the association. He or she should be willing
to serve on the board of directors or on committees created by the board.
In short, ‘‘they’’ in a common interest development is ‘‘you.’’ Unless
you serve as a member of the governing board or on a committee
appointed by the board, your control of the operation of the common
areas and facilities is limited to your vote as a member of the association.
There are actions that can be taken by the governing body without a vote
 3632                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 522 ]
of the members of the association which can have a significant impact
upon the quality of life for association members.
   Until there is a sufficient number of purchasers of lots or units in a
common interest development to elect a majority of the governing body,
it is likely that the subdivider will effectively control the affairs of the
association. It is frequently necessary and equitable that the subdivider
do so during the early stages of development. It is vitally important to
the owners of individual subdivision interests that the transition from
subdivider to resident-owner control be accomplished in an orderly
manner and in a spirit of cooperation.
   When contemplating the purchase of a dwelling in a common interest
development, you should consider factors beyond the attractiveness of
the dwelling units themselves. Study the governing instruments and give
careful thought to whether you will be able to exist happily in an
atmosphere of cooperative living where the interests of the group must
be taken into account as well as the interests of the individual. Remember
that managing a common interest development is very much like
governing a small community . . . the management can serve you well,
but you will have to work for its success.’’

   Failure to provide the statement in accordance with this subdivision
shall not be deemed a violation subject to Section 10185.
   (d) (1) The commissioner may include a disclosure statement in a
permit or public report for a single-site time-share project associated
with other component resorts through a reservation system pertaining to
the effect of reservation systems on the purchase of interests in those
projects.
   (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the commissioner may prepare,
for each single-site time-share project, a separate disclosure statement
relating to the effect of the reservation system on the purchase of an
interest in that project.
   (3) The commissioner shall develop and use a standardized form for
the disclosure permitted pursuant to paragraph (2).
   (4) This statement shall be in 10-point bold typeface and given to and
personally signed by the subdivider or the subdivider’s agent and
prospective purchaser as soon as practical prior to the execution of a
binding contract or agreement.
  SEC. 3. Section 11018.10 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  11018.10. No person shall sell or lease, or offer for sale or lease in
this state any interest in a multisite time-share project without first
obtaining a public report covering each component site from the Real
Estate Commissioner. For purposes of this section, the sale of an interest
in a single-site time-share project coupled with a representation that a
[Ch. 524 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3633

purchaser shall obtain a guaranteed right to use and occupy
accommodations or facilities at more than one geographic site, shall be
deemed to be the sale of an interest in a multisite time-share project. The
required use of a reservation system in itself shall not be deemed to
guarantee a right to use or occupy accommodations or facilities at more
than the site where the interest is purchased.



                             CHAPTER 523

   An act to amend Section 509 of the Streets and Highways Code,
relating to highways.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 509 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
  509. (a) Route 209 is from Point Loma to Route 5 in San Diego.
  (b) (1) The commission may relinquish Route 209 to the City of San
Diego, upon terms and conditions the commission finds to be in the best
interests of the state, if the commission and the city enter into an
agreement providing for that relinquishment.
  (2) A relinquishment under this subdivision shall become effective
immediately following the commission’s approval of the terms and
conditions of the relinquishment.
  (3) On and after the effective date of the relinquishment, Route 209
shall cease to be a state highway.



                             CHAPTER 524

  An act to amend Sections 4461, 4463, 5007, 22511.55, and 22511.59
of, and to add Section 1825 to, the Vehicle Code, relating to vehicles.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature that the Department
of Motor Vehicles do all of the following:
 3634                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 524 ]
   (a) In cooperation with the Medical Board of California, the
Department of Rehabilitation, and the Department of Aging, undertake
necessary measures to strengthen the disabled person or disabled veteran
distinguishing placard application and certification processes and
review existing policies and procedures governing the investigation of
placard misuse and fraud.
   (b) Update disabled person or disabled veteran distinguishing placard
forms and program publications to ensure that applicants are aware of
their rights and responsibilities with respect to the proper use of those
placards and the penalties imposed for fraudulently obtaining or
misusing placards.
   (c) Update its driver handbook publications and driver tests to ensure
that the public is provided adequate information as to the appropriate use
of designated parking spaces for the exclusive use of vehicles that
display special identification plates or placards and the penalties
imposed for violations of those provisions.
   (d) Conduct education outreach programs in concert with the
disability community, senior organizations, and medical providers, in
order to inform persons of the disabled person or disabled veteran
distinguishing placard application and medical certification processes
and the relating statutes, policies, and procedures governing placard
misuse and fraud.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 1825 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   1825. (a) The department may conduct an annual, random audit of
applications submitted and processed pursuant to Section 22511.55 or
subdivision (b) or (c) of Section 22511.59 to verify the authenticity of
the certificates and information submitted in support of those
applications.
   (b) The audit provisions of subdivision (a) only apply to those
applications that were initially submitted to the department after January
1, 2001.
   SEC. 2. Section 4461 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   4461. (a) No person may lend any certificate of ownership,
registration card, license plate, special plate, validation tab, or permit
issued to him or her if the person desiring to borrow it would not be
entitled to its use, nor may any person knowingly permit its use by one
not entitled to it.
   (b) No person to whom a disabled person placard has been issued may
lend the placard to any other person, nor may any disabled person
knowingly permit the use for parking purposes of the placard or
identification license plate issued pursuant to Section 5007 by one not
entitled to it. A person to whom a disabled person placard has been
issued may permit another person to use the placard only while in the
presence or reasonable proximity of the disabled person for the purpose
[Ch. 524 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3635

of transporting the disabled person. A violation of this subdivision is a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six months, or by both
that fine and imprisonment.
   (c) Except for the purpose of transporting disabled persons as
specified in subdivision (b), no person may display any disabled person
placard that was not issued to him or her or that has been canceled or
revoked pursuant to Section 22511.6. A violation of this subdivision is
a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six months, or by both
that fine and imprisonment.
   (d) Notwithstanding subdivisions (a), (b), and (c), no person using a
vehicle displaying a special identification license plate issued to another
pursuant to Section 5007 may park in those parking stalls or spaces
designated for disabled persons pursuant to Section 22511.7 or 22511.8,
unless transporting a disabled person. A violation of this subdivision is
a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six months, or by both
that fine and imprisonment.
   (e) For the purposes of subdivisions (b) and (c), ‘‘disabled person
placard’’ means a placard issued pursuant to Section 22511.55 or
22511.59.
   SEC. 3. Section 4463 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   4463. (a) Every person who, with intent to prejudice, damage, or
defraud, commits any of the following acts is guilty of a felony and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison
for 16 months, two or three years, or by imprisonment in the county jail
for not more than one year:
   (1) Alters, forges, counterfeits, or falsifies any certificate of
ownership, registration card, certificate, license, license plate, device
issued pursuant to Section 4853, special plate, or permit provided for by
this code or any comparable certificate of ownership, registration card,
certificate, license, license plate, device comparable to that issued
pursuant to Section 4853, special plate, or permit provided for by any
foreign jurisdiction, or alters, forges, counterfeits, or falsifies the
document, device, or plate with intent to represent it as issued by the
department, or alters, forges, counterfeits, or falsifies with fraudulent
intent any endorsement of transfer on a certificate of ownership or other
document evidencing ownership, or with fraudulent intent displays or
causes or permits to be displayed or have in his or her possession any
blank, incomplete, canceled, suspended, revoked, altered, forged,
 3636                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 524 ]
counterfeit, or false certificate of ownership, registration card,
certificate, license, license plate, device issued pursuant to Section 4853,
special plate, or permit.
   (2) Utters, publishes, passes, or attempts to pass, as true and genuine,
any false, altered, forged, or counterfeited matter listed in subdivision (a)
knowing it to be false, altered, forged, or counterfeited.
   (b) Every person who, with intent to prejudice, damage, or defraud,
commits any of the following acts is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail
for six months or by a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500)
or more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that fine and
imprisonment, which penalty shall not be suspended:
   (1) Forges, counterfeits, or falsifies any disabled person placard or
any comparable placard relating to parking privileges for disabled
persons provided for by any foreign jurisdiction, or forges, counterfeits,
or falsifies any disabled person placard with intent to represent it as
issued by the department.
   (2) Passes, or attempts to pass, as true and genuine, any false, forged,
or counterfeit disabled person placard knowing it to be false, forged, or
counterfeited.
   (3) Acquires, possesses, sells, or offers for sale a genuine or
counterfeit disabled person placard.
   (c) Every person who, with fraudulent intent, displays or causes or
permits to be displayed any forged, counterfeit, or false disabled person
placard, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall
be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for six months or by a
fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500) or more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both that fine and imprisonment, which
penalty shall not be suspended.
   (d) For purposes of subdivision (b) or (c), ‘‘disabled person placard’’
means a placard issued pursuant to Section 22511.55 or 22511.59.
   SEC. 4. Section 5007 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   5007. (a) The department shall, upon application and without
additional fees, issue a special identification license plate or plates to a
disabled person or disabled veteran, pursuant to procedures adopted by
the department.
   (b) The special identification plates issued to a disabled person or
disabled veteran shall run in a regular numerical series which shall
include one or more unique two-letter codes reserved for disabled person
license plates or disabled veteran license plates. The International
Symbol of Access adopted pursuant to Section 3 of Public Law 100-641
commonly known as the ‘‘wheelchair symbol’’ shall be depicted on each
plate.
[Ch. 524 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3637

   (c) (1) Prior to issuing any disabled person or disabled veteran a
special identification license plate, the department shall require the
submission of a certificate, in accordance with paragraph (2), signed by
the physician or surgeon substantiating the disability, unless the
applicant’s disability is readily observable and uncontested. The
disability of any person who has lost, or has lost use of, one or more
lower extremities or both hands, or who has significant limitation in the
use of lower extremities, may also be certified by a licensed chiropractor.
The blindness of any applicant shall be certified by a licensed physician
or surgeon who specializes in diseases of the eye or a licensed
optometrist.
   (2) The physician or other person who signs a certificate submitted
under this subdivision shall retain information sufficient to substantiate
that certificate and, upon request of the department, shall make that
information available for inspection by the Medical Board of California.
   (d) The special identification license plate shall, upon the death of the
disabled person or disabled veteran, be returned to the department within
60 days or upon the expiration of the vehicle registration, whichever
occurs first.
   SEC. 5. Section 22511.55 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   22511.55. (a) (1) Any disabled person or disabled veteran may
apply to the department for the issuance of a distinguishing placard. The
placard may be used in lieu of the special identification license plate or
plates issued under Section 5007 for parking purposes described in
Section 22511.5 when suspended from the rear view mirror or, if there
is no rear view mirror, when displayed on the dashboard of a vehicle. It
is the intent of the Legislature to encourage the use of these
distinguishing placards because they provide law enforcement officers
with a more readily recognizable symbol for distinguishing vehicles
qualified for the parking privilege. The placard shall be the size and color
determined by the department, shall bear the International Symbol of
Access adopted pursuant to Section 3 of Public Law 100-641,
commonly known as the ‘‘wheelchair symbol.’’ The department shall
incorporate instructions for the lawful use of a placard, and a summary
of the penalties for the unlawful use of a placard, into the identification
card issued to the placard owner.
   (2) (A) The department may establish procedures for the issuance
and renewal of the placards. The placards shall have a fixed expiration
date of June 30 every two years. Whenever any application for a placard
is submitted to the department on or after January 1 of the year of
expiration, the fee shall be for the current and subsequent renewal period.
   (B) As used in this section, ‘‘year’’ means the period between the
inclusive dates of July 1 through June 30.
 3638                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 524 ]
   (C) Prior to the end of each year, the department shall, for the most
current three years available, compare its record of disability placards
issued against the records of the Bureau of Vital Statistics of the State
Department of Health Services, or its successor, and withhold any
renewal notices that otherwise would have been sent, for any placard
holders identified as deceased.
   (3) The fee for an original application or renewal application is six
dollars ($6).
   (4) Except as provided in paragraph (5), no person is eligible for more
than one placard at any time.
   (5) Organizations and agencies involved in the transportation of
disabled persons or disabled veterans may apply for a placard for each
vehicle used for the purpose of transporting disabled persons or disabled
veterans.
   (b) (1) Prior to issuing any disabled person or disabled veteran an
original distinguishing placard, the department shall require the
submission of a certificate, in accordance with paragraph (2), signed by
the physician or surgeon substantiating the disability, unless the
applicant’s disability is readily observable and uncontested. The
disability of any person who has lost, or has lost use of, one or more
lower extremities or both hands, or who has significant limitation in the
use of lower extremities, may also be certified by a licensed chiropractor.
The blindness of any applicant shall be certified by a licensed physician
or surgeon who specializes in diseases of the eye or a licensed
optometrist. The physician or person certifying the qualifying disability
shall provide a full description of the illness or disability on the form
submitted to the department.
   (2) The physician or other person who signs a certificate submitted
under this subdivision shall retain information sufficient to substantiate
that certificate and, upon request of the department, shall make that
information available for inspection by the Medical Board of California.
   (3) The department shall maintain in its records all information on an
applicant’s certification of permanent disability and shall make that
information available to eligible law enforcement or parking control
agencies upon a request pursuant to Section 22511.58.
   (c) (1) Any person who has been issued a distinguishing placard
pursuant to subdivision (a) may apply to the department for a substitute
placard without recertification of eligibility, if that placard has been lost
or stolen.
   (2) The fee for a substitute placard issued pursuant to paragraph (1)
is six dollars ($6).
   (d) The distinguishing placard shall be returned to the department not
later than 60 days after the death of the disabled person or disabled
veteran to whom the placard was issued.
[Ch. 524 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3639

   SEC. 6. Section 22511.59 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   22511.59. (a) Upon receipt of the applications and documents
required by subdivisions (b), (c), or (d), the department shall issue a
temporary distinguishing placard bearing the International Symbol of
Access adopted pursuant to Section 3 of Public Law 100-641 commonly
known as the ‘‘wheelchair symbol.’’ During the period for which it is
valid, the temporary distinguishing placard may be used for the parking
purposes described in Section 22511.5 in the same manner as a
distinguishing placard issued pursuant to Section 22511.55.
   (b) (1) Any person who is temporarily disabled for a period of not
more than six months may apply to the department for the issuance of
the temporary distinguishing placard described in subdivision (a).
   (2) Prior to issuing a placard pursuant to this subdivision, the
department shall require the submission of a certificate signed by a
physician or surgeon, as described in subdivision (b) of Section
22511.55, substantiating the temporary disability and stating the date
upon which the disability is expected to terminate.
   (3) The physician or other person who signs a certificate submitted
under this subdivision shall maintain information sufficient to
substantiate that certificate and, upon request of the department, shall
make that information available for inspection by the Medical Board of
California.
   (4) A placard issued pursuant to this subdivision shall expire not later
than 180 days from the date of issuance or upon the expected termination
date of the disability, as stated on the certificate required by paragraph
(2), whichever is less.
   (c) (1) Any disabled person or disabled veteran who is not a resident
of this state and plans to travel within the state may apply to the
department for the issuance of the temporary distinguishing placard
described in subdivision (a).
   (2) Prior to issuing a placard pursuant to this subdivision, the
department shall require certification of the disability, as described in
subdivision (b) of Section 22511.55.
   (3) The physician or other person who signs a certificate submitted
under this subdivision shall maintain information sufficient to
substantiate that certificate and, upon request of the department, shall
make that information available for inspection by the Medical Board of
California.
   (4) A placard issued pursuant to this subdivision shall expire not later
than 90 days from the date of issuance.
   (d) (1) Any disabled person or disabled veteran who has been issued
either a distinguishing placard pursuant to Section 22511.55 or special
identification license plates pursuant to Section 5007, but not both, may
 3640                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 525 ]
apply to the department for the issuance of the temporary distinguishing
placard for the purpose of travel described in subdivision (a).
  (2) Prior to issuing a placard pursuant to this subdivision, the
department shall require the applicant to submit either the number
identifying the distinguishing placard issued pursuant to Section
22511.55 or the number on the special identification license plates.
  (3) A placard issued pursuant to this subdivision shall expire not later
than 30 days from the date of issuance.
  (e) The fee for a placard issued pursuant to this section is six dollars
($6).
  SEC. 7. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 525

  An act to add Section 2717 to the Penal Code, relating to prisoners.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2717 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   2717. The Department of Corrections shall require prisoners who
are working outside the prison grounds in road cleanup crews pursuant
to Article 4 (commencing with Section 2760) or fire crews pursuant to
Article 5 (commencing with Section 2780) to wear distinctive clothing
for identification purposes.



                            CHAPTER 526

   An act to add and repeal Section 130241.5 of the Public Utilities Code,
relating to transportation.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]
[Ch. 526 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3641

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 130241.5 is added to the Public Utilities
Code, to read:
   130241.5. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all bids
for construction work submitted to the Orange County Transportation
Authority or the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority may be
presented by one of the following methods:
   (1) Under sealed cover and accompanied by one of the following
forms of bidder’s security:
   (A) Cash.
   (B) A cashier’s check made payable to the applicable authority.
   (C) A certified check made payable to the applicable authority.
   (D) A bidder’s bond executed by an admitted surety insurer made
payable to the authority.
   (2) By means of electronic bidding through the Internet by
procedures established by the applicable authority and accompanied by
forms of security as determined adequate by the applicable authority.
   (b) Upon an award to the lowest responsible bidder, the security of
each unsuccessful bidder shall be returned in a reasonable period of time,
but in no event shall that security be held by the applicable authority
beyond 60 days from the time the award is made.
   (c) Nothing in this section requires a bidder to submit a bid
electronically or authorizes either of the authorities to require that all
bids be submitted electronically.
   (d) On or before January 1, 2003, the California Research Bureau,
after consultation with each of the authorities, shall prepare and submit
to the Legislature a separate report with regard to each authority on the
effectiveness of the electronic bidding process authorized by this
subdivision. Each report shall include, but not be limited to, any impact
of electronic bidding on the efficiency of the procurement process, and
any cost savings gained as a result of electronic bidding. Each report
shall recommend whether or not the electronic bidding authorized by
this subdivision should be made permanent for the subject authority, and
whether it would be effective if implemented on a statewide basis.
   (e) Nothing in this section prohibits each of the authorities from
participating in other electronic bidding programs developed by the state
that allow participation by its political subdivisions.
   (f) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2004, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends that date.
 3642                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 527 ]
                            CHAPTER 527

  An act to amend Sections 4 and 5 of Chapter 317 of the Statutes of
1913, relating to City of Richmond tidelands, and declaring the urgency
thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. As used in this act:
  (a) ‘‘City’’ means the City of Richmond, a municipal corporation of
the State of California, in Contra Costa County.
  (b) ‘‘Granted lands trust’’ means the statutory trust created by the
grant of tidelands to the City of Richmond in Chapter 317 of the Statutes
of 1913.
  (c) ‘‘Public trust’’ means the public trust for commerce, navigation,
and fisheries.
  (d) ‘‘Redevelopment agency’’ means the Richmond Redevelopment
Agency, a public body, corporate and politic.
  (e) ‘‘Richmond Harbor Development Area’’ means those lands being
a portion of Lots 18, 19, 30, and 31 Section 24, and a portion of Lots 2
and 3, Section 25, Township 1 North, Range 5 West, Mount Diablo Base
and Meridian, as shown on the map entitled ‘‘Map No. 1 of Salt Marsh
and Tidelands’’ filed June 11, 1917, Rack Map No. 9, in the office of the
Recorder of Contra Costa County, California, more particularly
described as follows: The Remainder Parcel and Parcel H as shown on
Parcel Map MS 753-98 filed December 29, 1998, in Book 176 of Parcel
Maps, Page 11, Contra Costa County Records.
  (f) ‘‘Surplus property authority’’ means the Surplus Property
Authority of the City of Richmond, a surplus property authority created
pursuant to the Municipal Federal Surplus Property Law of the State of
California.
  (g) ‘‘Tideland Survey Number Eight’’ means those lands being a
portion of Sections 24 and 25, Township 1 North, Range 5 West, Mount
Diablo Base and Meridian described in the patent recorded in Book 1 of
Patents, Page 57, January 20, 1868, Contra Costa County Records.
  SEC. 2. (a) The Legislature hereby finds and declares as follows:
  (1) Certain of the tide and submerged lands within Tideland Survey
Number Eight and the Richmond Harbor Development Area, both filled
and unfilled, have been authorized to be, and have been, laid off and sold
to private parties pursuant to various acts, including an 1863 statute
entitled ‘‘An Act to Provide for the Sale of certain Lands belonging to
the State’’ (Ch. 397, Stats. 1863) and an 1868 statute entitled ‘‘An Act
[Ch. 527 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3643

to Survey and Dispose of Certain Salt Marsh and Tidelands belonging
to the State of California’’ (Ch. 543, Stats. 1867–8), as amended.
   (2) Certain of the tidelands within Tideland Survey Number Eight
and the Richmond Harbor Development Area were authorized to be, and
were, granted to the city subject to the public trust and certain other
restrictions, by Chapter 317 of the Statutes of 1913.
   (3) In 1916, the city and certain private claimants of tide and
submerged lands entered a land title settlement agreement in an effort to
resolve disputed title to tide and submerged lands, including lands
within Tideland Survey Number Eight and the Richmond Harbor
Development Area. The principal object of the 1916 agreement was to
remove obstacles that prevented the implementation of a program of
harbor development in furtherance of the city’s 1913 grant. Pursuant to
the 1916 agreement, the private parties conveyed to the city tide and
submerged lands that had been claimed to be in private ownership and
that were needed by the city for the planned program of harbor
development. The 1916 agreement further provided, regarding certain
other privately claimed lands, that it was the parties’ intention that the
private parties’ claimed title to the lands be confirmed. Thereafter,
bulkheads were built, channels dredged, fill placed, streets dedicated,
and harbor facilities built in reliance on the plan embodied in the 1916
agreement. Properties that were not conveyed to the city were
subsequently conveyed by the private parties to others, also in
consequence of the 1916 agreement.
   (4) On one of the parcels not conveyed to the city, Ford Motor
Company constructed, in 1931, an automobile assembly building, which
has since been listed on the National Register of Historic Places. A
portion of the Ford Assembly Building was built on pilings over water,
and cargo vessels were used in connection with the operations at the Ford
Assembly Building. The Ford Assembly Building has been idle for
many years and was severely damaged during the 1989 Loma Prieta
earthquake. There is now a plan for adaptive reuse of the Ford Assembly
Building, most of which sits on filled land that at one time was tide and
submerged land. These plans include provision for public access along
the waterfront perimeter of the Ford Assembly Building, as well as
commercial recreation uses on the portion of the plant adjacent to the
water. The access plans are part of an overall public access plan for the
entirety of the Richmond Harbor.
   (5) There is uncertainty concerning the validity and the geographic
extent of title to the parcel upon which the Ford Assembly Building is
built and other adjacent and nearby parcels within Tideland Survey
Number Eight. There is also uncertainty concerning whether this
property is subject to the public trust or other encumbrances that may
have arisen because the lands were once sovereign lands of the state. The
 3644                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 527 ]
state contends that a portion of the property was not conveyed by it either
to private parties or to the city, and that other portions, assuming that they
were legally conveyed, are held today subject to the public trust. The city
contends that it or certain other public or private entities hold those
disputed areas in fee simple, free of the public trust or any other
encumbrances. It is in the public interest that this dispute be resolved in
a manner that furthers public trust purposes.
   (6) These disputes limit the potential development of the Richmond
Harbor Development Area and other property within Tideland Survey
Number Eight, threaten the city’s ability to preserve the historic Ford
Assembly Building, and render uncertain the expansion of desirable
public access and commercial recreation facilities along this portion of
the Richmond waterfront.
   (7) It is intended that the resolution of these disputes and the
consolidation and adjustment of public and private ownerships will be
accomplished by and through exchanges of and boundary adjustments
to lands referenced above. These exchanges and adjustments shall be for
the purpose of effectuating the proposals referenced in paragraph (4) for
the Richmond Harbor Development Area, including the public trust
uses, and facilitating related plans for developing facilities outside the
Richmond Harbor Development Area.
   (8) The proposed exchanges, agreements, and adjustments will not
interfere with, and will, in fact, be consistent with and further the
purposes of, the public trust if all of the following occur:
   (A) The value of any lands or interests in lands to be conveyed and
made subject to the public trust, the value of any public trust easements
to be conveyed or created, and the value of any public trust interest
created regarding certain of the areas in dispute, and other areas, taken
together, exceeds the combined value of the lands to be conveyed subject
to the public trust easement, the land to be conveyed free of any public
trust interest and the value of the public trust interest to be terminated
pursuant to exchanges, agreements, and adjustments.
   (B) The lands over which the public trust will be terminated have
been filled and reclaimed, those parcels consisting entirely of dry land
lying above the present mean high tide line, and are not necessary in their
public trust encumbered status for the highly beneficial program for
development of the waterfront of the city, represented by the plans for
the Richmond Harbor Development Area and plans for related or
supporting facilities outside the Richmond Harbor Development Area,
due to the current state of the lands.
   (C) The lands over which the public trust will be terminated are
nonwaterfront, having been cut off from direct access to the waters of
San Francisco Bay by past filling of intervening property.
[Ch. 527 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3645

   (D) Streets in or serving the Richmond Harbor Development Area
and other property within Tideland Survey Number Eight have
provided, and will continue to provide, public access to the water.
   (E) The lands over which the public trust will be terminated constitute
a relatively small portion of the tidelands granted to the city.
   (F) The lands over which the public trust will be terminated are no
longer needed or required for the promotion of the public trust or the
granted lands trust, and the lands to be acquired through the exchange
will serve public trust needs.
   (b) It is therefore the intent of the Legislature, on, and subject to, the
terms and conditions set forth in this act, to authorize, ratify, and confirm
any agreement by the city and State Lands Commission, or by the city
and State Lands Commission with any public or private entity, to enter
into an exchange or exchanges of tide or submerged lands, or settlement
regarding conflicting claims of ownership, and by that agreement or
settlement terminate the public trust over filled tidelands consistent with
the findings and declarations stated in this act.
   SEC. 3. For the purposes of effectuating the exchanges, agreements,
and adjustments referred to in Section 2, the State Lands Commission
may do all of the following:
   (a) Convey to the city, redevelopment agency, surplus property
authority, or any private party, by patent, all of the right, title, and interest
held by the state by virtue of its sovereign trust title to tide and
submerged lands, including any public trust interest in and to all of the
historic tide and submerged lands within the Richmond Harbor
Development Area that are now above the mean high tide line, subject
to the reservations that the State Lands Commission determines to be
appropriate.
   (b) Because of the factual circumstances listed in Section 2, enter an
agreement and execute a patent or patents to the city, redevelopment
agency, or any private party through which it may recognize a
proprietary fee interest in lands below the mean high tide line at the Ford
Assembly Building, reserving therefrom a public trust easement.
   (c) In the property included within the perimeter description of
Tideland Survey Number Eight, but outside of the Richmond Harbor
Development Area, enter into agreements with the city, redevelopment
agency, surplus property authority, or any private party to settle the
location and extent of land subject to the public trust, or enter into
exchange agreements pursuant to Section 6307 of the Public Resources
Code. Land received or confirmed in the state as public trust lands
through such agreements shall be patented by the State Lands
Commission to the city, to be held in trust by the city as lands subject
to the public trust, and the terms, conditions, and reservations of the
 3646                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 527 ]
granted lands trust and other reservations that may be included in the
patents by the State Lands Commission.
   (d) Receive and accept on behalf of the state in its sovereign capacity
any lands or any interest in lands, conveyed to the state in its sovereign
capacity pursuant to this act and pursuant to any exchange, agreement,
or adjustment authorized, ratified, or confirmed by this act, including,
but not limited to, any public trust easement conveyed to the state in its
sovereign capacity.
   (e) Convey to the city by patent all of the right, title, and interest of
the state in any lands conveyed to the state in its sovereign capacity
pursuant to this act and pursuant to any exchange, agreement, or
adjustment authorized, ratified, or confirmed by this act, including, but
not limited to, any public trust easement, conveyed to the state in its
sovereign capacity subject to the terms, conditions, and reservations that
the State Lands Commission determines are necessary to meet the
requirements of this act and the granted lands trust.
   SEC. 4. In determining the value of any tide or submerged lands to
be conveyed under this act, the city and the State Lands Commission
shall give effect in their evaluation to all factors bearing upon the value,
if any, of the public’s interest being conveyed, released, quitclaimed, or
settled, and the rights, claims, and equities of the person in whose favor
the conveyance, release, quitclaim, or settlement is being made and the
predecessors in interest. In those cases in which the lawfully sold tide or
submerged lands have been filled, reclaimed, or improved without the
expenditure of either state funds or of public moneys held in trust, the
lands may be valued by excluding the value of the fill or improvements,
or both. Consideration under this act may consist of lands, property,
interest in property, easements, moneys, or other things of value given
by the grantee or any other person.
   SEC. 5. Section 4 of Chapter 317 of the Statutes of 1913 is amended
to read:
   Sec. 4. The City of Richmond may lease for a term not exceeding
55 years any wharves, docks, piers, or other aids or improvements to
commerce, navigation, and other trust purposes constructed by it.
   SEC. 6. Section 5 of Chapter 317 of the Statutes of 1913 is amended
to read:
   Sec. 5. The City of Richmond may lease the lands conveyed to it by
Chapter 317 of the Statutes of 1913, for a term not to exceed 55 years
and upon which wharves, docks, or other aids or improvements to
commerce, navigation, and other trust purposes have not been actually
constructed. The leases shall not be assignable or transferable, nor shall
any lessee have the right to sublet the leased premises or any part thereof
except by the consent of the city council of the City of Richmond set
forth in an order of the city council.
[Ch. 527 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3647

   SEC. 7. (a) Subject to the requirements for approval by the State
Lands Commission specified in subdivision (b), whenever it is
determined by the city that any portions of the tide or submerged lands
granted to the city, by Chapter 317 of the Statutes of 1913 or other acts
of the Legislature, are filled and reclaimed, cut off from access to the
waters of San Francisco Bay, constitute a relatively small portion of the
tide and submerged lands granted to the city, and are no longer needed
or required for the promotion of the public trust for commerce,
navigation, and fisheries or the granted lands trust, and when it is further
determined that there is no substantial interference with the public trust
uses and purposes the city may terminate the public trust over those
portions of the tidelands and exchange those portions of the tidelands,
or any interest in those lands, to any state agency, political subdivision,
person, entity, or corporation, or the United States, or any agency
thereof, for lands or interests in lands of equal or greater value and for
purposes of the granted lands trust.
   (b) No exchange and trust termination under subdivision (a) shall be
effective unless and until the State Lands Commission, at a regular open
meeting with the proposed exchange and trust termination as a properly
scheduled agenda item, does both of the following:
   (1) Finds that the lands or interests in lands to be acquired by the city
and the value of the public trust interest to be created by agreement of
the city have a value equal to or greater than the value of the tidelands
for which they are to be exchanged and the value of the tidelands over
which the public trust will be terminated.
   (2) Adopts a resolution approving the proposed exchange and trust
termination, which finds and declares that the tidelands to be exchanged
and over which the public trust will be terminated have been filled and
reclaimed, are cut off from access to the waters of San Francisco Bay,
constitute a relatively small portion of the tide and submerged lands
granted to the city, and are no longer needed or required for the
promotion of the public trust; and, further, that no substantial
interference with the public trust uses and purposes will ensue by virtue
of the exchange, and trust termination. Upon adoption of the resolution,
or at the time that may otherwise be specified in the resolution, the
tidelands to be exchanged and with respect to which the public trust is
to be terminated shall thereupon be free from the public trust.
   SEC. 8. Any agreement, exchange, or adjustment pursuant to this
act shall be conclusively presumed to be valid unless held to be invalid
in an appropriate proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction to
determine the validity of the agreement, exchange, or adjustment, and
commenced within 60 days after the recording of the agreement,
exchange, or adjustment.
 3648                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 528 ]
   SEC. 9. An action may be brought under Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 760.010) of Title 10 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure
by the parties to any agreement entered into pursuant to this act to
confirm the validity of the agreement. Notwithstanding any provision of
Section 764.080 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the statement of
decision in the action shall include a recitation of the underlying facts
and a determination whether the agreement meets the requirements of
this act, Sections 3 and 4 of Article X of the California Constitution, and
any other law applicable to the validity of the agreement.
   SEC. 10. Agreements, exchanges, or adjustments made by the city,
redevelopment agency, or surplus property authority pursuant to this act
are hereby found to be of statewide significance and importance and,
therefore, any ordinance, charter provision, or other provision of local
law inconsistent with this act does not apply to the agreements,
exchanges, or adjustments.
   SEC. 11. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the California Constitution and shall go into immediate
effect. The facts constituting the necessity are:
   The Richmond Harbor Development Area is planned for development
by the City of Richmond and will include important areas of private
development and significant public access elements. Those public
access elements will tie into a larger area of continuous public access
along the Richmond waterfront. The redevelopment of the Richmond
Harbor Development Area and larger development projects will
maximize public access to a broad area of the Richmond waterfront, in
furtherance of the public trust and granted lands trust under which the
remaining granted tide and submerged lands are held. In order to make
lands available for public access, and to terminate legal uncertainties to
title to inland areas for development as soon as possible, it is necessary
that this act take effect immediately.



                            CHAPTER 528

 An act to amend Section 14664 of, and to add Section 14670.12 to, the
Government Code, and to amend Section 10108 of the Public Contract
Code relating to state property.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]
[Ch. 528 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3649

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14664 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   14664. (a) The director may execute grants to real property
belonging to the state in the name and upon behalf of the state, whenever
the sale or exchange of real property is authorized or contemplated by
law, if no other state agency is specifically authorized and directed to
execute the grants. The director may also execute deeds or any other
instruments necessary to correct erroneous descriptions on deeds by
which the state acquired title.
   (b) (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the written
request and consent of the state agency with control or jurisdiction over
the property concerned, the director may sell, convey, or exchange
properties that are not needed by any state agency at fair market value
following a 30-day notice to the Joint Legislative Budget Committee
and the applicable Members of the Senate and Assembly who represent
the district in which the properties are located, under any of the following
circumstances:
   (A) Property, not to exceed five acres, to a local governmental agency
for the purpose of local public works projects, including, but not limited
to, utility rights-of-way, drainage ditches, road widening, including
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, and small parking lots.
   (B) Property with a fair market value of up to one million dollars
($1,000,000) received by the state through the office of the Attorney
General or another state agency as the result of a foreclosure, seizure, or
court action.
   (C) Property that is being encroached on , where the adjacent
landowner and the state agency with control or jurisdiction over the
property concerned, the director, and the Attorney General agree that the
best manner in which to resolve the matter is through a sale of the
property or for an exchange of property of equal value.
   (D) Property not needed by any state agency with a fair market value
of less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).
   (2) Any parcel described in subparagraph (B) or (D) shall be declared
surplus in the identical manner as state property declared surplus
pursuant to Section 11011.
   (3) All funds received by the state pursuant to this subdivision shall
be handled in the identical manner as funds received from state property
disposed of pursuant to Section 11011.
   SEC. 2. Section 14670.12 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   14670.12. (a) Notwithstanding Section 14670, and with the
consent of the state agency concerned, the director may let any real
property owned by the state not exceeding five acres for a period not to
 3650                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 529 ]
exceed 25 years, to governmental entities to further the state’s mission
for providing emergency services, if he or she deems it to be in the best
interest of the state.
   (b) The director shall report annually to the Legislature on how the
department is utilizing the authority granted under this section.
   SEC. 3. Section 10108 of the Public Contract Code is amended to
read:
   10108. Where the nature of the work in the opinion of the
department is such that its services in connection therewith are not
required, it may authorize the carrying out of the project directly by the
state agency concerned therewith if the estimated cost does not exceed
four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000), except that the four hundred
thousand dollars ($400,000) limitation shall not apply to a project of a
district agricultural association or a project of the State Lands
Commission.
   If the estimated total cost of any construction project or work carried
out under this section exceeds twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000),
the district or agency shall solicit bids in writing and shall award the
work to the lowest responsible bidder or reject all bids. However, the
director may authorize the district or agency to carry out work in excess
of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) under the provisions of this
section by day labor if he or she deems that the award of a contract, the
acceptance of bids, or the acceptance of further bids is not in the best
interests of the state. In no event shall the amount of work performed by
day labor under this section exceed the sum of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) in the case of district agricultural association fair projects, or
thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) in other cases.



                             CHAPTER 529

  An act to add Section 14406 to the Financial Code, relating to credit
unions.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 14406 is added to the Financial Code, to read:
  14406. The savings capital, undivided profits, and reserve funds of
a credit union shall be deposited only in the following:
  (a) Commercial banks or trust companies, incorporated under the
laws of this state.
[Ch. 530 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3651

  (b) National banks doing business in this state.
  (c) Shares or periodic certificates for funds received by or any form
of evidence of interest or indebtedness issued by any credit union
organized under this division or by any other credit union if its member
accounts are insured as provided for by Subchapter II of the Federal
Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1781 et seq.), or, alternatively, are
insured by other means determined acceptable by the commissioner.
  (d) Accounts with, investment certificates or withdrawable shares of,
any savings and loan association doing business in this state that is an
insured institution pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1811 et seq.).
  SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 530

  An act to add Section 17070.71 to the Education Code, relating to
school facilities, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect
immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 17070.71 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   17070.71. (a) Notwithstanding subdivision (a) of Section
17070.70, new construction or modernization funded pursuant to this
chapter may be upon real property leased to the applicant school district
if all of the following conditions are met:
   (1) The property is leased from another governmental entity.
   (2) The term of the lease is for at least 40 years after approval of the
project under this chapter, or the school district has a lease for at least 25
years on federal property. The board may authorize a lesser term, of not
less than 30 years only if the board finds that granting an exception to
this requirement would be in the state’s best interest.
 3652                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 531 ]
   (b) The applicant school district, and the facility on leased land, if
any, shall comply with all laws pertaining to the construction,
reconstruction, or alteration of, or addition to, schoolsites and school
buildings.
   (c) Lease costs are not eligible project or site acquisition costs under
this chapter.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   To expedite new construction or modernization of school facilities on
leased property, it is necessary that this act take effect immediately as an
urgency statute.



                             CHAPTER 531

   An act to add Article 5 (commencing with Section 44110) to Chapter
1 of Part 25 of, and to add Article 6 (commencing with Section 87160)
to Chapter 1 of Part 51 of, the Education Code, relating to public school
employees.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 5 (commencing with Section 44110) is added
to Chapter 1 of Part 25 of the Education Code, to read:

        Article 5.   Reporting by School Employees of Improper
                        Governmental Activities

  44110. This article shall be known and may be referred to as the
Reporting by School Employees of Improper Governmental Activities
Act.
  44111. It is the intent of the Legislature that school employees and
other persons disclose, to the extent not expressly prohibited by law,
improper governmental activities.
  44112. For the purposes of this article, the following terms have the
following meanings:
  (a) ‘‘Employee’’ means a public school employee as defined in
subdivision (j) of Section 3540.1 of the Government Code.
[Ch. 531 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3653

   (b) ‘‘Illegal order’’ means any directive to violate or assist in
violating a federal, state, or local law, rule, or regulation or an order to
work or cause others to work in conditions outside of their line of duty
that would unreasonably threaten the health or safety of employees or the
public.
   (c) ‘‘Improper governmental activity’’ means an activity by a public
school agency or by an employee that is undertaken in the performance
of the employee’s official duties, whether or not that activity is within
the scope of his or her employment, and that meets either of the
following descriptions:
   (1) The activity violates a state or federal law or regulation, including,
but not limited to, corruption, malfeasance, bribery, theft of government
property, fraudulent claims, fraud, coercion, conversion, malicious
prosecution, misuse of government property, or willful omission to
perform duty.
   (2) The activity is economically wasteful or involves gross
misconduct, incompetency, or inefficiency.
   (d) ‘‘Person’’ means any individual, corporation, trust, association,
any state or local government, or any agency or instrumentality of any
of the foregoing.
   (e) ‘‘Protected disclosure’’ means a good faith communication that
discloses or demonstrates an intention to disclose information that may
evidence either of the following:
   (1) An improper governmental activity.
   (2) Any condition that may significantly threaten the health or safety
of employees or the public if the disclosure or intention to disclose was
made for the purpose of remedying that condition.
   (f) ‘‘Public school employer’’ has the same meaning as in subdivision
(k) of Section 3540.1 of the Government Code.
   44113. (a) An employee may not directly or indirectly use or
attempt to use the official authority or influence of the employee for the
purpose of intimidating, threatening, coercing, commanding, or
attempting to intimidate, threaten, coerce, or command any person for
the purpose of interfering with the right of that person to disclose to an
official agent matters within the scope of this article.
   (b) For the purpose of subdivision (a), ‘‘use of official authority or
influence’’ includes promising to confer or conferring any benefit;
affecting or threatening to affect any reprisal; or taking, directing others
to take, recommending, processing, or approving any personnel action,
including, but not limited to appointment, promotion, transfer,
assignment, performance evaluation, suspension, or other disciplinary
action.
   (c) For the purpose of subdivision (a), ‘‘official agent’’ includes a
school administrator, member of the governing board of a school district
 3654                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 531 ]
or county board of education, county superintendent of schools, or the
Superintendent of Public Instruction.
   (d) An employee who violates subdivision (a) may be liable in an
action for civil damages brought against the employee by the offended
party.
   (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize an
individual to disclose information otherwise prohibited by or under law.
   44114. (a) A public school employee or applicant for employment
with a public school employer who files a written complaint with his or
her supervisor, a school administrator, or the public school employer
alleging actual or attempted acts of reprisal, retaliation, threats,
coercion, or similar improper acts prohibited by Section 44113 for
having disclosed improper governmental activities or for refusing to
obey an illegal order may also file a copy of the written complaint with
the local law enforcement agency together with a sworn statement that
the contents of the written complaint are true, or are believed by the
affiant to be true, under penalty of perjury. The complaint filed with the
local law enforcement agency shall be filed within 12 months of the most
recent act of reprisal that is the subject of the complaint.
   (b) A person who intentionally engages in acts of reprisal, retaliation,
threats, coercion, or similar acts against a public school employee or
applicant for employment with a public school employer for having
made a protected disclosure is subject to a fine not to exceed ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) and imprisonment in the county jail for a period not
to exceed one year. Any public school employee, officer, or
administrator who intentionally engages in that conduct shall also be
subject to discipline by the public school employer. If no adverse action
is instituted by the public school employer, and it is determined that there
is reasonable cause to believe that an act of reprisal, retaliation, threats,
coercion, or similar acts prohibited by Section 44113, the local law
enforcement agency may report the nature and details of the activity to
the governing board of the school district or county board of education,
as appropriate.
   (c) In addition to all other penalties provided by law, a person who
intentionally engages in acts of reprisal, retaliation, threats, coercion, or
similar acts against a public school employee or applicant for
employment with a public school employer for having made a protected
disclosure shall be liable in an action for damages brought against him
or her by the injured party. Punitive damages may be awarded by the
court where the acts of the offending party are proven to be malicious.
Where liability has been established, the injured party shall also be
entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees as provided by law. However, an
action for damages shall not be available to the injured party unless the
[Ch. 531 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3655

injured party has first filed a complaint with the local law enforcement
agency.
   (d) This section is not intended to prevent a public school employer,
school administrator, or supervisor from taking, failing to take, directing
others to take, recommending, or approving a personnel action with
respect to a public school employee or applicant for employment with
a public school employer if the public school employer, school
administrator, or supervisor reasonably believes the action or inaction is
justified on the basis of evidence separate and apart from the fact that the
person has made a protected disclosure as defined in subdivision (e) of
Section 44112.
   (e) In any civil action or administrative proceeding, once it has been
demonstrated by a preponderance of evidence that an activity protected
by this article was a contributing factor in the alleged retaliation against
a former, current, or prospective public school employee, the burden of
proof shall be on the supervisor, school administrator, or public school
employer to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the
alleged action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons
even if the public school employee had not engaged in protected
disclosures or refused an illegal order. If the supervisor, school
administrator, or public school employer fails to meet this burden of
proof in an adverse action against the public school employee in any
administrative review, challenge, or adjudication in which retaliation
has been demonstrated to be a contributing factor, the public school
employee shall have a complete affirmative defense in the adverse
action.
   (f) Nothing in this article shall be deemed to diminish the rights,
privileges, or remedies of a public school employee under any other
federal or state law or under an employment contract or collective
bargaining agreement.
   (g) If the provisions of this section are in conflict with the provisions
of a memorandum of understanding reached pursuant to Chapter 10.7
(commencing with Section 3540) of Division 4 of Title 1 of the
Government Code, the memorandum of understanding shall be
controlling without further legislative action.
   SEC. 2. Article 6 (commencing with Section 87160) is added to
Chapter 1 of Part 51 of the Education Code, to read:

     Article 6.   Reporting by Community College Employees of
                   Improper Governmental Activities

  87160. This article shall be known and may be referred to as the
Reporting by Community College Employees of Improper
Governmental Activities Act.
 3656                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 531 ]
   87161. It is the intent of the Legislature that community college
employees and other persons disclose, to the extent not expressly
prohibited by law, improper governmental activities.
   87162. For the purposes of this article, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (a) ‘‘Employee’’ means a public school employee as defined in
subdivision (j) of Section 3540.1 of the Government Code as construed
to include community college employees.
   (b) ‘‘Illegal order’’ means any directive to violate or assist in
violating a federal, state, or local law, rule, or regulation or an order to
work or cause others to work in conditions outside of their line of duty
that would unreasonably threaten the health or safety of employees or the
public.
   (c) ‘‘Improper governmental activity’’ means an activity by a
community college or by an employee that is undertaken in the
performance of the employee’s official duties, whether or not that
activity is within the scope of his or her employment, and that meets
either of the following descriptions:
   (1) The activity violates a state or federal law or regulation, including,
but not limited to, corruption, malfeasance, bribery, theft of government
property, fraudulent claims, fraud, coercion, conversion, malicious
prosecution, misuse of government property, or willful omission to
perform duty.
   (2) The activity is economically wasteful or involves gross
misconduct, incompetency, or inefficiency.
   (d) ‘‘Person’’ means any individual, corporation, trust, association,
any state or local government, or any agency or instrumentality of any
of the foregoing.
   (e) ‘‘Protected disclosure’’ means a good faith communication that
discloses or demonstrates an intention to disclose information that may
evidence either of the following:
   (1) An improper governmental activity.
   (2) Any condition that may significantly threaten the health or safety
of employees or the public if the disclosure or intention to disclose was
made for the purpose of remedying that condition.
   (f) ‘‘Public school employer’’ has the same meaning as in subdivision
(k) of Section 3540.1 of the Government Code as construed to include
community college districts.
   87163. (a) An employee may not directly or indirectly use or
attempt to use the official authority or influence of the employee for the
purpose of intimidating, threatening, coercing, commanding, or
attempting to intimidate, threaten, coerce, or command any person for
the purpose of interfering with the right of that person to disclose to an
official agent matters within the scope of this article.
[Ch. 531 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3657

   (b) For the purpose of subdivision (a), ‘‘use of official authority or
influence’’ includes promising to confer or conferring any benefit;
affecting or threatening to affect any reprisal; or taking, directing others
to take, recommending, processing, or approving any personnel action,
including, but not limited to appointment, promotion, transfer,
assignment, performance evaluation, suspension, or other disciplinary
action.
   (c) For the purpose of subdivision (a), ‘‘official agent’’ includes a
community college administrator, member of the governing board of a
community college district, or the Chancellor of the California
Community Colleges.
   (d) An employee who violates subdivision (a) may be liable in an
action for civil damages brought against the employee by the offended
party.
   (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize an
individual to disclose information otherwise prohibited by or under law.
   87164. (a) An employee or applicant for employment with a public
school employer who files a written complaint with his or her supervisor,
a community college administrator, or the public school employer
alleging actual or attempted acts of reprisal, retaliation, threats,
coercion, or similar improper acts prohibited by Section 87163 for
having disclosed improper governmental activities or for refusing to
obey an illegal order may also file a copy of the written complaint with
the local law enforcement agency, together with a sworn statement that
the contents of the written complaint are true, or are believed by the
affiant to be true, under penalty of perjury. The complaint filed with the
local law enforcement agency shall be filed within 12 months of the most
recent act of reprisal that is the subject of the complaint.
   (b) A person who intentionally engages in acts of reprisal, retaliation,
threats, coercion, or similar acts against an employee or applicant for
employment with a public school employer for having made a protected
disclosure is subject to a fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars
($10,000) and imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed
one year. An employee, officer, or administrator who intentionally
engages in that conduct shall also be subject to discipline by the public
school employer. If no adverse action is instituted by the public school
employer, and it is determined that there is reasonable cause to believe
that an act of reprisal, retaliation, threats, coercion, or similar acts
prohibited by Section 87163, the local law enforcement agency may
report the nature and details of the activity to the governing board of the
community college district.
   (c) In addition to all other penalties provided by law, a person who
intentionally engages in acts of reprisal, retaliation, threats, coercion, or
similar acts against an employee or applicant for employment with a
 3658                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 531 ]
public school employer for having made a protected disclosure shall be
liable in an action for damages brought against him or her by the injured
party. Punitive damages may be awarded by the court where the acts of
the offending party are proven to be malicious. Where liability has been
established, the injured party shall also be entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees as provided by law. However, an action for damages shall
not be available to the injured party unless the injured party has first filed
a complaint with the local law enforcement agency.
   (d) This section is not intended to prevent a public school employer,
school administrator, or supervisor from taking, failing to take, directing
others to take, recommending, or approving a personnel action with
respect to an employee or applicant for employment with a public school
employer if the public school employer, school administrator, or
supervisor reasonably believes an action or inaction is justified on the
basis of evidence separate and apart from the fact that the person has
made a protected disclosure as defined in subdivision (e) of Section
87162.
   (e) In any civil action or administrative proceeding, once it has been
demonstrated by a preponderance of evidence that an activity protected
by this article was a contributing factor in the alleged retaliation against
a former, current, or prospective employee, the burden of proof shall be
on the supervisor, school administrator, or public school employer to
demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the alleged action
would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons even if the
employee had not engaged in protected disclosures or refused an illegal
order. If the supervisor, school administrator, or public school employer
fails to meet this burden of proof in an adverse action against the
employee in any administrative review, challenge, or adjudication in
which retaliation has been demonstrated to be a contributing factor, the
employee shall have a complete affirmative defense in the adverse
action.
   (f) Nothing in this article shall be deemed to diminish the rights,
privileges, or remedies of an employee under any other federal or state
law or under an employment contract or collective bargaining
agreement.
   (g) If the provisions of this section are in conflict with the provisions
of a memorandum of understanding reached pursuant to Chapter 10.7
(commencing with Section 3540) of Division 4 of Title 1 of the
Government Code, the memorandum of understanding shall be
controlling without further legislative action.
   SEC. 3. Nothing in this act is intended to supersede or limit the
application of the privilege of subdivision (b) of Section 47 of the Civil
Code to informants and proceedings conducted pursuant to Article 3
(commencing with Section 8547) of Chapter 6.5 of Division 1 of Title
[Ch. 532 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3659

2 of the Government Code, as confirmed in Braun v. Bureau of State
Audits (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1382.
  SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 532

  An act to add Chapter 9.5 (commencing with Section 44299.50) and
Chapter 9.7 (commencing with Section 44299.75) to Part 5 of Division
26 of the Health and Safety Code, relating to air quality.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (a) The Sacramento federal ozone nonattainment area is a
geographical and meteorological entity not reflected by political
boundaries.
   (b) The region has serious and severe air pollution problems caused
by the operation of more than 1,300,000 vehicles within the region,
combined with the operation of heavy-duty commercial vehicles
moving statewide goods through the region.
   (c) Despite the implementation of improved emission controls on
motor vehicles and stationary sources, rapid population growth and
increases in vehicle miles traveled in and through the region has resulted
in severe air pollution that is expected to worsen in future years.
   (d) The state and federal governments have adopted ambient air
quality standards in order to protect public health, and it is in the public
interest that those standards be attained as expeditiously as possible.
   (e) In order to achieve and maintain these air quality standards,
protect public health, and preserve necessary economic growth, a
Sacramento Emergency Clean Air and Transportation Program is
required to be implemented in order to provide the maximum achievable
reduction in emissions from existing sources and to provide for the
maximum feasible reduction or mitigation of emissions resulting from
 3660                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 532 ]
future population growth, increased vehicle mileage, and other new
sources of onroad emissions.
   (f) In order to successfully develop and implement a comprehensive
program for the attainment and maintenance of state and federal ambient
air quality standards in the region, the air quality management districts
in the Sacramento federal ozone nonattainment area must be delegated
additional resources and responsibility from the state, particularly with
respect to reducing motor vehicle emissions from public fleets and from
those vendor fleets that contract with public entities.
   (g) In order to successfully implement a coordinated air quality
strategy for the region, the actions and responsibilities of local and
regional authorities with respect to the implementation of air pollution
control strategies must be fully integrated among the air districts
comprising the Sacramento federal ozone nonattainment area. These
districts include the El Dorado Air Pollution Control District, Feather
River Air Quality District, Placer County Air Pollution Control District,
Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District, and
Yolo-Solano Air Quality Management District.
   SEC. 2. The Legislature further finds and declares all of the
following:
   (a) The San Joaquin Valley Air Basin is currently classified as a
‘‘serious’’ nonattainment area under the ambient air quality standards for
ozone.
   (b) The San Joaquin Valley Air Basin did not meet the deadline for
attaining compliance with the air quality standards for ozone in 1999 and
as a result will soon be reclassified as a ‘‘severe’’ nonattainment area, and
will have a new attainment deadline of 2005.
   (c) In order to attain compliance with the ambient air quality
standards by the 2005 deadline, the San Joaquin Valley Air Basin must
maintain three consecutive years in compliance, and thus must be in
compliance beginning in 2003. To attain compliance with those
standards, the San Joaquin Valley Air Basin must immediately achieve
significant reductions in emissions from mobile and stationary sources.
   (d) The early introduction of low-emission technology for
heavy-duty vehicles provides the best opportunity for emissions
reduction in the San Joaquin Valley Air Basin.
   SEC. 3. Chapter 9.5 (commencing with Section 44299.50) is added
to Part 5 of Division 26 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:

        CHAPTER 9.5.   SACRAMENTO EMERGENCY CLEAN AIR AND
                       TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM

  44299.50. As used in this chapter, the following terms have the
following meanings:
[Ch. 532 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3661

   (a) ‘‘Advanced introduction costs’’ means the costs of the project less
a baseline cost that would otherwise be incurred by the applicant in the
normal course of business. ‘‘Advanced introduction costs’’ may include,
but are not limited to, incremental costs, additional operational costs,
facility modifications, additional staff training, fueling infrastructure,
and costs associated with off-cycle vehicle replacement, as determined
by the Sacramento Region Districts.
   (b) ‘‘Attainment’’ means meeting the National Ambient Air Quality
Standards for ozone.
   (c) ‘‘Conformity’’ means that a transportation program, project, and
plan promulgated by the Sacramento Area Council of Governments is
able to successfully comply with Sections 7410 and 7506 of Title 42 of
the United States Code, so as to qualify for an approval, license, or
permit, or to obtain financial assistance, from the federal agencies
specified in those sections.
   (d) ‘‘Covered engine’’ includes any internal combustion engine or
electric motor and drive powering a covered source.
   (e) ‘‘Covered source’’ includes onroad heavy-duty diesel vehicles
and other onroad high-emitting diesel engine categories, as determined
by SACOG.
   (f) ‘‘Covered vehicle’’ includes any vehicle or piece of equipment
powered by a covered engine.
   (g) ‘‘New very low-emission vehicle’’ means a vehicle that qualifies
as a very low emission vehicle when it is a new vehicle, as defined in
Section 430 of the Vehicle Code, or that is modified with the approval
and warranty of the original equipment manufacturer to qualify as a very
low-emission vehicle within 12 months of delivery to an owner for
private or commercial use.
   (h) ‘‘NOx’’ means oxides of nitrogen.
   (i) ‘‘Program’’ means the Sacramento Emergency Clean Air and
Transportation Program created by this chapter.
   (j) ‘‘Repower’’ means replacing an engine with a different engine.
The term ‘‘repower,’’ as used in this chapter, generally refers to replacing
an older, uncontrolled engine with a new, emissions-certified engine,
although replacing an older emissions-certified engine with a newer
engine certified to lower emissions standards may be eligible for funding
under this program.
   (k) ‘‘Retrofit’’ means making modifications to the engine and fuel
system such that the retrofitted engine does not have the same
specifications as the original engine.
   (l) ‘‘SACOG’’ means the Sacramento Area Council of Governments.
   (m) ‘‘Sacramento federal ozone nonattainment area’’ means the area
defined by the United States Environmental Protection Agency in the
Federal Register notice dated November 6, 1991 (56 Fed. Reg. 56694).
 3662                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 532 ]
   (n) ‘‘Sacramento Region Districts’’ means the El Dorado Air
Pollution Control District, Feather River Air Quality District, Placer
County Air Pollution Control District, Sacramento Metropolitan Air
Quality Management District, and Yolo-Solano Air Quality
Management District.
   (o) ‘‘Very low-emission vehicle’’ means a vehicle with emissions
significantly lower than otherwise applicable baseline emission
standards or uncontrolled emission levels determined pursuant to the
criteria in Section 44282.
   44299.51. There is hereby created the Sacramento Emergency
Clean Air and Transportation Program. The program shall be
administered by SACOG. The implementation of the program, in whole
or in part, may be delegated by SACOG to the Sacramento Region
Districts.
   The program may provide grants to offset the advanced introduction
costs of eligible projects that reduce onroad emissions of NOx within the
Sacramento federal ozone nonattainment area. Eligibility for grant
awards shall be determined by SACOG, or delegated by SACOG to the
Sacramento Region Districts, in accordance with this chapter.
   44299.52. (a) Eligible projects may include, but shall not be
limited to, any of the following:
   (1) Purchase of new very low- or zero-emission covered vehicles or
covered engines to replace older heavy-duty diesel vehicles or engines.
   (2) NOx emission-reducing retrofit of covered engines, or
replacement of old diesel engines and drives powering covered sources
with newer diesel engines and drives certified to more stringent NOx
emissions standards than the engine being replaced.
   (3) Purchase and use of NOx emission-reducing add-on equipment
for covered vehicles.
   (4) Implementation of practical, low-emission retrofit technologies,
repower options, advanced technologies, or low sulfur diesel or
alternative fuel mixtures for covered engines and vehicles.
   (b) In determining eligible projects, SACOG or the Sacramento
Region Districts shall not exclude any technology based on the type of
fuel utilized by that technology.
   (c) Eligible applicants may be any individual, company, or public
agency that owns one or more covered vehicles that operate primarily
within the Sacramento federal ozone nonattainment area or otherwise
contribute substantially to the NOx emissions inventory in the
Sacramento federal ozone nonattainment area.
   (d) The program shall provide grants to eligible projects that help
reduce onroad NOx emissions on a timely and cost-effective basis within
the Sacramento federal ozone nonattainment area in order to maximize
the reduction in NOx emissions from available funds, thereby aiding the
[Ch. 532 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3663

area in its efforts to achieve applicable air quality conformity goals in
2002 and 2005.
   44299.53. (a) Funds to implement the program shall be provided
from the amount allocated from the Traffic Congestion Relief Fund for
the purposes of paragraph (118) of subdivision (a) of Section 14556.40
of the Government Code.
   (b) To ensure that emission reductions are obtained as needed from
pollution sources, funds provided as described in subdivision (a) shall
be segregated as follows:
   (1) Not more than 1 percent of the funds provided as described in
subdivision (a) shall be allocated to program support and outreach costs
incurred by SACOG or the Sacramento Region Districts directly
associated with implementing the program pursuant to this chapter.
   (2) Not more than 2 percent of the funds provided as described in
subdivision (a) shall be allocated to direct program outreach activities.
   (3) The balance shall be used to offset costs of eligible projects.
   (c) SACOG, in consultation with the Sacramento Region Districts,
shall specify procedures by which evaluation and review of eligible
projects shall be accomplished.
   (d) The Sacramento Region Districts shall include an evaluation of
the emission benefits provided by those eligible projects that are
implemented in the Sacramento federal ozone nonattainment area in the
milestone reports submitted in 2002 and 2005 to the United States
Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to subsection (g) of Section
7511a of Title 42 of the United States Code.
   (e) Funds provided to SACOG as described in subdivision (a) shall
not be expended on any NOx control retrofit technology unless that
technology has been determined to be eligible for use in the program
pursuant to Section 44299.54.
   44299.54. On or before January 10, 2001, the executive officer of
the state board shall make a determination as to the eligibility of NOx
retrofit technologies for use in the program, and may make additional
determinations of eligibility of NOx technologies after January 10, 2001.
In order to be determined eligible by the executive officer of the state
board, each NOx retrofit technology shall have, at a minimum, the ability
to reduce onroad heavy-duty diesel emissions of NOx by 10 percent or
more and shall be durable and effective in reducing emissions, as
determined by the executive officer of the state board.
   44299.55. All emissions reductions and credits achieved as a result
of programs initiated under this chapter shall be used to fulfill local and
regional commitments to air quality standards. Any additional
reductions or credits that may exist after the local or regional
commitment to air quality is fulfilled may be used to fulfill the state’s
commitment to air quality standards and attainment.
 3664                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 532 ]
   SEC. 4. Chapter 9.7 (commencing with Section 44299.75) is added
to Part 5 of Division 26 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:

    CHAPTER 9.7.     SAN JOAQUIN VALLEY EMERGENCY CLEAN AIR
                        ATTAINMENT PROGRAM

   44299.75. As used in this chapter, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (a) ‘‘Advanced introduction costs’’ means the costs of the project,
less a baseline cost that would otherwise be incurred by the applicant in
the normal course of business. ‘‘Advanced introduction costs’’ may
include, but shall not be limited to, incremental costs, additional
operational costs, facility modifications, additional staff training,
fueling infrastructure, and costs associated with off-cycle vehicle
replacement, as determined by the district.
   (b) ‘‘Attainment’’ means meeting the National Ambient Air Quality
Standards (NAAQS) for ozone.
   (c) ‘‘Covered engine’’ includes any internal combustion engine or
electric motor and drive powering a covered source.
   (d) ‘‘Covered source’’ includes onroad and off-road heavy-duty
diesel vehicles and other onroad and off-road high-emitting diesel
engine categories, as determined by the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution
Control District.
   (e) ‘‘Covered vehicle’’ includes any vehicle or piece of equipment
powered by a covered engine.
   (f) ‘‘District’’ means the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control
District.
   (g) ‘‘New very low-emission vehicle’’ means a vehicle that qualifies
as a very low-emission vehicle when it is a new vehicle, as defined in
Section 430 of the Vehicle Code, or that is modified with the approval
and warranty of the original equipment manufacturer to qualify as a very
low-emission vehicle within 12 months of delivery to an owner for
private or commercial use.
   (h) ‘‘NOx’’ means oxides of nitrogen.
   (i) ‘‘Program’’ means the San Joaquin Valley Emergency Clean Air
Attainment Program created by this chapter.
   (j) ‘‘Repower’’ means replacing an engine with a different engine.
The term ‘‘repower,’’ as used in this chapter, generally refers to replacing
an older, uncontrolled engine with a new, emissions-certified engine,
although replacing an older emissions-certified engine with a new
engine certified to lower emissions standards may be eligible for funding
under this program.
[Ch. 532 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3665

   (k) ‘‘Retrofit’’ means making modifications to the engine and fuel
system such that the retrofitted engine does not have the same
specifications as the original engine.
   (l) ‘‘San Joaquin Valley federal ozone nonattainment area’’ means the
area defined by the United States Environmental Protection Agency on
page 56699 of Volume 56 of the Federal Register dated November 6,
1991.
   (m) ‘‘Very low-emission vehicle’’ means a vehicle with emissions
significantly lower than otherwise applicable baseline emission
standards or uncontrolled emission levels determined pursuant to the
criteria in Section 44282.
   44299.76. (a) There is hereby created the San Joaquin Valley
Emergency Clean Air Attainment Program. The program shall be
administered and implemented by the district.
   (b) The program may provide grants to offset the advanced
introduction costs of eligible projects that the district determines aid in
the reduction of onroad and off-road emissions of NOx within the San
Joaquin Valley federal ozone nonattainment area.
   (c) Eligibility of projects for grant awards shall be determined by the
district in accordance with this chapter.
   44299.77. (a) Eligible projects may include, but shall not be
limited to, any of the following:
   (1) Purchase of new very low- or zero-emission covered vehicles or
covered engines to replace older heavy-duty diesel vehicles or engines.
   (2) NOx emission-reducing retrofit of covered engines, or
replacement of old diesel engines and drives powering covered sources
with newer diesel engines and drives certified to more stringent NOx
emissions standards than the engine being replaced.
   (3) Purchase and use of NOx emission-reducing add-on equipment
for covered vehicles.
   (4) Implementation of practical, low-emission retrofit technologies,
repower options, advanced technologies, or low sulfur or alternative fuel
mixtures for covered engines and vehicles.
   (b) In determining eligible projects, the district shall not exclude any
technology based on the type of fuel utilized by that technology.
   (c) Eligible applicants may be any person or public agency that owns
one or more covered vehicles that operate primarily within the San
Joaquin Valley federal ozone nonattainment area or otherwise contribute
substantially to the NOx emissions inventory in the San Joaquin Valley
federal ozone nonattainment area, as determined by the district.
   (d) The program shall provide grants to eligible projects that help
reduce onroad and off-road NOx emissions on a timely and cost-effective
basis within the San Joaquin Valley federal ozone nonattainment area in
order to maximize the reduction in NOx emissions from available funds,
 3666                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 533 ]
thereby aiding the area in its efforts to achieve applicable air quality
goals.
   44299.78. (a) Funds to implement the program shall be provided
from the amount allocated from the Traffic Congestion Relief Fund for
the purposes of paragraph (100) of subdivision (a) of Section 14556.40
of the Government Code.
   (b) Funds from the account may be reserved by the district for local
governments within the San Joaquin Valley federal ozone nonattainment
areas that adopt an eligible program pursuant to this chapter.
   (c) To ensure that emission reductions are obtained as needed from
pollution sources, any funds provided as described in subdivision (a)
shall be segregated as follows:
   (1) Not more than 1 percent of the funds shall be allocated to program
support and outreach costs incurred by the district directly associated
with implementing the program pursuant to this chapter.
   (2) Not more than 2 percent of the funds provided as described in
subdivision (a) shall be allocated to direct program outreach activities.
   (3) The balance shall be used to offset costs of eligible projects.
   (d) Funds provided as described in subdivision (a) shall be allocated
to the district upon the approval by the district of an application from an
eligible applicant regarding an eligible project. The district may
determine the maximum amount of annual funding each applicant may
receive.
   (e) Funds provided as described in subdivision (a) shall not be
expended on any NOx control retrofit technology unless the technology
has been determined to be eligible for use in the program pursuant to
Section 44299.79.
   44299.79. On or before January 10, 2001, the executive officer of
the state board shall make a determination as to the eligibility of NOx
retrofit technologies for use in the program, and may make additional
determinations of eligibility of NOx technologies after January 10, 2001.
In order to be determined eligible by the executive officer of the state
board, each NOx retrofit technology shall have, at a minimum, the ability
to reduce onroad heavy-duty diesel emissions of NOx by 10 percent or
more and shall be durable and effective in reducing emissions, as
determined by the executive officer of the state board.



                            CHAPTER 533

  An act to amend Sections 111080, 111170, 111175, and 111180 of, and
to add Sections 111172, 111192, and 111193 to, the Health and Safety
Code, relating to water.
[Ch. 533 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3667
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 111080 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   111080. The quality and labeling standards requirements for bottled
water and vended water, including mineral water, shall include all
standards prescribed by Section 165.110 of Title 21 of the Code of
Federal Regulations. In addition, bottled water and vended water, when
bottled, shall comply with the following quality standards and any
additional quality standards adopted by regulation that the department
determines are reasonably necessary to protect the public health:
   (a) Bottled water and vended water shall meet all maximum
contaminant levels set for public drinking water that the department
determines are necessary or appropriate so that bottled water may
present no adverse effect on public health. New or revised allowable
levels or monitoring provisions adopted for bottled water by the United
States Food and Drug Administration under the federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act that are more stringent than the state requirements for
bottled water are incorporated into this chapter and are effective on the
date established by the federal provisions unless otherwise established
by regulations of the department.
   (b) Bottled and vended water shall not exceed 10 parts per billion of
total triahalomethanes or five parts per billion of lead unless the
department establishes a lower level by regulation.
   (c) Bottled and vended water shall contain no chemicals in
concentrations that the United States Food and Drug Administration or
the state department has determined may have an adverse effect on
public health.
   SEC. 2. Section 111170 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   111170. (a) Labeling and advertising of bottled water and vended
water shall conform with this section, Chapter 4 (commencing with
Section 110290), and applicable portions of Part 101 of Title 21 of the
Code of Federal Regulations.
   (b) Each container of bottled water sold in this state, each
water-vending machine, and each container provided by retail water
facilities located in this state shall be clearly labeled in an easily readable
format. Retail water facilities that do not provide labeled containers shall
post, in a location readily visible to consumers, a sign conveying
required label information.
 3668                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 533 ]
   (c) Water-vending machines, retail water facilities, and private water
sources that sell water at retail shall display in a position clearly visible
to customers the following information:
   (1) The name and address of the operator.
   (2) The fact that the water is obtained from an approved public water
supply or licensed private water source.
   (3) A statement describing the treatment process used.
   (4) If no treatment process is utilized, a statement to that effect.
   (5) A telephone number that may be called for further information,
service, or complaints.
   (d) Bottled water may be labeled ‘‘drinking water,’’ notwithstanding
the source or characteristics of the water, only if it is processed pursuant
to the Food and Drug Administration Good Manufacturing Practices
contained in Section 165.110 and Parts 110 and 129 of Title 21 of the
Code of Federal Regulations, Sections 12235 to 12285, inclusive, of
Title 17 of the California Code of Regulations, and any other
requirements established by the department pursuant to Sections
111145, 111150, and 111155. Any vended water and any water from a
retail water facility may be labeled ‘‘drinking water,’’ notwithstanding
the source or characteristics of the water, only if it is processed pursuant
to Article 10 (commencing with Section 114200) of Chapter 4 of Part 7
and any other requirements established by the department pursuant to
Sections 111145, 111150, and 111155.
   SEC. 3. Section 111172 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   111172. (a) The labeling on bottled water sold in nonreturnable
(one-way) packages in this state shall include one of the following:
   (1) A telephone number of the bottler or brand owner.
   (2) The bottler’s or brand owner’s mailing address.
   (b) Bottlers or brand owners may also include other forms of contact,
including, but not limited to, the bottler’s or brand owner’s E-mail
address or website.
   (c) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2002.
   SEC. 4. Section 111175 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   111175. (a) In addition to the requirements of Section 111170, if a
bottler, distributor, water hauler, retail water facility operator, or vending
machine operator provides information in the labeling or advertising
stating or implying that this water is of a specific water type (for
example, ‘‘spring water’’) or treated in a specific manner (for example,
‘‘purified’’), the type or treatment shall be clearly labeled in an easily
readable format. In order to be so labeled, the source or treatment shall
conform to the definitions established in Section 165.110 of Title 21 of
[Ch. 533 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3669

the Code of Federal Regulations, or, if not defined in that section, with
the following criteria:
   (1) ‘‘Mineralized water’’ means bottled or vended water that meets
the requirements of ‘‘mineral water’’ except that the water contains
added minerals.
   (2) ‘‘Natural water’’ means bottled or vended spring, artesian well, or
well water that is unmodified by mineral addition or deletion, except
‘‘natural water’’ may be filtered and shall be sanitized with ozone or an
equivalent disinfection process and treated to reduce the concentration
of any substance that exceeds safety standards established by the
department.
   (3) ‘‘Naturally sparkling water’’ means bottled water or vended water
with a carbon dioxide content from the same source as the water.
‘‘Sparkling,’’ ‘‘carbonated,’’ or ‘‘carbonation added’’ means bottled
water or vended water that contains carbon dioxide.
   (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, water from
a public water system that is unprocessed by the bottler or vendor shall
be in compliance with Section 165.110(a)(3)(ii) of Title 21 of the Code
of Federal Regulations.
   SEC. 5. Section 111180 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   111180. Except as provided in Section 111080, any bottled water or
vended water, the quality of which is below the quality required by this
article, shall be labeled with a statement of substandard quality, as
prescribed by subsection (b) of Section 165.110 of Subpart B of Part 165
of Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   SEC. 6. Section 111192 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   111192. (a) Bottlers and water haulers that distribute directly to
consumers shall provide a sentence on each billing statement that
includes one of the following:
   (1) A telephone number of the bottler or brand owner.
   (2) The bottler’s or brand owner’s mailing address.
   (b) Bottlers or brand owners may also include other forms of contact,
including, but not limited to, the bottler’s or brand owner’s E-mail
address or website.
   (c) Bottlers and water haulers that distribute directly to consumers
shall, in the billing statement, provide to new customers, and to existing
customers once per year thereafter, the following statement:
   ‘‘As a food product, bottled water is subject to rules and regulations
promulgated by the federal Food and Drug Administration (FDA). For
further information, please contact (insert the name of the bottler or
brand owner) at (insert the bottler’s or brand owner’s telephone number
or mailing address).’’
 3670                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 534 ]
   (d) Water vending machines shall display the same information on
the machines that is required under subdivisions (a) and (c).
   (e) Retail water facilities shall provide new customers the same
information that is required under subdivisions (a) and (c). These
facilities shall also display this information in a take-home format.
   (f) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2002.
   SEC. 7. Section 111193 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   111193. (a) The department may by written permission allow a
person to package water for use in public emergencies without obtaining
a water bottling license, where the emergency has resulted in the
interruption of, or has compromised the quality of, the public drinking
water supply. This permission may authorize the suspension of any
provision of this chapter and related regulations.
   (b) (1) The department may at any time change or impose on the
permittee any requirements such as testing, equipment, and
documentation that the department deems necessary to protect public
health but in doing so shall consider the effect of those requirements in
light of the urgency of the situation. The department may grant or
withdraw this permission at any time.
   (2) Packing, distribution, and use of water under this permit shall
only be allowed during the emergency period and shall end upon the
restoration of adequate public drinking supplies as determined by the
department. Distribution shall be limited to the area affected. Water so
packaged shall be prominently labeled ‘‘drinking water’’, ‘‘for
emergency use only’’, and ‘‘not for sale’’, or similar wording approved
by the department.
   (c) This section shall not be construed to restrict licensed water
bottling plants from providing water processed in accordance with this
chapter in emergency situations.



                            CHAPTER 534

  An act to amend Sections 987.59 and 987.67 of, and to add Section
66.5 to, the Military and Veterans Code, relating to veterans, and
declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]
[Ch. 534 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3671

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 66.5 is added to the Military and Veterans
Code, to read:
   66.5. (a) One member of the board shall have substantial training
or professional expertise in mortgage lending and real estate finance.
   (b) One other member of the board shall have substantial training or
professional expertise in geriatrics, gerontology, or long-term care.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit any member
of the board from serving the remainder of his or her term.
   SEC. 2. Section 987.59 of the Military and Veterans Code is
amended to read:
   987.59. (a) When a veteran has been authorized by the department
to select a farm or home, he or she shall submit that selection for
approval, as the department prescribes. The department shall have the
sole responsibility for the underwriting and approval of all farm or home
loans, subject to this article.
   (b) In order to achieve efficient processing and approval of loans, the
department shall do all of the following:
   (1) The department shall establish all systems, procedures,
technologies, and guidelines necessary to achieve efficient processing of
farm or home loans submitted for approval by the department, with the
intent of achieving loan delivery within an average of 30 days. These
shall include, but may not be limited to, systems and technologies for the
electronic transfer of loan funds and related fees.
   (2) The department shall ensure optimal participation of qualified
mortgage brokers and other qualified financial institutions and shall
review, standardize, and where possible simplify, the documentation
required of mortgage brokers and other qualified financial institutions.
The department shall provide adequate training and certification of
participating mortgage brokers and other qualified financial institutions.
   (3) The department shall establish an outreach program to effectively
disseminate information concerning the simplified and more efficient
loan process to professional real estate and mortgage broker
associations.
   (4) The department shall offer broker compensation and fees
sufficient to ensure optimal participation of the private sector in the loan
origination process and consistent with the veteran borrower’s interest
in efficient and economical loan processing.
   (5) The department shall provide access over the Internet to veteran
applicants and their authorized agents to enable loan applications to be
filed, processed, and tracked electronically.
   (6) In cooperation with the Office of Administrative Law, the
department shall, on or before October 30, 2000, promulgate all
 3672                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 535 ]
regulations necessary to implement the provisions of this section and
Section 987.67, with the intent of achieving loan delivery within an
average of 30 days through measures including, but not limited to,
optimal participation in the loan origination process by qualified private
sector real estate mortgage associations.
   SEC. 3. Section 987.67 of the Military and Veterans Code is
amended to read:
   987.67. (a) Before the purchase of any property by the department
there shall be filed with the department (1) an appraisement of the market
value of the property by an employee or an authorized agent of the
department or (2) an appraisement of the market value of the property
by either the Federal Housing Administration or the Veteran’s
Administration, and in addition there may be filed with the department
an appraisement of the market value of the property by an authorized
appraiser of a banking corporation formed under the laws of this state or
of a national banking association having a place of business in this state.
Each appraisement shall be certified by the maker thereof. The
certification shall state that it is made in good faith, and that the valuation
is honestly determined and represents the bona fide opinion of the maker.
   (b) The department shall establish guidelines to ensure greater
participation of state-licensed real estate appraisers and shall establish
an outreach program to effectively disseminate information concerning
the participation to professional appraisal associations or trade groups.
   SEC. 4. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to expedite the adoption of regulations for the efficient
processing and approval of Cal-Vet loans, it is necessary that this act take
effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 535

   An act to add Sections 50075.1, 50075.3, and 50075.5 to, and to add
Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 53410) to Chapter 3 of Part 1 of
Division 2 of Title 5 of, the Government Code, relating to local agency
finance.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]
[Ch. 535 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3673

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. (a) This act shall be known and may be cited as the
Local Agency Special Tax and Bond Accountability Act.
   (b) The Legislature finds and declares that the California
Constitution requires the voters of local agencies to approve the levy of
special taxes and many forms of bonded indebtedness. These special
taxes and bonds can be important sources of funding for local agencies’
public facilities and public services. Earning the voters’ confidence to
support special taxes and bonds requires local agencies to demonstrate
to the voters that they spend these funds on the intended facilities and
services.
   (c) The Legislature further finds and declares that the procedures for
local agencies to obtain voter approval of special taxes and bonded
indebtedness affect the general welfare of all Californians. Accordingly,
the Legislature finds and declares that the procedures created by this act
constitute an issue of statewide concern and not merely a municipal
affair. Therefore, the Legislature intends that the procedures created by
this act shall apply to all local agencies, including charter cities.
   SEC. 2. Section 50075.1 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   50075.1. On or after January 1, 2001, any local special tax measure
that is subject to voter approval that would provide for the imposition of
a special tax by a local agency shall provide accountability measures that
include, but are not limited to, all of the following:
   (a) A statement indicating the specific purposes of the special tax.
   (b) A requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific
purposes identified pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (c) The creation of an account into which the proceeds shall be
deposited.
   (d) An annual report pursuant to Section 50075.3.
   SEC. 3. Section 50075.3 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   50075.3. The chief fiscal officer of the levying local agency shall
file a report with its governing body no later than January 1, 2002, and
at least once a year thereafter. The annual report shall contain both of the
following:
   (a) The amount of funds collected and expended.
   (b) The status of any project required or authorized to be funded as
identified in subdivision (a) of Section 50075.1.
   SEC. 4. Section 50075.5 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   50075.5. As used in this article:
   (a) ‘‘Local agency’’ means any county, city, city and county,
including a charter city or county, or any special district.
   (b) ‘‘Special district’’ means an agency of the state, formed pursuant
to general law or a special act, for the performance of governmental or
 3674                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 535 ]
proprietary functions, with limited geographic boundaries, including,
but not limited to, a school district and a community college district.
  SEC. 5. Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 53410) is added to
Chapter 3 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code, to
read:

                  Article 1.5.   Bond Accountability

   53410. On or after January 1, 2001, any local bond measure that is
subject to voter approval that would provide for the sale of bonds by a
local agency shall provide accountability measures that include, but are
not limited to, all of the following:
   (a) A statement indicating the specific single purpose of the bond.
   (b) A requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific
purpose identified pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (c) The creation of an account into which the proceeds shall be
deposited.
   (d) An annual report pursuant to Section 53411.
   53411. The chief fiscal officer of the issuing local agency shall file
a report with its governing body no later than January 1, 2002, and at
least once a year thereafter. The annual report shall contain all of the
following:
   (a) The amount of funds collected and expended.
   (b) The status of any project required or authorized to be funded as
identified in subdivision (a) of Section 53410.
   53412. As used in this article:
   (a) ‘‘Local agency’’ means any county, city, city and county,
including a charter city or county, or any special district.
   (b) ‘‘Special district’’ means an agency of the state, formed pursuant
to general law or a special act, for the performance of governmental or
proprietary functions, with limited geographic boundaries, including,
but not limited to, a school district and a community college district.
   (c) ‘‘Bond’’ means any bonded indebtedness regardless of state law
or charter that requires voter approval, including, but not limited to,
general obligation bonds, revenue bonds, and bonds issued pursuant to
the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act (Chapter 2.5 (commencing
with Section 53311)).
[Ch. 536 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3675

                             CHAPTER 536

  An act to amend Sections 25421, 25449.4, 25620.5, and 25620.8 of
the Public Resources Code, relating to public resources, and making an
appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 25421 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
   25421. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), this chapter shall
remain in effect only until January 1, 2011, and as of that date is repealed,
unless a later enacted statute, which is enacted before January 1, 2011,
deletes or extends that date.
   (b) All loans outstanding as of January 1, 2011, shall continue to be
repaid on a semiannual basis, as specified in Section 25415, until paid
in full. All unexpended funds in the State Energy Conservation
Assistance Account on January 1, 2011, and thereafter, except to the
extent those funds are encumbered pursuant to Section 25417.5, shall
revert to the General Fund.
   SEC. 2. Section 25449.4 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   25449.4. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), this chapter
shall remain in effect until January 1, 2011, and as of that date is repealed,
unless a later enacted statute which is enacted before January 1, 2011,
deletes or extends that date.
   (b) All loans outstanding as of January 1, 2011, shall continue to be
repaid in accordance with a schedule established by the commission
pursuant to Section 25442.7, until paid in full. All unexpended funds in
the Local Jurisdiction Energy Assistance Account on January 1, 2011,
and thereafter, except to the extent that those funds are encumbered
pursuant to Section 25443.5, shall be deposited in the Federal Trust Fund
and be available for the purposes for which federal oil overcharge funds
are available pursuant to court judgment or federal agency order.
   SEC. 3. Section 25620.5 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   25620.5. (a) The commission may solicit applications for awards,
using a sealed competitive bid, competitive negotiation process,
multiparty agreement, single source, or sole source method.
   (b) A sealed bid method may be used when goods and services to be
acquired can be described with sufficient specificity so that bids can be
 3676                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 536 ]
evaluated against specifications and criteria set forth in the solicitation
for bids.
   (c) The commission may use a competitive negotiation process in any
of the following circumstances:
   (1) Whenever the desired contract is not for a fixed price.
   (2) Whenever project specifications cannot be drafted in sufficient
detail so as to be applicable to a sealed competitive bid.
   (3) Whenever there is a need to compare the different price, quality,
and contractual factors of the bids submitted.
   (4) Whenever there is a need to afford bidders an opportunity to revise
their proposals.
   (5) Whenever oral or written discussions with bidders concerning the
technical and price aspects of their proposals will provide better projects
to the state.
   (6) Whenever the price of the contract is not the determining factor.
   (d) The commission may establish multiparty and interagency
agreements with other entities to advance a defined research,
development, and demonstration project purposes. The commission
shall be a party to those agreements and shall share in the roles,
responsibilities, risks, investments, and results of the agreement.
   (e) The commission may choose from among two or more business
entities capable of supplying or providing goods or services that meet a
specified need of the commission. The cost to the state shall be
reasonable and the commission shall only enter into a single source
contract with a particular entity if the commission determines that it is
in the state’s best interests.
   (f) The commission, in accordance with subdivision (g), may select
projects on a sole source basis when the cost to the state is reasonable and
when, in consultation with the Department of General Services, the
commission makes any of the following determinations:
   (1) The proposal was unsolicited and meets the evaluation criteria of
this chapter.
   (2) The expertise, service, or product is unique.
   (3) The urgency of the need for the information or deliverable is such
that a competitive solicitation would frustrate timely performance.
   (4) The contract funds the next phase of a multiphased proposal and
the existing agreement is being satisfactorily performed.
   (5) When it is determined by the commission to be in the best interests
of the state.
   (g) The commission shall not utilize a sole source basis for a project
pursuant to subdivision (f), unless both of the following conditions are
met:
[Ch. 537 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3677

   (1) The commission, at least 30 days prior to taking an action
pursuant to subdivision (f), notifies the Joint Legislative Budget
Committee, in writing, of its intent to take the proposed action.
   (2) The Joint Legislative Budget Committee either approves or does
not disapprove the proposed action within 30 days from the date of
notification required by paragraph (1).
   (h) The commission shall submit semiannual reports to the
Legislative Analyst and to the appropriate fiscal and policy committees
of the Legislature that review bills relating to energy and public utilities.
The reports shall contain an evaluation of the progress and status of the
implementation of this section.
   (i) The provisions of this section are severable. If any provision of this
section or its application is held to be invalid, that invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications that can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application.
   SEC. 4. Section 25620.8 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   25620.8. The commission shall prepare and submit to the
Legislature an annual report, not later than March 31 of each year, on
awards made pursuant to this chapter. The report shall include
information on the names of award recipients, the amount of awards, and
the types of projects funded, an evaluation of the success of any funded
projects, and any recommendations for improvements in the program.
The commission shall establish procedures for protecting confidential
or proprietary information and shall consult with all interested parties in
the preparation of the annual report.



                             CHAPTER 537

  An act to amend Section 801.5 of the Civil Code, and to add and repeal
Sections 25619 and 25620.10 of, the Public Resources Code, relating to
energy programs.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares both of the
following:
  (a) Solar technologies produce clean, renewable energy while
reducing California’s energy deficit, creating in-state businesses and
jobs in the manufacturing, contracting, and distribution industries, and
 3678                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 537 ]
preserving California’s preeminent role as home to the world’s largest
concentration of solar energy companies.
   (b) High-efficiency, low polluting distributed generation resources,
installed on customer sites, can reduce customer costs of energy, reduce
environmental pollution associated with central station powerplants,
and provide customers with improved reliability in the event of an
electricity outage.
   SEC. 2. Section 801.5 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   801.5. (a) The right of receiving sunlight as specified in
subdivision 18 of Section 801 shall be referred to as a solar easement.
‘‘Solar easement’’ means the right of receiving sunlight across real
property of another for any solar energy system.
   As used in this section, ‘‘solar energy system’’ means either of the
following:
   (1) Any solar collector or other solar energy device whose primary
purpose is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar
energy for space heating, space cooling, electric generation, or water
heating.
   (2) Any structural design feature of a building, whose primary
purpose is to provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar
energy for electricity generation, space heating or cooling, or for water
heating.
   (b) Any instrument creating a solar easement shall include, at a
minimum, all of the following:
   (1) A description of the dimensions of the easement expressed in
measurable terms, such as vertical or horizontal angles measured in
degrees, or the hours of the day on specified dates during which direct
sunlight to a specified surface of a solar collector, device, or structural
design feature may not be obstructed, or a combination of these
descriptions.
   (2) The restrictions placed upon vegetation, structures, and other
objects that would impair or obstruct the passage of sunlight through the
easement.
   (3) The terms or conditions, if any, under which the easement may be
revised or terminated.
   SEC. 3. Section 25619 is added to the Public Resources Code, to
read:
   25619. (a) The commission shall develop a grant program to offset
a portion of the cost of eligible solar energy systems. The goals of the
program are all of the following:
   (1) To make solar energy systems cost competitive with alternate
forms of energy.
[Ch. 537 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3679

   (2) To provide support for electricity storage capabilities in solar
electric applications to facilitate enhanced reliability in the event of a
power outage.
   (3) To encourage the purchase by California residents of
California-made solar systems.
   (b) (1) The grant for an eligible solar energy system shall be based
on either the performance of, or the type of, the solar energy system, as
the commission determines, and the amount of the grant shall not exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750). Except as provided in paragraph (2),
if a grant is awarded pursuant to this section for an eligible solar energy
system that produces electricity, no grant shall be made for that system
from any other grant program administered by the commission.
   (2) An applicant who receives a grant for a photovoltaic solar energy
system from another program administered by the commission, may
also receive a grant for that system pursuant to this section, if all of the
following conditions are met:
   (A) The system will accomplish the purpose specified in paragraph
(3) of subdivision (a).
   (B) The system is an eligible solar energy system.
   (C) The system includes adequate battery storage, as determined by
the commission.
   (c) Purchasers, sellers, owner-builders, or owner-developers of the
solar energy system may apply for a grant under this section. An
owner-builder or owner-developer of a new single-family dwelling on
which a system is installed may elect not to apply for a grant on a solar
energy system installed on a new single-family dwelling. If an
owner-builder or owner-developer of a new single-family dwelling on
which a system is installed elects not to apply for the grant for a solar
energy system, the purchaser of the dwelling may apply for the grant.
The seller, owner-builder, or owner-developer shall reflect the amount
of the grant received on the purchaser’s bill of sale.
   (d) The commission shall develop and adopt guidelines to provide
appropriate consumer protection under the grant program and to govern
other aspects of the grant program. The guidelines shall be adopted at a
publicly noticed meeting and all interested parties shall be provided an
opportunity to comment either orally or in writing. Not less than 30 days
notice shall be provided for the public meeting. Subsequent substantive
changes to adopted guidelines shall be adopted by the commission at a
public meeting upon written notice to the public of not less than 10 days.
The guidelines adopted pursuant to this subdivision are not subject to the
requirements of Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of
Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
   (e) The commission shall require installers of solar energy systems
funded through grants under this section to be properly licensed to do so
 3680                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 537 ]
by the Contractors’ State License Board. This requirement does not
apply to the owner of a single-family dwelling who installs a solar energy
system on his or her single-family dwelling.
   (f) The award of a grant pursuant to this section is subject to appeal
to the commission upon a showing that factors other than those
described in the guidelines adopted by the commission were applied in
making the award. Any action taken by an applicant to apply for, or
become or remain eligible to receive an award, including satisfying
conditions specified by the commission, does not constitute the
rendering of goods, services, or a direct benefit to the commission.
Awards made pursuant to this section are not subject to any repayment
requirements of Chapter 7.4 (commencing with Section 25645).
   (g) For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Cost’’ includes equipment, installation charges, and all
components necessary to carry out the intended use of the system if those
components are an integral part of the system. In the case of a system that
is leased, ‘‘cost’’ means the principal recovery portion of all lease
payments scheduled to be made during the full term of the lease, which
is the cost incurred by the taxpayer in acquiring the solar energy system,
excluding interest charges and maintenance expenses.
   (2) (A) ‘‘Eligible solar energy system’’ means any new, previously
unused solar energy device whose primary purpose is to provide for the
collection, conversion, transfer, distribution, storage, or control of solar
energy for water heating or electricity generation, and that meets
applicable standards and requirements imposed by state and local
permitting authorities, including, but not limited to, the National
Electric Code. Eligible solar energy systems for water heating purposes
shall be certified by the Solar Rating and Certification Corporation
(SRCC) or any other nationally recognized certification agency that
certifies complete systems. Major components of eligible solar energy
systems for electricity generation shall be listed by a certified testing
agency, such as the Underwriters Laboratory.
   (B) ‘‘Eligible solar energy system’’ does not include any of the
following:
   (i) Wind energy devices that produce electricity or provide
mechanical work.
   (ii) Additions to or augmentation of existing solar energy systems.
   (iii) A device that produces electricity for a structure unless the device
is interconnected and operates in parallel with the electric grid.
   (C) Eligible solar energy systems shall have a warranty of not less
than three years.
   (3) ‘‘Installed’’ means placed in a functionally operative state.
[Ch. 537 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3681

   (h) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2006, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 4. Section 25620.10 is added to the Public Resources Code,
to read:
   25620.10. (a) The commission shall develop and implement a
grant program to offset a portion of the costs of eligible distributed
generation systems.
   (b) A grant for an eligible distributed generation system shall be
based on either the performance or type of distributed generation system,
as determined by the commission. The amount of the grant shall not
exceed the lesser of 10 percent of the costs of the eligible distributed
generation system or two thousand dollars ($2,000).
   (c) An applicant who receives a grant for an eligible distributed
generation system from another program administered by the
commission may also receive a grant for that system pursuant to this
section if the system possesses adequate black-start capability, as
determined by the commission.
   (d) Purchasers, sellers, owner-builders, or owner-developers of the
eligible distributed generation system may apply for a grant under this
section. If the owner-developer or owner-builder of the property on
which a system is installed elects to not apply for a grant under this
section, the purchaser of the property may apply for the grant. The seller,
owner-builder, or owner-developer shall reflect the amount of the grant
received on the purchaser’s bill of sale.
   (e) The commission shall develop and adopt guidelines to provide
appropriate consumer protection under the grant program and to govern
other aspects of the grant program, which shall be made available to the
public. Not less than 30 days’ notice shall be provided for a public
meeting to adopt the guidelines. Public meetings to adopt subsequent
substantive guideline changes require written public notice of not less
than 10 days. The guidelines adopted pursuant to this subdivision are not
subject to the requirements of Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section
11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
   (f) The commission shall require installers of eligible distributed
generation systems funded through grants under this section to be
properly licensed to do so by the Contractors’ State License Board.
   (g) The award of a grant pursuant to this section is subject to appeal
to the commission upon a showing that factors other than those adopted
by the commission were applied in making the award. Any action taken
by an applicant to apply for, or become or remain eligible to receive a
grant award, including satisfying conditions specified by the
commission, does not constitute the rendering of goods, services, or a
direct benefit to the commission. Awards made pursuant to this section
 3682                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 537 ]
are not subject to any repayment requirements of Chapter 7.4
(commencing with Section 25645).
   (h) Eligible distributed generation systems shall have a warranty of
not less than three years.
   (i) For purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Black-start capability’’ means the capability to provide
electricity to the customer in the event of an outage.
   (2) ‘‘Cost’’ includes equipment, installation charges and all
components necessary to carry out the intended use of the system if those
components are an integral part of the system. In the case of a system that
is leased, ‘‘cost’’ means the principal recovery portion of all lease
payments scheduled to be made during the full term of the lease, which
is the costs incurred by the customer in acquiring the distributed
generation system, excluding interest charges and maintenance
expenses.
   (3) ‘‘Distributed generation’’ means any onsite generation,
interconnected and operating in parallel with the electricity grid, that is
used solely to meet onsite electric load.
   (4) ‘‘Eligible distributed generation system’’ means any new,
previously unused distributed generation system, interconnected and
operating in parallel with the electricity grid, certified by the
commission to provide environmental and system reliability benefits
equal to or greater than the following specifications:
   (A) Forty percent total fuel-to-energy conversion efficiency for any
nonrenewable fuel system.
   (B) Thirty-five percent total fuel-to-energy conversion efficiency for
any renewable fuel system.
   (C) Emission of oxides of nitrogen and any other applicable criteria
pollutants that equal or exceed Best Achievable Control Technology
(BACT) for natural gas fired central station powerplants. The State Air
Resources Board shall, in consultation with the commission, prepare
and update specifications for those emissions and other applicable
criteria pollutants.
   (D) Ninety percent total system reliability.
   (5) Potentially certifiable technologies include all of the following:
   (A) Microcogeneration.
   (B) Gas turbines.
   (C) Fuel cells.
   (D) Electricity storage technologies in systems not eligible for grants
under Section 25619.
   (E) Reciprocating internal combustion engines.
   (6) ‘‘Installed’’ means placed in a functionally operative state.
[Ch. 538 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3683

  (j) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2006, and
as of that date is repealed unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.
  SEC. 5. The State Energy Resources Conservation and
Development Commission shall only implement Sections 25619 and
25620.10 of the Public Resources Code to the extent that moneys are
appropriated for the purposes of those sections in the annual Budget Act.
The commission may annually expend up to a total of two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000) of the funds collectively available for those
programs to fund the commission’s cost of administering the programs.



                             CHAPTER 538

   An act to amend Section 625 of the Streets and Highways Code,
relating to highways.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 625 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   625. (a) Route 880 is from Route 280 in San Jose to Route 80 in
Oakland.
   (b) (1) The commission may relinquish to the City of Oakland the
portion of the former right-of-way of Route 880 that is located between
8th Street and 32nd Street within that city, upon terms and conditions the
commission finds to be in the best interests of the state, including, but
not limited to, a requirement that the department and the city enter into
a cooperative agreement to improve, at the department’s expense, the
two parallel adjacent city streets, including, but not limited to,
sidewalks, landscaping, and street lighting, when improving the portion
of right-of-way that is to be relinquished in accordance with plans to be
developed by the department. The cooperative agreement shall include,
but need not to be limited to, all of the following:
   (A) A requirement that, if the commission allocates funds for this
purpose, the improvements include bicycle paths and the associated
roadway improvements and landscaping, including a bicycle path that
closes the gap in the San Francisco Bay Trail Plan.
   (B) A requirement that the improvements include removal of
contaminated materials on the department’s property.
 3684                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 539 ]
  (C) A requirement that the improvements include erection of a
memorial to the victims of the collapse of the Cypress Freeway Viaduct
and to the heroism of those who responded to that disaster.
  (2) A relinquishment under this subdivision shall become effective
immediately following the commission’s approval of the terms and
conditions of the relinquishment.



                            CHAPTER 539

  An act to amend Sections 8520, 8528, and 8674 of the Business and
Professions Code, relating to pest control, and making an appropriation
therefor.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8520 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   8520. (a) There is in the Department of Consumer Affairs a
Structural Pest Control Board, which consists of seven members.
   (b) Subject to the jurisdiction conferred upon the director by Division
1 (commencing with Section 100) of this code, the board is vested with
the power to and shall administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (c) It is the intent of the Legislature that consumer protection is the
primary mission of the board.
   (d) This section shall become inoperative on July 1, 2005, and, as of
January 1, 2006, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which
becomes effective on or before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends the
dates on which it becomes inoperative and is repealed. The repeal of this
section renders the board subject to the review required by Division 1.2
(commencing with Section 473).
   SEC. 2. Section 8528 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   8528. With the approval of the director, the board shall appoint a
registrar, fix his or her compensation and prescribe his or her duties.
   The registrar is the executive officer and secretary of the board.
   This section shall become inoperative on July 1, 2005, and, as of
January 1, 2006, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which
becomes effective on or before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends the
dates on which it becomes inoperative and is repealed.
[Ch. 539 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3685

   SEC. 3. Section 8674 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   8674. The fees prescribed by this chapter are the following:
   (a) A duplicate license fee of not more than two dollars ($2).
   (b) A fee for filing a change of name of a licensee of not more than
two dollars ($2).
   (c) An operator’s examination fee of not more than twenty-five
dollars ($25).
   (d) An operator’s license fee of not more than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150).
   (e) An operator’s license renewal fee of not more than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150).
   (f) A company registration fee of not more than one hundred twenty
dollars ($120).
   (g) A branch office registration fee of not more than sixty dollars
($60).
   (h) A field representative’s examination fee of not more than fifteen
dollars ($15).
   (i) A field representative’s license fee of not more than forty-five
dollars ($45).
   (j) A field representative’s license renewal fee of not more than
forty-five dollars ($45).
   (k) An applicator’s examination fee of not more than fifteen dollars
($15).
   (l) An applicator’s license fee of not more than fifty dollars ($50).
   (m) An applicator’s license renewal fee of not more than fifty dollars
($50).
   (n) An activity form fee, per property address, of not more than three
dollars ($3).
   (o) A fee for certifying a copy of an activity form of not more than
three dollars ($3).
   (p) A fee for filing a change of a registered company’s name, principal
office address, or branch office address, qualifying manager, or the
names of a registered company’s officers, or bond or insurance of not
more than twenty-five dollars ($25) for each change.
   (q) A fee for approval of continuing education providers of not more
than fifty dollars ($50).
   (r) A pesticide use report filing fee of not more than five dollars ($5)
for each pesticide use report or combination of use reports representing
a registered structural pest control company’s total county pesticide use
for the month.
   (s) A fee for approval of continuing education courses of not more
than twenty-five dollars ($25).
 3686                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 539 ]
  (t) (1) Any person who pays a fee pursuant to subdivision (s) shall,
in addition, pay a fee of two dollars ($2) for each pesticide use stamp
purchased from the board. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
the fee established pursuant to this subdivision shall be deposited with
a bank or other depository approved by the Department of Finance and
designated by the Research Advisory Panel or into the Structural Pest
Control Research Fund that is hereby created and continuously
appropriated to be used only for structural pest control research. If the
Research Advisory Panel designates that the fees be deposited in an
account other than the Structural Pest Control Research Fund, any
moneys in the fund shall be transferred to the designated account.
  (2) Prior to the deposit of any funds, the depository shall enter into
an agreement with the Department of Consumer Affairs that includes,
but is not limited to, all of the following requirements:
  (A) The depository shall serve as custodian for the safekeeping of the
funds.
  (B) Funds deposited in the designated account shall be encumbered
solely for the exclusive purpose of implementing and continuing the
program for which they were collected.
  (C) Funds deposited in the designated account shall be subject to an
audit at least once every two years by an auditor selected by the Director
of Consumer Affairs. A copy of the audit shall be provided to the director
within 30 days of completion of the audit.
  (D) The Department of Consumer Affairs shall be reimbursed for all
expenses it incurs that are reasonably related to implementing and
continuing the program for which the funds were collected in accordance
with the agreement.
  (E) A reserve in an amount sufficient to pay for costs arising from
unanticipated occurrences associated with administration of the
program shall be maintained in the designated account.
  (3) A charge for administrative expenses of the board in an amount
not to exceed 5 percent of the amount collected and deposited in the
Structural Pest Control Research Fund may be assessed against the fund.
The charge shall be limited to expenses directly related to the
administration of the fund.
  (4) The board shall, by regulation, establish a five-member research
advisory panel including, but not limited to, representatives from each
of the following: (A) the Structural Pest Control Board, (B) the structural
pest control industry, (C) the Department of Pesticide Regulation, and
(D) the University of California. The panel, or other entity designated
by the board, shall solicit on behalf of the board all requests for proposals
and present to the panel all proposals that meet the criteria established
by the panel. The panel shall review the proposals and recommend to the
board which proposals to accept. The recommendations shall be
[Ch. 540 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3687

accepted upon a two-thirds vote of the board. The board shall direct the
panel, or other entity designated by the board, to prepare and issue the
research contracts and authorize the transfer of funds from the Structural
Pest Control Research Fund to the applicants whose proposals were
accepted by the board.
  (5) A charge for requests for proposals, contracts, and monitoring of
contracted research shall not exceed 5 percent of the research funds
available each year and shall be paid from the Structural Pest Control
Research Fund.



                             CHAPTER 540

  An act relating to lead poisoning, making an appropriation therefor,
and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 19, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. (a) There is hereby appropriated the sum of one
million five hundred fourteen thousand dollars ($1,514,000) from the
General Fund to the State Department of Health Services as follows:
   (1) The sum of one million thirteen thousand dollars ($1,013,000) in
augmentation of the appropriation made in Item 4260-111-0001 of the
Budget Act of 2000 for Program 20.40 Primary Care and Family Health
to fund lead poisoning screening or evaluation of children.
   (2) The sum of three hundred one thousand dollars ($301,000) in
augmentation of the appropriation made in Item 4260-101-0001 of the
Budget Act of 2000 for Program 20.10.030 Benefits (Medical Care and
Services) to fund lead poisoning screening or evaluation of children.
   (3) The sum of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) in
augmentation of Item 4260-001-0001 of the Budget Act of 2000 for
Program 10 Public and Environmental Health to fund outreach to
licensed health care providers to expand screening of children at risk of
lead poisoning. It is the intent of the Legislature that in allocating funds
appropriated in future years for this program in order to fund child lead
poisoning prevention activities, priority consideration shall be given to
community-based organizations and nonprofit organizations.
   (b) The sum of three hundred seventeen thousand dollars ($317,000)
is hereby appropriated from the Federal Trust Fund to the State
Department of Health Services in augmentation of Item 4260-101-0890
of the Budget Act of 2000 for Program 20.10.030 Benefits (Medical
 3688                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 541 ]
Care and Services) to fund lead poisoning screening or evaluation of
children.
  SEC. 2. (a) In April 1999 the California State Auditor released a
report on the Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention program, entitled
‘‘Department of Health Services: Has made little progress in protecting
21California’s children from lead poisoning’’ in which it strongly
recommended that the department adopt regulations on screening for
lead poisoning.
  (b) The Bureau of State Audits shall conduct a followup assessment
of the effectiveness of regulations to be implemented by the department
the purpose of which are to increase the number of at-risk children being
identified and that receive screening and evaluation for lead poisoning.
The bureau shall also include in its assessment the extent to which the
department has addressed the other recommendations made in the
bureau’s April 1999 report. The bureau shall submit the assessment to
the Senate Committee on Health and Human Services and the Assembly
Committee on Health by May 1, 2001.
  SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to improve the health and well-being of lead poisoned
children in California through increased identification, screening, and
evaluation of children at risk, at the earliest possible time, it is necessary
that this act go into immediate effect.



                             CHAPTER 541

  An act to add and repeal Article 6.8 (commencing with Section
20209.5) of Chapter 1 of Part 3 of Division 2 of the Public Contract
Code, relating to public contracts.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. (a) The Legislature finds and declares that the
design-build process is a valuable alternative to the existing three-step
process for public transit entities. The design-build process can improve
the project delivery process by accelerating delivery schedules and
saving costs by promoting improved coordination between contractor
and architect, shifting management risk from the public entity to the
[Ch. 541 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3689

design-build entity, and minimizing change orders through early
collaboration between design and construction disciplines.
   (b) The Legislature has recognized the merits of the design-build
procurement process in the past by authorizing its use for projects
undertaken by certain transit districts, the University of California,
joint-venture public school projects, specified local government
projects, and several state office buildings under construction in
Oakland, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. The design-build
procurement process has also been approved for use by public entities
in other states, as well as by the federal government.
   (c) Therefore, it is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this act to
define the transit design-build construction procurement process and to
establish the parameters for its use for public transit projects.
   (d) In addition, it is the intent of the Legislature that the full scope of
design, construction, and equipment awarded to a design-build entity
shall be authorized in a single funding phase. The funding phase may be
authorized concurrently with, or separately from, the phase that
authorizes the creation of the performance criteria and concept drawings.
   (e) It is the intent of the Legislature that transit design-build
procurement as authorized by this act shall not be construed to extend,
limit, or change in any manner the legal responsibility of public agencies
and contractors to comply with existing laws requiring prompt and
timely payment of progress payments and retention proceeds pursuant
to the terms of the construction contract.
   SEC. 2. Article 6.8 (commencing with Section 20209.5) is added to
Chapter 1 of Part 3 of Division 2 of the Public Contract Code, to read:

             Article 6.8.    Transit Design-Build Contracts

  20209.5. As used in this article, the following terms have the
following meanings:
  (a) ‘‘Best value’’ means a value determined by objective criteria and
may include, but is not limited to, price, features, functions, life-cycle
costs, and other criteria deemed appropriate by the transit district.
  (b) ‘‘Design-build’’ means a procurement process in which both the
design and construction of a project are procured from a single entity.
  (c) ‘‘Design-build entity’’ means a partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity that is able to provide appropriately licensed contracting,
architectural, and engineering services as needed pursuant to a
design-build contract.
  (d) ‘‘RFP’’ means request for proposal.
  (e) ‘‘Transit operator’’ means any transit district, included transit
district, municipal operator, included municipal operator, or transit
 3690                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 541 ]
development board, as defined in Section 99210 of the Public Utilities
Code, or any joint powers authority formed to provide transit service.
   20209.6. When it is in the best interest of the transit operator, the
transit operator may enter into a design-build contract for both the design
and construction of a project under this article. After evaluation of the
traditional design, bid, and build process of transit construction and of
the design-build process in a public meeting, the transit operator shall
make written findings that use of the design-build process on the specific
project under consideration will accomplish one of the following
objectives: reduce project costs, expedite the project’s completion,
provide design features not achievable through the design-bid-build
method, prior to entering into a design-build contract. In the
design-build project proposal, the written findings shall be included as
part of any application for state funds pursuant to this chapter.
   20209.7. Design-build projects shall progress in a three-step
process, as follows:
   (a) The transit operator shall prepare a set of documents setting forth
the scope of the project. The documents may include, but are not limited
to, the size, type and desired design character of the buildings, transit
facilities, and site, performance specifications covering the quality of
materials, equipment, and workmanship preliminary plans or building
layouts, or any other information deemed necessary to describe
adequately the transit operator’s needs. The performance specifications
and any plans shall be prepared by a design professional duly licensed
or registered in California.
   (b) Any architectural or engineering firm or individual retained by the
transit operator to assist in the development criteria or preparation of the
request for proposal shall not be eligible to participate in the competition
with the design-build entity.
   (c) The transit operator shall establish and enforce a labor compliance
program containing the requirements outlined in Section 1771.5 of the
Labor Code or shall contract with a third party to operate a labor
compliance program containing the requirements outlined in Section
1771.5 of the Labor Code. This requirement shall not apply to projects
where the transit operator or the design-build entity has entered into a
collective bargaining agreement that binds all of the contractors
performing work on the project.
   (d) (1) Each RFP shall identify the basic scope and needs of the
project or contract, the expected cost range, and other information
deemed necessary by the contracting agency to inform interested parties
of the contracting opportunity.
   (2) Each RFP shall invite interested parties to submit competitive
sealed proposals in the manner prescribed by the contracting agency.
   (3) Each RFP shall include a section identifying and describing:
[Ch. 541 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3691

   (A) All significant factors that the agency reasonably expects to
consider in evaluating proposals, including cost or price and all nonprice
related factors.
   (B) The methodology and rating or weighting scheme that will be
used by the agency in evaluating competitive proposals and specifically
whether proposals will be rated according to numeric or qualitative
values.
   (C) The relative importance or weight assigned to each of the factors
identified in the RFP. If a nonweighted system is used, the agency shall
specifically disclose whether all evaluation factors other than cost or
price, when combined, are any of the following:
   (i) Significantly more important than cost or price.
   (ii) Approximately equal in importance to cost or price.
   (iii) Significantly less important than cost or price.
   (D) If the contracting agency wishes to reserve the right to hold
discussions or negotiations with offerors, it shall specify the same in the
RFP and shall publish separately or incorporate into the RFP applicable
rules and procedures to be observed by the agency to ensure that any
discussions or negotiations are conducted in a fair and impartial manner.
   (1) The transit operator shall establish a procedure to prequalify
design-build entities using a standard questionnaire developed by the
Director of Industrial Relations. The standardized questionnaire may not
require prospective bidders to disclose any violations of Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 1720) of Part 7 of Division 2 of the Labor
Code committed prior to January 1, 1998, if the violation was based on
a subcontractor’s failure to comply with these provisions and the bidder
had no knowledge of the subcontractor’s violations and the bidder
complied with the conditions set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 1775
of the Labor Code. In preparing the questionnaire, the director shall
consult with the construction industry, transit operators, and other
affected parties. This questionnaire shall require information including,
but not limited to, all of the following:
   (A) A listing of all the contractors that are part of the design-build
entity.
   (B) Evidence that the members of the design-build entity have
completed, or demonstrated the experience, competency, capability, and
capacity to complete projects of similar size, scope, or complexity, and
that proposed key personnel have sufficient experience and training to
competently manage and complete the design and construction of the
project.
   (C) The licenses, registrations, and credentials required to design and
construct the project, including information on the revocation or
suspension of any license, credential, or registration.
 3692                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 541 ]
   (D) Evidence that establishes that the design-build entity has the
capacity to obtain all required payment and performance bonding,
liability insurance, and errors and omissions insurance, as well as a
financial statement that assures the transit operator that the design-build
entity has the capacity to complete the project.
   (E) Any prior serious or willful violation of the California
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1973, contained in Part 1
(commencing with Section 6300) of Division 5 of the Labor Code or the
Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (P.L. 91-596),
settled against any member of the design-build entity, and information
concerning a contractor member’s workers’ compensation experience
history and worker safety program.
   (F) Information concerning any debarment, disqualification, or
removal from a federal, state, or local government public works project.
Any instance where an entity, its owners, officers or managing
employees submitted a bid on a public works project and were found by
an awarding body not to be a responsible bidder.
   (G) Any instance where the entity, its owner, officers or managing
employees defaulted on a construction contract.
   (H) Any violations of the Contractors’ State License Law (Chapter 9
(commencing with Section 7000) of Division 3 of the Business and
Professions Code), excluding alleged violations of federal or state law,
including the payment of wages, benefits, apprenticeship requirements,
or personal income tax withholding, or of Federal Insurance
Contribution Act (FICA) withholding requirements settled against any
member of the design-build entity.
   (I) Information concerning the bankruptcy or receivership of any
member of the entity, and information concerning all legal claims,
disputes, or lawsuits arising from any construction project of any
member of the entity during the past three years, including information
concerning any work completed by a surety.
   (J) If the design-build entity is a partnership, limited partnership, or
other association, a listing of all of the partners, general partners, or
association members who will participate as subcontractors in the
design-build contract.
   (K) Evidence that the members of the design-build entity have
completed, or demonstrated the experience, competency, capability, and
capacity to complete projects of similar size, scope, or complexity, and
that proposed key personnel have sufficient experience and training to
competently manage and complete the design and construction of the
project.
   (L) Information concerning all settled adverse claims, disputes, or
lawsuits between the owner of a public works project and any member
of the design-build entity during the five-year period immediately
[Ch. 541 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3693

preceding submission of a bid pursuant to this section, in which the
claim, settlement, or judgment exceeds fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).
Information shall also be provided concerning any work completed by
a surety during this period.
   (M) In the case of a partnership or other association, that is not a legal
entity, a copy of the agreement creating the partnership or association
and specifying that all partners or association members agree to be liable
for full performance under the design-build contract.
   (2) The information required pursuant to this subdivision shall be
verified under oath by the entity and its members in the manner in which
civil pleadings in civil actions are verified. Information that is not a
public record pursuant to the California Public Records Act (Chapter 3.5
(commencing with Section 6250) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the
Government Code) shall not be open to public inspection.
   (f) The transit operator shall establish a procedure for final selection
of the design-build entity. Selection shall be based on either of the two
following procedures, except that in no case may the transit operator
award a contract to a design-build entity pursuant to this article for a rail
project unless that project exceeds fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) in
cost:
   (1) For projects with costs from ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), inclusive, the contract shall be
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder.
   (2) For projects costing over twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
the transit operator may award the projects using either the lowest
responsible bidder or by best value.
   20209.8. Criteria used in the evaluation of proposals may include,
but need not be limited to, the proposed design approach, life-cycle
costs, project features, and project functions.
   (a) Competitive proposals shall be evaluated by using only the
criteria and source selection procedures specifically identified in the
RFP. Once the evaluation is complete, all responsive bidders shall be
ranked from most advantageous to least advantageous to the awarding
agency.
   (b) Any architectural or engineering firm or individual retained by the
governing body to assist in the development criteria or preparation of the
solicitation shall not be eligible to participate in the competition with
any design-build entity.
   (c) The award of the contract shall be made to the responsible bidder
whose proposals are determined, in writing, to be the best value to the
awarding body.
   (d) Proposals shall be evaluated and scored solely on the basis of the
factors and source selection procedures identified in the RFPs. However,
the following minimum factors shall collectively represent at least 50
 3694                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 541 ]
percent of the total weight or consideration given to all criteria factors:
price, technical expertise, life cycle costs over 15 years or more, skilled
labor force availability, and acceptable safety record.
   (e) The contracting agency shall issue a written decision supporting
its contract award and stating in detail the basis of the award. The
decision and the contract file shall be sufficient to satisfy an external
audit.
   (f) Notwithstanding any provision of the Public Contract Code, upon
issuance of a contract award, the contracting agency shall publicly
announce its award, identifying the contractor to whom the award is
made, the winning contractor’s price proposal, and its overall combined
rating on the RFP evaluation factors. The notice of award shall also
include the agency’s ranking of all other offerors and their respective
price proposals and a summary of the agency’s rationale for the contract
award.
   (g) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘skilled labor force availability’’
shall be determined by the existence of an agreement with a registered
apprenticeship program, approved by the California Apprenticeship
Council, which has graduated apprentices in each of the preceding five
years. This graduation requirement shall not apply to programs
providing apprenticeship training for any craft that has not been deemed
by the Department of Labor and the Department of Industrial Relations
to be an apprenticeable craft in the five years prior to enactment of this
act.
   (h) For the purposes of this section, a bidder’s ‘‘safety record’’ shall
be deemed ‘‘acceptable’’ if his or her experience modification rate for the
most recent three-year period is an average of 1.0 or less and his or her
average total recordable injury/illness rate and average lost work rate for
the most recent three-year period does not exceed the applicable
statistical standards for its business category or if the bidder is a party
to an alternative dispute resolution system as provided for in Section
3201.5 of the Labor Code.
   20209.9. If the governing body of a transit operator elects to award
a transit capital project through the design-build selection process
pursuant to this article, all of the following apply:
   (a) The retention proceeds withheld by the transit operator from the
design-build entity listed at the time of bid shall not exceed 5 percent.
   (b) The transit operator shall not withhold retention from payments
to the design-build entity for actual costs incurred and billed for design
services, construction management services, or where applicable, for
completed operations and maintenance services.
   (c) In a contract between the design-build entity and a subcontractor,
and in a contract between a subcontractor and any subcontractor
thereunder, the percentage of the retention proceeds withheld may not
[Ch. 541 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3695

exceed the percentage specified in the contract between the transit
operator and the design-build entity. If the design-build entity provides
written notice to any subcontractor who is not a member of the
design-build entity, prior to or at the time that the bid is requested, that
a bond may be required and the subcontractor subsequently is unable or
refuses to furnish a bond to the design-build entity, then the design-build
entity may withhold retention proceeds in excess of the percentage
specified in the contract between the transit operator and the
design-build entity from any payment made by the design-build entity
to the subcontractor.
   (d) In accordance with the provisions of applicable state law, the
design-build entity may be permitted to substitute securities in lieu of the
withholding from progress payments specified in subdivision (b).
Substitutions shall be made in accordance with Section 22300 of the
Public Contract Code.
   (e) Upon request, the transit operator shall provide a list of parties
who have requested a bid package.
   20209.10. (a) Any design-build entity that is selected to design and
build a project pursuant to this article shall possess or obtain sufficient
bonding and errors and omissions insurance coverage sufficient to cover
all design and architectural services provided in the contract consistent
with this article. Nothing in this article prohibits a general or engineering
contractor from being designated the lead entity on a design-build entity
for the purposes of purchasing necessary bonding to cover the activities
of the design-build entity.
   (b) Any payment or performance bond written for the purposes of this
article shall be written using a bond form developed by the Department
of General Services pursuant to subdivision (i) of Section 14661 of the
Government Code. The purpose of this subdivision is to promote
uniformity of bond forms to be used on transit operator design-build
projects throughout the state.
   (c) All subcontracts that were not listed by the design-build entity in
accordance with Section 20209.6 shall be awarded by the design-build
entity. The design-build entity shall do both of the following:
   (1) Provide public notice of the availability of work to be
subcontracted in accordance with the publication requirements
applicable to the competitive bidding process of the public entity.
   (2) Provide a fixed date and time on which the subcontracted work
will be awarded.
   (d) Subcontractors bidding on contracts pursuant to this article shall
be afforded the protections contained in Chapter 4 (commencing with
Section 4100) of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Public Contract Code.
   20209.11. (a) The minimum performance criteria and design
standards established pursuant to this article by a transit operator for
 3696                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 541 ]
quality, durability, longevity, life-cycle costs, and other criteria deemed
appropriate by the transit operator shall be adhered to by the design-build
entity. Any deviations from those standards may only be allowed by
written consent of the transit operator. The transit operator may retain the
services of a design professional through the course of the project in
order to ensure compliance with this article.
   (b) The total price of the project shall be determined pursuant to
subdivision (f) of Section 20209.6.
   20209.12. Each transit operator that elects to proceed under this
article and use the design-build method on a public works project shall
prepare and deliver to the Legislative Analyst’s office before December
1, 2005, a report containing a description of each public works project
financed with public funds, procured through the design-build process,
and completed on or before November 1, 2005. However, if a project has
been commenced, but not completed on or before November 1, 2005, the
transit operator shall complete a report no later than 120 days after
completion of the project. The report shall include, but not be limited to,
all of the following information:
   (a) The type of facility.
   (b) The gross square footage of the facility.
   (c) The company or contractor who was awarded the project.
   (d) The estimated and actual length of time to complete the project.
   (e) The findings established pursuant to Section 20133 of the Public
Contract Code.
   (f) Any Labor Code violations discovered during the course of
construction or following completion of the project, as well as any fines
or penalties assessed.
   (g) The estimated and actual project cost.
   (h) A description of any written protests concerning any aspect of the
solicitation, bid, proposal, or award of the design-build project,
including the resolution of the protest.
   (i) An assessment of the prequalification process and criteria.
   (j) An assessment of the impact of retaining 5 percent retention on the
project.
   (k) A description of the labor force compliance program and an
assessment of the project impact, where required.
   (l) A description of the method used to award the contract. If best
value was the method, the factors used to evaluate the bid shall be
described, including the weighting of each factor and an assessment of
the effectiveness of the methodology.
   (m) An assessment of the project impact of ‘‘skilled labor force
availability.’’
   (n) An assessment of the design-build dollar limits on transit projects.
This shall include projects where the transit operator wanted to use
[Ch. 542 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3697

design-build and was precluded by the dollar limitation. It shall also
include projects where the best value method of awarding contracts was
not used, due to dollar limitations.
   (o) An assessment of the most appropriate uses for the design-build
approach.
   (p) Any transit operator that elects not to use the authority granted
may also submit a report to the entities named in accordance with the
schedule in this section. This report may include an analysis of why the
authority granted was not used by the operator.
   20209.13. Unless expressly set forth in this article, nothing in this
article is intended to affect, expand, alter, or limit any rights or remedies
otherwise available at law.
   20209.14. This article shall remain in effect only until January 1,
2005, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that
is enacted before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends that date.



                             CHAPTER 542

  An act to amend Sections 18203.2 and 18215 of, and to add Sections
18219 and 18607 to, the Health and Safety Code, and to amend Section
5003.4 of the Public Resources Code, relating to mobilehome parks.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 18203.2 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   18203.2. ‘‘Camping party’’ means a person or group of not more
than 10 persons occupying a campsite or camping cabin for not more
than 30 days annually.
   SEC. 2. Section 18215 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   18215. (a) ‘‘Recreational vehicle park’’ is any area or tract of land,
or a separate designated section within a mobilehome park, where two
or more lots are rented or leased, or held out for rent or lease, to owners
or users of recreational vehicles, camping cabins, or tents.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), an area or tract of land zoned for
agricultural purposes where two or more lots are rented or leased, or held
out for rent or lease, to owners or users of recreational vehicles or tents
for the purpose of housing 12 or fewer agricultural employees, shall not
be deemed a recreational vehicle park.
 3698                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 542 ]
   SEC. 3. Section 18219 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   18219. (a) ‘‘Camping cabin’’ is a relocatable hard sided shelter
with a floor area less than 400 square feet (37 square meters) without
plumbing that is designed to be used within a recreational vehicle park
only by a campingparty.
   (b) A camping cabin may contain an electrical system and electrical
space conditioning equipment complying with the electrical and
mechanical regulations adopted pursuant to this part and supplied by the
lot service equipment.
   (c) A camping cabin may be installed or occupied only in special
occupancy parks, as defined by Section 18216.1, or in state parks and
other state property pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
5001) of Division 5 of the Public Resources Code.
   SEC. 4. Section 18607 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   18607. (a) A camping cabin shall be designed to resist the
following live loads: (1) floor live loads not less than 40 pounds per
square foot of floor area; (2) horizontal live loads not less than 15 pounds
per square foot of vertical wall and roof area; and (3) roof live loads not
less than 20 pounds per square foot of horizontal roof area. In areas where
snow loads are greater than 20 pounds per square foot, the roof shall be
designed and constructed to resist these additional loads.
   (b) Each sleeping room in a camping cabin shall have a second exit
to the outside of the camping cabin, except that a window exit may be
permitted as an alternative if the opening is not less than 20 inches wide
and 24 inches high and the bottom of the window is located not more
than 44 inches above the floor.
   (c) Each sleeping room in a camping cabin shall be provided with an
approved smoke detector. If the camping cabin contains an electrical
system, the smoke detector shall be energized from that electrical system
with a battery backup. If there is no electrical system in the camping
cabin, a battery-operated smoke detector is permitted.
   (d) All wall and ceiling surfaces in a camping cabin shall have a flame
spread rating of not more than 200.
   (e) Fuel-burning heating or cooking appliances shall not be operated
within a camping cabin.
   (f) Access for disabled persons to camping cabins shall be provided
in conformance with applicable state and federal laws.
   SEC. 5. Section 5003.4 of the Public Resources Code is amended
to read:
   5003.4. There shall be provided in each state park in which camping
is permitted those parking facilities for recreational vehicles, as defined
by Section 18010 of the Health and Safety Code, that can be
[Ch. 542 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3699

accommodated within the park consistent with the objective of
providing camping facilities for the public in these parks. In addition, the
Department of Parks and Recreation may install or permit the
installation of camping cabins, as defined by Section 18219 of the Health
and Safety Code, within the units of the state park system if installation
of camping cabins is consistent with the general plan of the unit.
  SEC. 6. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
  SEC. 7. Section 1 of this bill amends Section 18203.2 of the Health
and Safety Code while Section 1 of SB 2131, which would become
operative on January 1, 2002, proposes to repeal Section 18203.2 of the
Health and Safety Code. Section 1 of this bill shall remain operative only
until January 1, 2002, at which time Section 1 of SB 2131 shall become
operative, if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before
January 1, 2001, (2) this bill amends Section 18203.2 of the Health and
Safety Code, while SB 2131 repeals it, and (3) this bill is enacted after
SB 2131.
  SEC. 8. Section 2 of this bill amends Section 18215 of the Health
and Safety Code while Section 9 of SB 2131, which would become
operative on January 1, 2002, proposes to repeal Section 18215 of the
Health and Safety Code. Section 2 of this bill shall remain operative only
until January 1, 2002, at which time Section 9 of SB 2131 shall become
operative, if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before
January 1, 2001, (2) this bill amends Section 18215 of the Health and
Safety Code, while SB 2131 repeals it, and (3) this bill is enacted after
SB 2131.
  SEC. 9. Sections 3 and 4 of this bill, which add Sections 18219 and
18607 to the Health and Safety Code, respectively, shall remain
operative only until January 1, 2002, if (1), SB 2131 and this bill are both
enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) this bill
adds Sections 18219 and 18607 to the Health and Safety Code, while SB
2131 adds Sections 18862.5 and 18873.6 to the Health and Safety Code,
and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 2131.
 3700                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 543 ]
                            CHAPTER 543

   An act to add Section 354.4 to the Code of Civil Procedure, relating
to insurance for Armenian Genocide victims, and declaring the urgency
thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. (a) The Legislature recognizes that during the period
from 1915 to 1923, many persons of Armenian ancestry residing in the
historic Armenian homeland then situated in the Ottoman Empire were
victims of massacre, torture, starvation, death marches, and exile. This
period is known as the Armenian Genocide.
   (b) The Legislature further recognizes that thousands of Armenian
Genocide survivors and the heirs of Armenian Genocide victims are
residents or citizens of the State of California. The Legislature further
recognizes and finds that these people have, too often, been deprived of
their entitlement to benefits under insurance policies issued in Europe
and Asia by insurance companies prior to, and during the period of time
of, the Armenian Genocide. California has an overwhelming public
policy interest in ensuring that its residents and citizens who are
claiming entitlement to benefits under policies issued to Armenian
Genocide victims are treated reasonably and fairly and that those legal
obligations are honored.
   (c) It is the specific intent of the Legislature to ensure that Armenian
Genocide victims and their heirs be permitted to have an expeditious,
inexpensive, and fair forum in which to resolve their claims for benefits
under these policies by allowing actions to be brought in California
irrespective of any contrary forum selection provision contained in the
policies themselves. It is the finding of the Legislature that enforcement
of forum selection provisions in those policies would work an undue,
unreasonable, and unjust hardship on Armenian Genocide victims and
their heirs who are residents of California and that those provisions are
against public policy and are hereby made unenforceable with respect to
the policies as to which this act applies.
   (d) To the extent that the statute of limitations regarding contractual
or tort claims arising from the denial of benefits under the policies is
extended by this act, that extension of the limitations period is intended
to be applied retroactively, irrespective of whether the claims were
otherwise barred by any applicable statute of limitations under any other
provision of law prior to the enactment of this act.
[Ch. 543 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3701

   SEC. 2. Section 354.4 is added to the Code of Civil Procedure, to
read:
   354.4. (a) The following definitions govern the construction of this
section:
   (1) ‘‘Armenian Genocide victim’’ means any person of Armenian or
other ancestry living in the Ottoman Empire during the period of 1915
to 1923, inclusive, who died, was deported, or escaped to avoid
persecution during that period.
   (2) ‘‘Insurer’’ means an insurance provider doing business in the
state, or whose contacts in the state satisfy the constitutional
requirements for jurisdiction, that sold life, property, liability, health,
annuities, dowry, educational, casualty, or any other insurance covering
persons or property to persons in Europe or Asia at any time between
1875 and 1923.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any Armenian
Genocide victim, or heir or beneficiary of an Armenian Genocide victim,
who resides in this state and has a claim arising out of an insurance policy
or policies purchased or in effect in Europe or Asia between 1875 and
1923 from an insurer described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), may
bring a legal action or may continue a pending legal action to recover on
that claim in any court of competent jurisdiction in this state, which court
shall be deemed the proper forum for that action until its completion or
resolution.
   (c) Any action, including any pending action brought by an Armenian
Genocide victim or the heir or beneficiary of an Armenian Genocide
victim, whether a resident or nonresident of this state, seeking benefits
under the insurance policies issued or in effect between 1875 and 1923
shall not be dismissed for failure to comply with the applicable statute
of limitation, provided the action is filed on or before December 31,
2010.
   (d) The provisions of this section are severable. If any provision of
this section or its application is held invalid, that invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications that can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to provide just compensation to aging Armenian Genocide
victims and their heirs, it is necessary that this act take effect
immediately.
 3702                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 544 ]
                            CHAPTER 544

  An act to add Section 1203.098 to the Penal Code, relating to domestic
violence.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1203.098 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   1203.098. (a) Unless otherwise provided, a person who works as a
facilitator in a batterers’ intervention program that provides programs
for batterers pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 1203.097 shall
complete the following requirements before being eligible to work as a
facilitator in a batterers’ intervention program:
   (1) Forty hours of core-basic training. A minimum of eight hours of
this instruction shall be provided by a shelter-based or shelter-approved
trainer. The core curriculum shall include the following components:
   (A) A minimum of eight hours in basic domestic violence knowledge
focusing on victim safety and the role of domestic violence shelters in
a community-coordinated response.
   (B) A minimum of eight hours in multicultural, cross cultural, and
multiethnic diversity and domestic violence.
   (C) A minimum of four hours in substance abuse and domestic
violence.
   (D) A minimum of four hours in intake and assessment, including the
history of violence and the nature of threats and substance abuse.
   (E) A minimum of eight hours in group content areas focusing on
gender roles and socialization, the nature of violence, the dynamics of
power and control, and the affects of abuse on children and others as
required by Section 1203.097.
   (F) A minimum of four hours in group facilitation.
   (G) A minimum of four hours in domestic violence and the law,
ethics, all requirements specified by the probation department pursuant
to Section 1203.097, and the role of batterers’ intervention programs in
a coordinated-community response.
   (H) Any person that provides documentation of coursework, or
equivalent training, that he or she has satisfactorily completed, shall be
exempt from that part of the training that was covered by the
satisfactorily completed coursework.
   (I) The coursework that this person performs shall count towards the
continuing education requirement.
   (2) Fifty-two weeks or no less than 104 hours in six months, as a
trainee in an approved batterers’ intervention program with a minimum
[Ch. 544 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3703

of a two-hour group each week. A training program shall include at least
one of the following:
   (A) Cofacilitation internship in which an experienced facilitator is
present in the room during the group session.
   (B) Observation by a trainer of the trainee conducting a group session
via a one-way mirror.
   (C) Observation by a trainer of the trainee conducting a group session
via a video or audio tape.
   (D) Consultation and or supervision twice a week in a six-month
program or once a week in a 52-week program.
   (3) An experienced facilitator is one who has the following
qualifications:
   (A) Documentation on file, approved by the agency, evidencing that
the experienced facilitator has the skills needed to provide quality
supervision and training.
   (B) Documented experience working with batterers for three years,
and a minimum of two years working with batterer’s groups.
   (C) Documentation by January 1, 2003, of coursework or equivalent
training that demonstrates satisfactory completion of the 40-hour
basic-core training.
   (b) A facilitator of a batterers’ intervention program shall complete,
as a minimum continuing education requirement, 16 hours annually of
continuing education in either domestic violence or a related field with
a minimum of 8 hours in domestic violence.
   (c) A person or agency with a specific hardship may request the
probation department, in writing, for an extension of time to complete
the training or to complete alternative training options.
   (d) (1) An experienced facilitator, as defined in paragraph (3) of
subdivision (a), is not subject to the supervision requirements of this
section, if they meet the requirements of subparagraph (C) of paragraph
(3) of subdivision (a).
   (2) This section does not apply to a person who provides batterers’
treatment through a jail education program if the person in charge of that
program determines that such person has adequate education or training
in domestic violence or a related field.
   (e) A person who satisfactorily completes the training requirements
of a county probation department whose training program is equivalent
to or exceeds the training requirements of this act shall be exempt from
the training requirements of this act.
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
 3704                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 545 ]
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                            CHAPTER 545

   An act to amend Sections 1203.1d and 1214 of the Penal Code, and
to amend Section 19280 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to
fines.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 1203.1d of the Penal Code is amended to read:
  1203.1d. In determining the amount and manner of disbursement
under an order made pursuant to this code requiring a defendant to make
reparation or restitution to a victim of a crime, to pay any money as
reimbursement for legal assistance provided by the court, to pay any cost
of probation or probation investigation, to pay any cost of jail or other
confinement, or to pay any other reimbursable costs, the court, after
determining the amount of any fine and penalty assessments, and a
county financial evaluation officer when making a financial evaluation,
shall first determine the amount of restitution to be ordered paid to any
victim, and shall then determine the amount of the other reimbursable
costs.
  If payment is made in full, the payment shall be apportioned and
disbursed in the amounts ordered by the court.
  If reasonable and compatible with the defendant’s financial ability, the
court may order payments to be made in installments.
  With respect to installment payments and amounts collected by the
Franchise Tax Board pursuant to Section 19280 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and subsequently transferred by the Controller pursuant
to Section 19282 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, the board of
supervisors shall establish the priorities of payment, first between fines,
penalty assessments, and reparation or restitution, and then between
other reimbursable costs. The board of supervisors may establish
priorities of payment between orders or parts of orders in cases where
defendants have been ordered to pay more than one court order.
  Documentary evidence, such as bills, receipts, repair estimates,
insurance payment statements, payroll stubs, business records, and
similar documents relevant to the value of the stolen or damaged
[Ch. 545 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3705

property, medical expenses, and wages and profits lost shall not be
excluded as hearsay evidence.
   SEC. 2. Section 1214 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   1214. (a) If the judgment is for a fine, including a restitution fine
ordered pursuant to Section 1202.4 or Section 1203.04 as operative on
or before August 2, 1995, or Section 13967 of the Government Code, as
operative on or before September 28, 1994, with or without
imprisonment, the judgment may be enforced in the manner provided for
the enforcement of money judgments generally. Any portion of a
restitution fine that remains unsatisfied after a defendant is no longer on
probation or parole is enforceable by the State Board of Control pursuant
to this section. Notwithstanding any other provision of law prohibiting
disclosure, the state, as defined in Section 900.6 of the Government
Code, a local public entity, as defined in Section 900.4 of the
Government Code, or any other entity, may provide the State Board of
Control any and all information to assist in the collection of unpaid
portions of a restitution fine for terminated probation or parole cases. For
purposes of the preceding sentence, ‘‘state, as defined in Section 900.6
of the Government Code,’’ and ‘‘any other entity’’ shall not include the
Franchise Tax Board.
   (b) In any case in which a defendant is ordered to pay restitution, the
order to pay restitution (1) is deemed a money judgment if the defendant
was informed of his or her right to have a judicial determination of the
amount and was provided with a hearing, waived a hearing, or stipulated
to the amount of the restitution ordered, and (2) shall be fully enforceable
by a victim as if the restitution order were a civil judgment, and
enforceable in the same manner as is provided for the enforcement of any
other money judgment. Upon the victim’s request, the court shall
provide the victim in whose favor the order of restitution is entered with
a certified copy of that order and a copy of the defendant’s disclosure
pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (f) of Section 1202.4, affidavit
or information pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (f) of Section
1202.4, or report pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (f) of Section
1202.4. The court also shall provide this information to the district
attorney upon request in connection with an investigation or prosecution
involving perjury or the veracity of the information contained within the
defendant’s financial disclosure. In addition, upon request, the court
shall provide the State Board of Control with a certified copy of any
order imposing a restitution fine or order and a copy of the defendant’s
disclosure pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (f) of Section 1202.4,
affidavit or information pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (f) of
Section 1202.4, or report pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (f) of
Section 1202.4. A victim shall have access to all resources available
under the law to enforce the restitution order, including, but not limited
 3706                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 545 ]
to, access to the defendant’s financial records, use of wage garnishment
and lien procedures, information regarding the defendant’s assets, and
the ability to apply for restitution from any fund established for the
purpose of compensating victims in civil cases. Any portion of a
restitution order that remains unsatisfied after a defendant is no longer
on probation or parole is enforceable by the victim pursuant to this
section. Victims and the State Board of Control shall inform the court
whenever an order to pay restitution is satisfied.
   (c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), and notwithstanding the
amount in controversy limitation of Section 85 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, a restitution order or restitution fine that was imposed
pursuant to Section 1202.4 by a municipal court, or by the superior court
acting pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 1462, may be enforced in
the same manner as a money judgment in a limited civil case.
   (d) Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 683.010) of Division 1 of
Title 9 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall not apply to a
judgment for any fine or restitution ordered pursuant to Section 1202.4
or Section 1203.04 as operative on or before August 2, 1995, or Section
13967 of the Government Code, as operative on or before September 28,
1994.
   (e) (1) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2000, and
shall be applicable to all courts, except when all of the following apply:
   (A) A majority of judges of a court apply to the Judicial Council for
an extension.
   (B) The judicial application described in paragraph (1) documents the
need for time to adjust restitution procedures and practices, as well as to
facilitate judicial education and training in direct restitution to victims
under subdivision (f) of Section 1202.4.
   (C) The Judicial Council grants the extension upon finding good
cause.
   (2) Upon the grant of an extension pursuant to the application of a
court under this subdivision, the provisions of former Section 1202.4
shall continue to apply with respect to that court. The extension may be
for any period of time set by the Judicial Council, but shall not exceed
January 1, 2002, in any case.
   SEC. 3. Section 19280 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   19280. (a) (1) Fines, state or local penalties, forfeitures, restitution
fines, restitution orders, or any other amounts imposed by a superior or
municipal court of the State of California upon a person or any other
entity that is due and payable in an amount totaling no less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250), in the aggregate, for criminal offenses,
including all offenses involving a violation of the Vehicle Code, except
offenses relating to parking or registration or offenses by pedestrians or
[Ch. 545 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3707

bicyclists, may, no sooner than 90 days after payment of that amount
becomes delinquent, be referred by the county or the state to the
Franchise Tax Board for collection under guidelines prescribed by the
Franchise Tax Board.
   (2) For purposes of this subdivision:
   (A) The amounts referred by the county or state under this section
may include any amounts that a government entity may add to the
court-imposed obligation as a result of the underlying offense, trial, or
conviction. For purposes of this article, those amounts shall be deemed
to be imposed by the court.
   (B) Restitution orders may be referred to the Franchise Tax Board
only by a government entity, as agreed upon by the Franchise Tax Board,
provided that all of the following apply:
   (i) The government entity has the authority to collect on behalf of the
state or the victim.
   (ii) The government entity shall be responsible for distributing the
restitution order collections, as appropriate.
   (iii) The government entity shall ensure, in making the referrals and
distributions, that it coordinates with any other related collection
activities that may occur by counties or other state agencies.
   (iv) The government entity shall ensure compliance with laws
relating to the reimbursement of the State Restitution Fund.
   (C) The Franchise Tax Board shall establish criteria for referral,
which shall include setting forth a minimum dollar amount subject to
referral and collection.
   (b) For the period January 1, 1995, to December 31, 1997, inclusive,
for purposes of a manageable implementation and evaluation of the
program authorized by this article, the Franchise Tax Board may limit
referrals to nine counties.
   (c) Upon written notice to the debtor from the Franchise Tax Board,
any amount referred to the Franchise Tax Board under subdivision (a)
and any interest thereon, including any interest on the amount referred
under subdivision (a) that accrued prior to the date of referral, shall be
treated as final and due and payable to the State of California, and shall
be collected from the obligor by the Franchise Tax Board in any manner
authorized under the law for collection of a delinquent personal income
tax liability, including, but not limited to, issuance of an order and levy
under Article 4 (commencing with Section 706.070) of Chapter 5 of
Division 2 of Title 9 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure in the
manner provided for earnings withholding orders for taxes.
   (d) (1) Part 10 (commencing with Section 17001), this part, Part 10.7
(commencing with Section 21001), and Part 11 (commencing with
Section 23001) shall apply to amounts referred under this article in the
same manner and with the same force and effect and to the full extent as
 3708                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 545 ]
if the language of those laws had been incorporated in full into this
article, except to the extent that any provision is either inconsistent with
this article or is not relevant to this article.
   (2) Any information, information sources, or enforcement remedies
and capabilities available to the court or the state referring to the amount
due described in subdivision (a), shall be available to the Franchise Tax
Board to be used in conjunction with, or independent of, the information,
information sources, or remedies and capabilities available to the
Franchise Tax Board for purposes of administering Part 10
(commencing with Section 17001), this part, Part 10.7 (commencing
with Section 21001), or Part 11 (commencing with Section 23001).
   (e) The activities required to implement and administer this part shall
not interfere with the primary mission of the Franchise Tax Board to
administer Part 10 (commencing with Section 17001) and Part 11
(commencing with Section 23001).
   (f) For amounts referred for collection under subdivision (a), interest
shall accrue at the greater of the rate applicable to the amount due being
collected or the rate provided under Section 19521. When notice of the
amount due includes interest and is mailed to the obligor and the amount
is paid within 15 days after the date of notice, interest shall not be
imposed for the period after the date of notice.
   (g) In no event shall a collection under this article be construed as a
payment of income taxes imposed under Part 10 (commencing with
Section 17001) or Part 11 (commencing with Section 23001).
   SEC. 4. (a) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of
Section 19280 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, restitution fines
imposed by a superior or municipal court of the State of California upon
a person or any other entity that are enforceable by the State Board of
Control and are due and payable in an amount totaling no less than one
hundred dollars ($100), in the aggregate, for criminal offenses, including
all offenses involving a violation of the Vehicle Code, except offenses
relating to parking or registration or offenses by pedestrians or bicyclists
may be referred by the State Board of Control to the Franchise Tax Board
for collection under guidelines prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board.
The debt collection caseload may be limited based on the current
capacity of the Franchise Tax Board.
   (b) Subdivision (a) shall be implemented as a pilot project, subject to
the approval of the Director of the Department of Finance.
   (c) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 5. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
[Ch. 546 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3709

districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 546

   An act to repeal Section 8101 of the Health and Safety Code, and to
amend Section 594.3 of, and to add Section 594.35 to the Penal Code,
relating to vandalism.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8101 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 2. Section 594.3 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   594.3. (a) Any person who knowingly commits any act of
vandalism to a church, synagogue, building owned and occupied by a
religious educational institution, or other place primarily used as a place
of worship where religious services are regularly conducted or a
cemetery is guilty of a crime punishable by imprisonment in the state
prison or by imprisonment in the county jail for not exceeding one year.
   (b) Any person who knowingly commits any act of vandalism to a
church, synagogue, building owned and occupied by a religious
educational institution, or other place primarily used as a place of
worship where religious services are regularly conducted or a cemetery,
which is shown to have been committed by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another individual or group of individuals
and to have been committed for the purpose of intimidating and deterring
persons from freely exercising their religious beliefs, is guilty of a felony
punishable by imprisonment in the state prison.
   SEC. 3. Section 594.35 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   594.35. Every person is guilty of a crime and punishable by
imprisonment in the state prison or by imprisonment in a county jail for
not exceeding one year, who maliciously does any of the following:
   (a) Destroys, cuts, mutilates, effaces, or otherwise injures, tears
down, or removes any tomb, monument, memorial, or marker in a
cemetery, or any gate, door, fence, wall, post or railing, or any inclosure
 3710                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 547 ]
for the protection of a cemetery or mortuary or any property in a
cemetery or mortuary.
  (b) Obliterates any grave, vault, niche, or crypt.
  (c) Destroys, cuts, breaks or injures any mortuary building or any
building, statuary, or ornamentation within the limits of a cemetery.
  (d) Disturbs, obstructs, detains or interferes with any person carrying
or accompanying human remains to a cemetery or funeral establishment,
or engaged in a funeral service, or an interment.
  SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 547

  An act to add Section 8300 to the Education Code, relating to child
care and development.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8300 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   8300. (a) The Legislature recognizes the importance of providing
quality child care services. It is, therefore, the intent of the Legislature
to assist counties in improving the retention of qualified child care
employees who work directly with children who receive state subsidized
child care services.
   (b) The funds appropriated for the purposes of this section by
paragraph (11) of schedule (b) of Item 6110-196-0001 of Section 2.00
of the Budget Act of 2000 (Ch. 52, Stats. 2000), and that are described
in subdivision (i) of Provision 7 of that item, shall be allocated to local
child care and development planning councils based on the percentage
of state-subsidized, center-based child care funds received in that county,
and shall be used to address the retention of qualified child care
employees in state-subsidized child care centers. Additionally, funds
may be allocated annually thereafter for these purposes.
[Ch. 548 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3711

   (c) The State Department of Education shall develop guidelines for
use by local child care and development planning councils in developing
county plans for the expenditure of funds allocated pursuant to this
section. These guidelines shall be consistent with the department’s
assessment of the current needs of the subsidized child care workforce,
and shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary for Education and
the Department of Finance. Any county plan developed pursuant to these
guidelines shall be approved by the State Department of Education prior
to the allocation of funds to the local child care and development
planning council.
   (d) Funds provided to a county for the purposes of this section shall
be used in accordance with the plan approved pursuant to subdivision
(c). A county with an approved plan may retain up to 1 percent of the
county’s total allocation made pursuant to this section for
reimbursement of administrative expenses associated with the planning
process.
   (e) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall provide an annual
report, no later than April 10 of each year, to the Legislature, the
Secretary for Education, the Department of Finance, and the Governor
that includes, but is not limited to, a summary of the distribution of the
funds by county and a description of the use of the funds.



                             CHAPTER 548

 An act to add Sections 8290, 8290.1, and 8290.2 to the Education
Code, relating to child care facilities.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8290 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   8290. The Legislature finds and declares the following:
   (a) There is a serious shortage of quality child day care facilities
throughout the state.
   (b) It is in the interest of the state’s children and families, and the
state’s economic growth, to encourage the expansion of existing child
day care facilities by assisting communities and interested government
and private entities to finance child day care facilities.
   (c) In addition to regional resource centers described in Provision
7(d) of Item 6110-196-0001 of the Budget Act of 1999, which focus on
developing child care capacity in underserved areas of the state, there is
 3712                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 548 ]
a need to access capital for facilities on a systematic basis, especially to
use limited public sector funds to leverage a greater private sector role
in financing child day care facilities. The Legislature finds and declares
that a financial intermediary could fill this role and support the regional
resource centers and other local entities that work with potential
providers by functioning as a centralized repository of training, best
practices, and expertise on facilities financing.
   SEC. 2. Section 8290.1 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   8290.1. (a) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall contract
with a nonprofit organization to serve as a financial intermediary. The
nonprofit organization shall have staff who have expertise in financing
and capital expansion, are knowledgeable about the child care field, and
have the ability to develop and implement a plan to increase the
availability of financing to renovate, expand, and construct child day
care facilities, both in day care centers and family day care homes.
   (b) The financial intermediary selected by the Superintendent of
Public Instruction shall undertake activities designed to increase funds
available from the private and public sectors for the financing of child
day care facilities. These activities shall include, but are not limited to,
all of the following:
   (1) Soliciting capital grants and program-related investments from
foundations and corporations.
   (2) Building partnerships with foundations and corporations.
   (3) Developing lending commitments, linked deposits, and other
financing programs with conventional financial institutions.
   (4) Coordinating private sources of capital with existing public sector
sources of financing for child day care facilities, including, but not
limited to, the Department of Housing and Community Development
and the California Infrastructure and Economic Development Bank.
   (5) Coordinating financing efforts with the technical assistance
provided by the regional resource centers described in Provision 7(d) of
Item 6110-196-0001 of the Budget Act of 1999, and other local entities
that work with potential providers.
   (c) This section shall only be implemented to the extent that funds are
appropriated for this purpose in the annual Budget Act.
   SEC. 3. Section 8290.2 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   8290.2. (a) Pursuant to funding made available in subdivision (d)
of Provision 7 of Item 6110-196-001 of the Budget Act of 2000, the
Superintendent of Public Instruction shall contract for a financial
intermediary, pursuant to Section 8290.1, by January 1, 2001.
   (b) The financial intermediary, during its first six months of
operation, shall do all of the following:
   (1) Create and publicize an 800 technical assistance telephone service
number.
[Ch. 549 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3713

  (2) Provide financial development training for agencies at the local
level including, but not limited to, Regional Resource Centers, Resource
and Referral Agencies, and local child care planning councils that are
assisting existing and potential providers renovate, expand, build or
purchase facilities.
  (3) Determine the financing barriers and impediments to the
development of child care facilities, especially in underserved areas of
the state.
  (4) Identify funding sources that may be leveraged by the state, and
partnerships with the philanthropic and corporate sectors that may be
established, with the goal of increasing funding available for child care
facilities for California’s CalWORKs and low-income families.
  (c) The financial intermediary shall prepare a report with
recommendations on the above for the Superintendent of Public
Instruction by August 31, 2001. The Superintendent of Public
Instruction shall submit the report, along with any State Department of
Education comments or recommendations to the policy and fiscal
committees of the Legislature and to the Governor by September 30,
2001.



                             CHAPTER 549

   An act to add Section 1596.8712 to the Health and Safety Code,
relating to child care facilities.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature:
  (a) To protect children in licensed child day care facilities from
individuals with criminal backgrounds, who may pose a risk to the
health and safety of children.
  (b) To protect the health and safety of children, by notifying parents
and guardians who utilize the services of a licensed family day care home
whenever an individual or individuals have been excluded by the State
Department of Social Services, pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section
1596.8897, from working or being present in the facility.
  (c) To provide parents and guardians with the ability to make
informed decisions regarding the health and safety of their children.
 3714                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 549 ]
   (d) To enable parents and guardians to monitor the presence of
individuals who are not authorized to be present at these facilities, so that
violations may be reported to and investigated by the department.
   SEC. 2. Section 1596.8712 is added to the Health and Safety Code,
to read:
   1596.8712. (a) (1) Whenever an individual is excluded by the
department from a licensed family day care home, the department shall
prepare and provide to the licensed family day care home from which the
individual was excluded, within 45 days, an addendum to the
notification of parents’ rights form required by Section 102419 of Title
22 of the California Code of Regulations, clearly identifying the name
or names of any individual or individuals who have been excluded from
the licensed family day care home. The addendum shall also identify the
existence and location of a public file maintained by the department
explaining the reason for the exclusion.
   (2) The department shall revise the addendum if the excluded
individual is reinstated by the department pursuant to Section 11522 of
the Government Code.
   (b) (1) Immediately upon receipt of an addendum from the
department, the licensee shall provide the parent or guardian of each
child under the licensee’s care or supervision with a copy of the
addendum identifying the excluded individual or individuals. The
licensee shall also obtain the signature of the parent or guardian
indicating that the parent or guardian has received a copy of the
addendum. A signed copy of the addendum shall be provided to the
parent or guardian, and the original signed addendum shall be retained
by the licensed day care home provider, and provided to the department
during the regular inspection of the home, or at any time upon the request
of the department.
   (2) This section shall apply to all children currently under the
licensee’s care or supervision, and to all children who come under the
licensee’s care or supervision after the implementation of this section.
   (c) During its regular inspection of all licensed family day care homes
where an individual or individuals have been excluded, the department
shall verify that the licensee has obtained a signature from the parent or
guardian of each child under the licensee’s care or supervision indicating
that the parent or guardian has been provided with the addendum
identifying the excluded individual or individuals. The department may
also request the signed addenda from the licensee at any time.
   (d) A licensee shall be assessed an immediate civil penalty of one
hundred dollars ($100) per violation, for failure to do any of the
following:
   (1) Provide a copy of the addendum to a parent or guardian of any
child under the provider’s care or supervision.
[Ch. 550 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3715

  (2) Obtain a parent or guardian’s signature indicating he or she has
been provided with the addendum.
  (3) Provide signed addenda to the department, when requested for all
children under the provider’s care.
  (e) Failure to comply with this section shall constitute grounds for
disciplining the licensee pursuant to Section 1596.885 or Section
1596.886.
  (f) This section shall apply to any family day care home from which
an individual is excluded after January 1, 2001.
  (g) The department shall promulgate regulations and policies, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this section by January 1,
2002.



                             CHAPTER 550

   An act to add Section 115736 to the Health and Safety Code, relating
to playground safety.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. (a) The Legislature finds and declares that in 1997,
the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission issued its latest
edition of the handbook for public playground safety as a detailed
working blueprint to help local communities, schools, day care centers,
corporations, and other groups to build safe public playgrounds.
Because many factors may affect playground safety, the commission has
stated that guidelines, rather than mandatory rules, are appropriate.
However, in 1990, the Legislature passed legislation, signed into law by
Governor Deukmejian, requiring the State Department of Health
Services to adopt mandatory minimum safety requirements for public
playgrounds that are ‘‘at least as protective as the guidelines in the
handbook for public playground safety produced by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission...and shall include more
protective requirements where the State Department of Health Services
finds those guidelines will provide inadequate protection.’’ The 1990
legislation specified that there should be special provisions for
playgrounds in day care settings.
   (b) It is the intent of the Legislature to enact legislation to require the
State Department of Social Services to adopt regulations for playground
 3716                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 551 ]
safety that include special provisions for playgrounds in child care
centers.
   SEC. 2. Section 115736 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   115736. (a) The State Department of Social Services shall convene
a working group to develop recommendations for minimum safety
requirements for playgrounds at child care centers.
   (b) The working group shall include, but not be limited to, child care
center operators, including representatives of the Professional
Association for Childhood Education, the California Child Care Health
Program, the Children’s Advocacy Institute, the State Department of
Health Services, and certified playground inspectors.
   (c) The working group shall use the national guidelines published by
the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission and those
regulations adopted pursuant to this article as a reference in developing
its recommendations. However, the Department of Social Services shall
determine minimum safety requirements that are protective of child
health on playgrounds at child care centers.
   (d) The working group shall submit its playground safety
recommendations to the State Department of Social Services by
September 1, 2001.
   (e) The working group shall submit its recommendations to the
Legislature by November 1, 2001.



                            CHAPTER 551

  An act to amend Section 798.33 of, and to add Section 1360.5 to, the
Civil Code, relating to civil law.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 798.33 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
  798.33. (a) No lease agreement entered into, modified, or renewed
on or after January 1, 2001, shall prohibit a homeowner from keeping at
least one pet within the park, subject to reasonable rules and regulations
of the park. This section may not be construed to affect any other rights
provided by law to a homeowner to keep a pet within the park.
  (b) A homeowner shall not be charged a fee for keeping a pet in the
park unless the management actually provides special facilities or
services for pets. If special pet facilities are maintained by the
[Ch. 552 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3717

management, the fee charged shall reasonably relate to the cost of
maintenance of the facilities or services and the number of pets kept in
the park.
   (c) For purposes of this section, ‘‘pet’’ means any domesticated bird,
cat, dog, aquatic animal kept within an aquarium, or other animal as
agreed to between the management and the homeowner.
   SEC. 2. Section 1360.5 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
   1360.5. (a) No governing documents shall prohibit the owner of a
separate interest within a common interest development from keeping
at least one pet within the common interest development, subject to
reasonable rules and regulations of the association. This section may not
be construed to affect any other rights provided by law to an owner of
a separate interest to keep a pet within the development.
   (b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘pet’’ means any domesticated bird,
cat, dog, aquatic animal kept within an aquarium, or other animal as
agreed to between the association and the homeowner.
   (d) If the association implements a rule or regulation restricting the
number of pets an owner may keep, the new rule or regulation shall not
apply to prohibit an owner from continuing to keep any pet that the
owner currently keeps in his or her separate interest if the pet otherwise
conforms with the previous rules or regulations relating to pets.
   (e) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘governing documents’’ shall
include, but are not limited to, the conditions, covenants, and restrictions
of the common interest development, and the bylaws, rules, and
regulations of the association.
   (f) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2001, and shall
only apply to governing documents entered into, amended, or otherwise
modified on or after that date.



                             CHAPTER 552

 An act to add and repeal Section 33334.25 of the Health and Safety
Code, relating to redevelopment.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 33334.25 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
  33334.25. (a) The Legislature finds and declares all of the
following:
 3718                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 552 ]
   (1) The transfer of funds to a joint powers authority and the use of
pooled funds within the housing market area of the participating
agencies for the purpose of providing affordable housing is of benefit to
the project area producing the tax increment.
   (2) The cost and availability of land, geophysical and environmental
limitations, community patterns, and the lack of financing make the
availability of affordable housing more difficult in some communities.
   (3) The cooperation of local agencies and the use of pooled funds will
result in more resources than would otherwise be available for affordable
housing.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, contiguous agencies
located within adjoining cities within a single Metropolitan Statistical
Area (MSA) may create and participate in a joint powers authority for
the purpose of pooling their low- and moderate-income housing funds
for affordable housing uses. Agencies may transfer a portion of their
housing funds to a joint powers authority for use by the joint powers
authority pursuant to this section. The joint powers authority may
determine the kinds of housing projects or activities to be assisted,
consistent with this section. The joint powers authority may loan, grant,
or advance transferred housing funds from participating agencies to a
receiving entity for any eligible housing development within the
participating agency’s jurisdiction, subject to the requirements of this
section. In addition, the agreement may authorize the joint powers
authority to issue bonds and to use the pooled funds to leverage other
funds to assist eligible developments, including loans from private
institutions and assistance provided by other governmental agencies.
   (c) Each of the following conditions shall be met and described in a
mutually binding agreement between the joint powers authority and
each participating agency:
   (1) The community of each participating agency shall have adopted
up-to-date housing elements pursuant to Article 10.6 (commencing with
Section 65580) of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code, and the
housing elements have been determined to be in compliance with the law
by the Department of Housing and Community Development.
   (2) The community of each participating agency shall have met, in its
current or previous housing element cycle, 50 percent or more of its share
of the region’s affordable housing needs, as defined in Section 65584 of
the Government Code, in the very low and lower income categories of
income groups defined in Section 50025.5.
   (3) Each participating agency shall hold, at least 45 days prior to the
transfer of funds to the joint powers authority, a public hearing, after
providing notice pursuant to Section 6062 of the Government Code to
solicit public comments on the draft agreement.
[Ch. 552 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3719

   (4) No housing funds shall be transferred from a project area that has
an indebtedness to its low- and moderate-income housing fund pursuant
to Section 33334.6.
   (5) No housing funds shall be transferred from an agency that has not
met its need for replacement housing pursuant to Section 33413, unless
the agency has encumbered and contractually committed sufficient
funds to meet those requirements.
   (6) Pooled funds shall be used within the participating agencies’
jurisdictions.
   (7) The agreement shall require compliance by the joint powers
authority with the provisions of this section.
   (8) The joint powers authority shall ensure that the funds it receives
are used in accordance with the requirements of this section.
   (9) Funds transferred by an agency to a joint powers authority
pursuant to this section shall be expended or encumbered by the joint
powers authority for the purposes of this section within two years of the
transfer. Transferred funds not so expended or encumbered by the joint
powers authority within two years after the transfer shall be returned to
the original agency and shall be deemed excess surplus funds as
provided in, and subject to, the requirements of Sections 33334.10 and
33334.12. Excess surplus funds held by an agency may not be
transferred to a joint powers authority.
   (10) The joint powers authority shall prepare and submit an annual
report to the department that documents the amount of housing funds
received and expended or allocated for specific housing assistance
activities consistent with Sections 33080.4.
   (d) Each of the following conditions shall be met and described in a
mutually binding contract between the joint powers authority and a
receiving entity:
   (1) Pooled housing funds may only be used to pay for the direct costs
of constructing, substantially rehabilitating, or preserving the
affordability of housing units that are affordable to very low or low
income households. Units assisted with pooled funds shall remain
available at affordable housing costs in accordance with subdivision (f)
of Section 33334.3.
   (2) Except as provided in this section, pooled housing funds may not
be used in any way that is inconsistent with the requirements of Section
33334.3. Pooled housing funds may not be used to pay for planning and
administrative costs, offsite improvements associated with a housing
project, or fees or exactions levied solely for development projects
constructed, substantially rehabilitated, or preserved with pooled funds.
The receiving entity shall be subject to the same replacement
requirements provided in Section 33413 and any relocation
 3720                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 552 ]
requirements applicable pursuant to Section 7260 of the Government
Code.
   (3) The joint powers authority shall make findings, based on
substantial evidence on the record, that each proposed use of pooled
funds will not exacerbate racial or economic segregation.
   (4) The Department of Housing and Community Development has
evaluated each proposed use of pooled funds to construct, substantially
rehabilitate, or preserve the affordability of housing and determined that
the proposed use is in compliance with this section. In considering
whether a proposed use of funds will exacerbate racial or economic
segregation, the department shall consider all of the following:
   (A) The record of participating jurisdictions in meeting their share of
the regional need for low and very low income households allocated to
the jurisdiction pursuant to Section 65584 of the Government Code.
   (B) The distance of the proposed housing from a redevelopment area
from which pooled funds originated.
   (C) The income and ethnicity of the residents of the census tract from
which the pooled funds originated and in which the housing will be
located.
   (D) The housing need and availability of sufficient site for housing
within jurisdictions from which pooled funds originated.
   (e) As used in this section, the following terms shall apply:
   (1) ‘‘Housing funds’’ mean funds in or from the low- and
moderate-income housing fund established by an agency pursuant to
Section 33334.3.
   (2) ‘‘Joint powers authority’’ means a joint powers authority created
pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 6500) of Division 7 of
Title 1 of the Government Code for the purposes of receiving and using
housing funds pursuant to this section.
   (3) ‘‘Receiving entity’’ means any person, partnership, joint venture,
corporation, governmental body, or other organization receiving
housing funds from a joint powers authority for the purpose of providing
housing pursuant to this section.
   (f) On or after January 1, 2008, no participating agency shall create
a new joint powers authority or transfer funds to an existing joint powers
authority pursuant to this section, unless a later enacted statute, which
is enacted before January 1, 2008, deletes or extends that date.
   (g) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2010, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
on or before January 1, 2010, deletes or extends that date.
[Ch. 553 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3721

                             CHAPTER 553

  An act to amend Sections 50083, 50086, 50960, and 51331 of, and to
add Section 50076.6 to, the Health and Safety Code, relating to housing.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 50076.6 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
   50076.6. ‘‘Loan,’’ for purposes of provisions relating to the agency,
means an obligation to repay funds advanced by the agency for the
purpose of financing housing that is evidenced by a promissory note or
other instrument in writing and that may or may not be secured by real
or personal property.
   SEC. 2. Section 50083 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   50083. ‘‘Mortgage’’ means a mortgage, deed of trust, or other
instrument that may be a lien on real property. ‘‘Mortgage’’ includes the
note secured by such an instrument.
   SEC. 3. Section 50086 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   50086. ‘‘Mortgage loan’’ means a loan that is secured by a mortgage
and is made for financing, including refinancing of existing mortgage
obligations as authorized by regulation of the agency, to create or
preserve the long-term affordability of a housing development or a
residential structure in the state, or a buy-down mortgage loan secured
by a mortgage as authorized by regulation of the agency, of an
owner-occupied unit in this state.
   SEC. 4. Section 50960 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   50960. A loan document for a loan that is not secured by real
property and is made to a person, not including a firm, association,
partnership, organization, corporation, limited liability company, or
other group, however formed, shall state that the loan is a recourse
obligation and that the personal property of the borrower may be subject
to or sold pursuant to a lien in order to pay the obligation.
   SEC. 5. Section 51331 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   51331. Subject only to the limitations prescribed in this chapter, the
agency, in addition to any other power conferred by this part with respect
to multifamily rental housing and housing developments, may make or
undertake commitments to make loans to housing sponsors to finance
 3722                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 554 ]
the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, refinancing, or
development of multifamily rental housing. For this purpose, the agency
shall enter into regulatory contracts and other agreements with housing
sponsors receiving loans pursuant to this chapter to ensure compliance
with this chapter.



                            CHAPTER 554

 An act to add Section 798.73.5 to the Civil Code, relating to
mobilehome parks.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 798.73.5 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
   798.73.5. (a) In the case of a sale or transfer of a mobilehome that
will remain in the park, the management may only require repairs or
improvements to the mobilehome, its appurtenances, or an accessory
structure that meet all of the following conditions:
   (1) Except as provided by Section 798.83, the repair or improvement
is to the mobilehome, its appurtenances, or an accessory structure that
is not owned and installed by the management.
   (2) The repair or improvement is based upon or is required by a local
ordinance or state statute or regulation relating to mobilehomes, or a rule
or regulation of the mobilehome park that implements or enforces a local
ordinance or a state statute or regulation relating to mobilehomes.
   (3) The repair or improvement relates to the exterior of the
mobilehome, its appurtenances, or an accessory structure that is not
owned and installed by the management.
   (b) The management, in the case of sale or transfer of a mobilehome
that will remain in the park, shall provide a homeowner with a written
summary of repairs or improvements that management requires to the
mobilehome, its appurtenances, or an accessory structure that is not
owned and installed by the management no later than 10 business days
following the receipt of a request for this information, as part of the
notice required by Section 798.59. This summary shall include specific
references to park rules and regulations, local ordinances, and state
statutes and regulations relating to mobilehomes upon which the request
for repair or improvement is based.
   (c) The provisions of this section enacted at the 1999–2000 Regular
Session of the Legislature are declarative of existing law as they pertain
[Ch. 555 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3723

to allowing park management to enforce park rules and regulations;
these provisions specifically limit repairs and improvements that can be
required of a homeowner by park management at the time of sale or
transfer to the same repairs and improvements that can be required
during any other time of a residency.



                             CHAPTER 555

  An act to amend Sections 18050.7 and 18070.3 of the Health and
Safety Code, relating to mobilehomes.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 18050.7 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   18050.7. In addition to any other requirements imposed by this part
or regulations of the department, the department shall not grant an initial
manufactured home or mobilehome dealer’s license to any applicant
who has not satisfied all of the education and experience requirements
contained in this section. If the applicant for a manufactured home or
mobilehome dealer’s license is a partnership, corporation, or other
business entity, each person designated to participate in the direction,
control, or management of the sales operation of the entity shall meet all
of the education and experience requirements contained in this section
prior to issuance of a manufactured home or mobilehome dealer’s
license by the department.
   (a) The applicant either shall have held a valid manufactured home or
mobilehome salesperson’s license issued by the department for at least
two years within the five-year period immediately preceding the
application for an initial manufactured home or mobilehome dealer’s
license, or shall meet any of the following criteria:
   (1) Has acquired a four-year degree from an accredited college or
university.
   (2) Has held a valid manufactured home or mobilehome
salesperson’s license issued by the department for one year in the past
three years and acquired an associate of arts or associate of science
degree from an accredited college.
   (3) Has been the officer of the corporation, owner or partner of, or has
held a management position relating to finance, marketing,
administration, or general management with, a manufacturer of
 3724                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 555 ]
manufactured housing in any state for two years within the five years
immediately preceding application for an initial manufactured home or
mobilehome dealer’s license.
   (4) Holds a management position with a housing authority,
redevelopment agency, or nonprofit housing corporation which is
developing individual lots, a subdivision, or a park for the placement of
manufactured homes or mobilehomes.
   (5) Has been an escrow, title, or loan officer of a land title company,
bank, savings and loan association, or mortgage company in a capacity
directly related to financing or conveying title to manufactured housing
for two years within the five years immediately preceding application for
an initial manufactured home or mobilehome dealer’s license.
   (6) Has been a subdivider, developer, or contractor in any state for at
least two years within the five years immediately preceding application
for an initial manufactured home or mobilehome dealer’s license, during
which time the applicant developed or sold 10 lots or the equivalent.
   (7) Has been the officer of a corporation, the owner or partner of a
mobilehome park or mobilehome park management company in any
state for at least two years within the five years immediately preceding
the application for an initial manufactured home or mobilehome dealer’s
license.
   (8) Has held a manufactured home or mobilehome dealer’s license
from a state other than California for at least four years within the five
years immediately preceding the application for an initial manufactured
home or mobilehome dealer’s license, and has completed 24 hours of
continuing education class in California, in addition to the preliminary
education requirement of subdivision (b).
   (9) Has previously held a valid manufactured home or mobilehome
dealer’s license issued by the department, or was a person designated to
participate in the direction, control, or management of the sales
operations of a partnership, corporation, or other business entity that
previously held a valid manufactured home or mobilehome dealer’s
license issued by the department and the license has never been revoked
for cause, and never reissued, or suspended for cause and the terms of
suspension have not been fulfilled.
   (10) Has any combination of the above experience that would provide
at least two years of experience within the five years immediately
preceding the application for an initial manufactured home or
mobilehome dealer’s license. The two years of experience shall not be
concurrent.
   (b) The applicant shall have met the applicable preliminary education
requirements for the manufactured home or mobilehome dealer’s license
under paragraph (5) of subdivision (b) of Section 18056.2.
[Ch. 555 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3725

   (c) The department may adopt regulations, as necessary, to
implement this section.
   SEC. 2. Section 18070.3 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   18070.3. (a) When any person (1) who has purchased a
manufactured home for a personal or family residential or investment
purpose or (2) who has sold a manufactured home for a personal or
family residential or investment purpose, obtains a final judgment in any
court of competent jurisdiction against any manufactured home dealer,
salesperson, or other seller or purchaser, and the judgment is based on
the grounds of failure to honor warranties or guarantees, or for fraud, or
for willful misrepresentation of the kind or quality of the product sold
or purchased, or for conversion, arising directly out of any transaction
which occurs on or after January 1, 1985, the person, upon termination
of all proceedings, including appeals, may file a claim with the
department for an order directing payment out of the fund of the amount
of actual and direct loss in the transaction.
   (b) If any person either purchases a manufactured home used for a
personal or family residential or investment purpose from, or sells a
manufactured home used for a personal or family residential or
investment purpose to, a licensee who is or has been the subject of a
bankruptcy proceeding, the person may file a claim with the department
for an order directing payment out of the fund of the actual and direct loss
in the transaction based on the licensee’s failure to honor warranties or
guarantees, or for fraud, or for willful misrepresentation of the kind or
quality of product purchased or sold, or for conversion, arising directly
out of any transaction that occurs on or after January 1, 1985.
   (c) No person applying for recovery from the fund shall apply for
judgment on any bond issued prior to January 1, 1985.
   (d) ‘‘Actual and direct loss,’’ for purposes of this chapter, includes:
   (1) The amount of the actual and direct loss, plus court costs and
reasonable attorney fees incurred in pursuit of the judgment, not to
exceed 15 percent of the amount of the judgment, if the claim is based
on a judgment.
   (2) Only the amount of the actual and direct loss, if the claim is not
based on a judgment.
   (e) (1) The total amount of the claim shall not exceed the amount of
actual and direct loss that remains unreimbursed from any source.
   (2) The maximum payment ordered under this section, with respect
to any one sales transaction on a new or used manufactured home, shall
be the amount of the judgment plus attorney’s fees or, in the case of a
bankrupt licensee, the amount of the actual and direct loss, as determined
by the department based on information in the possession of the
department and information provided by the claimant or claimants. In
 3726                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 555 ]
no event shall the actual payments exceed seventy-five thousand dollars
(75,000).
   (3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a person who
purchases or sells a manufactured home for an investment purpose may
receive payment from the fund for that purpose only once. A person who
has received payment from the fund for the purchase or sale of a
manufactured home for an investment purpose shall henceforth be
ineligible to make a claim under this chapter, either as a natural person
or as a member of a partnership, as an officer or director of a corporation,
as a member of a marital community, or in any other capacity.
   (f) For the purposes of this chapter:
   (1) ‘‘Claimant’’ does not include a person holding a lien on, or a
person possessing a secondary interest in, a manufactured home.
   (2) ‘‘Conversion’’ means the unlawful appropriation of the property
of another.
   (g) Prior to payment of any claim against the fund, the claimant or
claimants shall have first:
   (1) If the claim is based on a final judgment, executed judgment
against all the assets of the judgment debtor or presented evidence
satisfactory to the department that the debtor is judgment proof.
   (2) If the claim is not based on a final judgment, presented evidence
satisfactory to the department that the licensee is or has been the subject
of bankruptcy proceedings and, for purposes of any civil litigation or
claims in bankruptcy proceedings, has assigned to the department any
interest in the actual and direct loss described in subdivision (d) in the
amount that the claimant or claimants recover from the fund.
   (h) A claim against the fund shall be filed with the department in
accordance with the following:
   (1) If the claim is based on a final judgment, within one year from the
date of the judgment.
   (2) If the claim is not based on a final judgment, within one year from
the termination of bankruptcy proceedings or one year from the date of
sale as determined by subdivision (a) of Section 18070.2, whichever
event occurs later.
   (i) When any person files a claim for an order directing payment from
the fund, the department shall conduct a review of the application and
other pertinent information in its possession, and it may issue an order
directing payment out of the fund as provided in subdivisions (a) to (h),
inclusive, subject to the limitations of subdivisions (a) to (h), inclusive,
if the claimant or claimants show all of the following:
   (1) That he or she is not a spouse of the judgment debtor, the bankrupt
licensee, or a person representing the spouse.
   (2) That he or she is making an application within the time specified
in subdivision (h).
[Ch. 556 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3727

   (3) That the claimant has satisfied the applicable requirements of
subdivision (g).
   (4) That, if the claimant is a seller of a manufactured home used by
the seller for personal, family, or household purposes, the claimant made
a good faith effort to adequately secure the debt resulting from the sale
of the manufactured home and with respect to which the claim is made.
For purposes of this paragraph, a good faith effort to secure the debt may
be demonstrated by, but shall not be limited to, providing the department
with a promissory note signed by the debtor and which, pursuant to the
terms thereof, is secured by collateral with a reasonable value at least
equal to the debt evidenced by the promissory note.
   (j) Upon an order of the department directing that payment be made
out of the fund, the Controller is authorized to draw a warrant for the
payment of the amount of the claim approved by the department
pursuant to this section.
   (k) In dispersing moneys from the fund, the department is authorized
to give priority to claimants who have attempted to purchase or sell a
manufactured home for a personal or family residential purpose.
   (l) Prior to July 1, 1995, the department shall completely process and
render determinations upon all claims to the fund that were received by
the department prior to January 1, 1993. All claims to the fund that are
received on or after January 1, 1993, shall be processed, and a
determination made, within one year of the original date of application.
   (m) The department, upon request by a Member of the Legislature,
shall provide the following information: the number of claims to the
fund, number of claims processed and decided within one year of their
application date, the amount of fund money paid to claimants, and the
amount of fund money allocated for the department’s costs.



                             CHAPTER 556

  An act to amend Section 65915 of the Government Code, relating to
housing.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 65915 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
  65915. (a) When a developer of housing proposes a housing
development within the jurisdiction of the local government, the city,
 3728                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 556 ]
county, or city and county shall provide the developer incentives for the
production of lower income housing units within the development if the
developer meets the requirements set forth in subdivisions (b) and (c).
The city, county, or city and county shall adopt an ordinance that shall
specify the method of providing developer incentives.
   (b) When a developer of housing agrees or proposes to construct at
least (1) 20 percent of the total units of a housing development for lower
income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and
Safety Code, or (2) 10 percent of the total units of a housing development
for very low income households, as defined in Section 50105 of the
Health and Safety Code, or (3) 50 percent of the total dwelling units of
a housing development for qualifying residents, as defined in Section
51.3 of the Civil Code, a city, county, or city and county shall either (1)
grant a density bonus and at least one of the concessions or incentives
identified in subdivision (h) unless the city, county, or city and county
makes a written finding that the additional concession or incentive is not
required in order to provide for affordable housing costs, as defined in
Section 50052.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or for rents for the
targeted units to be set as specified in subdivision (c), or (2) provide other
incentives of equivalent financial value based upon the land cost per
dwelling unit.
   (c) A developer shall agree to and the city, county, or city and county
shall ensure continued affordability of all lower income density bonus
units for 30 years or a longer period of time if required by the
construction or mortgage financing assistance program, mortgage
insurance program, or rental subsidy program. Those units targeted for
lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health
and Safety Code, shall be affordable at a rent that does not exceed 30
percent of 60 percent of area median income. Those units targeted for
very low income households, as defined in Section 50105 of the Health
and Safety Code, shall be affordable at a rent that does not exceed 30
percent of 50 percent of area median income. If a city, county, or city and
county does not grant at least one additional concession or incentive
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), the developer shall agree
to and the city, county, or city and county shall ensure continued
affordability for 10 years of all lower income housing units receiving a
density bonus.
   (d) A developer may submit to a city, county, or city and county a
preliminary proposal for the development of housing pursuant to this
section prior to the submittal of any formal requests for general plan
amendments, zoning amendments, or subdivision map approvals. The
city, county, or city and county shall, within 90 days of receipt of a
written proposal, notify the housing developer in writing of the
procedures under which it will comply with this section. The city,
[Ch. 556 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3729

county, or city and county shall establish procedures for carrying out this
section, which shall include legislative body approval of the means of
compliance with this section. The city, county, or city and county shall
also establish procedures for waiving or modifying development and
zoning standards that would otherwise inhibit the utilization of the
density bonus on specific sites. These procedures shall include, but not
be limited to, such items as minimum lot size, side yard setbacks, and
placement of public works improvements.
   (e) The housing developer shall show that the waiver or modification
is necessary to make the housing units economically feasible.
   (f) For the purposes of this chapter, ‘‘density bonus’’ means a density
increase of at least 25 percent, unless a lesser percentage is elected by the
developer, over the otherwise maximum allowable residential density
under the applicable zoning ordinance and land use element of the
general plan as of the date of application by the developer to the city,
county, or city and county. The granting of a density bonus shall not be
interpreted, in and of itself, to require a general plan amendment, zoning
change, or other discretionary approval. The density bonus shall not be
included when determining the number of housing units which is equal
to 10 or 20 percent of the total. The density bonus shall apply to housing
developments consisting of five or more dwelling units.
   (g) ‘‘Housing development,’’ as used in this section, means one or
more groups of projects for residential units constructed in the planned
development of a city, county, or city and county. For the purposes of this
section, ‘‘housing development’’ also includes either (1) a project to
substantially rehabilitate and convert an existing commercial building
to residential use, or (2) the substantial rehabilitation of an existing
multifamily dwelling, as defined in subdivision (d) of Section 65863.4,
where the result of the rehabilitation would be a net increase in available
residential units. For the purpose of calculating a density bonus, the
residential units do not have to be based upon individual subdivision
maps or parcels. The density bonus shall be permitted in geographic
areas of the housing development other than the areas where the units for
the lower income households are located.
   (h) For the purposes of this chapter, concession or incentive means
any of the following:
   (1) A reduction in site development standards or a modification of
zoning code requirements or architectural design requirements that
exceed the minimum building standards approved by the California
Building Standards Commission as provided in Part 2.5 (commencing
with Section 18901) of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code,
including, but not limited to, a reduction in setback and square footage
requirements and in the ratio of vehicular parking spaces that would
otherwise be required.
 3730                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 557 ]
   (2) Approval of mixed use zoning in conjunction with the housing
project if commercial, office, industrial, or other land uses will reduce
the cost of the housing development and if the commercial, office,
industrial, or other land uses are compatible with the housing project and
the existing or planned development in the area where the proposed
housing project will be located.
   (3) Other regulatory incentives or concessions proposed by the
developer or the city, county, or city and county that result in identifiable
cost reductions.
   This subdivision does not limit or require the provision of direct
financial incentives for the housing development, including the
provision of publicly owned land, by the city, county, or city and county,
or the waiver of fees or dedication requirements.
   (i) If a developer agrees to construct both 20 percent of the total units
for lower income households and 10 percent of the total units for very
low income households, the developer is entitled to only one density
bonus and at least one additional concession or incentive identified in
Section 65913.4 under this section although the city, city and county, or
county may, at its discretion, grant more than one density bonus.
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 557

   An act to add Section 14132.26 to the Welfare and Institutions Code,
relating to Medi-Cal.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature to develop options
that allow elderly and disabled individuals maximum choice in
determining their living arrangements, including the choice to remain in
the least restrictive and most homelike environment as they age or grow
frail.
[Ch. 557 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3731

   (b) It is further the intent of the Legislature to ensure that elderly and
disabled individuals have access to appropriate health care and personal
assistance, regardless of their income level, health status, or choice of
housing arrangement.
   SEC. 2. Section 14132.26 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
   14132.26. (a) The department shall develop a program that requires
a waiver of federal law to test the efficacy of providing an assisted living
benefit to beneficiaries under the Medi-Cal program. Assisted living
benefits shall include, but are not limited to, the care and supervision
activities specified in Section 1569.2 of the Health and Safety Code and
Section 87101 of Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations, and
other health-related services. The program developed pursuant to this
section shall be known as the waiver program for purposes of this
section. The department shall submit any necessary waiver applications
or modifications to the medicaid state plan to the Health Care Financing
Administration to implement the waiver program, and shall implement
the waiver program only to the extent federal financial participation is
available.
   (b) The department shall develop the waiver program in conjunction
with other state departments, consumers, consumer advocates, housing
and service providers, and experts in the fields of gerontology, geriatric
health, nursing services, and independent living.
   (c) The assisted living benefit shall be designed to provide eligible
individuals with a range of services that enable them to remain in the
least restrictive and most homelike environment while receiving the
medical and personal care necessary to protect their health and
well-being. Benefits provided pursuant to this waiver program shall
include only those not otherwise available under the state plan, and may
include, but are not limited to, medicine management, coordination with
a primary health care provider, and case management.
   (d) (1) Eligible individuals shall be those who are eligible for the
Medi-Cal program and are determined by the department to be eligible
for placement in a nursing facility, as defined under subdivisions (c) and
(d) of Section 1250 of the Health and Safety Code. Eligibility shall be
based on an assessment of an individual’s ability to perform functional
and instrumental activities of daily living, as well as the individual’s
medical diagnosis and prognosis, and other criteria, including other
Medi-Cal services that the beneficiary is receiving, as specified in the
waiver.
   (2) An eligible individual shall participate in the waiver program only
if he or she is fully informed of the program and the nature of the assisted
living benefit and indicates in writing his or her choice to participate.
 3732                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 557 ]
   (e) (1) The waiver program shall test the effectiveness of providing
a Medi-Cal assisted living benefit through two service delivery
approaches, as specified in paragraphs (2) and (3).
   (2) Under the first model, an assisted living benefit shall be provided
to residents of licensed residential care facilities. Facility participation
in the program shall be determined by the department in conjunction
with the State Department of Social Services and in accordance with the
criteria for participation specified in the waiver. Under this model the
facility operator shall be responsible for the provision of services
allowed under the benefit, either directly or through contracts with other
provider agencies, as permitted and specified in the waiver. During
participation in the waiver program, residential care facilities shall
comply with all terms and conditions of the waiver. The department and
the State Department of Social Services, may, as determined necessary
and appropriate, waive provisions contained in Division 2 (commencing
with Section 1200) of the Health and Safety Code, subdivision (h) of
Section 14132.95, and Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations for
facilities providing services to waiver program participants.
   (3) Under the second model, an assisted living benefit shall be
provided to residents in publicly funded senior and disabled housing
projects. Under this model an independent agency, pursuant to a contract
with the department, shall be responsible for the provision of case
management and other services to eligible individuals, as specified in the
waiver.
   (f) The department shall evaluate the effectiveness of the waiver
program.
   (1) The evaluation shall include, but not be limited to, participant
satisfaction , health, and safety, the quality of life of the participant
receiving the assisted living benefit, and demonstration of the cost
neutrality of the waiver program as specified in federal guidelines.
   (2) The evaluation shall estimate the projected savings, if any, in the
budgets of state and local governments if the program was expanded
statewide.
   (3) The evaluation shall be submitted to the appropriate policy and
fiscal committees of the Legislature on or before January 1, 2003.
   (g) The department shall limit the number of participants in the
waiver program during the initial three years of its operation to a number
that will be statistically significant for purposes of the program
evaluation and that meets any requirements of the federal Health Care
Financing Administration, including a request to waive statewide
implementation requirements for the waiver program during the initial
years of evaluation.
   (h) In implementing this section, the department may enter into
contracts for the provision of essential administrative and other services.
[Ch. 558 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3733

Contracts entered into under this section may be on a noncompetitive bid
basis, and shall be exempt from the requirements of Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 10290) of Part 2 of Division 2 of the Public
Contract Code.
  (i) The department shall not implement the waiver program specified
in subdivision (a) if it will result in additional costs to the state.
  (j) The waiver program shall be developed and implemented only to
the extent that funds are appropriated for that purpose.



                             CHAPTER 558

   An act to amend Section 9563 of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
relating to aging.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 9563 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   9563. The department shall formulate criteria for approval and
designation of local Multipurpose Senior Services Program sites. The
criteria shall include, but need not be limited to, all of the following:
   (a) Specifications for a social and health review team to evaluate older
individuals and to ensure that continuity of social, economic, and health
services is provided to maintain older individuals at the appropriate level
of care.
  (b) Development of social and health services necessary to maintain
the older individual at the appropriate level of care.
  (c) Specifications for the quality of the social and health services to
be provided.
  (d) Coordination and integration of the social and health services
described in Section 9561.
  (e) The number of local sites, which shall be consistent with the funds
made available for purposes of this chapter.
  (f) Coordination with local governmental and nonprofit agencies
concerned with multipurpose senior services.
  (g) Maximize utilization of local resources, including service
provided by established community-based senior citizen organizations
and information and referral networks.
  (h) Specifications for the evaluation of the proposals submitted for
the new local sites and for the evaluation of the local sites.
 3734                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 559 ]
   (i) Conditions for determining the need for procurement of existing
sites. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the department is not
required to procure existing sites by the competitive bidding process,
unless it deems it in the best interests of the state to do so.



                            CHAPTER 559

  An act to amend Section 13515 of the Penal Code and to amend
Section 15610.53 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to elder
abuse.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13515 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   13515. Every city police officer or deputy sheriff at a supervisory
level and below who is assigned field or investigative duties shall
complete an elder and dependent adult abuse training course certified by
the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training within 18
months of assignment to field duties. Completion of the course may be
satisfied by telecourse, video training tape, or other instruction. The
training shall, at a minimum, include all of the following subjects:
   (a) Relevant laws.
   (b) Recognition of elder and dependent adult abuse.
   (c) Reporting requirements and procedures.
   (d) Neglect of elders and dependent adults.
   (e) Fraud of elders and dependent adults.
   (f) Physical abuse of elders and dependent adults.
   (g) Psychological abuse of elders and dependent adults.
   (h) The role of the local adult protective services and public guardian
offices.
   SEC. 2. The Attorney General, in conjunction with the Health and
Human Services Agency, shall establish a statewide elder and dependent
adult abuse awareness media campaign. The Attorney General shall not
expend any funds to establish this media campaign unless funds are
expressly appropriated for the purposes of this section. No government
or elected official shall appear, or be referenced, in the elder and
dependent adult abuse awareness media campaign.
   SEC. 3. Section 15610.53 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
[Ch. 560 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3735

   15610.53. ‘‘Mental suffering’’ means fear, agitation, confusion,
severe depression, or other forms of serious emotional distress that is
brought about by forms of intimidating behavior, threats, harassment, or
by deceptive acts performed or false or misleading statements made with
malicious intent to agitate, confuse, frighten, or cause severe depression
or serious emotional distress of the elder or dependent adult.
   SEC. 4. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 560

  An act to amend Sections 10234.6 and 10234.95 of the Insurance
Code, relating to long-term care insurance, and declaring the urgency
thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10234.6 of the Insurance Code is amended to
read:
   10234.6. (a) The commissioner shall, by June 1 of each year, jointly
design the format and content of a consumer rate guide for long-term care
insurance with a working group that includes representatives of the
Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy Program, the insurance
industry, and insurance agents. The commissioner shall annually prepare
the consumer rate guide for long-term care insurance that shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
   (1) A comparison of the different types of long-term care insurance
and coverages available to California consumers.
   (2) A premium history of each insurer that writes long-term care
policies for all the types of long-term care insurance and coverages
issued by the insurer in each state.
   (b) The consumer rate guide to be prepared by the commissioner shall
consist of two parts: a history of the rates for all policies issued in the
United States on or after January 1, 1990, and a comparison of the
 3736                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 560 ]
policies, benefits, and sample premiums for all policies currently being
issued for delivery in California.
   (1) For the rate history portion of the rate guide required by this
section, the department shall collect, and each insurer shall provide to
the department, all of the following information for each long-term care
policy, including all policies, whether issued by the insurer or purchased
or acquired from another insurer, issued in the United States on or after
January 1, 1990:
   (A) Company name.
   (B) Policy type.
   (C) Policy form identification.
   (D) Dates sold.
   (E) Date acquired (if applicable)
   (F) Premium rate increases requested.
   (G) Premium rate increases approved.
   (H) Dates of premium rate increase approvals.
   (I) Any other information requested by the department.
   (2) For the policy comparison portion of the rate guide required by
this section, the department shall collect, and each insurer shall provide
to the department, the information needed to complete the following
form, along with any other information requested by the department, for
each long-term care policy currently issued for delivery in California,
including all policies, whether issued by the insurer or purchased or
acquired from another insurer:
   [Ch. 560 ]                                 STATUTES OF 2000                                                      3737


            INSURANCE COMPANY NAME                                         Policy Form Number

 [List policy name for this form number, whether nursing home and residential care only,
 home care only, comprehensive, individual or group, partnership, tax or nontax qualified,
 all issue ages available, reimbursement or per diem.]

 Maximum Policy Benefit                                                                 30** day elimination period
                                                                                 3 year maximum policy benefit / $109,000
 [List all maximum benefit amounts in years offered and dollars.]                          * Other assumptions

                                                                              Issue   $100 Daily Benefit     $100 Daily Benefit
 Nursing Home Daily Benefit Amount                                            Age     Amount for             Amount for Nursing
                                                                                      Nursing Home &         Home & Home Care
 [List range in which daily benefit is offered from minimum to maximum.]
                                                                                      Home Care              (with 5% compound
                                                                                                             Inflation Protection)

 Residential Care Daily Benefit Amount *                                      50
                                                                              55
 [List all percentage amounts for which residential care benefits are
                                                                              60
 offered as a percentage of the nursing home daily benefit.]
                                                                              65
                                                                              70
 Home Care Benefit Amount                                                     75
                                                                              80
 [List all percentage amounts for which home care benefit are offered
                                                                              Other ages may be available.
 as a percentage of the daily nursing home benefit. Specify whether
 paid as daily, weekly, or monthly.]
                                                                                        30** day elimination period
                                                                                        Lifetime Benefit / Unlimited
 Elimination Period                                                                         * Other assumptions

 [List all days and/or amounts in which elimination periods are offered.      Issue   $100 Daily Benefit     $100 Daily Benefit
 Specify how policy counts home care service days towards elimination         Age     Amount for             Amount for Nursing
 period.]                                                                             Nursing Home &         Home & Home Care
                                                                                      Home Care              (with 5% compound
                                                                                                             Inflation Protection)
 Inflation Protection                                                         50
 [List all options offered for inflation protection adjustment.]              55
                                                                              60
                                                                              65
 Waiver of Premium                                                            70
 [List all options for comprehensive, Nursing home only and home care         75
 only. Qualification rules.]                                                  80
                                                                              Other ages may be available.


* The residential care benefit is      % of the daily nursing home benefit. If this is a comprehensive
policy, the home care benefit is        % of the daily nursing home benefit. If this is a home care only
policy, the daily benefit is $    . [List the minimum amount available on the companies policy forms as a
percentage of the daily nursing home benefit.]

 Please refer to Section # for information on premium increases, if any, since 1990 for this company

[** Carrier may use 20-day elimation period if a 30-day elimination is not offered.]
 3738                       STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 560 ]


   If an insurer does not offer a policy for sale that fits the criteria set forth
in the sample premium portion of the policy comparison section of the
rate guide, the department shall include in that section of the form for that
policy a statement explaining that a policy fitting that criteria is not
offered by the insurer and that the consumer may seek, from an agent,
sample premium information for the insurer’s policy that most closely
resembles the policy in the sample.
   The department shall use the format set forth in this section for the
policy comparison portion of the rate guide, unless the working group
convened pursuant to subdivision (a) designs an alternative format and
agrees that it should be used instead.
   In compiling the policy comparison portion of the rate guide, the
department shall separate the group policies from the individual policies
available for sale so that group policies for all insurers appear together
in the guide and individual policies for all insurers appear together in the
guide.
   The policy comparison portion of the rate guide shall contain a
cross-reference for each policy form listed indicating the page in the rate
guide where rate information on the policy form can be found.
   (c) Insurers shall provide the information required pursuant to
subdivision (b) no later than July 31 of each year, commencing in 2000.
   (d) The consumer rate guide shall be published no later than
December 1st of each year commencing in 2000, and shall be distributed
using all of the following methods:
   (1) Through Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy Program
(HICAP) offices.
   (2) By telephone using the department’s consumer toll-free telephone
number.
   (3) On the department’s Internet web site.
   (4) A notice in the Long-Term Care Insurance Personal Worksheet
required by Section 10234.95.
   (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the data submitted by
insurers to the department pursuant to this section are public records, and
shall be open to inspection by members of the public pursuant to the
procedures of the California Public Records Act. However, a trade
secret, as defined in subdivision (d) of Section 3426.1 of the Civil Code,
is not subject to this subdivision.
   SEC. 2. Section 10234.95 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
   10234.95. (a) Every insurer or other entity marketing long-term
care insurance shall:
   (1) Develop and use suitability standards to determine whether the
purchase or replacement of long-term care insurance is appropriate for
the needs of the applicant.
[Ch. 560 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3739

   (2) Train its agents in the use of its suitability standards.
   (3) Maintain a copy of its suitability standards and make them
available for inspection upon request by the commissioner.
   (b) The agent and insurer shall develop procedures that take into
consideration, when determining whether the applicant meets the
standards developed by the insurer, the following:
   (1) The ability to pay for the proposed coverage and other pertinent
financial information related to the purchase of the coverage.
   (2) The applicant’s goals or needs with respect to long-term care and
the advantages and disadvantages of insurance to meet these goals or
needs.
   (3) The value, benefits, and costs of the applicant’s existing
insurance, if any, when compared to the values, benefits, and costs of the
recommended purchase or replacement.
   (c) (1) The issuer, and where an agent is involved, the agent, shall
make reasonable efforts to obtain the information set out in subdivision
(b). The efforts shall include presentation to the applicant, at or prior to
application, of the ‘‘Long-Term Care Insurance Personal Worksheet,’’
contained in the Long-Term Care Insurance Model Regulations of the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The personal
worksheet used by the insurer shall contain, at a minimum, the
information in the NAIC worksheet in not less than 12-point type. The
insurer may request the applicant to provide additional information to
comply with its suitability standards.
   (2) In the premium section of the personal worksheet, the insurer shall
disclose all rate increases and rate increase requests for all policies,
whether issued by the insurer or purchased or acquired from another
insurer, in the United States on or after January 1, 1990.
   (3) The premium section shall include a statement that reads as
follows: ‘‘A rate guide is available that compares the policies sold by
different insurers, the benefits provided in those policies, and sample
premiums. The rate guide also provides a history of the rate increases,
if any, for the policies issued by different insurers in each state in which
they do business, since January 1, 1990. You can obtain a copy of this
rate guide by calling the Department of Insurance’s consumer toll-free
telephone number (1-800-927-HELP), by calling the Health Insurance
Counseling and Advocacy Program (HICAP) toll-free telephone
number (1-800-434-0222), or by accessing the Department of
Insurance’s Internet web site (www.insurance.ca.gov).’’ If the personal
worksheet is approved prior to the availability of the rate guide, the
worksheet shall indicate that the rate guide will be available beginning
December 1, 2000.
   (4) A copy of the issuer’s personal worksheet shall be filed and
approved by the commissioner. A new personal worksheet shall be filed
 3740                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 560 ]
and approved by the commissioner each time a rate is increased in
California and each time a new policy is filed for approval by the
commissioner. The new personal worksheet shall disclose the amount of
the rate increase in California and all prior rate increases in California
as well as all prior rate increases and rate increase requests or filings in
any other state. The new personal worksheet shall be used by the insurer
within 60 days of approval by the commissioner in place of the
previously approved personal worksheet.
   (d) A completed personal worksheet shall be returned to the issuer
prior to the issuer’s consideration of the applicant for coverage, except
the personal worksheet need not be returned for sale of employer group
long-term care insurance to employees and their spouses and
dependents.
   (e) The sale or dissemination outside the company or agency by the
issuer or agent of information obtained through the personal worksheet
is prohibited.
   (f) The issuer shall use the suitability standards it has developed
pursuant to this section in determining whether issuing long-term care
insurance coverage to an applicant is appropriate.
   (g) Agents shall use the suitability standards developed by the insurer
in marketing long-term care insurance.
   (h) If the issuer determines that the applicant does not meet its
financial suitability standards, or if the applicant has declined to provide
the information, the issuer may reject the application. Alternatively, the
issuers shall send the applicant a letter similar to the ‘‘Long-Term Care
Insurance Suitability Letter’’ contained in the Long-Term Care Model
Regulations of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
However, if the applicant has declined to provide financial information,
the issuer may use some other method to verify the applicant’s intent.
Either the applicant’s returned letter or a record of the alternative method
of verification shall be made part of the applicant’s file.
   (i) The insurer shall report annually to the commissioner the total
number of applications received from residents of this state, the number
of those who declined to provide information on the personal worksheet,
the number of applicants who did not meet the suitability standards, and
the number who chose to conform after receiving a suitability letter.
   (j) This section shall not apply to life insurance policies that
accelerate benefits for long-term care.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
[Ch. 561 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3741

  In order for the provisions of this act to be applicable prior to the
publishing of the consumer rate guide on December 1, 2000, it is
necessary for this act to take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 561

  An act to amend Sections 649.92 and 3003 of, and to add Section
3058.61 to, the Penal Code, relating to stalkers.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 646.92 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   646.92. (a) The Department of Corrections, county sheriff, or
director of the local department of corrections shall give notice not less
than 15 days prior to the release from the state prison or a county jail of
any person who is convicted of violating Section 646.9 or convicted of
a felony offense involving domestic violence, as defined in Section 6211
of the Family Code, or any change in the parole status or relevant change
in the parole location of the convicted person, or if the convicted person
absconds from supervision while on parole, to any person the court
identifies as a victim of the offense, a family member of the victim, or
a witness to the offense by telephone and certified mail at his or her last
known address, upon request. A victim, family member, or witness shall
keep the Department of Corrections or county sheriff informed of his or
her current mailing address and telephone number to be entitled to
receive notice. A victim may designate another person for the purpose
of receiving notification. The Department of Corrections, county sheriff,
or director of the local department of corrections, shall make reasonable
attempts to locate a person who has requested notification but whose
address and telephone number are incorrect or not current. However, the
duty to keep the Department of Corrections or county sheriff informed
of a current mailing address and telephone number shall remain with the
victim.
    Following notification by the department pursuant to Section
3058.61, in the event the victim had not originally requested notification
under this section, the sheriff or the chief of police, as appropriate, shall
make an attempt to advise the victim or, if the victim is a minor, the
parent or guardian of the victim, of the victim’s right to notification
under this section.
 3742                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 561 ]
   (b) All information relating to any person who receives notice under
this section shall remain confidential and shall not be made available to
the person convicted of violating this section.
   (c) For purposes of this section, ‘‘release’’ includes a release from the
state prison or a county jail because time has been served, a release from
the state prison or a county jail to parole or probation supervision, or an
escape from an institution or reentry facility.
   (d) The Department of Corrections or county sheriff shall give notice
of an escape from an institution or reentry facility of any person
convicted of violating Section 646.9 or convicted of a felony offense
involving domestic violence, as defined in Section 6211 of the Family
Code, to the notice recipients described in subdivision (a).
   (e) Substantial compliance satisfies the notification requirements of
subdivision (a).
   SEC. 2. Section 3003 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   3003. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, an inmate
who is released on parole shall be returned to the county that was the last
legal residence of the inmate prior to his or her incarceration.
   For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘last legal residence’’ shall not be
construed to mean the county wherein the inmate committed an offense
while confined in a state prison or local jail facility or while confined for
treatment in a state hospital.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), an inmate may be returned to
another county if that would be in the best interests of the public. If the
Board of Prison Terms setting the conditions of parole for inmates
sentenced pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 1168, or the
Department of Corrections setting the conditions of parole for inmates
sentenced pursuant to Section 1170, decides on a return to another
county, it shall place its reasons in writing in the parolee’s permanent
record and include these reasons in the notice to the sheriff or chief of
police pursuant to Section 3058.6. In making its decision, the paroling
authority shall consider, among others, the following factors, giving the
greatest weight to the protection of the victim and the safety of the
community:
   (1) The need to protect the life or safety of a victim, the parolee, a
witness, or any other person.
   (2) Public concern that would reduce the chance that the inmate’s
parole would be successfully completed.
   (3) The verified existence of a work offer, or an educational or
vocational training program.
   (4) The existence of family in another county with whom the inmate
has maintained strong ties and whose support would increase the chance
that the inmate’s parole would be successfully completed.
[Ch. 561 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3743

   (5) The lack of necessary outpatient treatment programs for parolees
receiving treatment pursuant to Section 2960.
   (c) The Department of Corrections, in determining an out-of-county
commitment, shall give priority to the safety of the community and any
witnesses and victims.
   (d) In making its decision about an inmate who participated in a joint
venture program pursuant to Article 1.5 (commencing with Section
2717.1) of Chapter 5, the paroling authority shall give serious
consideration to releasing him or her to the county where the joint
venture program employer is located if that employer states to the
paroling authority that he or she intends to employ the inmate upon
release.
   (e) (1) The following information, if available, shall be released by
the Department of Corrections to local law enforcement agencies
regarding a paroled inmate who is released in their jurisdictions:
   (A) Last, first, and middle name.
   (B) Birth date.
   (C) Sex, race, height, weight, and hair and eye color.
   (D) Date of parole and discharge.
   (E) Registration status, if the inmate is required to register as a result
of a controlled substance, sex, or arson offense.
   (F) California Criminal Information Number, FBI number, social
security number, and driver’s license number.
   (G) County of commitment.
   (H) A description of scars, marks, and tattoos on the inmate.
   (I) Offense or offenses for which the inmate was convicted that
resulted in parole in this instance.
   (J) Address, including all of the following information:
   (i) Street name and number. Post office box numbers are not
acceptable for purposes of this subparagraph.
   (ii) City and ZIP Code.
   (iii) Date that the address provided pursuant to this subparagraph was
proposed to be effective.
   (K) Contact officer and unit, including all of the following
information:
   (i) Name and telephone number of each contact officer.
   (ii) Contact unit type of each contact officer such as units responsible
for parole, registration, or county probation.
   (L) A digitized image of the photograph and at least a single digit
fingerprint of the parolee.
   (M) A geographic coordinate for the parolee’s residence location for
use with a Geographical Information System (GIS) or comparable
computer program.
 3744                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 561 ]
   (2) The information required by this subdivision shall come from the
statewide parolee data base. The information obtained from each source
shall be based on the same timeframe.
   (3) All of the information required by this subdivision shall be
provided utilizing a computer-to-computer transfer in a format usable by
a desktop computer system. The transfer of this information shall be
continually available to local law enforcement agencies upon request.
   (4) The unauthorized release or receipt of the information described
in this subdivision is a violation of Section 11143.
   (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an inmate who is
released on parole shall not be returned to a location within 35 miles of
the actual residence of a victim of, or a witness to, a violent felony as
defined in paragraphs (1) to (7), inclusive, of subdivision (c) of Section
667.5 or a felony in which the defendant inflicts great bodily injury on
any person other than an accomplice that has been charged and proved
as provided for in Section 12022.53, 12022.7, or 12022.9, if the victim
or witness has requested additional distance in the placement of the
inmate on parole, and if the Board of Prison Terms or the Department of
Corrections finds that there is a need to protect the life, safety, or
well-being of a victim or witness.
   (g) Notwithstanding any other law, an inmate who is released on
parole for any violation of Section 288 or 288.5 shall not be placed or
reside, for the duration of his or her period of parole, within one-quarter
mile of any school including any or all of grades kindergarten to 6,
inclusive.
   (h) Notwithstanding any other law, an inmate who is released on
parole for an offense involving stalking shall not be returned to a location
within 35 miles of the victim’s actual residence or place of employment
if the victim or witness has requested additional distance in the
placement of the inmate on parole, and if the Board of Prison Terms or
the Department of Corrections finds that there is a need to protect the life,
safety, or well-being of the victim.
   (i) The authority shall give consideration to the equitable distribution
of parolees and the proportion of out-of-county commitments from a
county compared to the number of commitments from that county when
making parole decisions.
   (j) An inmate may be paroled to another state pursuant to any other
law.
   (k) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Department of
Corrections shall be the agency primarily responsible for, and shall have
control over, the program, resources, and staff implementing the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System (LEADS) in conformance with
subdivision (e).
[Ch. 562 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3745

   (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Department of Justice shall be
the agency primarily responsible for the proper release of information
under LEADS that relates to fingerprint cards.
   SEC. 3. Section 3058.61 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   3058.61. Whenever any person confined to state prison is serving a
term for a conviction of Section 646.9, the Department of Corrections
shall notify by mail, at least 45 days prior to the person’s scheduled
release date, the sheriff or chief of police, or both, and the district
attorney who has jurisdiction over the community in which the person
was convicted, and the sheriff, chief of police, or both, and the district
attorney having jurisdiction over the community in which the person is
scheduled to be released on parole, or released following a period of
confinement pursuant to a parole revocation without a new commitment.
The notification shall indicate whether the victim has requested
notification from the department pursuant to Section 646.92.
   SEC. 4. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 562

  An act to amend Section 2166.5 of the Elections Code, and to amend
Sections 6205, 6205.5, 6206, 6206.5, 6206.7, 6207, 6208.5, and 6209.7
of, to amend the heading of Chapter 3.1 (commencing with Section
6205) of Division 7 of Title 1 of, and to repeal Section 6209.5 of, the
Government Code, relating to public records.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2166.5 of the Elections Code is amended to
read:
   2166.5. (a) Any person filing with the county elections official a
new affidavit of registration or reregistration may have the information
relating to his or her residence address and telephone number appearing
on the affidavit, or any list or roster or index prepared therefrom,
 3746                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 562 ]
declared confidential upon presentation of certification that the person
is a participant in the Address Confidentiality for Victims of Domestic
Violence and Stalking program pursuant to Chapter 3.1 (commencing
with Section 6205) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code.
   (b) Any person granted confidentiality under subdivision (a) shall:
   (1) Be considered an absent voter for all subsequent elections or until
the county elections official is notified otherwise by the Secretary of
State or in writing by the voter. A voter requesting termination of absent
voter status thereby consents to placement of his or her residence address
and telephone number in the roster of voters.
   (2) In addition to the required residence address, provide a valid
mailing address to be used in place of the residence address for election,
scholarly, or political research, and government purposes. The elections
official, in producing any list, roster, or index may, at his or her choice,
use the valid mailing address or the word ‘‘confidential’’ or some similar
designation in place of the residence address.
   (c) No action in negligence may be maintained against any
government entity or officer or employee thereof as a result of disclosure
of the information that is the subject of this section unless by a showing
of gross negligence or willfulness.
   (d) Subdivisions (a) and (b) shall not apply to any person granted
confidentiality upon receipt by the county elections official of a written
notice by the address confidentiality program manager of the
withdrawal, invalidation, expiration, or termination of the program
participant’s certification.
   (e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2005, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 2166.5 of the Elections Code is amended to read:
   2166.5. (a) Any person filing with the county elections official a
new affidavit of registration or reregistration may have the information
relating to his or her residence address, telephone number, and E-mail
address appearing on the affidavit, or any list or roster or index prepared
therefrom, declared confidential upon presentation of certification that
the person is a participant in the Address Confidentiality for Victims of
Domestic Violence and Stalking program pursuant to Chapter 3.1
(commencing with Section 6205) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the
Government Code.
   (b) Any person granted confidentiality under subdivision (a) shall:
   (1) Be considered an absent voter for all subsequent elections or until
the county elections official is notified otherwise by the Secretary of
State or in writing by the voter. A voter requesting termination of absent
voter status thereby consents to placement of his or her residence
address, telephone number, and E-mail address in the roster of voters.
[Ch. 562 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3747

  (2) In addition to the required residence address, provide a valid
mailing address to be used in place of the residence address for election,
scholarly, or political research, and government purposes. The elections
official, in producing any list, roster, or index may, at his or her choice,
use the valid mailing address or the word ‘‘confidential’’ or some similar
designation in place of the residence address.
  (c) No action in negligence may be maintained against any
government entity or officer or employee thereof as a result of disclosure
of the information that is the subject of this section unless by a showing
of gross negligence or willfulness.
  (d) Subdivisions (a) and (b) shall not apply to any person granted
confidentiality upon receipt by the county elections official of a written
notice by the address confidentiality program manager of the
withdrawal, invalidation, expiration, or termination of the program
participant’s certification.
  (e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2005, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends that date.
  SEC. 2. The heading of Chapter 3.1 (commencing with Section
6205) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:

CHAPTER 3.1.     ADDRESS CONFIDENTIALITY FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC
                      VIOLENCE AND STALKING

   SEC. 3. Section 6205 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   6205. The Legislature finds that persons attempting to escape from
actual or threatened domestic violence or stalking frequently establish
new addresses in order to prevent their assailants or probable assailants
from finding them. The purpose of this chapter is to enable state and local
agencies to respond to requests for public records without disclosing the
location of a victim of domestic violence or stalking, to enable
interagency cooperation with the Secretary of State in providing address
confidentiality for victims of domestic violence or stalking, and to
enable state and local agencies to accept a program participant’s use of
an address designated by the Secretary of State as a substitute mailing
address.
   SEC. 3.5. Section 6205 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   6205. The Legislature finds that persons attempting to escape from
actual or threatened domestic violence or stalking frequently establish
new names or addresses in order to prevent their assailants or probable
assailants from finding them. The purpose of this chapter is to enable
state and local agencies to respond to requests for public records without
disclosing the changed name or location of a victim of domestic violence
 3748                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 562 ]
or stalking, to enable interagency cooperation with the Secretary of State
in providing name and address confidentiality for victims of domestic
violence or stalking, and to enable state and local agencies to accept a
program participant’s use of an address designated by the Secretary of
State as a substitute mailing address.
   SEC. 4. Section 6205.5 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   6205.5. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
definitions in this section apply throughout this chapter.
   (a) ‘‘Address’’ means a residential street address, school address, or
work address of an individual, as specified on the individual’s
application to be a program participant under this chapter.
   (b) ‘‘Domestic violence’’ means an act as defined in Section 6211 of
the Family Code.
   (c) ‘‘Stalking’’ means an act as defined in Section 646.9 of the Penal
Code.
   (d) ‘‘Program participant’’ means a person certified as a program
participant under Section 6206.
   SEC. 5. Section 6206 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   6206. (a) An adult person, a parent or guardian acting on behalf of
a minor, or a guardian acting on behalf of an incapacitated person may
apply to the Secretary of State to have an address designated by the
Secretary of State serve as the person’s address or the address of the
minor or incapacitated person. An application shall be completed in
person at a community-based victims’ assistance program. The
application process shall include a requirement that the applicant shall
meet with a victims’ assistance counselor and receive orientation
information about the program. The Secretary of State shall approve an
application if it is filed in the manner and on the form prescribed by the
Secretary of State and if it contains all of the following:
   (1) A sworn statement by the applicant that the applicant has good
reason to believe both of the following:
   (A) That the applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose
behalf the application is made, is a victim of domestic violence or
stalking.
   (B) That the applicant fears for his or her safety or his or her children’s
safety, or the safety of the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf
the application is made.
   (2) If the applicant alleges that the basis for the application is that the
applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the
application is made, is a victim of domestic violence, the application
may be accompanied by evidence including, but not limited to, any of
the following:
   (A) Police, court, or other government agency records or files.
[Ch. 562 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3749

   (B) Documentation from a domestic violence program if the person
is alleged to be a victim of domestic violence.
   (C) Documentation from a legal, clerical, medical, or other
professional from whom the applicant or person on whose behalf the
application is made has sought assistance in dealing with the alleged
domestic violence.
   (D) Any other evidence that supports the sworn statement, such as a
statement from any other individual with knowledge of the
circumstances that provides the basis for the claim, or physical evidence
of the act or acts of domestic violence.
   (3) If the applicant alleges that the basis for the application is that the
applicant, or the minor or incapacitated person on whose behalf the
application is made, is a victim of stalking, the application shall be
accompanied by evidence including, but not limited to, any of the
following:
   (A) Police, court, or other government agency records or files.
   (B) Legal, clerical, medical, or other professional from whom the
applicant or person on whose behalf the application is made has sought
assistance in dealing with the alleged stalking.
   (C) Any other evidence that supports the sworn statement, such as a
sworn statement from any other individual with knowledge of the
circumstances that provide the basis for the claim, or physical evidence
of the act or acts of stalking.
   (4) A statement of whether there are any existing court orders
involving the applicant for child support, child custody, or child
visitation, and whether there are any active court actions involving the
applicant for child support, child custody, or child visitation, the name
and address of legal counsel of record, and the last known address of the
other parent or parents involved in those court orders or court actions.
   (5) A designation of the Secretary of State as agent for purposes of
service of process and for the purpose of receipt of mail.
   (A) Service on the Secretary of State of any summons, writ, notice,
demand, or process shall be made by delivering to the address
confidentiality program personnel of the Office of the Secretary of State
two copies of the summons, writ, notice, demand, or process.
   (B) If a summons, writ, notice, demand, or process is served on the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of State shall immediately cause a copy
to be forwarded to the program participant at the address shown on the
records of the address confidentiality program so that the summons,
writ, notice, demand, or process is received by the program participant
within three days of the Secretary of State’s having received it.
   (C) The Secretary of State shall keep a record of all summonses,
writs, notices, demands, and processes served upon the Secretary of
 3750                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 562 ]
State under this section and shall record the time of that service and the
Secretary of State’s action.
   (D) The office of the Secretary of State and any agent or person
employed by the Secretary of State shall be held harmless from any
liability in any action brought by any person injured or harmed as a result
of the handling of first-class mail on behalf of program participants.
   (6) The mailing address where the applicant can be contacted by the
Secretary of State, and the phone number or numbers where the applicant
can be called by the Secretary of State.
   (7) The address or addresses that the applicant requests not be
disclosed for the reason that disclosure will increase the risk of domestic
violence or stalking.
   (8) The signature of the applicant and of any individual or
representative of any office designated in writing under Section 6208.5
who assisted in the preparation of the application, and the date on which
the applicant signed the application.
   (b) Applications shall be filed with the office of the Secretary of State.
   (c) Upon filing a properly completed application, the Secretary of
State shall certify the applicant as a program participant. Applicants
shall be certified for four years following the date of filing unless the
certification is withdrawn or invalidated before that date. The Secretary
of State shall by rule establish a renewal procedure.
   (d) Upon certification, in any case where there are court orders or
court actions identified in paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of Section
6206 and there is no other or superseding court order dictating the
specific terms of communication between the parties, the Secretary of
State shall, within 10 days, notify the other parent or parents of the
address designated by the Secretary of State for the program participant
and the designation of the Secretary of State as agent for purposes of
service of process. The notice shall be given by mail, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the other parent
to be notified. A copy shall also be sent to that parent’s counsel of record.
   (e) A person who falsely attests in an application that disclosure of the
applicant’s address would endanger the applicant’s safety or the safety
of the applicant’s children or the minor or incapacitated person on whose
behalf the application is made, or who knowingly provides false or
incorrect information upon making an application, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. A notice shall be printed in bold type and in a conspicuous
location on the face of the application informing the applicant of the
penalties under this subdivision.
   SEC. 6. Section 6206.5 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   6206.5. (a) The Secretary of State may cancel a program
participant’s certification if there is a change in the residential address
from the one listed on the application, unless the program participant
[Ch. 562 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3751

provides the Secretary of State with at least seven days’ prior notice of
the change of address.
   (b) The Secretary of State may cancel certification of a program
participant if mail forwarded by the secretary to the program
participant’s address is returned as nondeliverable.
   (c) The Secretary of State shall cancel certification of a program
participant who applies using false information.
   (d) Any records or documents pertaining to a program participant
shall be retained and held confidential for a period of three years after
termination of certification and then destroyed.
   SEC. 6.5. Section 6206.5 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   6206.5. (a) The Secretary of State may cancel program
participant’s certification if there is a change in the residential address
from the one listed on the application, unless the program participant
provides the Secretary of State with at least seven days’ prior notice of
the change of address.
   (b) The Secretary of State may cancel a program participant’s
certification if the program participant changes his or her name from the
one listed in the application and fails to notify the Secretary of State of
the name change within seven days of the change.
   (c) The Secretary of State may cancel certification of a program
participant if mail forwarded by the secretary to the program
participant’s address is returned as nondeliverable.
   (d) The Secretary of State shall cancel certification of a program
participant who applies using false information.
   (e) Any records or documents pertaining to a program participant
shall be retained and held confidential for a period of three years after
termination of certification and then destroyed.
   SEC. 7. Section 6206.7 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   6206.7. (a) A program participant may withdraw from program
participation by submitting to the address confidentiality program
manager written notification of withdrawal and his or her current
identification card. Certification shall be terminated on the date of
receipt of this notification.
   (b) The address confidentiality program manager may terminate a
program participant’s certification and invalidate his or her authorization
card for any of the following reasons:
   (1) The program participant’s certification term has expired and
certification renewal has not been completed.
   (2) The address confidentiality program manager has determined that
false information was used in the application process or that
participation in the program is being used as a subterfuge to avoid
 3752                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 562 ]
detection of illegal or criminal activity or apprehension by law
enforcement.
   (3) The program participant no longer resides at the residential
address listed on the application, and has not provided at least seven
days’ prior notice in writing of a change in address.
   (4) A service of process document or mail forwarded to the program
participant by the address confidentiality program manager is returned
as nondeliverable.
   (5) The program participant obtains a legal name change and fails to
notify the Secretary of State within seven days.
   (c) If termination is a result of paragraph (1), (3), (4), or (5) of
subdivision (b), the address confidentiality program manager shall send
written notification of the intended termination to the program
participant. The program participant shall have five business days in
which to appeal the termination under procedures developed by the
Secretary of State.
   (d) The address confidentiality program manager shall notify in
writing the county elections official and authorized personnel of the
appropriate county clerk’s office, county recording office, and
department of health of the program participant’s certification
withdrawal, invalidation, expiration, or termination.
   (e) Upon receipt of this termination notification, authorized
personnel shall transmit to the address confidentiality program manager
all appropriate administrative records pertaining to the program
participant and the record transmitting agency is no longer responsible
for maintaining the confidentiality of a terminated program participant’s
record.
   (f) Following termination of program participant certification as a
result of subdivision (b), the address confidentiality program manager
may disclose information contained in the participant’s application.
   SEC. 8. Section 6207 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   6207. (a) A program participant may request that state and local
agencies use the address designated by the Secretary of State as his or
her address. When creating a public record, state and local agencies shall
accept the address designated by the Secretary of State as a program
participant’s substitute address, unless the Secretary of State has
determined both of the following:
   (1) The agency has a bona fide statutory or administrative
requirement for the use of the address which would otherwise be
confidential under this chapter.
   (2) This address will be used only for those statutory and
administrative purposes and shall not be publicly disseminated.
   (b) A program participant may request that state and local agencies
use the address designated by the Secretary of State as his or her address.
[Ch. 562 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3753

When modifying or maintaining a public record, excluding the record of
any birth, fetal death, death, or marriage registered under Division 102
(commencing with Section 102100) of the Health and Safety Code, state
and local agencies shall accept the address designated by the Secretary
of State as a program participant’s substitute address, unless the
Secretary of State has determined both of the following:
   (1) The agency has a bona fide statutory or administrative
requirement for the use of the address which would otherwise be
confidential under this chapter.
   (2) This address will be used only for those statutory and
administrative purposes and shall not be publicly disseminated.
   (c) A program participant may use the address designated by the
Secretary of State as his or her work address.
   (d) The office of the Secretary of State shall forward all first-class
mail and all mail sent by a governmental agency to the appropriate
program participants. The office of the Secretary of State shall not
handle or forward packages regardless of size or type of mailing.
   (e) Notwithstanding subdivisions (a) and (b), program participants
shall comply with the provisions specified in subdivision (d) of Section
1808.21 of the Vehicle Code if requesting suppression of the records
maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles. Program participants
shall also comply with all other provisions of the Vehicle Code relating
to providing current address information to the department.
   SEC. 9. Section 6208.5 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   6208.5. The Secretary of State shall designate state and local
agencies and nonprofit agencies that provide counseling and shelter
services to victims of domestic violence or stalking to assist persons
applying to be program participants. Any assistance and counseling
rendered by the office of the Secretary of State or its designees to
applicants shall in no way be construed as legal advice.
   SEC. 10. Section 6209.5 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 11. Section 6209.7 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   6209.7. (a) Nothing in this chapter, nor participation in this
program, affects custody or visitation orders in effect prior to or during
program participation. A program participant who falsifies his or her
location in order to unlawfully avoid custody or visitation orders is
subject to immediate termination from the program and is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (b) Participation in the program does not constitute evidence of
domestic violence or stalking for purposes of making custody or
visitation orders.
   SEC. 12. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution for certain
 3754                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 563 ]
costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because
in that regard this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a
crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   However, notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
other costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and
school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7
(commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the
Government Code. If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement
does not exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall
be made from the State Mandates Claims Fund.
   SEC. 13. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 2166.5 of the Elections Code proposed by both this bill and AB
2214. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 2166.5 of the Election Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after AB
2214, in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 14. Section 3.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 6205 of the Government Code proposed by both this bill and AB
205. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 6205 of the Government Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after
AB 205, in which case Section 3 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 15. Section 6.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 6206.5 of the Government Code proposed by both this bill and
AB 205. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 6206.5 of the Government Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after
AB 205, in which case Section 6 of this bill shall not become operative.



                            CHAPTER 563

  An act to amend Section 602.5 of the Penal Code, relating to trespass.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1.      Section 602.5 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
[Ch. 564 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3755

   602.5. (a) Every person other than a public officer or employee
acting within the course and scope of his or her employment in
performance of a duty imposed by law, who enters or remains in any
noncommercial dwelling house, apartment, or other residential place
without consent of the owner, his or her agent, or the person in lawful
possession thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (b) Every person other than a public officer or an employee acting
within the course and scope of his employment in performance of a duty
imposed by law, who, without the consent of the owner, his or her agent,
or the person in lawful possession thereof, enters or remains in any
noncommercial dwelling house, apartment, or other residential place
while a resident, or another person authorized to be in the dwelling, is
present at any time during the course of the incident is guilty of
aggravated trespass punishable by imprisonment in a county jail for not
more than one year or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000), or by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (c) If the court grants probation, it may order a person convicted of
a misdemeanor under subdivision (b) to up to three years of supervised
probation. It shall be a condition of probation that the person participate
in counseling, as designated by the court.
   (d) If a person is convicted of a misdemeanor under subdivision (b),
the sentencing court shall also consider issuing an order restraining the
defendant from any contact with the victim, that may be valid for up to
three years, as determined by the court. In determining the length of the
restraining order, the court shall consider, among other factors, the
seriousness of the facts before the court, the probability of future
violations, and the safety of the victim and his or her immediate family.
   (e) Nothing in this section shall preclude prosecution under Section
459 or any other provision of law.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 564

   An act to add Sections 3071 and 13519.05 to the Penal Code, relating
to peace officer training.
 3756                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 564 ]
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3071 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   3071. The Department of Corrections shall implement, by January
1, 2002, a course of instruction for the training of parole officers in
California in the management of parolees who were convicted of
stalking pursuant to Section 646.9. The course shall include instruction
in the appropriate protocol for notifying and interacting with stalking
victims, especially in regard to a stalking offender’s release from parole.
   SEC. 2. Section 13519.05 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   13519.05. (a) The commission shall implement by January 1,
2002, a course or courses of instruction for the training of law
enforcement officers in California in the handling of stalking complaints
and also shall develop guidelines for law enforcement response to
stalking. The course or courses of instruction and the guidelines shall
stress enforcement of criminal laws in stalking situations, availability of
civil remedies and community resources, and protection of the victim.
Where appropriate, the training presenters shall include stalking experts
with expertise in the delivery of direct services to victims of stalking.
Completion of the course may be satisfied by telecommunication, video
training tape, or other instruction.
   (b) (1) As used in this section, ‘‘law enforcement officer’’ means any
officer or employee of a local police department or sheriff’s office, any
peace officer of the Department of Parks and Recreation, as defined in
subdivision (f) of Section 830.2, any peace officer of the University of
California Police Department, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section
830.2, any peace officer of the California State University Police
Departments, as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 830.2, a peace
officer, as defined in subdivision (d) of Section 830.31, or a peace officer
as defined in subdivisions (a) and (b) of Section 830.32.
   (2) As used in this section, ‘‘stalking’’ means the offense defined in
Section 646.9.
   (c) (1) The course of instruction, the learning and performance
objectives, the standards for the training, and the guidelines shall be
developed by the commission in consultation with appropriate groups
and individuals having an interest and expertise in the field of stalking.
   (2) The commission, in consultation with these groups and
individuals, shall review existing training programs to determine in what
ways stalking training might be included as a part of ongoing programs.
[Ch. 565 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3757

  (d) Participation in the course or courses specified in this section by
peace officers or the agencies employing them, is voluntary.



                             CHAPTER 565

  An act to add Sections 765.5 and 6850.5, to the Financial Code, and
to amend Sections 2351, 2359, 2401, 2403, and 2620 of, and to add
Sections 2111.5 and 2401.6 to, the Probate Code, relating to
conservatorship and guardianship.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 20, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 765.5 is added to the Financial Code, to read:
   765.5. When a guardian or conservator, pursuant to letters of
guardianship or conservatorship, opens an account for the estate in a
bank or trust company, or changes the name of an existing account to
reflect the guardianship or conservatorship, the bank or trust company
shall send to the court having jurisdiction of the guardianship or
conservatorship a copy of the documents that evidence the change.
   SEC. 2. Section 6850.5 is added to the Financial Code, to read:
   6850.5. When a guardian or conservator, pursuant to letters of
guardianship or conservatorship, opens an account for the estate in a
savings association, or changes the name of an existing account to reflect
the guardianship or conservatorship, the savings association shall send
to the court having jurisdiction of the guardianship or conservatorship
a copy of the documents that evidence the change.
   SEC. 3. Section 2111.5 is added to the Probate Code, to read:
   2111.5. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), every court
official or employee who has duties or responsibilities related to the
appointment of a guardian or conservator, or the processing of any
document related to a guardian or conservator, and every person who is
related by blood or marriage to a court official or employee who has these
duties, is prohibited from purchasing, leasing, or renting any real or
personal property from the estate of the ward or conservatee whom the
guardian or conservator represents. For purposes of this subdivision, a
‘‘person related by blood or marriage’’ means any of the following:
   (1) A person’s spouse.
   (2) Relatives within the second degree of lineal or collateral
consanguinity of a person or a person’s spouse.
 3758                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 565 ]
   (b) A person described in subdivision (a) is not prohibited from
purchasing real or personal property from the estate of the ward or
conservatee whom the guardian or conservator represents where the
purchase is made under terms and conditions of a public sale of the
property.
   (c) A violation of this section shall result in the rescission of the
purchase, lease, or rental of the property. Any losses incurred by the
estate of the ward or conservatee because the property was sold or leased
at less than fair market value shall be deemed as charges against the
guardian or conservator under the provisions of Sections 2401.3 and
2401.5. The court shall assess a civil penalty equal to three times the
charges against the guardian, conservator, or other person in violation of
this section, and may assess punitive damages as it deems proper. If the
estate does not incur losses as a result of the violation, the court shall
order the guardian, conservator, or other person in violation of this
section to pay a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000) for each
violation. The fines and penalties provided in this section are in addition
to any other rights and remedies provided by law.
   SEC. 4. Section 2351 of the Probate Code is amended to read:
   2351. (a) Subject to subdivision (b), the guardian or conservator,
but not a limited conservator, has the care, custody, and control of, and
has charge of the education of, the ward or conservatee.
   (b) Where the court determines that it is appropriate in the
circumstances of the particular conservatee, the court, in its discretion,
may limit the powers and duties that the conservator would otherwise
have under subdivision (a) by an order stating either of the following:
   (1) The specific powers that the conservator does not have with
respect to the conservatee’s person and reserving the powers so specified
to the conservatee.
   (2) The specific powers and duties the conservator has with respect
to the conservatee’s person and reserving to the conservatee all other
rights with respect to the conservatee’s person that the conservator
otherwise would have under subdivision (a).
   (c) An order under this section (1) may be included in the order
appointing a conservator of the person or (2) may be made, modified, or
revoked upon a petition subsequently filed, notice of the hearing on the
petition having been given for the period and in the manner provided in
Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 1460) of Part 1.
   (d) The guardian or conservator, in exercising his or her powers, may
not hire or refer any business to an entity in which he or she has a
financial interest except upon authorization of the court. Prior to
authorization from the court, the guardian or conservator shall disclose
to the court in writing his or her financial interest in the entity. For the
purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘financial interest’’ shall mean (1) an
[Ch. 565 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3759

ownership interest in a sole proprietorship, a partnership, or a closely
held corporation, or (2) an ownership interest of greater than 1 percent
of the outstanding shares in a publicly traded corporation, or (3) being
an officer or a director of a corporation. This subdivision shall apply only
to conservators and guardians required to register with the Statewide
Registry under Chapter 13 (commencing with Section 2850).
   SEC. 5. Section 2359 of the Probate Code is amended to read:
   2359. (a) Upon petition of the guardian or conservator or ward or
conservatee or other interested person, the court may authorize and
instruct the guardian or conservator or approve and confirm the acts of
the guardian or conservator.
   (b) Notice of the hearing on the petition shall be given for the period
and in the manner provided in Chapter 3 (commencing with Section
1460) of Part 1.
   (c) (1) When a guardian or conservator petitions for the approval of
a purchase, lease, or rental of real or personal property from the estate
of a ward or conservatee, the guardian or conservator shall provide a
statement disclosing the family or affiliate relationship between the
guardian and conservator and the purchaser, lessee, or renter of the
property, and the family or affiliate relationship between the guardian or
conservator and any agent hired by the guardian or conservator.
   (2) For the purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘family’’ means a person’s
spouse or relatives within the second degree of lineal or collateral
consanguinity of a person or a person’s spouse. For the purposes of this
subdivision, ‘‘affiliate’’ means an entity that is under the direct control,
indirect control, or common control of the guardian or conservator.
   (3) A violation of this section shall result in the rescission of the
purchase, lease, or rental of the property. Any losses incurred by the
estate of the ward or conservatee because the property was sold or leased
at less than fair market value shall be deemed as charges against the
guardian or conservator under the provisions of Sections 2401.3 and
2401.5. The court shall assess a civil penalty equal to three times the
charges against the guardian, conservator, or other person in violation of
this section, and may assess punitive damages as it deems proper. If the
estate does not incur losses as a result of the violation, the court shall
order the guardian, conservator, or other person in violation of this
section to pay a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000) for each
violation. The fines and penalties provided in this section are in addition
to any other rights and remedies provided by law.
   SEC. 6. Section 2401 of the Probate Code is amended to read:
   2401. (a) The guardian or conservator, or limited conservator to the
extent specifically and expressly provided in the appointing court’s
order, has the management and control of the estate and, in managing and
controlling the estate, shall use ordinary care and diligence. What
 3760                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 565 ]
constitutes use of ordinary care and diligence is determined by all the
circumstances of the particular estate.
   (b) The guardian or conservator:
   (1) Shall exercise a power to the extent that ordinary care and
diligence requires that the power be exercised.
   (2) Shall not exercise a power to the extent that ordinary care and
diligence requires that the power not be exercised.
   (c) The guardian or conservator, in exercising his or her powers, may
not hire or refer any business to an entity in which he or she has a
financial interest except upon authorization of the court. Prior to
authorization from the court, the guardian or conservator shall disclose
to the court in writing his or her financial interest in the entity. For the
purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘financial interest’’ shall mean (1) an
ownership interest in a sole proprietorship, a partnership, or a closely
held corporation, or (2) an ownership interest of greater than 1 percent
of the outstanding shares in a publicly held corporation, or (3) being an
officer or a director of a corporation. This subdivision shall apply only
to conservators and guardians required to register with the Statewide
Registry under Chapter 13 (commencing with Section 2850).
   SEC. 7. Section 2401.6 is added to the Probate Code, to read:
   2401.6. Any surcharge that a guardian or conservator incurs under
the provisions of Sections 2401.3 or 2401.5 may not be paid by or offset
against future fees or wages to be provided by the estate to the guardian
or conservator.
   SEC. 8. Section 2403 of the Probate Code is amended to read:
   2403. (a) Upon petition of the guardian or conservator, the ward or
conservatee, a creditor, or other interested person, the court may
authorize and instruct the guardian or conservator, or approve and
confirm the acts of the guardian or conservator, in the administration,
management, investment, disposition, care, protection, operation, or
preservation of the estate, or the incurring or payment of costs, fees, or
expenses in connection therewith.
   (b) Notice of the hearing on the petition shall be given for the period
and in the manner provided in Chapter 3 (commencing with Section
1460) of Part 1.
   (c) (1) When a guardian or conservator petitions for the approval of
a purchase, lease, or rental of real or personal property from the estate
of a ward or conservatee, the guardian or conservator shall provide a
statement disclosing the family or affiliate relationship between the
guardian and conservator and the purchaser, lessee, or renter of the
property, and the family or affiliate relationship between the guardian or
conservator and any agent hired by the guardian or conservator.
   (2) For the purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘family’’ means a person’s
spouse or relatives within the second degree of lineal or collateral
[Ch. 565 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3761

consanguinity of a person or a person’s spouse. For the purposes of this
subdivision, ‘‘affiliate’’ means an entity that is under the direct control,
indirect control, or common control of the guardian or conservator.
   (3) A violation of this section shall result in the rescission of the
purchase, lease, or rental of the property. Any losses incurred by the
estate of the ward or conservatee because the property was sold or leased
at less than fair market value shall be deemed as charges against the
guardian or conservator under the provisions of Sections 2401.3 and
2401.5. The court shall assess a civil penalty equal to three times the
charges against the guardian, conservator, or other person in violation of
this section, and may assess punitive damages as it deems proper. If the
estate does not incur losses as a result of the violation, the court shall
order the guardian, conservator, or other person in violation of this
section to pay a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000) for each
violation. The fines and penalties provided in this section are in addition
to any other rights and remedies provided by law.
   SEC. 9. Section 2620 of the Probate Code is amended to read:
   2620. (a) At the expiration of one year from the time of
appointment and thereafter not less frequently than biennially, unless
otherwise ordered by the court, the guardian or conservator shall present
the account of the guardian or conservator to the court for settlement and
allowance in the manner provided in Chapter 4 (commencing with
Section 1060) of Part 1 of Division 3.
   (b) The final account of the guardian or conservator following the
death of the ward or conservatee shall include an account for the period
that ended on the date of death and a separate account for the period
subsequent to the date of death.
   (c) As part of the first accounting required by subdivision (a), the
guardian or conservator shall submit to the court a copy of the account
statement from any financial institution where money belonging to the
estate is deposited that accounts for the period immediately preceding
the date the guardian or conservator was appointed and the account
statement from any financial institution where money belonging to the
estate is deposited that accounts for the period immediately preceding
the date the accounting is filed. As part of subsequent accountings and
the accounting required by subdivision (b), the guardian or conservator
shall submit to the court the most recent account statement from any
financial institution where money belonging to the estate is deposited.
The account statements from any financial institution submitted
pursuant to this section shall be confidential and subject to discovery
only upon an order of the court.
 3762                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 566 ]
                            CHAPTER 566

   An act to amend Section 18010 of, and to add Section 18009.3 to, the
Health and Safety Code, and to amend Sections 635, 4453, 11713.1,
11713.3, 34500, and 35780.3 of the Vehicle Code, relating to park
trailers.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 21, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 18009.3 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
   18009.3. ‘‘Park trailer’’ means a trailer designed for human
habitation for recreational or seasonal use only, that meets all of the
following requirements:
   (a) It contains 400 square feet or less of gross floor area. It may not
exceed 14 feet in width at the maximum horizontal projection.
   (b) It is built upon a single chassis.
   (c) It may only be transported upon the public highways with a permit
issued pursuant to Section 35780 of the Vehicle Code.
   SEC. 2. Section 18010 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   18010. ‘‘Recreational vehicle’’ means both of the following:
   (a) A motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, or camping trailer,
with or without motive power, designed for human habitation for
recreational, emergency, or other occupancy, that meets all of the
following criteria:
   (1) It contains less than 320 square feet of internal living room area,
excluding built-in equipment, including, but not limited to, wardrobe,
closets, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures, and bath or toilet rooms.
   (2) It contains 400 square feet or less of gross area measured at
maximum horizontal projections.
   (3) It is built on a single chassis.
   (4) It is either self-propelled, truck-mounted, or permanently towable
on the highways without a permit.
   (b) A park trailer, as defined in Section 18009.3.
   SEC. 3. Section 635 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   635. A ‘‘trailer coach’’ is a vehicle, other than a motor vehicle,
designed for human habitation or human occupancy for industrial,
professional, or commercial purposes, for carrying property on its own
structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle. A ‘‘park trailer,’’ as
described in Section 18009.3 of the Health and Safety Code, is a trailer
coach.
[Ch. 566 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3763

   SEC. 4. Section 4453 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   4453. (a) The registration card shall contain upon its face, the date
issued, the name and residence or business address of the owner and of
the legal owner, if any, the registration number assigned to the vehicle,
and a description of the vehicle as complete as that required in the
application for registration of the vehicle.
   (b) A motor vehicle of a type included in this subdivision shall be
identified as such on the face of the registration card, whenever the
department is able to ascertain that fact, at the time application is made
for initial registration or transfer of ownership of the vehicle.
   (1) A motor vehicle rebuilt and restored to operation which was
previously declared to be a total loss salvage vehicle because the cost of
repairs exceeds the retail value of the vehicle.
   (2) A motor vehicle rebuilt and restored to operation which was
previously reported to be dismantled pursuant to Section 11520.
   (3) A motor vehicle previously registered to a law enforcement
agency and operated in law enforcement work.
   (4) A motor vehicle formerly operated as a taxicab.
   (5) A motor vehicle manufactured outside of the United States and
not intended by the manufacturer for sale in the United States.
   (6) A park trailer, as described in Section 18009.3 of the Health and
Safety Code, which when moved upon the highway is required to be
moved under a permit pursuant to Section 35780.
   (7) A motor vehicle that has been reacquired under circumstances
described in subdivision (c) of Section 1793.23 of the Civil Code, a
vehicle with out-of-state titling documents reflecting a warranty return,
or a vehicle that has been identified by an agency of another state as
requiring a warranty return title notation, pursuant to the laws of that
state. The notation made on the face of the registration and pursuant to
this subdivision shall state ‘‘Lemon Law Buyback.’’
   (c) The director may modify the form, arrangement, and information
appearing on the face of the registration card and may provide for
standardization and abbreviation of fictitious or firm names on the
registration card whenever the director finds that the efficiency of the
department will be promoted by so doing, except that general delivery
or post office box numbers shall not be permitted as the address of the
registered owner unless there is no other address.
   SEC. 5. Section 11713.1 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   11713.1. It is a violation of this code for the holder of any dealer’s
license issued under this article to do any of the following:
   (a) Advertise any specific vehicle for sale without identifying the
vehicle by either its vehicle identification number or license number.
   (b) Advertise the total price of a vehicle without including all costs
to the purchaser at time of sale, except taxes, vehicle registration fees,
 3764                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 566 ]
emission testing fees not exceeding fifty dollars ($50), actual fees
charged for certificates pursuant to Section 44060 of the Health and
Safety Code, finance charges, and any dealer document preparation
charge. The dealer document preparation charge shall not exceed
forty-five dollars ($45).
   (c) Exclude from the newspaper display advertisement of a vehicle
for sale that there will be added to the advertised total price at the time
of sale, charges for sales tax, vehicle registration fees, the fee charged by
the state for the issuance of any certificate of compliance or
noncompliance pursuant to any statute, finance charges, and any dealer
document preparation charge.
   For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘newspaper display advertisement’’
means any advertisement in a newspaper which is two or more
newspaper columns in width or one newspaper column in width and
more than seven inches in length.
   (d) Represent the dealer document preparation charge or certificate of
compliance or noncompliance fee, as a governmental fee.
   (e) Fail to sell a vehicle to any person at the advertised total price,
exclusive of taxes, vehicle registration fees, the fee charged by the state
for the issuance of any certificate of compliance or noncompliance
pursuant to any statute, finance charges, mobilehome escrow fees, the
amount of any city, county, or city and county imposed fee or tax for a
mobilehome, and any dealer document preparation charge, which
charges shall not exceed forty-five dollars ($45) for the document
preparation charge and not to exceed fifty dollars ($50) for emission
testing plus the actual fees charged for certificates pursuant to Section
44060 of the Health and Safety Code, while the vehicle remains unsold,
unless the advertisement states the advertised total price is good only for
a specified time and the time has elapsed.
   (f) (1) Advertise for sale, sell, or purchase for resale any new vehicle
of a line-make for which the dealer does not hold a franchise.
   (2) This subdivision does not apply to any transaction involving any
of the following:
   (A) A mobilehome.
   (B) A recreational vehicle as defined in Section 18010 of the Health
and Safety Code.
   (C) A commercial coach, as defined in Section 18001.8 of the Health
and Safety Code.
   (D) An off-highway motor vehicle subject to identification as defined
in Section 38012.
   (E) A manufactured home.
   (F) A new vehicle that will be substantially altered or modified by a
converter prior to resale.
[Ch. 566 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3765

   (G) A commercial vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating or more
than 10,000 pounds.
   (H) A vehicle purchased for export and exported outside the
territorial limits of the United States without being registered with the
department.
   (g) Sell a park trailer, as specified in Section 18009.3 of the Health
and Safety Code, without disclosing in writing to the purchaser that a
park trailer is required to be moved by a transporter or a licensed
manufacturer or dealer under a permit issued by the Department of
Transportation or a local authority with respect to highways under their
respective jurisdictions.
   (h) Advertise free merchandise, gifts, or services provided by a dealer
contingent on the purchase of a vehicle. The term ‘‘free’’ includes
merchandise or services offered for sale at a price less than the seller’s
cost of the merchandise or services.
   (i) Advertise vehicles, and related goods or services, at a specified
dealer price, with the intent not to supply reasonably expectable demand,
unless the advertisement discloses the number of vehicles in stock at the
advertised price. In addition, whether or not there are sufficient vehicles
in stock to supply a reasonably expectable demand, when phrases such
as ‘‘starting at,’’ ‘‘from,’’ ‘‘beginning as low as,’’ or words of similar
import are used in reference to an advertised price, the advertisement
shall disclose the number of vehicles available at that advertised price.
   For purposes of this subdivision, in any newspaper advertisement for
a vehicle that is two model years old or newer, the actual phrase that
states the number of vehicles in stock at the advertised price shall be (1)
printed in a type size that is at least equal to one-quarter of the type size,
and in the same style and color of type, used for the advertised price,
however, in no case shall the phrase be printed in less than 8-point type
size, and (2) be disclosed immediately above, below, or beside the
advertised price without any intervening words, pictures, marks, or
symbols.
   The disclosure required by this subdivision is in addition to any other
disclosure required by this code or any regulation regarding identifying
vehicles advertised for sale.
   (j) Use the term ‘‘rebate’’ or similar words such as ‘‘cash back’’ in
advertising the sale of a vehicle unless the rebate is expressed in a
specific dollar amount and is in fact a rebate offered by the vehicle
manufacturer or distributor directly to the retail purchaser of the vehicle
or to the assignee of the retail purchaser.
   (k) Require a person to pay a higher price for a vehicle and related
goods or services for receiving advertised credit terms than the cash price
the same person would have to pay to purchase the same vehicle and
related goods or services. For the purpose of this subdivision, ‘‘cash
 3766                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 566 ]
price’’ has the meaning as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 2981 of
the Civil Code.
   (l) Advertise a guaranteed trade-in allowance unless the guarantee is
provided by the manufacturer or distributor.
   (m) Misrepresent the authority of a salesperson, representative, or
agent to negotiate the final terms of a transaction.
   (n) (1) Use the terms ‘‘invoice,’’ ‘‘dealer’s invoice,’’ ‘‘wholesale
price,’’ or similar terms that refer to a dealer’s cost for a vehicle in an
advertisement for the sale of a vehicle or advertise that the selling price
of a vehicle is above, below, or at either of the following:
   (A) The manufacturer’s or distributor’s invoice price to a dealer.
   (B) A dealer’s cost.
   (2) This subdivision does not apply to either of the following:
   (A) Any communication occurring during face-to-face negotiations
for the purchase of a specific vehicle if the prospective purchaser
initiates a discussion of the vehicle’s invoice price or the dealer’s cost for
that vehicle.
   (B) Any communication between a dealer and a prospective
commercial purchaser that is not disseminated to the general public. For
purposes of this subparagraph, a ‘‘commercial purchaser’’ means a
dealer, lessor, lessor-retailer, manufacturer, remanufacturer, distributor,
financial institution, governmental entity, or person who purchases 10
or more vehicles during a year.
   (o) Violate any law prohibiting bait and switch advertising,
including, but not limited to, the guides against bait advertising set forth
in Part 238 (commencing with Section 238) of Title 16 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, as those regulations read on January 1, 1988.
   (p) Make any untrue or misleading statement indicating that a vehicle
is equipped with all the factory installed optional equipment the
manufacturer offers, including, but not limited to, a false statement that
a vehicle is ‘‘fully factory equipped.’’
   (q) Affix on any new vehicle a supplemental price sticker containing
a price that represents the dealer’s asking price which exceeds the
manufacturer’s suggested retail price unless all of the following occur:
   (1) The supplemental sticker clearly and conspicuously discloses in
the largest print appearing on the sticker, other than the print size used
for the dealer’s name, that the supplemental sticker price is the dealer’s
asking price, or words of similar import, and that it is not the
manufacturer’s suggested retail price.
   (2) The supplemental sticker clearly and conspicuously discloses the
manufacturer’s suggested retail price.
   (3) The supplemental sticker lists each item which is not included in
the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, and discloses the additional
price of each item. If the supplemental sticker price is greater than the
[Ch. 566 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3767

sum of the manufacturer’s suggested retail price and the price of the
items added by the dealer, then the supplemental sticker price shall set
forth that difference and describe it as ‘‘added mark-up.’’
   (r) Advertise any underselling claim, such as ‘‘we have the lowest
prices’’ or ‘‘we will beat any dealer’s price,’’ unless the dealer has
conducted a recent survey showing that the dealer sells its vehicles at
lower prices than any other licensee in its trade area and maintains
records to adequately substantiate the claims. The substantiating records
shall be made available to the department upon request.
   (s) Advertise any incentive offered by the manufacturer or distributor
if the dealer is required to contribute to the cost of the incentive as a
condition of participating in the incentive program, unless the dealer
discloses in a clear and conspicuous manner that dealer participation
may affect consumer cost.
   For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘incentive’’ means anything of
value offered to induce people to purchase a vehicle, including, but not
limited to, discounts, savings claims, rebates, below-market finance
rates, and free merchandise or services.
   (t) Display or offer for sale any used vehicle unless there is affixed to
the vehicle the Federal Trade Commission’s Buyer’s Guide as required
by Part 455 of Title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (u) Fail to disclose in writing to the franchisor of a new motor vehicle
dealer the name of the purchaser, date of sale, and the vehicle
identification number of each new motor vehicle sold of the line-make
of that franchisor, or intentionally submit to that franchisor a false name
for the purchaser or false date for the date of sale.
   (v) Enter into a contract for the retail sale of a motor vehicle unless
the contract clearly and conspicuously discloses whether the vehicle is
being sold as a new vehicle or a used vehicle, as defined in this code.
   (w) Use a simulated check, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section
22433 of the Business and Professions Code, in an advertisement for the
sale or lease of a vehicle.
   (x) Fail to disclose, in a clear and conspicuous manner in at least
10-point bold type on the face of any contract for the retail sale of a new
motor vehicle that this transaction is, or is not, subject to a fee received
by an autobroker from the selling new motor vehicle dealer, and the
name of the autobroker, if applicable.
   SEC. 5.5. Section 11713.1 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   11713.1. It is a violation of this code for the holder of any dealer’s
license issued under this article to do any of the following:
   (a) Advertise any specific vehicle for sale without identifying the
vehicle by either its vehicle identification number or license number.
   (b) Advertise the total price of a vehicle without including all costs
to the purchaser at time of sale, except taxes, vehicle registration fees,
 3768                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 566 ]
emission testing fees not exceeding fifty dollars ($50), actual fees
charged for certificates pursuant to Section 44060 of the Health and
Safety Code, finance charges, and any dealer document preparation
charge. The dealer document preparation charge shall not exceed
forty-five dollars ($45).
   (c) (1) Exclude from an advertisement of a vehicle for sale that there
will be added to the advertised total price at the time of sale, charges for
sales tax, vehicle registration fees, the fee charged by the state for the
issuance of any certificate of compliance or noncompliance pursuant to
any statute, finance charges, and any dealer document preparation
charge.
   (2) For purposes of paragraph (1), ‘‘advertisement’’ means any
advertisement in a newspaper, magazine, direct mail publication, or
handbill that is two or more columns in width or one column in width
and more than seven inches in length, or on any web page of a dealer’s
website that displays the price of a vehicle offered for sale on the Internet,
as that term is defined in paragraph (6) of subdivision (e) of Section
17538 of the Business and Professions Code.
   (d) Represent the dealer document preparation charge or certificate of
compliance or noncompliance fee, as a governmental fee.
   (e) Fail to sell a vehicle to any person at the advertised total price,
exclusive of taxes, vehicle registration fees, the fee charged by the state
for the issuance of any certificate of compliance or noncompliance
pursuant to any statute, finance charges, mobilehome escrow fees, the
amount of any city, county, or city and county imposed fee or tax for a
mobilehome, and any dealer document preparation charge, which
charges shall not exceed forty-five dollars ($45) for the document
preparation charge and not to exceed fifty dollars ($50) for emission
testing plus the actual fees charged for certificates pursuant to Section
44060 of the Health and Safety Code, while the vehicle remains unsold,
unless the advertisement states the advertised total price is good only for
a specified time and the time has elapsed.
   (f) (1) Advertise for sale, sell, or purchase for resale any new vehicle
of a line-make for which the dealer does not hold a franchise.
   (2) This subdivision does not apply to any transaction involving any
of the following:
   (A) A mobilehome.
   (B) A recreational vehicle as defined in Section 18010 of the Health
and Safety Code.
   (C) A commercial coach, as defined in Section 18001.8 of the Health
and Safety Code.
   (D) An off-highway motor vehicle subject to identification as defined
in Section 38012.
   (E) A manufactured home.
[Ch. 566 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3769

   (F) A new vehicle that will be substantially altered or modified by a
converter prior to resale.
   (G) A commercial vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating or more
than 10,000 pounds.
   (H) A vehicle purchased for export and exported outside the
territorial limits of the United States without being registered with the
department.
   (g) Sell a park trailer, as specified in Section 18009.3 of the Health
and Safety Code, without disclosing in writing to the purchaser that a
park trailer is required to be moved by a transporter or a licensed
manufacturer or dealer under a permit issued by the Department of
Transportation or a local authority with respect to highways under their
respective jurisdictions.
   (h) Advertise free merchandise, gifts, or services provided by a dealer
contingent on the purchase of a vehicle. The term ‘‘free’’ includes
merchandise or services offered for sale at a price less than the seller’s
cost of the merchandise or services.
   (i) Advertise vehicles, and related goods or services, at a specified
dealer price, with the intent not to supply reasonably expectable demand,
unless the advertisement discloses the number of vehicles in stock at the
advertised price. In addition, whether or not there are sufficient vehicles
in stock to supply a reasonably expectable demand, when phrases such
as ‘‘starting at,’’ ‘‘from,’’ ‘‘beginning as low as,’’ or words of similar
import are used in reference to an advertised price, the advertisement
shall disclose the number of vehicles available at that advertised price.
   For purposes of this subdivision, in any newspaper advertisement for
a vehicle that is two model years old or newer, the actual phrase that
states the number of vehicles in stock at the advertised price shall be (1)
printed in a type size that is at least equal to one-quarter of the type size,
and in the same style and color of type, used for the advertised price,
however, in no case shall the phrase be printed in less than 8-point type
size, and (2) be disclosed immediately above, below, or beside the
advertised price without any intervening words, pictures, marks, or
symbols.
   The disclosure required by this subdivision is in addition to any other
disclosure required by this code or any regulation regarding identifying
vehicles advertised for sale.
   (j) Use the term ‘‘rebate’’ or similar words such as ‘‘cash back’’ in
advertising the sale of a vehicle unless the rebate is expressed in a
specific dollar amount and is in fact a rebate offered by the vehicle
manufacturer or distributor directly to the retail purchaser of the vehicle
or to the assignee of the retail purchaser.
   (k) Require a person to pay a higher price for a vehicle and related
goods or services for receiving advertised credit terms than the cash price
 3770                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 566 ]
the same person would have to pay to purchase the same vehicle and
related goods or services. For the purpose of this subdivision, ‘‘cash
price’’ has the meaning as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 2981 of
the Civil Code.
   (l) Advertise a guaranteed trade-in allowance unless the guarantee is
provided by the manufacturer or distributor.
   (m) Misrepresent the authority of a salesperson, representative, or
agent to negotiate the final terms of a transaction.
   (n) (1) Use the terms ‘‘invoice,’’ ‘‘dealer’s invoice,’’ ‘‘wholesale
price,’’ or similar terms that refer to a dealer’s cost for a vehicle in an
advertisement for the sale of a vehicle or advertise that the selling price
of a vehicle is above, below, or at either of the following:
   (A) The manufacturer’s or distributor’s invoice price to a dealer.
   (B) A dealer’s cost.
   (2) This subdivision does not apply to either of the following:
   (A) Any communication occurring during face-to-face negotiations
for the purchase of a specific vehicle if the prospective purchaser
initiates a discussion of the vehicle’s invoice price or the dealer’s cost for
that vehicle.
   (B) Any communication between a dealer and a prospective
commercial purchaser that is not disseminated to the general public. For
purposes of this subparagraph, a ‘‘commercial purchaser’’ means a
dealer, lessor, lessor-retailer, manufacturer, remanufacturer, distributor,
financial institution, governmental entity, or person who purchases 10
or more vehicles during a year.
   (o) Violate any law prohibiting bait and switch advertising,
including, but not limited to, the guides against bait advertising set forth
in Part 238 (commencing with Section 238) of Title 16 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, as those regulations read on January 1, 1988.
   (p) Make any untrue or misleading statement indicating that a vehicle
is equipped with all the factory installed optional equipment the
manufacturer offers, including, but not limited to, a false statement that
a vehicle is ‘‘fully factory equipped.’’
   (q) Affix on any new vehicle a supplemental price sticker containing
a price that represents the dealer’s asking price which exceeds the
manufacturer’s suggested retail price unless all of the following occur:
   (1) The supplemental sticker clearly and conspicuously discloses in
the largest print appearing on the sticker, other than the print size used
for the dealer’s name, that the supplemental sticker price is the dealer’s
asking price, or words of similar import, and that it is not the
manufacturer’s suggested retail price.
   (2) The supplemental sticker clearly and conspicuously discloses the
manufacturer’s suggested retail price.
[Ch. 566 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3771

   (3) The supplemental sticker lists each item which is not included in
the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, and discloses the additional
price of each item. If the supplemental sticker price is greater than the
sum of the manufacturer’s suggested retail price and the price of the
items added by the dealer, then the supplemental sticker price shall set
forth that difference and describe it as ‘‘added mark-up.’’
   (r) Advertise any underselling claim, such as ‘‘we have the lowest
prices’’ or ‘‘we will beat any dealer’s price,’’ unless the dealer has
conducted a recent survey showing that the dealer sells its vehicles at
lower prices than any other licensee in its trade area and maintains
records to adequately substantiate the claims. The substantiating records
shall be made available to the department upon request.
   (s) Advertise any incentive offered by the manufacturer or distributor
if the dealer is required to contribute to the cost of the incentive as a
condition of participating in the incentive program, unless the dealer
discloses in a clear and conspicuous manner that dealer participation
may affect consumer cost.
   For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘incentive’’ means anything of
value offered to induce people to purchase a vehicle, including, but not
limited to, discounts, savings claims, rebates, below-market finance
rates, and free merchandise or services.
   (t) Display or offer for sale any used vehicle unless there is affixed to
the vehicle the Federal Trade Commission’s Buyer’s Guide as required
by Part 455 of Title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (u) Fail to disclose in writing to the franchisor of a new motor vehicle
dealer the name of the purchaser, date of sale, and the vehicle
identification number of each new motor vehicle sold of the line-make
of that franchisor, or intentionally submit to that franchisor a false name
for the purchaser or false date for the date of sale.
   (v) Enter into a contract for the retail sale of a motor vehicle unless
the contract clearly and conspicuously discloses whether the vehicle is
being sold as a new vehicle or a used vehicle, as defined in this code.
   (w) Use a simulated check, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section
22433 of the Business and Professions Code, in an advertisement for the
sale or lease of a vehicle.
   (x) Fail to disclose, in a clear and conspicuous manner in at least
10-point bold type on the face of any contract for the retail sale of a new
motor vehicle that this transaction is, or is not, subject to a fee received
by an autobroker from the selling new motor vehicle dealer, and the
name of the autobroker, if applicable.
   (y) This section shall become operative on July 1, 2001.
   SEC. 6. Section 11713.3 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
 3772                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 566 ]
   11713.3. It is unlawful and a violation of this code for any
manufacturer, manufacturer branch, distributor, or distributor branch
licensed under this code to do any of the following:
   (a) To refuse or fail to deliver in reasonable quantities and within a
reasonable time after receipt of an order from a dealer having a franchise
for the retail sale of any new vehicle sold or distributed by the
manufacturer or distributor, any new vehicle or parts or accessories to
new vehicles as are covered by the franchise, if the vehicle, parts, or
accessories are publicly advertised as being available for delivery or
actually being delivered. This subdivision is not violated, however, if the
failure is caused by acts or causes beyond the control of the
manufacturer, manufacturer branch, distributor, or distributor branch.
   (b) To prevent or require, or attempt to prevent or require, by contract
or otherwise, any change in the capital structure of a dealership or the
means by or through which the dealer finances the operation of the
dealership, provided that the dealer at all times meets any reasonable
capital standards agreed to by the dealer and the manufacturer or
distributor, and also provided that no change in capital structure shall
cause a change in the principal management or have the effect of a sale
of the franchise without the consent of the manufacturer or distributor.
   (c) To prevent or require, or attempt to prevent or require, a dealer to
change the executive management of a dealership, other than the
principal dealership operator or operators if the franchise was granted the
dealer in reliance upon the personal qualifications of such person or
persons.
   (d) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (t), to prevent or require,
or attempt to prevent or require, by contract or otherwise, any dealer, or
any officer, partner, or stockholder of any dealership, the sale or transfer
of any part of the interest of any of them to any other person or persons.
No dealer, officer, partner, or stockholder shall, however, have the right
to sell, transfer, or assign the franchise, or any right thereunder, without
the consent of the manufacturer or distributor except that the consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (2) (A) For the transferring franchisee to fail, prior to the sale,
transfer, or assignment of a franchisee or the sale, assignment, or transfer
of all or substantially all of the assets of the franchised business or a
controlling interest in the franchised business to another person, to
notify the manufacturer or distributor of the franchisee’s decision to sell,
transfer, or assign the franchise. The notice shall be in writing and shall
include all of the following:
   (i) The proposed transferee’s name and address.
   (ii) A copy of all of the agreements relating to the sale, assignment,
or transfer of the franchised business or its assets.
[Ch. 566 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3773

   (iii) The proposed transferee’s application for approval to become the
successor franchisee. The application shall include forms and related
information generally utilized by the manufacturer or distributor in
reviewing prospective franchisees, if those forms are readily made
available to existing franchisees. As soon as practicable after receipt of
the proposed transferee’s application, the manufacturer or distributor
shall notify the franchisee and the proposed transferee of any
information needed to make the application complete.
   (B) For the manufacturer or distributor, to fail on or before 60 days
after the receipt of all of the information required pursuant to
subparagraph (A), or as extended by a written agreement between the
manufacturer or distributor and the franchisee, to notify the franchisee
of the approval or the disapproval of the sale, transfer, or assignment of
the franchise. The notice shall be in writing and shall be personally
served or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
guaranteed overnight delivery service that provides verification of
delivery and shall be directed to the franchisee. Any proposed sale,
assignment, or transfer shall be deemed approved, unless disapproved
by the franchisor in the manner provided by this subdivision. If the
proposed sale, assignment, or transfer is disapproved, the franchisor
shall include in the notice of disapproval a statement setting forth the
reasons for the disapproval.
   (3) In any action in which the manufacturer’s or distributor’s
withholding of consent under this subdivision or subdivision (e) is an
issue, whether the withholding of consent was unreasonable is a question
of fact requiring consideration of all the existing circumstances.
   (e) To prevent, or attempt to prevent, a dealer from receiving fair and
reasonable compensation for the value of the franchised business. There
shall be no transfer or assignment of the dealer’s franchise without the
consent of the manufacturer or distributor, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld or conditioned upon the release, assignment,
novation, waiver, estoppel, or modification of any claim or defense by
the dealer.
   (f) To obtain money, goods, service, or any other benefit from any
other person with whom the dealer does business, on account of, or in
relation to, the transaction between the dealer and that other person,
other than for compensation for services rendered, unless the benefit is
promptly accounted for, and transmitted to, the dealer.
   (g) To require a dealer to prospectively assent to a release,
assignment, novation, waiver, or estoppel which would relieve any
person from liability to be imposed by this article or to require any
controversy between a dealer and a manufacturer, distributor, or
representative, to be referred to any person other than the board, if the
 3774                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 566 ]
referral would be binding on the dealer. This subdivision does not,
however, prohibit arbitration before an independent arbitrator.
   (h) To increase prices of motor vehicles which the dealer had ordered
for private retail consumers prior to the dealer’s receipt of the written
official price increase notification. A sales contract signed by a private
retail consumer is evidence of each such order. In the event of
manufacturer price reductions, the amount of the reduction received by
a dealer shall be passed on to the private retail consumer by the dealer
if the retail price was negotiated on the basis of the previous higher price
to the dealer. Price reductions apply to all vehicles in the dealer’s
inventory which were subject to the price reduction. Price differences
applicable to new model or series motor vehicles at the time of the
introduction of new models or series shall not be considered a price
increase or price decrease. Price changes caused by either (1) the
addition to a motor vehicle of required or optional equipment pursuant
to state or federal law, or (2) revaluation of the United States dollar in
the case of foreign-make vehicles, are not subject to this subdivision.
   (i) To fail to pay to a dealer, within a reasonable time following receipt
of a valid claim by a dealer thereof, any payment agreed to be made by
the manufacturer or distributor to the dealer by reason of the fact that a
new vehicle of a prior year model is in the dealer’s inventory at the time
of introduction of new model vehicles.
   (j) To deny the widow or heirs designated by a deceased owner of a
dealership, the opportunity to participate in the ownership of the
dealership or successor dealership under a valid franchise for a
reasonable time after the death of the owner.
   (k) To offer any refunds or other types of inducements to any person
for the purchase of new motor vehicles of a certain line-make to be sold
to the state or any political subdivision thereof without making the same
offer to all other dealers in the same line-make within the relevant market
area.
   (l) To modify, replace, enter into, relocate, terminate or refuse to
renew a franchise in violation of Article 4 (commencing with Section
3060) of Chapter 6 of Division 2.
   (m) To employ a person as a representative who has not been licensed
pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 11900) of Chapter 4 of
Division 5.
   (n) To deny any dealer the right of free association with any other
dealer for any lawful purpose.
   (o) To compete with a dealer in the same line-make operating under
an agreement or franchise from a manufacturer or distributor in the
relevant market area. A manufacturer or distributor shall not, however,
be deemed to be competing when operating a dealership either
temporarily for a reasonable period, or in a bona fide retail operation
[Ch. 566 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3775

which is for sale to any qualified independent person at a fair and
reasonable price, or in a bona fide relationship in which an independent
person has made a significant investment subject to loss in the dealership
and can reasonably expect to acquire full ownership of the dealership on
reasonable terms and conditions. A distributor shall not be deemed to be
competing when a wholly owned subsidiary corporation of the
distributor sells motor vehicles at retail, if, for at least three years prior
to January 1, 1973, the subsidiary corporation has been a wholly owned
subsidiary of the distributor and engaged in the sale of vehicles at retail.
   (p) To unfairly discriminate among its franchisees with respect to
warranty reimbursement or authority granted its franchisees to make
warranty adjustments with retail customers.
   (q) To sell vehicles to persons not licensed under this chapter for
resale.
   (r) To fail to affix an identification number to any park trailer, as
described in Section 18009.3 of the Health and Safety Code, that is
manufactured on or after January 1, 1987, and which does not clearly
identify the unit as a park trailer to the department. The configuration of
the identification number shall be approved by the department.
   (s) To dishonor a warranty, rebate, or other incentive offered to the
public or a dealer in connection with the retail sale of a new motor
vehicle, based solely upon the fact that an autobroker arranged or
negotiated the sale. This subdivision shall not prohibit the disallowance
of that rebate or incentive if the purchaser or dealer is ineligible to receive
the rebate or incentive pursuant to any other term or condition of a rebate
or incentive program.
   (t) To exercise a right of first refusal or any other right requiring a
franchisee or any owner thereof to sell, transfer, or assign to the
franchisor, or to any nominee of the franchisor, all or any material part
of the franchised business or of the assets thereof unless all of the
following requirements are met:
   (1) The franchise authorizes the franchisor to exercise a right of first
refusal to acquire the franchised business or assets thereof in the event
of a proposed sale, transfer or assignment.
   (2) The franchisor gives written notice of its exercise of the right of
first refusal no later than 45 days after the franchisor receives all of the
information required pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (d).
   (3) The sale, transfer, or assignment being proposed relates to not less
than all or substantially all of the assets of the franchised business or to
a controlling interest in the franchised business.
   (4) The proposed transferee is neither a family member of an owner
of the franchised business, nor a managerial employee of the franchisee
owning 15 percent or more of the franchised business, nor a corporation,
 3776                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 566 ]
partnership, or other legal entity owned by the existing owners of the
franchised business. For purposes of this paragraph, a ‘‘family member’’
means the spouse of an owner of the franchised business, the child,
grandchild, brother, sister, or parent of an owner, or a spouse of one of
those family members. Nothing contained in this paragraph limits the
rights of the franchisor to disapprove a proposed transferee as provided
in subdivision (d).
   (5) Upon the franchisor’s exercise of the right of first refusal, the
consideration paid by the franchisor to the franchisee and owners of the
franchised business shall equal or exceed all consideration that each of
them were to have received under the terms of, or in connection with, the
proposed sale, assignment, or transfer, and the franchisor shall comply
with all the terms and conditions of the agreement or agreements to sell,
transfer, or assign the franchised business.
   (6) The franchisor shall reimburse the proposed transferee for any
expenses paid or incurred by the proposed transferee in evaluating,
investigating, and negotiating the proposed transfer to the extent those
expenses do not exceed the usual, customary, and reasonable fees
charged for similar work done in the area in which the franchised
business is located. These expenses include, but are not limited to, legal
and accounting expenses, and expenses incurred for title reports and
environmental or other investigations of any real property on which the
franchisee’s operations are conducted. The proposed transferee shall
provide the franchisor a written itemization of those expenses, and a
copy of all nonprivileged reports and studies for which expenses were
incurred, if any, within 30 days of the proposed transferee’s receipt of a
written request from the franchisor for that accounting. The franchisor
shall make payment within 30 days of exercising the right of first refusal.
   (u) To unfairly discriminate in favor of any dealership owned or
controlled, in whole or part, by a manufacturer or distributor or an entity
that controls or is controlled by the manufacturer or distributor. Nothing
in this subdivision shall be interpreted to prohibit a franchisor from
granting a franchise to prospective franchisees or assisting those
franchisees during the course of the franchise relationship as part of a
program or programs to make franchises available to persons lacking
capital, training, business experience, or other qualifications ordinarily
required of prospective franchisees.
   SEC. 6.5. Section 11713.3 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   11713.3. It is unlawful and a violation of this code for any
manufacturer, manufacturer branch, distributor, or distributor branch
licensed under this code to do any of the following:
   (a) To refuse or fail to deliver in reasonable quantities and within a
reasonable time after receipt of an order from a dealer having a franchise
for the retail sale of any new vehicle sold or distributed by the
[Ch. 566 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3777

manufacturer or distributor, any new vehicle or parts or accessories to
new vehicles as are covered by the franchise, if the vehicle, parts, or
accessories are publicly advertised as being available for delivery or
actually being delivered. This subdivision is not violated, however, if the
failure is caused by acts or causes beyond the control of the
manufacturer, manufacturer branch, distributor, or distributor branch.
   (b) To prevent or require, or attempt to prevent or require, by contract
or otherwise, any change in the capital structure of a dealership or the
means by or through which the dealer finances the operation of the
dealership, provided that the dealer at all times meets any reasonable
capital standards agreed to by the dealer and the manufacturer or
distributor, and also provided that no change in capital structure shall
cause a change in the principal management or have the effect of a sale
of the franchise without the consent of the manufacturer or distributor.
   (c) To prevent or require, or attempt to prevent or require, a dealer to
change the executive management of a dealership, other than the
principal dealership operator or operators if the franchise was granted the
dealer in reliance upon the personal qualifications of such person or
persons.
   (d) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (t), to prevent or require,
or attempt to prevent or require, by contract or otherwise, any dealer, or
any officer, partner, or stockholder of any dealership, the sale or transfer
of any part of the interest of any of them to any other person or persons.
No dealer, officer, partner, or stockholder shall, however, have the right
to sell, transfer, or assign the franchise, or any right thereunder, without
the consent of the manufacturer or distributor except that the consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (2) (A) For the transferring franchisee to fail, prior to the sale,
transfer, or assignment of a franchisee or the sale, assignment, or transfer
of all or substantially all of the assets of the franchised business or a
controlling interest in the franchised business to another person, to
notify the manufacturer or distributor of the franchisee’s decision to sell,
transfer, or assign the franchise. The notice shall be in writing and shall
include all of the following:
   (i) The proposed transferee’s name and address.
   (ii) A copy of all of the agreements relating to the sale, assignment,
or transfer of the franchised business or its assets.
   (iii) The proposed transferee’s application for approval to become the
successor franchisee. The application shall include forms and related
information generally utilized by the manufacturer or distributor in
reviewing prospective franchisees, if those forms are readily made
available to existing franchisees. As soon as practicable after receipt of
the proposed transferee’s application, the manufacturer or distributor
 3778                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 566 ]
shall notify the franchisee and the proposed transferee of any
information needed to make the application complete.
   (B) For the manufacturer or distributor, to fail on or before 60 days
after the receipt of all of the information required pursuant to
subparagraph (A), or as extended by a written agreement between the
manufacturer or distributor and the franchisee, to notify the franchisee
of the approval or the disapproval of the sale, transfer, or assignment of
the franchise. The notice shall be in writing and shall be personally
served or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by
guaranteed overnight delivery service that provides verification of
delivery and shall be directed to the franchisee. Any proposed sale,
assignment, or transfer shall be deemed approved, unless disapproved
by the franchisor in the manner provided by this subdivision. If the
proposed sale, assignment, or transfer is disapproved, the franchisor
shall include in the notice of disapproval a statement setting forth the
reasons for the disapproval.
   (3) In any action in which the manufacturer’s or distributor’s
withholding of consent under this subdivision or subdivision (e) is an
issue, whether the withholding of consent was unreasonable is a question
of fact requiring consideration of all the existing circumstances.
   (e) To prevent, or attempt to prevent, a dealer from receiving fair and
reasonable compensation for the value of the franchised business. There
shall be no transfer or assignment of the dealer’s franchise without the
consent of the manufacturer or distributor, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld or conditioned upon the release, assignment,
novation, waiver, estoppel, or modification of any claim or defense by
the dealer.
   (f) To obtain money, goods, service, or any other benefit from any
other person with whom the dealer does business, on account of, or in
relation to, the transaction between the dealer and that other person,
other than for compensation for services rendered, unless the benefit is
promptly accounted for, and transmitted to, the dealer.
   (g) To require a dealer to prospectively assent to a release,
assignment, novation, waiver, or estoppel which would relieve any
person from liability to be imposed by this article or to require any
controversy between a dealer and a manufacturer, distributor, or
representative, to be referred to any person other than the board, if the
referral would be binding on the dealer. This subdivision does not,
however, prohibit arbitration before an independent arbitrator.
   (h) To increase prices of motor vehicles which the dealer had ordered
for private retail consumers prior to the dealer’s receipt of the written
official price increase notification. A sales contract signed by a private
retail consumer is evidence of each such order. In the event of
manufacturer price reductions, the amount of the reduction received by
[Ch. 566 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3779

a dealer shall be passed on to the private retail consumer by the dealer
if the retail price was negotiated on the basis of the previous higher price
to the dealer. Price reductions apply to all vehicles in the dealer’s
inventory which were subject to the price reduction. Price differences
applicable to new model or series motor vehicles at the time of the
introduction of new models or series shall not be considered a price
increase or price decrease. Price changes caused by either (1) the
addition to a motor vehicle of required or optional equipment pursuant
to state or federal law, or (2) revaluation of the United States dollar in
the case of foreign-make vehicles, are not subject to this subdivision.
   (i) To fail to pay to a dealer, within a reasonable time following receipt
of a valid claim by a dealer thereof, any payment agreed to be made by
the manufacturer or distributor to the dealer by reason of the fact that a
new vehicle of a prior year model is in the dealer’s inventory at the time
of introduction of new model vehicles.
   (j) To deny the widow or heirs designated by a deceased owner of a
dealership, the opportunity to participate in the ownership of the
dealership or successor dealership under a valid franchise for a
reasonable time after the death of the owner.
   (k) To offer any refunds or other types of inducements to any person
for the purchase of new motor vehicles of a certain line-make to be sold
to the state or any political subdivision thereof without making the same
offer to all other dealers in the same line-make within the relevant market
area.
   (l) To modify, replace, enter into, relocate, terminate or refuse to
renew a franchise in violation of Article 4 (commencing with Section
3060) of Chapter 6 of Division 2.
   (m) To employ a person as a representative who has not been licensed
pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 11900) of Chapter 4 of
Division 5.
   (n) To deny any dealer the right of free association with any other
dealer for any lawful purpose.
   (o) (1) To compete with a dealer in the same line-make operating
under an agreement or franchise from a manufacturer or distributor in the
relevant market area.
   (2) A manufacturer, branch, or distributor or any entity that controls
or is controlled by, a manufacturer, branch, or distributor, shall not,
however, be deemed to be competing in the following limited
circumstances:
   (A) Owning or operating a dealership for a temporary period, not to
exceed one year. However, after a showing of good cause by a
manufacturer, branch, or distributor that it needs additional time to
operate a dealership in preparation for sale to a successor independent
franchisee, the board may extend the time period. The board shall extend
 3780                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 566 ]
the time period until December 31, 2002, for any manufacturer that
meets all of the following requirements:
   (i) The manufacturer has no more than 25 franchisees in the state and
those franchisees collectively operate dealership facilities in at least 15
counties of the state.
   (ii) All of the dealership facilities operated by the manufacturer’s
franchisees in the state trade exclusively in the manufacturer’s
line-make.
   (iii) No fewer than one-half of the manufacturer’s franchisees in the
state own and operate two or more dealership facilities in their assigned
areas of responsibility.
   (iv) The manufacturer holds a temporary ownership interest in no
more than two dealerships in the state that are located in the relevant
market area of any other franchisee of the same line-make not owned, in
whole or part, by the manufacturer.
   (B) Owning an interest in a dealer as part of a bona fide dealer
development program that satisfies all of the following requirements:
   (i) The sole purpose of the program is to make franchises available to
persons lacking capital, training, business experience, or other qualities
ordinarily required of prospective franchisees and the dealer
development candidate is an individual who is unable to acquire the
franchise without assistance of the program.
   (ii) The dealer development candidate has made a significant
investment subject to loss in the franchised business of the dealer.
   (iii) The program requires the dealer development candidate to
manage the day-to-day operations and business affairs of the dealer and
to acquire, within a reasonable time and on reasonable terms and
conditions, beneficial ownership and control of a majority interest in the
dealer and disassociation of any direct or indirect ownership or control
by the manufacturer, branch, or distributor.
   (C) Owning a wholly owned subsidiary corporation of a
distributorthat sells motor vehicles at retail, if, for at least three years
prior to January 1, 1973, the subsidiary corporation has been a wholly
owned subsidiary of the distributor and engaged in the sale of vehicles
at retail.
   (3) (A) Every manufacturer, branch, and distributor that owns or
operates a dealership in the manner described in subparagraph (A) of
paragraph (2) shall give written notice to the board, within 10 days, each
time it commences or terminates operation of a dealership and each time
it acquires or divests itself of an ownership interest.
   (B) Every manufacturer, branch, and distributor that owns an interest
in a dealer in the manner described in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2)
shall give written notice to the board, annually, of the name and location
of each dealer in which it has an ownership interest.
[Ch. 566 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3781

   (p) To unfairly discriminate among its franchisees with respect to
warranty reimbursement or authority granted its franchisees to make
warranty adjustments with retail customers.
   (q) To sell vehicles to persons not licensed under this chapter for
resale.
   (r) To fail to affix an identification number to any park trailer, as
described in Section 18009.3 of the Health and Safety Code, that is
manufactured on or after January 1, 1987, and which does not clearly
identify the unit as a park trailer to the department. The configuration of
the identification number shall be approved by the department.
   (s) To dishonor a warranty, rebate, or other incentive offered to the
public or a dealer in connection with the retail sale of a new motor
vehicle, based solely upon the fact that an autobroker arranged or
negotiated the sale. This subdivision shall not prohibit the disallowance
of that rebate or incentive if the purchaser or dealer is ineligible to receive
the rebate or incentive pursuant to any other term or condition of a rebate
or incentive program.
   (t) To exercise a right of first refusal or any other right requiring a
franchisee or any owner thereof to sell, transfer, or assign to the
franchisor, or to any nominee of the franchisor, all or any material part
of the franchised business or of the assets thereof unless all of the
following requirements are met:
   (1) The franchise authorizes the franchisor to exercise a right of first
refusal to acquire the franchised business or assets thereof in the event
of a proposed sale, transfer or assignment.
   (2) The franchisor gives written notice of its exercise of the right of
first refusal no later than 45 days after the franchisor receives all of the
information required pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (d).
   (3) The sale, transfer, or assignment being proposed relates to not less
than all or substantially all of the assets of the franchised business or to
a controlling interest in the franchised business.
   (4) The proposed transferee is neither a family member of an owner
of the franchised business, nor a managerial employee of the franchisee
owning 15 percent or more of the franchised business, nor a corporation,
partnership, or other legal entity owned by the existing owners of the
franchised business. For purposes of this paragraph, a ‘‘family member’’
means the spouse of an owner of the franchised business, the child,
grandchild, brother, sister, or parent of an owner, or a spouse of one of
those family members. Nothing contained in this paragraph limits the
rights of the franchisor to disapprove a proposed transferee as provided
in subdivision (d).
   (5) Upon the franchisor’s exercise of the right of first refusal, the
consideration paid by the franchisor to the franchisee and owners of the
 3782                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 566 ]
franchised business shall equal or exceed all consideration that each of
them were to have received under the terms of, or in connection with, the
proposed sale, assignment, or transfer, and the franchisor shall comply
with all the terms and conditions of the agreement or agreements to sell,
transfer, or assign the franchised business.
   (6) The franchisor shall reimburse the proposed transferee for any
expenses paid or incurred by the proposed transferee in evaluating,
investigating, and negotiating the proposed transfer to the extent those
expenses do not exceed the usual, customary, and reasonable fees
charged for similar work done in the area in which the franchised
business is located. These expenses include, but are not limited to, legal
and accounting expenses, and expenses incurred for title reports and
environmental or other investigations of any real property on which the
franchisee’s operations are conducted. The proposed transferee shall
provide the franchisor a written itemization of those expenses, and a
copy of all nonprivileged reports and studies for which expenses were
incurred, if any, within 30 days of the proposed transferee’s receipt of a
written request from the franchisor for that accounting. The franchisor
shall make payment within 30 days of exercising the right of first refusal.
   (u) (1) To unfairly discriminate in favor of any dealership owned or
controlled, in whole or part, by a manufacturer or distributor or an entity
that controls or is controlled by the manufacturer or distributor. Unfair
discrimination includes, but is not limited to, the following:
   (A) The furnishing to any franchisee or dealer that is owned or
controlled, in whole or part, by a manufacturer, branch or distributor of
any of the following:
   (i) Any vehicle that is not made available to each franchisee pursuant
to a reasonable allocation formula that is applied uniformly, and any part
or accessory that is not made available to all franchisees on an equal basis
when there is no reasonable allocation formula that is applied uniformly.
   (ii) Any vehicle, part, or accessory that is not made available to each
franchisee on comparable delivery terms, including time of delivery
after placement of order. Differences in delivery terms due to geographic
distances or other factors beyond the control of the manufacturer,
branch, or distributor shall not constitute unfair competition.
   (iii) Any information obtained from a franchisee by the manufacturer,
branch, or distributor concerning the business affairs or operations of
any franchisee in which the manufacturer, branch, or distributor does not
have an ownership interest. The information includes, but is not limited
to, information contained in financial statements and operating reports,
the name, address, or other personal information or buying, leasing, or
service behavior of any dealer customer, and any other information
which if provided to a franchisee or dealer owned or controlled by a
manufacturer or distributor would give that franchisee or dealer a
[Ch. 566 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3783

competitive advantage. This clause does not apply if the information is
provided pursuant to a subpoena or court order, or to aggregated
information made available to all franchisees.
   (B) Referring a prospective purchaser or lessee to a dealer in which
a manufacturer, branch, or distributor has an ownership interest unless
the prospective purchaser or lessee resides in the area of responsibility
assigned to that dealer or the prospective purchaser or lessee requests to
be referred to that dealer.
   (2) Nothing in this subdivision shall be interpreted to prohibit a
franchisor from granting a franchise to prospective franchisees or
assisting those franchisees during the course of the franchise relationship
as part of a program or programs to make franchises available to persons
lacking capital, training, business experience, or other qualifications
ordinarily required of prospective franchisees.
   (v) As used in this section, ‘‘area of responsibility’’ is a geographic
area specified in a franchise that is used by the franchisor for the purpose
of evaluating the franchisee’s performance of its sales and service
obligations.
   SEC. 7. Section 34500 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   34500. The department shall regulate the safe operation of the
following vehicles:
   (a) Motortrucks of three or more axles that are more than 10,000
pounds gross vehicle weight rating.
   (b) Truck tractors.
   (c) Buses, schoolbuses, school pupil activity buses, youth buses, and
general public paratransit vehicles.
   (d) Trailers and semitrailers designed or used for the transportation of
more than 10 persons, and the towing motor vehicle.
   (e) Trailers and semitrailers, pole or pipe dollies, auxiliary dollies,
and logging dollies used in combination with vehicles listed in
subdivision (a), (b), (c), or (d). This subdivision does not include camp
trailers, trailer coaches, and utility trailers.
   (f) Any combination of a motortruck and any vehicle or vehicles set
forth in subdivision (e) that exceeds 40 feet in length when coupled
together.
   (g) Any truck, or any combination of a truck and any other vehicle,
transporting hazardous materials.
   (h) Manufactured homes which, when moved upon the highway, are
required to be moved under a permit as specified in Section 35780 or
35790.
   (i) A park trailer, as described in Section 18009.3 of the Health and
Safety Code, which, when moved upon a highway, is required to be
moved under a permit pursuant to Section 35780.
 3784                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 567 ]
   (j) Any other motortruck not specified in subdivisions (a) to (h),
inclusive, or subdivision (k), that is regulated by the Public Utilities
Commission or the Interstate Commerce Commission, but only for
matters relating to hours of service and logbooks of drivers.
   (k) Any commercial motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating
of 26,001 or more pounds or any commercial motor vehicle of any gross
vehicle weight rating towing any vehicle described in subdivision (e)
with a gross vehicle weight rating of more than 10,000 pounds, except
combinations including camp trailers, trailer coaches, or utility trailers.
For purposes of the subdivision, the term ‘‘commercial motor vehicle’’
has the meaning defined in subdivision (b) of Section 15210.
   SEC. 8. Section 35780.3 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   35780.3. A permit issued under Section 35780 for the movement of
a park trailer, as described in Section 18009.3 of the Health and Safety
Code, shall not be issued except to transporters, or licensed
manufacturers and dealers.
   SEC. 9. Section 5.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
11713.1 of the Vehicle Code proposed by both this bill and SB 2060. It
shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become
effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section
11713.1 of the Vehicle Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 2060,
in which case Section 11713.1 of the Vehicle Code, as amended by
Section 5 of this bill, shall remain operative only until July 1, 2001, at
which time Section 5.5 of this bill shall become operative.
   SEC. 10. Section 6.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 11713.3 of the Vehicle Code proposed by both this bill and SB
1819. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 11713.3 of the Vehicle Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB
1819, in which case Section 6 of this bill shall not become operative.



                            CHAPTER 567

  An act to amend Sections 31108, 31752, 31753, and 31754 of, and to
add Sections 31108.5 and 31752.2 to, the Food and Agricultural Code,
relating to stray animals.
            [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 21, 2000.]
[Ch. 567 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3785

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 31108 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   31108. (a) The required holding period for a stray dog impounded
pursuant to this division shall be six business days, not including the day
of impoundment, except as follows:
   (1) If the public or private shelter has made the dog available for
owner redemption on one weekday evening until at least 7:00 p.m. or one
weekend day, the holding period shall be four business days, not
including the day of impoundment.
   (2) If the public or private shelter has fewer than three full-time
employees or is not open during all regular weekday business hours, and
if it has established a procedure to enable owners to reclaim their dogs
by appointment at a mutually agreeable time when the public or private
shelter would otherwise be closed, the holding period shall be four
business days, not including the day of impoundment.
   Except as provided in Section 17006, stray dogs shall be held for
owner redemption during the first three days of the holding period, not
including the day of impoundment, and shall be available for owner
redemption or adoption for the remainder of the holding period.
   (b) Except as provided in Section 17006, any stray dog that is
impounded pursuant to this division shall, prior to the euthanasia of that
animal, be released to a nonprofit, as defined in Section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code, animal rescue or adoption organization if
requested by the organization prior to the scheduled euthanasia of that
animal. The public or private shelter may enter into cooperative
agreements with any animal rescue or adoption organization. In addition
to any required spay or neuter deposit, the public or private shelter, at its
discretion, may assess a fee, not to exceed the standard adoption fee, for
animals adopted or released.
   (c) During the holding period required by this section and prior to the
adoption or euthanasia of a dog impounded pursuant to this division, a
public or private shelter shall scan the dog for a microchip that identifies
the owner of that dog and shall make reasonable efforts to contact the
owner and notify him or her that his or her dog is impounded and is
available for redemption.
   SEC. 2. Section 31108.5 is added to the Food and Agricultural
Code, to read:
   31108.5. (a) (1) Upon relinquishment of a dog to a public or
private shelter, the owner of that dog shall present sufficient
identification to establish his or her ownership of the dog and shall sign
a statement that he or she is the lawful owner of the dog.
 3786                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 567 ]
   (2) Any person who provides false information pursuant to this
subdivision about his or her ownership of the dog shall be liable to the
true owner of the dog in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (b) Upon relinquishment, the dog may be made available for
immediate euthanasia if it has a history of vicious or dangerous behavior
documented by the agency charged with enforcing state and local animal
laws.
   SEC. 3. Section 31752 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   31752. (a) The required holding period for a stray cat impounded
pursuant to this division shall be six business days, not including the day
of impoundment, except as follows:
   (1) If the public or private shelter has made the cat available for owner
redemption on one weekday evening until at least 7:00 p.m. or one
weekend day, the holding period shall be four business days, not
including the day of impoundment.
   (2) If the public or private shelter has fewer than three full-time
employees or is not open during all regular weekday business hours, and
if it has established a procedure to enable owners to reclaim their cats by
appointment at a mutually agreeable time when the public or private
shelter would otherwise be closed, the holding period shall be four
business days, not including the day of impoundment.
   Except as provided in Sections 17006 and 31752.5, stray cats shall be
held for owner redemption during the first three days of the holding
period, not including the day of impoundment, and shall be available for
owner redemption or adoption for the remainder of the holding period.
   (b) Except as provided in Section 17006, any stray cat that is
impounded pursuant to this division shall, prior to the euthanasia of that
animal, be released to a nonprofit, as defined in Section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code, animal rescue or adoption organization if
requested by the organization prior to the scheduled euthanasia of that
animal. In addition to any required spay or neuter deposit, the public or
private shelter, at its discretion, may assess a fee, not to exceed the
standard adoption fee, for animals adopted or released. The public or
private shelter may enter into cooperative agreements with any animal
rescue or adoption organization.
   (c) During the holding period required by this section and prior to the
adoption or euthanasia of a cat impounded pursuant to this division, a
public or private shelter shall scan the cat for a microchip that identifies
the owner of that cat and shall make reasonable efforts to contact the
owner and notify him or her that his or her cat is impounded and is
available for redemption.
   SEC. 4. Section 31752.2 is added to the Food and Agricultural
Code, to read:
[Ch. 567 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3787

   31752.2. (a) Upon relinquishment of a cat to a public or private
shelter, the owner of that cat shall present sufficient identification to
establish his or her ownership of the cat and shall sign a statement that
he or she is the lawful owner of the cat.
   (b) Any person who provides false information pursuant to this
subdivision about his or her ownership of the cat shall be liable to the true
owner of the cat in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   SEC. 5. Section 31753 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   31753. Any rabbit, guinea pig, hamster, potbellied pig, bird, lizard,
snake, turtle, or tortoise that is legally allowed as personal property and
that is impounded in a public or private shelter shall be held for the same
period of time, under the same requirements of care, and with the same
opportunities for redemption and adoption by new owners or nonprofit,
as defined in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, animal
rescue or adoption organizations as provided for cats and dogs. Section
17006 shall also apply to these animals. In addition to any required spay
or neuter deposit, the public or private shelter, at its discretion, may
assess a fee, not to exceed the standard adoption fee, for animals adopted
by new owners or released to nonprofit animal rescue or adoption
organizations pursuant to this section.
   SEC. 6. Section 31754 of the Food and Agricultural Code, as added
by Section 16 of Chapter 752 of the Statutes of 1998, is amended to read:
   31754. (a) Except as provided in Section 17006, any animal
relinquished by the purported owner that is of a species impounded by
public or private shelters shall be available for adoption or owner
redemption for two full business days, not including the day of
impoundment. After the holding period, the animal may be adopted by
a new owner, held longer, euthanized, or released to a nonprofit, as
defined in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, animal
adoption organization under the same conditions and circumstances
provided for stray dogs and cats in Sections 31108 and 31752.
   (b) This section shall become operative on July 1, 1999. This section
shall become inoperative on July 1, 2002, and, as of January 1, 2003, is
repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted before January 1,
2003, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes inoperative and
is repealed.
   SEC. 6.5. Section 31754 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   31754. (a) Except as provided in Section 17006, any animal
relinquished by the purported owner that is of a species impounded by
public or private shelters shall be available for adoption or owner
redemption for two full business days, not including the day of
impoundment. After the holding period, the animal may be adopted by
 3788                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 567 ]
a new owner, held longer, euthanized, or released to a nonprofit, as
defined in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, animal
adoption organization under the same conditions and circumstances
provided for stray dogs and cats in Sections 31108 and 31752.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), kittens or puppies relinquished
by the purported owner, or brought in by any other person with authority
to relinquish them, to public or private shelters, may be available
immediately for adoption.
   (c) This section shall become operative on July 1, 1999. This section
shall become inoperative on July 1, 2002, and, as of January 1, 2003, is
repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted before January 1,
2003, deletes or extends the dates on which it becomes inoperative and
is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 31754 of the Food and Agricultural Code, as added
by Section 16.5 of Chapter 752 of the Statutes of 1998, is amended to
read:
   31754. (a) Except as provided in Section 17006, any animal
relinquished by the purported owner that is of a species impounded by
public or private shelters shall be held for the same holding periods, with
the same requirements of care, applicable to stray dogs and cats in
Sections 31108 and 31752, and shall be available for owner redemption
or adoption for the entire holding period.
   (b) This section shall become operative on July 1, 2002.
   SEC. 7.5. Section 31754 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   31754. (a) Except as provided in Section 17006, any animal
relinquished by the purported owner that is of a species impounded by
public or private shelters shall be held for the same holding periods, with
the same requirements of care, applicable to stray dogs and cats in
Sections 31108 and 31752, and shall be available for owner redemption
or adoption for the entire holding period.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), kittens or puppies relinquished
by the purported owner, or brought in by any other person with authority
to relinquish them, to public or private shelters, may be available
immediately for adoption.
   (c) This section shall become operative on July 1, 2002.
   SEC. 8. Section 6.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
31754 of the Penal Code, as added by Section 16 of Chapter 752 of the
Statutes of 1998, proposed by both this bill and AB 1786. It shall only
become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on
or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section 31754 of the
Penal Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after AB 1786, in which case
Section 6 of this bill shall not become operative.
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3789

  SEC. 9. Section 7.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
31754 of the Penal Code, as added by Section 16.5 of Chapter 752 of the
Statutes of 1998, proposed by both this bill and AB 1786. It shall only
become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on
or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section 31754 of the
Penal Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after AB 1786, in which case
Section 7 of this bill shall not become operative.
  SEC. 10. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 568

  An act to amend Sections 119, 2415, 2486, 2533, 2733, 2761, 4935,
4938, 4939, 4945, 4955, 4970, 6980.59, 6980.74, 7304, 7309, 7311,
7312, 7314, 7317, 7319.5, 7321, 7321.5, 7324, 7326, 7330, 7331,
7331.5, 7332, 7333, 7334, 7335, 7336, 7337, 7337.5, 7338, 7340, 7341,
7342, 7344, 7347, 7349, 7353, 7354, 7355, 7356, 7357, 7359, 7362,
7362.1, 7362.2, 7362.3, 7364, 7365, 7366, 7367, 7389, 7390, 7391,
7392, 7393, 7394, 7395, 7395.1, 7396, 7400, 7403, 7404, 7405, 7406,
7407, 7408, 7409, 7414, 7414.1, 7414.3, 7414.4, 7414.6, 7415, 7416,
7421, 7422, 7507, 7533.5, 7582.19, 7583.20, 7599.32, 7601, 7602,
7606, 7607, 7608, 7610, 7616.2, 7618, 7619.2, 7621, 7625, 7626,
7626.5, 7628, 7629, 7631, 7635, 7641, 7642, 7643, 7646, 7647, 7647.5,
7650, 7661, 7662, 7664, 7665, 7666, 7667, 7668, 7669, 7670, 7685.2,
7685.3, 7685.5, 7686, 7686.5, 7687, 7690, 7708, 7709, 7711, 7725,
7725.2, 7725.5, 7727, 7737.3, 7740, 7740.5, 9603, 9625, 9630, 9631,
9650, 9650.1, 9650.2, 9650.3, 9650.4, 9651, 9652, 9652.1, 9653, 9654,
9655, 9656, 9656.1, 9656.2, 9656.25, 9656.3, 9656.4, 9656.45, 9656.5,
9657, 9658, 9659, 9662, 9663, 9676, 9679, 9680, 9682, 9683, 9685,
9700, 9700.5, 9700.6, 9701, 9702.1, 9702.2, 9702.5, 9703, 9704, 9710,
9711, 9712, 9713, 9714, 9715, 9716, 9717, 9718, 9719, 9720, 9726,
9727, 9727.1, 9727.2, 9728, 9729, 9730, 9737, 9740, 9741, 9741.1,
9742, 9744.5, 9745, 9746, 9749.5, 9751, 9752, 9753, 9754, 9755, 9756,
9759, 9760, 9761, 9762, 9763, 9764, 9765, 9766, 9767, 9769, 9780,
9781, 9782, 9783, 9784, 9785, 9786, 9787, and 9789 of, to add Sections
488, 7302, and 7303 to, and to repeal Sections 2535.3, 7305, 7306, 7307,
 3790                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 568 ]
7308, 7427, 9705, and 9758 of, the Business and Professions Code, and
to amend Sections 8113.6, 8343, 8344, 8344.5, 8346.5, 8347, 8574,
8585, 8731, 8734, 8740, 8743, 8744, 8747.5, 8748, 9600.5, and 9600.6
of the Health and Safety Code, relating to professions and vocations, and
making an appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 21, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 119 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   119. Any person who does any of the following is guilty of a
misdemeanor:
   (a) Displays or causes or permits to be displayed or has in his or her
possession either of the following:
   (1) A canceled, revoked, suspended, or fraudulently altered license.
   (2) A fictitious license or any document simulating a license or
purporting to be or have been issued as a license.
   (b) Lends his or her license to any other person or knowingly permits
the use thereof by another.
   (c) Displays or represents any license not issued to him or her as being
his or her license.
   (d) Fails or refuses to surrender to the issuing authority upon its
lawful written demand any license, registration, permit, or certificate
which has been suspended, revoked, or canceled.
   (e) Knowingly permits any unlawful use of a license issued to him or
her.
   (f) Photographs, photostats, duplicates, manufactures, or in any way
reproduces any license or facsimile thereof in a manner that it could be
mistaken for a valid license, or displays or has in his or her possession
any such photograph, photostat, duplicate, reproduction, or facsimile
unless authorized by this code.
   (g) Buys or receives a fraudulent, forged, or counterfeited license
knowing that it is fraudulent, forged, or counterfeited. For purposes of
this subdivision, ‘‘fraudulent’’ means containing any misrepresentation
of fact.
   As used in this section, ‘‘license’’ includes ‘‘certificate,’’ ‘‘permit,’’
‘‘authority,’’ and ‘‘registration’’ or any other indicia giving authorization
to engage in a business or profession regulated by this code or referred
to in Section 1000 or 3600.
   SEC. 2. Section 488 is added to the Business and Professions Code,
to read:
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3791

   488. Except as otherwise provided by law, following a hearing
requested by an applicant pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 485, the
board may take any of the following actions:
   (a) Grant the license effective upon completion of all licensing
requirements by the applicant.
   (b) Grant the license effective upon completion of all licensing
requirements by the applicant, immediately revoke the license, stay the
revocation, and impose probationary conditions on the license, which
may include suspension.
   (c) Deny the license.
   (d) Take other action in relation to denying or granting the license as
the board in its discretion may deem proper.
   SEC. 3. Section 2415 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   2415. (a) Any physician and surgeon or any doctor of podiatric
medicine, as the case may be, who as a sole proprietor, or in a
partnership, group, or professional corporation, desires to practice under
any name that would otherwise be a violation of Section 2285 may
practice under that name if the proprietor, partnership, group, or
corporation obtains and maintains in current status a fictitious-name
permit issued by the Division of Licensing, or, in the case of doctors of
podiatric medicine, the California Board of Podiatric Medicine, under
the provisions of this section.
   (b) The division or the board shall issue a fictitious-name permit
authorizing the holder thereof to use the name specified in the permit in
connection with his, her, or its practice if the division or the board finds
to its satisfaction that:
   (1) The applicant or applicants or shareholders of the professional
corporation hold valid and current licenses as physicians and surgeons
or doctors of podiatric medicine, as the case may be.
   (2) The professional practice of the applicant or applicants is wholly
owned and entirely controlled by the applicant or applicants.
   (3) The name under which the applicant or applicants propose to
practice is not deceptive, misleading, or confusing, and contains one of
the following designations: ‘‘medical group,’’ ‘‘medical clinic,’’
‘‘medical corporation,’’ ‘‘medical associates,’’ ‘‘medical center,’’ or
‘‘medical office.’’ In the case of doctors of podiatric medicine, the same
designations may be used substituting the words ‘‘podiatric medical,’’
‘‘podiatric surgical,’’ ‘‘podiatry,’’ ‘‘podiatrists,’’ ‘‘foot,’’ ‘‘foot and
ankle,’’ ‘‘foot care,’’ ‘‘foot health,’’ or ‘‘foot specialist’’ for the word
‘‘medical.’’
   (c) This section shall not apply to licensees who contract with, are
employed by, or are on the staff of, any clinic licensed by the State
Department of Health Services under Chapter 1 (commencing with
 3792                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
Section 1200) of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code or any
medical school approved by the division or a faculty practice plan
connected with such a medical school.
   (d) Fictitious-name permits issued under this section shall be subject
to Article 19 (commencing with Section 2420) pertaining to renewal of
licenses, except the division shall establish procedures for the renewal
of fictitious-name permits every two years on an anniversary basis. For
the purpose of the conversion of existing permits to this schedule the
division may fix prorated renewal fees.
   (e) The division or the board may revoke or suspend any permit
issued if it finds that the holder or holders of the permit are not in
compliance with the provisions of this section or any regulations
adopted pursuant to this section. A proceeding to revoke or suspend a
fictitious-name permit shall be conducted in accordance with Section
2230.
   (f) A fictitious-name permit issued to any licensee in a sole practice
is automatically revoked in the event the licensee’s certificate to practice
medicine or podiatric medicine is revoked.
   (g) The division or the board may delegate to the executive director,
or to another official of the board, its authority to review and approve
applications for fictitious-name permits and to issue those permits.
   (h) The California Board of Podiatric Medicine shall administer and
enforce this section as to doctors of podiatric medicine.
   SEC. 4. Section 2486 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   2486. The division shall issue, upon the recommendation of the
board, a certificate to practice podiatric medicine if the applicant meets
all of the following requirements:
   (a) The applicant has graduated from an approved school or college
of podiatric medicine and meets the requirements of Section 2483.
   (b) The applicant, within the past 10 years, has passed all required
parts of the examination administered by the National Board of Podiatric
Medical Examiners of the United States or has passed, a written
examination which is recognized by the board to be the equivalent in
content to the examination administered by the National Board of
Podiatric Medical Examiners of the United States.
   (c) The applicant has satisfactorily completed the postgraduate
training required by Section 2484.
   (d) The applicant has passed within the past 10 years any oral and
practical examination that may be required of all applicants by the board
to ascertain clinical competence.
   (e) The applicant has committed no acts or crimes constituting
grounds for denial of a certificate under Division 1.5 (commencing with
Section 475).
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3793

   (f) The board determines that no disciplinary action has been taken
against the applicant by any podiatric licensing authority and the
applicant has not been the subject of adverse judgments or settlements
resulting from the practice of podiatric medicine that the board
determines constitutes evidence of a pattern of negligence or
incompetence.
   SEC. 5. Section 2533 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   2533. The board may refuse to issue, or issue subject to terms and
conditions, a license on the grounds specified in Section 480, or may
suspend, revoke, or impose terms and conditions upon the license of any
licensee if he or she has been guilty of unprofessional conduct.
Unprofessional conduct shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
   (a) Conviction of a crime substantially related to the qualifications,
functions, and duties of a speech-language pathologist or audiologist, as
the case may be. The record of the conviction shall be conclusive
evidence thereof.
   (b) Securing a license by fraud or deceit.
   (c) (1) The use or administering to himself or herself, of any
controlled substance; (2) the use of any of the dangerous drugs specified
in Section 4022, or of alcoholic beverages, to the extent, or in a manner
as to be dangerous or injurious to the licensee, to any other person, or to
the public, or to the extent that the use impairs the ability of the licensee
to practice speech-language pathology of audiology safely; (3) more
than one misdemeanor or any felony involving the use, consumption, or
self-administration of any of the substances referred to in this section;
or (4) any combination of paragraphs (1), (2), or (3). The record of the
conviction shall be conclusive evidence of unprofessional conduct.
   (d) Advertising in violation of Section 17500.
   (e) Committing a dishonest or fraudulent act which is substantially
related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of a licensee.
   (f) Incompetence or gross negligence in the practice of
speech-language pathology or audiology.
   (g) Other acts that have endangered or are likely to endanger the
health, welfare, and safety of the public.
   SEC. 6. Section 2535.3 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 2733 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   2733. (a) Upon approval of an application filed pursuant to
subdivision (b) of Section 2732.1, and upon the payment of the fee
prescribed by subdivision (k) of Section 2815, the board may issue a
temporary license to practice professional nursing, and a temporary
 3794                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
certificate to practice as a certified nurse midwife, certified nurse
practitioner, certified public health nurse, certified clinical nurse
specialist, or certified nurse anesthetist for a period of six months from
the date of issuance.
   A temporary license or temporary certificate shall terminate upon
notice thereof by certified mail, return receipt requested, if it is issued
by mistake or if the application for permanent licensure is denied.
   (b) Upon written application, the board may reissue a temporary
license or temporary certificate to any person who has applied for a
regular renewable license pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 2732.1
and who, in the judgment of the board has been excusably delayed in
completing his or her application for or the minimum requirements for
a regular renewable license, but the board may not reissue a temporary
license or temporary certificate more than twice to any one person.
   SEC. 8. Section 2761 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   2761. The board may take disciplinary action against a certified or
licensed nurse or deny an application for a certificate or license for any
of the following:
   (a) Unprofessional conduct, which includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
   (1) Incompetence, or gross negligence in carrying out usual certified
or licensed nursing functions.
   (2) A conviction of practicing medicine without a license in violation
of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2000), in which event the record
of conviction shall be conclusive evidence thereof.
   (3) The use of advertising relating to nursing which violates Section
17500.
   (4) Denial of licensure, revocation, suspension, restriction, or any
other disciplinary action against a health care professional license or
certificate by another state or territory of the United States, by any other
government agency, or by another California health care professional
licensing board. A certified copy of the decision or judgment shall be
conclusive evidence of that action.
   (b) Procuring his or her certificate or license by fraud,
misrepresentation, or mistake.
   (c) Procuring, or aiding, or abetting, or attempting, or agreeing, or
offering to procure or assist at a criminal abortion.
   (d) Violating or attempting to violate, directly or indirectly, or
assisting in or abetting the violating of, or conspiring to violate any
provision or term of this chapter or regulations adopted pursuant to it.
   (e) Making or giving any false statement or information in connection
with the application for issuance of a certificate or license.
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3795

   (f) Conviction of a felony or of any offense substantially related to the
qualifications, functions, and duties of a registered nurse, in which event
the record of the conviction shall be conclusive evidence thereof.
   (g) Impersonating any applicant or acting as proxy for an applicant
in any examination required under this chapter for the issuance of a
certificate or license.
   (h) Impersonating another certified or licensed practitioner, or
permitting or allowing another person to use his or her certificate or
license for the purpose of nursing the sick or afflicted.
   (i) Aiding or assisting, or agreeing to aid or assist any person or
persons, whether a licensed physician or not, in the performance of, or
arranging for, a violation of any of the provisions of Article 12
(commencing with Section 2220) of Chapter 5.
   (j) Holding oneself out to the public or to any practitioner of the
healing arts as a ‘‘nurse practitioner’’ or as meeting the standards
established by the board for a nurse practitioner unless meeting the
standards established by the board pursuant to Article 8 (commencing
with Section 2834) or holding oneself out to the public as being certified
by the board as a nurse anesthetist, nurse midwife, clinical nurse
specialist, or public health nurse unless the person is at the time so
certified by the board.
   (k) Except for good cause, the knowing failure to protect patients by
failing to follow infection control guidelines of the board, thereby
risking transmission of blood-borne infectious diseases from licensed or
certified nurse to patient, from patient to patient, and from patient to
licensed or certified nurse. In administering this subdivision, the board
shall consider referencing the standards, regulations, and guidelines of
the State Department of Health Services developed pursuant to Section
1250.11 of the Health and Safety Code and the standards, guidelines, and
regulations pursuant to the California Occupational Safety and Health
Act of 1973 (Part 1 (commencing with Section 6300), Division 5, Labor
Code) for preventing the transmission of HIV, hepatitis B, and other
blood-borne pathogens in health care settings. As necessary, the board
shall consult with the Medical Board of California, the Board of
Podiatric Medicine, the Dental Board of California, and the Board of
Vocational Nursing and Psychiatric Technicians, to encourage
appropriate consistency in the implementation of this subdivision.
   The board shall seek to ensure that licentiates and others regulated by
the board are informed of the responsibility of licentiates to minimize the
risk of transmission of blood-borne infectious diseases from health care
provider to patient, from patient to patient, and from patient to health
care provider, and of the most recent scientifically recognized safeguards
for minimizing the risks of transmission.
 3796                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   SEC. 9. Section 4935 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   4935. (a) Any person who practices acupuncture or holds himself
or herself out as practicing or engaging in the practice of acupuncture,
unless he or she possesses a current and valid acupuncturist’s license, is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person, other
than a physician and surgeon, a dentist, or a podiatrist, who is not
licensed under this article but is licensed under Division 2 (commencing
with Section 500), who practices acupuncture involving the application
of a needle to the human body, performs any acupuncture technique or
method involving the application of a needle to the human body, or
directs, manages, or supervises another person in performing
acupuncture involving the application of a needle to the human body is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (c) A person holds himself or herself out as engaging in the practice
of acupuncture by the use of any title or description of services
incorporating the words ‘‘acupuncture,’’ ‘‘acupuncturist,’’ ‘‘certified
acupuncturist,’’ ‘‘licensed acupuncturist,’’ ‘‘oriental medicine,’’ or any
combination of those words, phrases, or abbreviations of those words or
phrases, or by representing that he or she is trained, experienced, or an
expert in the field of acupuncture, oriental medicine, or Chinese
medicine.
   (d) Subdivision (a) shall not prohibit a person from administering
acupuncture treatment as part of his or her educational training if he or
she:
   (1) Is engaged in a course or tutorial program in acupuncture, as
provided in this chapter; or
   (2) Is a graduate of a school of acupuncture approved by the board and
participating in a postgraduate review course that does not exceed one
year in duration at a school approved by the board.
   SEC. 10. Section 4938 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   4938. The board shall issue a license to practice acupuncture to any
person who makes an application and meets the following requirements:
   (a) Is at least 18 years of age.
   (b) Furnishes satisfactory evidence of completion of one of the
following:
   (1) An educational and training program approved by the board
pursuant to Section 4939.
   (2) Satisfactory completion of a tutorial program in the practice of an
acupuncturist which is approved by the board.
   (3) In the case of an applicant who has completed education and
training outside the United States and Canada, documented educational
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3797

training and clinical experience which meets the standards established
pursuant to Sections 4939 and 4941.
   (c) Passes a written examination administered by the board that tests
the applicant’s ability, competency, and knowledge in the practice of an
acupuncturist. The written examination shall be developed by the Office
of Examination Resources of the Department of Consumer Affairs.
   (d) Is not subject to denial pursuant to Division 1.5 (commencing
with Section 475).
   (e) Completes a clinical internship training program approved by the
board. The clinical internship training program shall not exceed nine
months in duration and shall be located in a clinic in this state, which is
approved by the board pursuant to Section 4939. The length of the
clinical internship shall depend upon the grades received in the
examination and the clinical training already satisfactorily completed by
the individual prior to taking the examination. On and after January 1,
1987, individuals with 800 or more hours of documented clinical
training shall be deemed to have met this requirement. The purpose of
the clinical internship training program shall be to assure a minimum
level of clinical competence.
   Each applicant who qualifies for a license shall pay, as a condition
precedent to its issuance and in addition to other fees required, the initial
licensure fee.
   SEC. 11. Section 4939 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   4939. (a) The board shall establish standards for the approval of
schools and colleges offering education and training in the practice of an
acupuncturist, including standards for the faculty in those schools and
colleges, and tutorial programs, completion of which will satisfy the
requirements of Section 4938.
   (b) Within three years of initial approval by the board each program
so approved by the board shall receive full institutional approval under
Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 94760) of Chapter 7 of Part 59 of
the Education Code in the field of traditional oriental medicine, or in the
case of institutions located outside of this state, approval by the
appropriate governmental educational authority using standards
equivalent to those of Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 94760) of
Chapter 7 of Part 59 of the Education Code, or the board’s approval of
the program shall automatically lapse.
   (c) This section shall become operative on January 1, 1997.
   SEC. 12. Section 4945 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   4945. (a) The board shall establish standards for continuing
education for acupuncturists.
 3798                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   (b) The board shall require each acupuncturist to complete 30 hours
of continuing education every two years as a condition for renewal of his
or her license. A provider of continuing education shall apply to the
board for approval to offer continuing education courses for credit
toward this requirement on a form developed by the board, shall pay a
fee covering the cost of approval and for the monitoring of the provider
by the board and shall set forth the following information on the
application:
   (1) Course content.
   (2) Test criteria.
   (3) Hours of continuing education credit requested for the course.
   (4) Experience and training of instructors.
   (5) Other information as required by the board.
   (6) That interpreters or bilingual instruction will be made available,
when necessary.
   (c) Licensees residing out of state or out of the country shall comply
with the continuing education requirements.
   (d) Providers of continuing education shall be monitored by the board
as determined by the board.
   (e) If the board determines that any acupuncturist has not obtained the
required number of hours of continuing education, it may renew the
acupuncturist’s license and require that the deficient hours of continuing
education be made up during the following renewal period in addition
to the current continuing education required for that period. If any
acupuncturist fails to make up the deficient hours and complete the
current requirement of hours of continuing education during the
subsequent renewal period, then his or her license to practice
acupuncture shall not be renewed until all the required hours are
completed and documented to the board.
   (f) This section shall become operative January 1, 1996.
   SEC. 13. Section 4955 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   4955. The board may deny, suspend, or revoke, or impose
probationary conditions upon, the license of any acupuncturist if he or
she is guilty of unprofessional conduct that has endangered or is likely
to endanger the health, safety, or welfare of the public.
   Unprofessional conduct shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
   (a) Securing a license by fraud or deceit.
   (b) Committing a fraudulent or dishonest act as an acupuncturist
resulting in substantial injury to another.
   (c) Using any controlled substance as defined in Division 10
(commencing with Section 11000) of the Health and Safety Code, or
dangerous drug or alcoholic beverage to an extent or in a manner
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3799

dangerous to himself or herself, or to any other person, or to the public,
and to an extent that the use impairs his or her ability to engage in the
practice of acupuncture with safety to the public.
   (d) Conviction of a crime substantially related to the qualifications,
functions, or duties of an acupuncturist, the record of conviction being
conclusive evidence thereof.
   (e) Improper advertising.
   (f) Violating or conspiring to violate the terms of this chapter.
   (g) Gross negligence.
   (h) Repeated negligent acts.
   (i) Incompetence.
   (j) Except for good cause, the knowing failure to protect patients by
failing to follow infection control guidelines of the board, thereby
risking transmission of blood-borne infectious diseases from licensee to
patient, from patient to patient, and from patient to licensee. In
administering this subdivision, the board shall consider referencing the
standards, regulations, and guidelines of the State Department of Health
Services developed pursuant to Section 1250.11 of the Health and Safety
Code and the standards, regulations, and guidelines pursuant to the
California Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1973 (Part 1
(commencing with Section 6300) of Division 5 of the Labor Code) for
preventing the transmission of HIV, hepatitis B, and other blood-borne
pathogens in health care settings. As necessary, the board shall consult
with the Medical Board of California, the California Board of Podiatric
Medicine, the Dental Board of California, the Board of Registered
Nursing, and the Board of Vocational Nursing and Psychiatric
Technicians, to encourage appropriate consistency in the
implementation of this subdivision.
   The board shall seek to ensure that licensees are informed of the
responsibility of licensees and others to follow infection control
guidelines, and of the most recent scientifically recognized safeguards
for minimizing the risk of transmission of blood-borne infectious
diseases.
   (k) The revocation, suspension, or other discipline, restriction, or
limitation imposed by another state upon a license or certificate to
practice acupuncture issued by that state, or the revocation, suspension,
or restriction of the authority to practice acupuncture by an agency of the
federal government, on grounds that would have been grounds for
disciplinary action in California of a licensee under this chapter.
   SEC. 14. Section 4970 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   4970. The amount of fees prescribed for licensed acupuncturists
shall be those set forth in this section unless a lower fee is fixed by the
board in accordance with Section 4972:
 3800                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   (a) The application fee shall be seventy-five dollars ($75).
   (b) The examination and reexamination fees shall be the actual cost
to the Acupuncture Board for the development and writing of, grading,
and administering of each examination.
   (c) The initial license fee shall be three hundred twenty-five dollars
($325), except that if the license will expire less than one year after its
issuance, then the initial license fee shall be an amount equal to 50
percent of the initial license fee.
   (d) The renewal fee shall be three hundred twenty-five dollars ($325)
and in the event a lower fee is fixed by the board, shall be an amount
sufficient to support the functions of the board in the administration of
this chapter. The renewal fee shall be assessed on an annual basis until
January 1, 1996, and on and after that date the board shall assess the
renewal fee biennially.
   (e) The delinquency fee shall be set in accordance with Section 163.5.
   (f) The application fee for the approval of a school or college under
Section 4939 shall be three thousand dollars ($3,000).
   (g) The duplicate wall license fee is an amount equal to the cost to the
board for the issuance of the duplicate license.
   (h) The duplicate renewal receipt fee is ten dollars ($10).
   (i) The endorsement fee is ten dollars ($10).
   (j) The fee for a duplicate license for an additional office location as
required under Section 4961 shall be fifteen dollars ($15).
   SEC. 15. Section 6980.59 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   6980.59. (a) A licensee shall notify the bureau within 30 days of
any change of its officers required to be named pursuant to Section
6980.21 and of the addition of any new partners. Applications, on forms
prescribed by the director, shall be submitted by all new officers and
partners. The director may deny the application of a new officer or
partner if the director determines that the officer or partner has
committed any act which constitutes grounds for the denial of a license
pursuant to Section 6980.71.
   (b) A Notice of Warning shall be issued for the first violation of this
section. Thereafter, the director shall assess a fine of twenty-five dollars
($25) for each subsequent violation of this section.
   SEC. 16. Section 6980.74 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   6980.74. (a) The bureau may suspend or revoke a license issued
pursuant to this chapter for acts including, but not limited to, any of the
following acts which shall also be unlawful:
   (1) Misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact in a license
application.
[Ch. 568 ]             STATUTES OF 2000                           3801

  (2) Interference with authorized personnel engaged in the
enforcement or administration of this chapter.
  (3) Knowingly using or permitting the use of any of his or her skills,
tools, or facilities for the commission of any crime.
  (4) Conviction of a crime substantially related to the qualifications,
functions, or duties of a locksmith.
  (5) A violation of this chapter or the rules and regulations adopted
under the authority of this chapter.
  (b) The bureau may suspend or revoke a license issued to a
corporation or to a partnership for the commission of any act listed in
subdivision (a) by an officer of the corporation or by a partner in the
partnership.
  SEC. 17. Section 7302 is added to the Business and Professions
Code, to read:
  7302. The following definitions shall apply for purposes of this
chapter:
  (a) ‘‘Department’’ means the Department of Consumer Affairs.
  (b) ‘‘Director’’ means the Director of Consumer Affairs.
  (c) ‘‘Bureau’’ means the Bureau of Barbering and Cosmetology.
  (d) ‘‘Bureau chief’’ means the bureau chief of the Bureau of
Barbering and Cosmetology.
  SEC. 18. Section 7303 is added to the Business and Professions
Code, to read:
  7303. There is in the Department of Consumer Affairs a Bureau of
Barbering and Cosmetology under the supervision and control of the
director.
  The director may appoint a bureau chief at a salary to be determined
and fixed by the director with the approval of the Director of Finance.
The bureau chief shall serve at the pleasure of, and under the direction
and supervision of, the director.
  Every power granted to or duty imposed upon the director under this
chapter may be exercised or performed in the name of the director by a
deputy director or by the bureau chief, subject to the conditions and
limitations prescribed by the director.
  SEC. 19. Section 7304 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7304. The bureau shall be subject to review pursuant to Division 1.2
(commencing with Section 473).
  SEC. 20. Section 7305 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
  SEC. 21. Section 7306 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
  SEC. 22. Section 7307 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
 3802                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
   SEC. 23. Section 7308 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 24. Section 7309 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7309. The bureau shall establish a principal office, and may
establish branch offices and examination facilities in the state as may be
deemed necessary for the bureau to conduct its business.
   SEC. 25. Section 7311 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7311. The director shall adopt and use a common seal for the
authentication of the bureau’s records.
   SEC. 26. Section 7312 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7312. The director shall do all of the following:
   (a) Make rules and regulations in aid or furtherance of this chapter in
accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act.
   (b) Conduct and administer examinations of applicants for licensure.
   (c) Issue licenses to those applicants that may be entitled thereto.
   (d) Discipline persons who have been determined to be in violation
of this chapter or the regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   (e) Adopt rules governing sanitary conditions and precautions to be
employed as are reasonably necessary to protect the public health and
safety in establishments, schools approved by the bureau, and in the
practice of any profession provided for in this chapter. The rules shall be
adopted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, Chapter
3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Title 2 of the Government
Code, and shall be submitted to the State Department of Health Services
and approved by that department prior to filing with the Secretary of
State. A written copy of all those rules shall be furnished to each licensee.
   SEC. 27. Section 7314 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7314. The bureau shall keep a record of its proceedings relating to
its public meetings, meetings of committees, and records relating to the
issuance, refusal, renewal, suspension and revocation of licenses.
   The bureau shall keep a registration record of each licensee containing
the name, address, license number and date issued. This record shall also
contain any facts that the applicants may have stated in their application
for examination for licensure.
   SEC. 28. Section 7317 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7317. Except as provided in this article, it is unlawful for any
person, firm, or corporation to engage in barbering, cosmetology, or
electrolysis for compensation without a valid, unexpired license issued
by the bureau, or in an establishment or mobile unit other than one
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3803

licensed by the bureau, or conduct or operate an establishment, or any
other place of business in which barbering, cosmetology, or electrolysis
is practiced unless licensed under this chapter. Persons licensed under
this chapter shall limit their practice and services rendered to the public
to only those areas for which they are licensed. Any violation of this
section is a misdemeanor.
   SEC. 29. Section 7319.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7319.5. Students engaged in performing services on the public
while enrolled in a school approved by the bureau shall not be required
to be licensed under this chapter if they perform those services at the
approved school in which they are enrolled.
   SEC. 30. Section 7321 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7321. The bureau shall admit to examination for a license as a
cosmetologist to practice cosmetology any person who has made
application to the bureau in proper form, paid the fee required by this
chapter, and is qualified as follows:
   (a) Is not less than 17 years of age.
   (b) Has completed the 10th grade in the public schools of this state
or its equivalent.
   (c) Is not subject to denial pursuant to Section 480.
   (d) Has done any of the following:
   (1) Completed a course in cosmetology from a school approved by
the bureau.
   (2) Practiced cosmetology as defined in this chapter outside of this
state for a period of time equivalent to the study and training of a
qualified person who has completed a course in cosmetology from a
school the curriculum of which complied with requirements adopted by
the bureau. Each three months of practice shall be deemed the equivalent
of 100 hours of training for qualification under paragraph (1) of this
subdivision.
   (3) Holds a license as a barber in this state and has completed a
cosmetology crossover course in a school approved by the bureau.
   (4) Completed a barbering course in a school approved by the bureau
and has completed a cosmetology crossover course in a school approved
by the bureau.
   (5) Completed the apprenticeship program in cosmetology specified
in Article 4 (commencing with Section 7332).
   SEC. 31. Section 7321.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7321.5. The bureau shall admit to examination for a license as a
barber to practice barbering, any person who has made application to the
 3804                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
bureau in proper form, paid the fee required by this chapter, and is
qualified as follows:
   (a) Is not less than 17 years of age.
   (b) Has completed the 10th grade in the public schools of this state
or its equivalent.
   (c) Is not subject to denial pursuant to Section 480.
   (d) Has done any of the following:
   (1) Completed a course in barbering from a school approved by the
bureau.
   (2) Completed an apprenticeship program in barbering approved by
the bureau as conducted under the provisions of the Shelley-Maloney
Apprentice Labor Standards Act of 1939, Chapter 4 (commencing with
Section 3070) of Division 3 of the Labor Code.
   (3) Practiced barbering as defined in this chapter outside of this state
for a period of time equivalent to the study and training of a qualified
person who has completed a course in barbering from a school the
curriculum of which complied with requirements adopted by the bureau.
Each three months of practice shall be deemed the equivalent of 100
hours of training for qualification under paragraph (1).
   (4) Holds a license as a cosmetologist in this state and has completed
a barber crossover course in a school approved by the bureau.
   (5) Completed a cosmetology course in a school approved by the
bureau and has completed a barber crossover course in a school approved
by the bureau.
   (6) Completed comparable military training as documented by
submission of Verification of Military Experience and Training
(V-MET) records.
   SEC. 32. Section 7324 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7324. The bureau shall admit to examination for a license as an
esthetician to practice skin care, any person who has made application
to the bureau in proper form, paid the fee required by this chapter, and
is qualified as follows:
   (a) Is not less than 17 years of age.
   (b) Has completed the 10th grade in the public schools of this state
or its equivalent.
   (c) Is not subject to denial pursuant to Section 480.
   (d) Has done any of the following:
   (1) Completed a course in skin care from a school approved by the
bureau.
   (2) Practiced skin care, as defined in this chapter, outside of this state
for a period of time equivalent to the study and training of a qualified
person who has completed a course in skin care from a school the
curriculum of which complied with requirements adopted by the bureau.
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3805

Each three months of practice shall be deemed the equivalent of 100
hours of training for qualification under paragraph (1).
   (3) Completed the apprenticeship program in skin care specified in
Article 4 (commencing with Section 7332).
   SEC. 33. Section 7326 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7326. The bureau shall admit to examination for a license as a
manicurist to practice nail care, any person who has made application to
the bureau in proper form, paid the fee required by this chapter, and is
qualified as follows:
   (a) Is not less than 17 years of age.
   (b) Has completed the 10th grade in the public schools of this state
or its equivalent.
   (c) Is not subject to denial pursuant to Section 480.
   (d) Has done any of the following:
   (1) Completed a course in nail care from a school approved by the
bureau.
   (2) Practiced nail care, as defined in this chapter, outside of this state
for a period of time equivalent to the study and training of a qualified
person who has completed a course in nail care from a school the
curriculum of which complied with requirements adopted by the bureau.
Each three months of practice shall be deemed the equivalent of 100
hours of training for qualification under paragraph (1).
   (3) Completed the apprenticeship program in nail care specified in
Article 4 (commencing with Section 7332).
   SEC. 34. Section 7330 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7330. The bureau shall admit to examination for a license as an
electrologist to practice electrolysis, any person who has made
application to the bureau in proper form, paid the fee required by this
chapter, and is qualified as follows:
   (a) Is not less than 17 years of age.
   (b) Has completed the 12th grade or an accredited senior high school
course of study in public schools of this state or its equivalent.
   (c) Is not subject to denial pursuant to Section 480.
   (d) Has done any of the following:
   (1) Completed a course of training in electrolysis from a school
approved by the bureau.
   (2) Practiced electrolysis, as defined in this chapter, for a period of 18
months outside of this state within the time equivalent to the study and
training of a qualified person who has completed a course in electrolysis
from a school the curriculum of which complied with requirements
adopted by the bureau. Each three months of practice shall be deemed
 3806                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
the equivalent of 100 hours of training for qualification under paragraph
(1).
   (3) Completed the apprenticeship program in electrology specified in
Article 4 (commencing with Section 7332).
   SEC. 35. Section 7331 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7331. Any person who fails to qualify for admission to an
examination because the person’s practice outside this state does not
fulfill the requirements of this chapter shall receive credit for that
practice or study and training outside this state, or for the number of
hours of study and training completed outside this state, which is
substantially equivalent to the study and training required in this state,
as determined by the bureau.
   Those persons shall be qualified for examination upon completion of
supplementary study and training in an approved school in this state.
   SEC. 36. Section 7331.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7331.5. It is the intent of the Legislature that no law which may
hereafter be enacted increasing the number of hours of training in a
school approved by the bureau or the length of training in an
apprenticeship program approved by the bureau which are required for
eligibility for any examination shall apply to a person who on the
effective date of the law is a student in, or has completed the prescribed
course of study in, a school or is an apprentice in an apprentice program.
This section shall not apply to a person who does not apply for and take
the first examination for which he or she is eligible occurring after the
effective date of the law, unless compliance with this requirement is
waived by the bureau for good cause as defined in regulations.
   SEC. 37. Section 7332 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7332. An apprentice is any person who is licensed by the bureau to
engage in learning or acquiring a knowledge of barbering, cosmetology,
skin care, nail care, or electrology, in a licensed establishment under the
supervision of a licensee approved by the bureau.
   SEC. 38. Section 7333 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7333. The apprentice training program shall be conducted in
compliance with the Shelley-Maloney Apprentice Labor Standards Act
of 1939, Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 3070) of Division 3 of the
Labor Code, according to apprenticeship standards approved by the
administrator of apprenticeship. A copy of the act shall be maintained
on file with the bureau.
   SEC. 39. Section 7334 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3807

   7334. (a) The bureau may license as an apprentice in barbering,
cosmetology, skin care, or nail care any person who has made
application to the bureau upon the proper form, has paid the fee required
by this chapter, and who is qualified as follows:
   (1) Is over 16 years of age.
   (2) Has completed the 10th grade in the public schools of this state
or its equivalent.
   (3) Is not subject to denial pursuant to Section 480.
   (4) Has submitted evidence acceptable to the bureau that any training
the apprentice is required by law to obtain shall be conducted in a
licensed establishment and under the supervision of a licensee approved
by the bureau.
   (b) The bureau may license as an apprentice in electrolysis any person
who has made application to the bureau upon the proper form, has paid
the fee required by this chapter, and who is qualified as follows:
   (1) Is not less than 17 years of age.
   (2) Has completed the 12th grade or an accredited senior high school
course of study in schools of this state or its equivalent.
   (3) Is not subject to denial pursuant to Section 480.
   (4) Has submitted evidence acceptable to the bureau that any training
the apprentice is required by law to obtain shall be conducted in a
licensed establishment and under the supervision of a licensee approved
by the bureau.
   (c) All persons making application as an apprentice in barbering shall
also complete a minimum of 39 hours of preapprentice training in a
facility approved by the bureau prior to serving the general public.
   (d) All persons making application as an apprentice in cosmetology,
skin care, nail care, or electrology shall also complete minimum
preapprentice training for the length of time established by the bureau
in a facility approved by the bureau prior to serving the general public.
   (e) Apprentices may only perform services on the general public for
which they have received technical training.
   (f) Apprentices shall be required to obtain at least the minimum hours
of technical instruction and minimum number of practical operations for
each subject as specified in bureau regulations for courses taught in
schools approved by the bureau, in accordance with Sections 3074 and
3078 of the Labor Code.
   SEC. 40. Section 7335 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7335. (a) The license of an apprentice shall expire two years from
the date the license was issued, or on the date the apprentice is issued a
license following the license examination, or if the apprentice fails the
license examination twice, on the date the results of the second
examination are issued, whichever occurs first.
 3808                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
   (b) No person holding a license as an apprentice shall work more than
three months after completing the required training without applying for
and taking the examination for licensure.
   (c) The bureau may extend the two-year or three-month period
described in subdivisions (a) and (b) upon a showing of good cause
which shall include, but not be limited to, delays in applying for and
taking the examination caused by the illness of, or accident to, the
apprentice, or service in the armed forces of the United States.
   SEC. 41. Section 7336 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7336. An apprentice may do any or all of the acts for which he or she
is licensed only in the licensed establishment and under the supervision
and employment of a licensee approved by the bureau.
   SEC. 42. Section 7337 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7337. Every application for admission to examination and licensure
shall be in writing, on forms prepared and furnished by the bureau.
   Each application shall be accompanied by the required fee, and shall
contain proof of the qualifications of the applicant for examination and
licensure. It shall be verified by the oath of the applicant. Every applicant
shall, as a condition of admittance to the examination facility, present
satisfactory proof of identification. Satisfactory proof of identification
shall be in the form of a valid, unexpired driver’s license or identification
card, containing the photograph of the person to whom it was issued,
issued by any state, federal, or other government entity.
   SEC. 43. Section 7337.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7337.5. (a) The bureau shall adopt regulations providing for the
submittal of applications for admission to examination of students of
approved cosmetology, electrology, or barbering schools who have
completed at least 75 percent of the required course clock hours and
curriculum requirements (60 percent for students of the manicurist
course). The regulations shall include provisions that ensure that all
proof of qualifications of the applicant are received by the bureau before
the applicant is examined.
   (b) An application for examination submitted under this section shall
be known as a ‘‘preapplication’’ and an additional preapplication fee
may be required.
   (c) This section shall become operative on July 1, 1992.
   (d) The bureau shall administer the licensing examination not later
than 10 working days after graduation from an approved cosmetology,
electrology, or barbering school to students who have submitted an
application for admission for examination under the preapplication
procedure.
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3809

   SEC. 44. Section 7338 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7338. The examination of applicants for a license shall include both
a practical demonstration and a written test and shall embrace the
subjects typically taught in a program approved by the bureau.
   The examination shall not be confined to any particular system or
method. It shall be consistent in both practical and technical
requirements, and of sufficient thoroughness to satisfy the bureau as to
the applicant’s skill in, and knowledge of, the practice of the occupation
or occupations for which a license is sought.
   In the conduct and grading of examinations, practical demonstrations
shall prevail over written tests.
   The scope of examinations shall be consistent with the definition of
the activities licensed under this chapter, and shall be as the bureau, by
regulation, may require to protect the health and safety of consumers of
the services provided by licensees.
   The bureau’s examinations shall be limited to clearly job-related
questions, activities, and practical services. Examinations shall also
include written tests in antisepsis, disinfection, sanitation, the use of
mechanical apparatus and electricity as applicable to the practice of
barbering, cosmetology, or electrolysis. They may include other
demonstrations and tests as the bureau, in its discretion, may require.
   SEC. 45. Section 7340 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7340. All examinations shall be prepared by or under the direction
of the bureau. The bureau shall establish standards and procedures
governing administration and grading and shall exercise supervision as
may be necessary to assure compliance therewith.
   SEC. 46. Section 7341 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7341. The bureau shall mail or deliver to every person failing any
examination provided for in this chapter the total grade received on the
examination.
   An unsuccessful applicant for licensure, after taking an examination
and within 90 days after the results thereof have been declared, shall have
the right to inspect his or her examination paper in the city in which the
examination was taken.
   SEC. 47. Section 7342 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7342. Licenses in the practice of the occupation for which the
license was sought shall be issued by the bureau to any applicant who
satisfactorily passes an examination, who possesses the other
qualifications required by law and who has remitted the license fee
 3810                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
required by this chapter. The license shall entitle the holder to engage in
the practice of that occupation in a licensed establishment.
   SEC. 48. Section 7344 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7344. The bureau may contract or otherwise arrange for reasonably
required physical accommodations and facilities to conduct
examinations.
   SEC. 49. Section 7347 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7347. Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to operate an
establishment shall make an application to the bureau for a license
accompanied by the fee prescribed by this chapter. The application shall
be required whether the person, firm, or corporation is operating a new
establishment or obtaining ownership of an existing establishment. If the
applicant is obtaining ownership of an existing establishment, the
bureau may establish the fee in an amount less than the fee prescribed
by this chapter. The applicant, if an individual, or each officer, director,
and partner, if the applicant is other than an individual, shall not have
committed acts or crimes which are grounds for denial of licensure in
effect at the time the new application is submitted pursuant to Section
480. A license issued pursuant to this section shall authorize the
operation of the establishment only at the location for which the license
is issued. Operation of the establishment at any other location shall be
unlawful unless a license for the new location has been obtained upon
compliance with this section, applicable to the issuance of a license in
the first instance.
   SEC. 50. Section 7349 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7349. It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to hire,
employ, or allow to be employed, or permit to work, in or about an
establishment, any person who performs or practices any occupation
regulated under this chapter and is not duly licensed by the bureau,
except that a licensed cosmetology establishment may utilize a student
extern, as described in Section 7395.1.
   Any person violating this section is subject to citation and fine
pursuant to Section 7406 and is also guilty of a misdemeanor.
   SEC. 51. Section 7353 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7353. Within 90 days after issuance of the establishment license, the
bureau or its agents or assistants shall inspect the establishment for
compliance with the applicable requirements of this chapter and the
applicable rules and regulations of the bureau adopted pursuant to this
chapter. The bureau shall maintain a program of random and targeted
inspections of establishments to ensure compliance with applicable laws
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3811

relating to the public health and safety and the conduct and operation of
establishments. The bureau or its authorized representatives shall
inspect establishments to reasonably determine compliance levels and
to identify market conditions that require targeted enforcement. The
bureau shall not reduce the number of employees assigned to perform
random inspections, targeted inspections, and investigations relating to
field operations below the level funded by the annual Budget Act and
described in supporting budget documents, and shall not redirect funds
or personnel-years allocated to those inspection and investigation
purposes to other purposes.
   SEC. 52. Section 7354 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7354. For purposes of this article, ‘‘mobile unit’’ means any
self-contained, self-supporting, enclosed mobile unit which is at least 24
feet in length which is licensed as an establishment for the practice of any
occupation licensed by the bureau and which complies with this article
and all health and safety regulations established by the bureau.
   SEC. 53. Section 7355 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7355. (a) Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to operate a
mobile unit shall make an application to the bureau for a license
containing the information and data set forth in subdivision (b). The
applicant, if an individual, or each officer, director, and partner, if the
applicant is other than an individual, shall not have committed acts or
crimes which are grounds for denial of licensure pursuant to Section 480.
A license issued pursuant to this section shall authorize the operation of
the unit only within those geographical boundaries designated by the
bureau. Operation of the unit outside of the geographical boundaries for
which the license is issued shall be unlawful, unless a license for the
expanded geographic area has been obtained upon compliance with this
article applicable to the issuance of a license in the first instance.
   (b) Each application shall include the following:
   (1) A detailed floor plan showing the location of doors, windows,
restroom facilities, sinks, lift or ramps, ventilation, equipment, and
dimensions of the mobile unit in compliance with this article.
   (2) Proof of purchase or lease of the mobile unit and shop equipment.
   (3) The required fee.
   (4) Copies of applicable county and city licenses or permits to
provide the mobile barbering, cosmetology, or electrolysis services in
each county and city of operation and the locations therein where the
services will be offered.
   (5) Proof of compliance with applicable city, county, and state
plumbing, electrical, and fire laws.
 3812                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
   (6) Proof of a valid California driver’s license issued to an officer or
employee responsible for driving the mobile unit.
   (7) A permanent base address from which the mobile unit shall
operate.
   (c) After initial approval of the floor plan and application has been
granted, the applicant shall schedule an appointment to show the mobile
unit to the bureau, or representative of the bureau, for final approval.
   SEC. 54. Section 7356 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7356. An application to transfer ownership or control of an existing
licensed mobile unit shall be filed by the purchaser or lessor with the
bureau within 10 days after purchase. Each application shall include the
following:
   (a) A detailed floor plan showing the location of doors, windows,
restroom facilities, sinks, lift or ramps, ventilation, equipment, and
dimensions of the mobile unit.
   (b) Bills of sale or lease documents proving purchase or lease of
existing equipment and the mobile unit.
   (c) The existing mobile unit license.
   (d) The required fee.
   (e) Copies of applicable city and county licenses or permits to provide
the mobile services in each county and city of operation issued in the new
owner’s name.
   (f) Proof of compliance with applicable city, county, and state
plumbing, electrical, and fire laws.
   (g) Proof of a valid California driver’s license issued to an officer or
employee responsible for driving the mobile unit.
   SEC. 55. Section 7357 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7357. (a) Mobile units shall comply with regulations adopted by
the bureau that assure that the unit shall be kept clean, in good repair, and
in compliance with this article.
   (b) Each mobile unit shall be equipped with each of the following
functioning systems:
   (1) A self-contained, potable water supply. The potable water tanks
shall be not less than 100 gallons, and the holding tanks shall be of
adequate capacity. In the event of depletion of potable water, operation
shall cease until the supply is replenished.
   (2) Continuous, on-demand hot water tanks which shall be not less
than six-gallon capacity.
   (3) Self-contained, recirculating, flush chemical toilet with holding
tank.
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3813

   (4) A covered galvanized, stainless steel, or other noncorrosive metal
container for purposes of depositing hair clippings, refuse, and other
waste materials.
   (5) A split-lead generator with a remote starter, muffler, and a vent to
the outside.
   (6) A sealed combustible heater with an outside vent.
   SEC. 56. Section 7359 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7359. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to hire,
employ, allow to be employed, or permit to work, in or about a mobile
unit, any person who performs or practices any occupation regulated
under this chapter who is not duly licensed by the bureau.
   Any person violating this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   SEC. 57. Section 7362 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7362. (a) A school approved by the bureau is one which is licensed
by the Council for Private Postsecondary and Vocational Education, or
a public school in this state, and provides a course of instruction
approved by the bureau.
   (b) The bureau shall determine by regulation the required subjects of
instruction to be completed in all approved courses, including the
minimum hours of technical instruction and minimum number of
practical operations for each subject, and shall determine how much
training is required before a student may begin performing services on
paying patrons.
   SEC. 58. Section 7362.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7362.1. A school of cosmetology approved by the bureau shall also
meet all of the following:
   (a) Possess the equipment and floor space necessary for
comprehensive instruction of 25 cosmetology students or the number of
students enrolled in the course, whichever is greater.
   (b) Have entered on the roll of a proposed school of cosmetology at
least 25 bona fide, full-time students for the cosmetology course. For
purposes of this section, a bona fide, full-time student is a person who
has been entered on the roll of a proposed school of cosmetology and has
committed to attend a full course in cosmetology.
   (c) Maintain a course of practical training and technical instruction
for the full cosmetology course as specified in this chapter and in bureau
regulations. A course of instruction in any branch of cosmetology shall
be taught in a school of cosmetology.
   SEC. 59. Section 7362.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
 3814                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   7362.2. A school of barbering approved by the bureau shall also do
all of the following:
   (a) Possess the equipment and floor space necessary for
comprehensive instruction of 15 barber students or the number of
students enrolled in the course, whichever is greater.
   (b) Have entered on the roll of a proposed school of barbering at least
15 bona fide, full-time students for the barbering course. For purposes
of this section, a bona fide, full-time student is a person who has been
entered on the roll of a proposed school of barbering and has committed
to attend a full course in barbering.
   (c) Maintain a course of practical training and technical instruction
for the full barbering course as specified in this chapter and in bureau
regulations.
   SEC. 60. Section 7362.3 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7362.3. A school of electrology approved by the bureau shall also
do all of the following:
   (a) Possess the equipment and floor space necessary for
comprehensive instruction of five electrology students or the number of
students enrolled in the course, whichever is greater.
   (b) Have entered on the roll of a proposed school of electrology at
least five bona fide, full-time students for the electrology course. For
purposes of this section, a bona fide, full-time student is a person who
has been entered on the roll of a proposed school of electrology and has
committed to attend a full course in electrology.
   (c) Maintain a course of practical training and technical instruction
for the full electrology course as specified in this chapter and in bureau
regulations.
   SEC. 61. Section 7364 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7364. A skin care course established by a school shall consist of not
less than 600 hours of practical training and technical instruction in
accordance with a curriculum established by bureau regulation.
   SEC. 62. Section 7365 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7365. A nail care course established by a school shall consist of not
less than 350 hours of practical training and technical instruction in
accordance with a curriculum established by bureau regulation.
   SEC. 63. Section 7366 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7366. An electrolysis course established by a school shall consist of
not less than 600 hours of practical training and technical instruction in
accordance with a curriculum established by bureau regulation.
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3815

   SEC. 64. Section 7367 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7367. For students who change from one program of instruction to
another, the bureau shall grant credit for training obtained in one course
that is identical to training required in another course.
   SEC. 65. Section 7389 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7389. The bureau shall develop or adopt a health and safety course
on hazardous substances which shall be taught in schools approved by
the bureau. Course development shall include pilot testing of the course
and training classes to prepare instructors to effectively use the course.
   SEC. 66. Section 7390 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7390. A cosmetology or barbering instructor training course shall
consist of not less than 600 hours of practical training and technical
instruction in accordance with a curriculum established by bureau
regulation.
   SEC. 67. Section 7391 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7391. The bureau shall admit to examination for license as a
cosmetology or barbering instructor any person who has made
application to the bureau in the proper form, who has paid the fee
required by this chapter, and who meets the following qualifications:
   (a) Has completed the 12th grade or an accredited senior high school
course of study in public schools of this state or its equivalent.
   (b) Is not subject to denial pursuant to Section 480.
   (c) Holds a valid license to practice cosmetology or barbering in this
state.
   (d) Has done at least one of the following:
   (1) Completed a cosmetology or barbering instructor training course
in an approved school in this state or equivalent training in an approved
school in another state.
   (2) Completed not less than the equivalent of 10 months of practice
as a teacher assistant or teacher aide in a school approved by the bureau.
   (3) Practiced cosmetology or barbering in a licensed establishment in
this state for a period of one year within the three years immediately
preceding application, or its equivalent in another state. An applicant
using practical experience to qualify under this section shall submit an
affidavit signed by his or her employers attesting to the qualifying
experience.
   SEC. 68. Section 7392 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7392. Each licensed instructor shall complete at least 30 clock hours
of continuing education in the teaching of vocational education during
 3816                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
each two-year licensing period. This section does not apply to an
instructor who holds a credential to teach vocational education full time
in a public school in this state.
  For purposes of this section, programs designed for continuing
education in the teaching of vocational education may include, but not
be limited to, development of understanding and competency in the
learning process, instructional techniques, curriculum and media,
instructional evaluation, counseling and guidance, and the special needs
of students.
  The bureau shall adopt regulations establishing standards for the
approval of continuing education courses and for the effective
administration and enforcement of its continuing education
requirements.
  SEC. 69. Section 7393 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7393. As a condition of the renewal of the license of an instructor,
the bureau may periodically require instructors to demonstrate current
competence through continuing education as provided for in this
chapter.
  SEC. 70. Section 7394 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7394. The bureau’s continuing education requirements shall not
apply to instructors whose licenses are on inactive status according to the
records maintained by the bureau.
  Instructors whose licenses are on inactive status may not be employed
as instructors in schools approved by the bureau.
  Instructors whose licenses are on inactive status must complete at least
30 hours of continuing education in the teaching of vocational education
as a condition of reinstatement to active status.
  SEC. 71. Section 7395 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7395. If an instructor with an active license status does not provide
proof of compliance with the continuing education requirements
provided for in this chapter within 45 days of a request from the bureau,
the instructor’s license shall revert to inactive status until proof of
compliance is provided to the bureau.
  SEC. 72. Section 7395.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7395.1. (a) A student who is enrolled in a school of cosmetology
approved by the Council for Private Postsecondary and Vocational
Education in a course approved by the bureau may, upon completion of
a minimum of 60 percent of the clock hours required for graduation in
the course, work as an unpaid extern in a cosmetology establishment
participating in the educational program of the school of cosmetology.
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3817

   (b) A person working as an extern shall receive clock hour credit
toward graduation, but that credit shall not exceed eight hours per week
and shall not exceed 10 percent of the total clock hours required for
completion of the course.
   (c) The externship program shall be conducted in cosmetology
establishments meeting all of the following criteria:
   (1) The establishment is licensed by the bureau.
   (2) The establishment has a minimum of four licensees working at the
establishment, including employees and owners or managers.
   (3) All licensees at the establishment are in good standing with the
bureau.
   (4) Licensees working at the establishment work for salaries or
commissions rather than on a space rental basis.
   (5) No more than one extern shall work in an establishment for every
four licensees working in the establishment. No regularly employed
licensee shall be displaced or have his or her work hours reduced or
altered to accommodate the placement of an extern in an establishment.
Prior to placement of the extern, the establishment shall agree in writing
sent to the school and to all affected licensees that no reduction or
alteration of any licensee’s current work schedule shall occur. This shall
not prevent a licensee from voluntarily reducing or altering his or her
work schedule.
   (6) Externs shall wear conspicuous school identification at all times
while working in the establishment, and shall carry a school laminated
identification, that includes a picture, in a form approved by the bureau.
   (d) (1) A school participating in the externship program shall
provide the participating establishment and the extern with a syllabus
containing applicable information specified in Section 73880 of Title 5
of the California Code of Regulations. The extern, the school, and the
establishment shall agree to the terms of and sign the syllabus prior to
the extern beginning work at the establishment. No less than 90 percent
of the responsibilities and duties of the extern shall consist of the acts
included within the practice of cosmetology as defined in Section 7316.
   (2) The establishment shall consult with the assigning school
regarding the extern’s progress during the unpaid externship. The owner
or manager of the establishment shall monitor and report on the student’s
progress to the school on a regular basis, with assistance from
supervising licensees.
   (3) A participating school shall assess the extern’s learning outcome
from the externship program. The school shall maintain accurate records
of the extern’s educational experience in the externship program and
records that indicate how the extern’s learning outcome translates into
course credit.
 3818                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   (e) Participation in an externship program made available by a school
shall be voluntary, may be terminated by the student at any time, and
shall not be a prerequisite for graduation.
   (f) The cosmetology establishment that chooses to utilize the extern
is liable for the extern’s general liability insurance, as well as
cosmetology malpractice liability insurance, and shall furnish proof to
the participating school that the establishment is covered by both forms
of liability insurance and that the extern is covered under that insurance.
   (g) (1) It is the purpose of the externship program authorized by this
section to provide students with skills, knowledge, and attitudes
necessary to acquire employment in the field for which they are being
trained, and to extend formalized classroom instruction.
   (2) Instruction shall be based on skills, knowledge, attitudes, and
performance levels in the area of cosmetology for which the instruction
is conducted.
   (3) An extern may perform only acts listed within the definition of the
practice of cosmetology as provided in Section 7316, if a licensee
directly supervises those acts, except that an extern may not use or apply
chemical treatments unless the extern has received appropriate training
in application of those treatments from an approved cosmetology
school. An extern may work on a paying client only in an assisting
capacity and only with the direct and immediate supervision of a
licensee.
   (4) The extern shall not perform any work in a manner that would
violate law.
   SEC. 73. Section 7396 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7396. The form and content of a license issued by the bureau shall
be determined in accordance with Section 164.
   The license shall prominently state that the holder is licensed as a
barber, cosmetologist, esthetician, manicurist, electrologist, apprentice,
barber instructor, or cosmetology instructor.
   SEC. 74. Section 7400 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7400. Every licensee of the bureau, except establishments shall,
within 30 days after a change of address, notify the bureau of the new
address, and, upon receipt of the notification, the bureau shall make the
necessary changes in the register.
   SEC. 75. Section 7403 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7403. (a) The bureau may revoke, suspend, or deny at any time any
license required by this chapter on any of the grounds for disciplinary
action provided in this article. The proceedings under this article shall
be conducted in accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3819

11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, and
the bureau shall have all the powers granted therein.
  (b) In any case in which the administrative law judge recommends
that the bureau revoke, suspend or deny a license, the administrative law
judge may, upon presentation of suitable proof, order the licensee to pay
the bureau the reasonable costs of the investigation and adjudication of
the case. For purposes of this section, ‘‘costs’’ include charges by the
bureau for investigating the case, charges incurred by the office of the
Attorney General for investigating and presenting the case, and charges
incurred by the Office of Administrative Hearings for hearing the case
and issuing a proposed decision.
  (c) The costs to be assessed shall be fixed by the administrative law
judge and shall not, in any event, be increased by the bureau. When the
bureau does not adopt a proposed decision and remands the case to an
administrative law judge, the administrative law judge shall not increase
the amount of any costs assessed in the proposed decision.
  (d) The bureau may enforce the order for payment in the superior
court in the county where the administrative hearing was held. This right
of enforcement shall be in addition to any other rights the bureau may
have as to any licensee directed to pay costs.
  (e) In any judicial action for the recovery of costs, proof of the
bureau’s decision shall be conclusive proof of the validity of the order
of payment and the terms for payment.
  (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all costs recovered
under this section shall be deposited in the bureau’s contingent fund as
a scheduled reimbursement in the fiscal year in which the costs are
actually recovered.
  SEC. 76. Section 7404 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7404. The grounds for disciplinary action are as follows:
  (a) Unprofessional conduct which includes, but is not limited to, any
of the following:
  (1) Incompetence or gross negligence, including failure to comply
with generally accepted standards for the practice of barbering,
cosmetology, or electrology or disregard for the health and safety of
patrons.
  (2) Repeated similar negligent acts.
  (3) Conviction of any crime substantially related to the
qualifications, functions, or duties of the license holder, in which case,
the records of conviction or a certified copy shall be conclusive evidence
thereof.
  (4) Advertising by means of knowingly false or deceptive statements.
  (b) Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
 3820                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
   (c) Failure to comply with the rules governing health and safety
adopted by the bureau and approved by the State Department of Health
Services, for the regulation of establishments, or any practice licensed
and regulated under this chapter.
   (d) Failure to comply with the rules adopted by the bureau for the
regulation of establishments, or any practice licensed and regulated
under this chapter.
   (e) Continued practice by a person knowingly having an infectious or
contagious disease.
   (f) Habitual drunkenness, habitual use of or addiction to the use of
any controlled substance.
   (g) Obtaining or attempting to obtain practice in any occupation
licensed and regulated under this chapter, or money, or compensation in
any form, by fraudulent misrepresentation.
   (h) Failure to display the license or health and safety rules and
regulations in a conspicuous place.
   (i) Engaging, outside of a licensed establishment and for
compensation in any form whatever, in any practice for which a license
is required under this chapter, except that when such service is provided
because of illness or other physical or mental incapacitation of the
recipient of the service and when performed by a licensee obtained for
the purpose from a licensed establishment.
   (j) Permitting a license to be used where the holder is not personally,
actively, and continuously engaged in business.
   (k) The making of any false statement as to a material matter in any
oath or affidavit, which is required by the provisions of this chapter.
   (l) Refusal to permit or interference with an inspection authorized
under this chapter.
   (m) Any action or conduct which would have warranted the denial of
a license.
   (n) Failure to surrender a license that was issued in error or by
mistake.
   SEC. 77. Section 7405 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7405. A plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following a plea of
nolo contendere is deemed to be a conviction within the meaning of this
article. The bureau may order the license suspended or revoked, or may
decline to issue a license, when the time for appeal has elapsed, or the
judgment of conviction has been affirmed on appeal or when an order
granting probation is made suspending the imposition of sentence,
irrespective of a subsequent order under Section 1203.4 of the Penal
Code allowing the person to withdraw his plea of guilty and to enter a
plea of not guilty, or setting aside the verdict of guilty, or dismissing the
accusation, information or indictment.
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3821

   SEC. 78. Section 7406 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7406. In addition to the authority to conduct disciplinary
proceedings under this chapter, the bureau, through its duly authorized
representatives, shall have authority to assess administrative fines for the
violation of any section of this chapter or the violation of any rules and
regulations adopted by the bureau under this chapter.
   SEC. 79. Section 7407 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7407. The bureau shall establish by regulation a schedule of
administrative fines for violations of this chapter. All moneys collected
under this section shall be deposited in the bureau’s contingent fund.
   The schedule shall indicate for each type of violation whether, in the
bureau’s discretion, the violation can be corrected.
   SEC. 80. Section 7408 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7408. The bureau, through its duly authorized representatives, shall
issue a citation with respect to any violation for which an administrative
fine may be assessed. Each citation shall be in writing and shall describe
with particularity the nature of the violation, including a reference to the
specific provision alleged to have been violated. The administrative fine,
if any, shall attach at the time the citation is written. The citation shall
include an order to correct any condition or violation which lends itself
to correction, as determined by the bureau pursuant to Section 7406.
   SEC. 81. Section 7409 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7409. Any licensee served with a citation may avoid the payment of
the associated administrative fine by presentation of written proof
satisfactory to the bureau, or its bureau chief, that the violation has been
corrected. This provision applies only to a licensee’s first violation in
any three-year period of any single provision of this chapter or the rules
and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter. Proof of correction
shall be presented to the bureau, through its bureau chief, in a time and
manner prescribed by the bureau. The bureau may, in its discretion,
extend for a reasonable period the time within which to correct the
violation upon the showing of good cause. Notices of correction filed
after the prescribed date shall not be acceptable and the administrative
fine shall be paid.
   SEC. 82. Section 7414 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7414. Persons who fail to pay administrative fines that were not
contested or were contested but the appeal has been adjudicated, shall
not be issued a license or allowed to renew any licenses issued to them
 3822                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
until all fines are paid in addition to any application, renewal, or
delinquency fees which are required.
   SEC. 83. Section 7414.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7414.1. All records required by law to be kept by tanning facilities
subject to the Filante Tanning Facility Act of 1988 (Chapter 23
(commencing with Section 22700) of Division 8), including, but not
limited to, records relating to written warning statements, the sign
required to be posted, the qualifications of facility operators, statements
of acknowledgment, parental consent forms, and injury reports, shall be
open to inspection by the bureau, or its authorized representatives,
during any inspection, or during any investigation initiated in response
to a complaint that the tanning facility has violated any provision of the
Filante Tanning Facility Act of 1988. A copy of any or all of those
records shall be provided to the bureau, or its authorized representatives,
immediately upon request.
   SEC. 84. Section 7414.3 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7414.3. (a) Any representative of the bureau designated by the
director shall have the authority to issue a written notice to appear in
court pursuant to Chapter 5c (commencing with Section 853.5) of Title
3 of Part 2 of the Penal Code. Representatives so designated are not peace
officers and are not entitled to safety member retirement benefits, as a
result of that designation. Except as otherwise provided, the
representative’s authority is limited to the issuance of written notices to
appear for infraction violations of the Filante Tanning Facility Act of
1988 and only when the violation is committed in the presence of the
representative.
   (b) There shall be no civil liability on the part of, and no cause of
action shall arise against, any representative, acting pursuant to
subdivision (a) and within the scope of his or her authority, for false
arrest or false imprisonment arising out of any arrest which is lawful or
which the representative, at the time of that arrest, had reasonable cause
to believe was lawful.
   (c) This section shall become effective July 1, 1994.
   SEC. 85. Section 7414.4 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7414.4. The bureau, and its authorized representatives, may
disseminate information to tanning facilities regarding compliance with
the Filante Tanning Facility Act of 1988.
   SEC. 86. Section 7414.6 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7414.6. The bureau may adopt regulations concerning the operation
of tanning facilities in licensed establishments.
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3823

   SEC. 87. Section 7415 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7415. Licenses issued under this chapter, unless specifically
excepted, shall be issued for a two-year period and shall expire at
midnight on the last day of the month of issuance by the bureau.
   SEC. 88. Section 7416 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7416. The bureau shall, with the cooperation of the department,
modify its license renewal applications to all licensees to designate
whether or not they are currently employed in the occupation for which
they are licensed.
   SEC. 89. Section 7421 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7421. The fees shall be set by the bureau, within the limits set forth
in this article, in amounts necessary to cover the expenses of the bureau
in performing its duties under this chapter.
   SEC. 90. Section 7422 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7422. All fees collected on behalf of the bureau and all receipts of
every kind and nature, shall be reported to the Controller at the beginning
of each month for the month preceding. At the same time the entire
amount of collections shall be paid into the State Treasury, and shall be
credited to the Barbering and Cosmetology Contingent Fund, which
fund is hereby created.
   The moneys in the contingent fund shall be appropriated to the bureau
pursuant to the annual Budget Act and out of it shall be paid all salaries
and all other expenses necessarily incurred in carrying into effect this
chapter.
   SEC. 91. Section 7427 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 92. Section 7507 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7507. A licensee shall notify the bureau within 30 days of any
change of its corporate officers or of the addition of any partners.
Applications, on forms prescribed by the director, shall be submitted by
all new officers and partners. The director may suspend or revoke a
license issued under this chapter if the director determines that a new
officer or partner has committed any act that constitutes grounds for the
denial of a license pursuant to Section 7503.5.
   SEC. 93. Section 7533.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7533.5. (a) A licensee shall notify the bureau within 30 days of any
change in its corporate officers or of any addition of a new partner.
 3824                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   (b) Applications, on forms prescribed by the director, shall be
submitted by all new officers and partners. The director may suspend or
revoke a license issued under this chapter if the director determines that
the new officer or partner of a licensee has committed any of the acts
constituting grounds to deny an application for a license or to take
disciplinary action against a licensee pursuant to Section 7538 or 7538.5,
respectively.
   SEC. 94. Section 7582.19 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7582.19. (a) A licensee shall notify the bureau within 30 days of
any change in its corporate officers or of any addition of a new partner.
   (b) Applications, on forms prescribed by the director, shall be
submitted by all new officers and partners. The director may suspend or
revoke a license issued under this chapter if the director determines that
the new officer or partner of a licensee has committed any of the acts
constituting grounds to deny an application for a license or to take
disciplinary action against a licensee pursuant to Section 7582.24 or
7582.25 respectively.
   SEC. 95. Section 7583.20 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7583.20. (a) A registration issued under this chapter expires two
years following the date of issuance or on the assigned renewal date.
Every security guard issued a registration under this chapter that expires
on or after January 1, 1997, and who is also issued or renews a firearms
qualification card on or after January 1, 1997, shall be placed on a
cyclical renewal so that the registration expires on the expiration date of
the firearms qualification card. Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, the bureau is authorized to extend or shorten the first term of
registration following January 1, 1997, and to prorate the required
registration fee in order to implement this cyclical renewal. At least 60
days prior to the expiration, a registrant seeking to renew a guard
registration shall forward to the bureau a completed registration renewal
application and the renewal fee. The renewal application shall be on a
form prescribed by the director, dated and signed by the applicant,
certifying under penalty of perjury that the information in the application
is true and correct.
   (b) The licensee shall provide to any employee information regarding
procedures for renewal or registration.
   (c) In the event a registrant fails to request a renewal of his or her
registration as provided for in this chapter, the registration shall expire
as indicated on the registration. If the registration is renewed within 60
days after its expiration, the registrant, as a condition precedent to
renewal, shall pay the renewal fee and the delinquency fee.
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3825

  (d) The delinquency fee is 50 percent of the renewal fee in effect on
the date of expiration, but not less than twenty-five dollars ($25).
  (e) If the renewed registration card has not been delivered to the
registrant prior to the expiration of the prior registration, the registrant
may present evidence of renewal to substantiate continued registration
for a period not to exceed 90 days after the date of expiration.
  (f) A registration may not be renewed or reinstated until all fines
assessed pursuant to Section 7587.7 and not resolved in accordance with
the provisions of that section have been paid.
  SEC. 96. Section 7599.32 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7599.32. (a) A licensee shall notify the bureau within 30 days of
any change of its officers required to be named pursuant to Section
7593.4 and of any addition of a new partner.
  (b) Applications, on forms prescribed by the director, shall be
submitted by all new officers and partners. The director may suspend or
revoke a license issued under this chapter if the director determines that
the new officer or partner has committed any act which constitutes
grounds for the denial of a license pursuant to Section 7591.10.
  (c) A Notice of Warning may be issued for the first violation of this
section and a fine of twenty-five dollars ($25) for each subsequent
violation.
  SEC. 97. Section 7601 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7601. The following terms as used in this chapter shall have
meanings expressed in this section:
  (a) ‘‘Department’’ means the Department of Consumer Affairs.
  (b) ‘‘Director’’ means the Director of Consumer Affairs.
  (c) ‘‘Bureau’’ means the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau.
  SEC. 98. Section 7602 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7602. There is in the department the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau,
under the supervision and control of the director.
  The director may appoint a chief at a salary to be fixed and determined
by the director, with the approval of the Director of Finance. The duty
of enforcing and administering this chapter is vested in the chief, and he
or she is responsible to the director therefor. The chief shall serve at the
pleasure of the director.
  Every power granted or duty imposed upon the director under this
chapter may be exercised or performed in the name of the director by a
deputy director or by the chief, subject to such conditions and limitations
as the director may prescribe.
  SEC. 99. Section 7606 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
 3826                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   7606. The bureau may, pursuant to the provisions of the
Administrative Procedure Act, adopt and enforce reasonably necessary
rules and regulations relating to:
   (a) The practice of embalming;
   (b) The business of a funeral director;
   (c) The sanitary conditions of places where such practice or business
is conducted with particular regard to plumbing, sewage, ventilation and
equipment;
   (d) Specifying conditions for approval of funeral establishments for
apprentices and for approval of embalming schools;
   (e) The scope of examinations;
   (f) Carrying out generally the various provisions of this chapter for
the protection of the peace, health, safety, welfare and morals of the
public.
   SEC. 100. Section 7607 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7607. The bureau may inspect the premises in which the business of
a funeral director is conducted or where embalming is practiced.
   SEC. 101. Section 7608 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7608. The Director of Consumer Affairs may employ and appoint
all employees necessary to properly administer the work of the bureau,
in accordance with civil service regulations.
   With the approval of the Director of Finance, and, subject to the
provisions of Section 159.5, the bureau shall employ investigators and
attorneys to assist the bureau in prosecuting violations of this chapter,
whose compensation and expenses shall be payable only out of the State
Funeral Directors and Embalmers Fund.
   SEC. 102. Section 7610 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7610. All suits or actions commenced in the superior court against
the bureau shall be filed and tried either in the County of Sacramento,
or in the county of the residence of the plaintiff or petitioner, or in the
county where the act occurred, which is the basis of the suit or action.
   SEC. 103. Section 7616.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7616.2. A licensed funeral establishment shall at all times employ
a licensed funeral director to manage, direct, or control its business or
profession. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter,
licensed funeral establishments within close geographical proximity of
each other, may request the bureau to allow a licensed funeral director
to manage, direct, or control the business or profession of more than one
facility.
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3827

   SEC. 104. Section 7618 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7618. An application for a funeral director’s license shall be written
on a form provided by the bureau, verified by the applicant,
accompanied by the fee fixed by this chapter and filed at its Sacramento
office.
   SEC. 105. Section 7619.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7619.2. The bureau shall grant a funeral director’s license to any
applicant who complies with this article, notwithstanding Section 7619,
if the applicant can demonstrate that he or she has complied with Section
7622 on or before July 1, 1999.
   SEC. 106. Section 7621 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7621. The applicant shall also furnish the bureau with satisfactory
proof that the facility in which he or she intends to conduct business as
a funeral director is or will be constructed, equipped and maintained in
all respects as a licensed funeral establishment as defined in this chapter.
   SEC. 107. Section 7625 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7625. Upon receipt of an application for a license, the bureau shall
cause an investigation to be made of the physical status or plans and
specifications of the proposed funeral establishment, and of the other
qualifications required of the applicant under this chapter, and for this
purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and take testimony.
   The bureau shall grant a license if it finds that the proposed funeral
establishment is or will be constructed and equipped as required by this
chapter and that the applicant is qualified in all other respects as required
by this chapter.
   SEC. 108. Section 7626 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7626. The bureau shall examine and pass upon the qualifications of
the applicant as to ability and experience before passing upon the
physical status or plans and specifications of the proposed funeral
establishment.
   SEC. 109. Section 7626.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7626.5. Where a hearing is held to determine whether an application
for a license should be granted, the proceeding shall be conducted in
accordance with Chapter 5 of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the
Government Code, and the bureau shall have all of the powers granted
therein.
   SEC. 110. Section 7628 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
 3828                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
   7628. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, or other
organization desiring to change the location of a licensed funeral
establishment shall apply therefor on forms furnished by the bureau and
shall include a fee fixed by this chapter.
   The application shall be granted by the bureau upon the filing with the
bureau of a favorable report from an inspector concerning the physical
status or plans and specifications of the proposed licensed funeral
establishment to the effect that it conforms to the requirements of this
article.
   SEC. 111. Section 7629 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7629. No funeral establishment shall be conducted or held forth as
being conducted or advertised as being conducted under any name which
might tend to mislead the public or which would be sufficiently like the
name of any other licensed funeral director so as to constitute an unfair
method of competition.
   Any funeral director desiring to change the name appearing on his or
her license may do so by applying to the bureau and paying the fee fixed
by this chapter.
   SEC. 112. Section 7631 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7631. In case of the death of a licensed funeral director, who leaves
an established business as part or all of the assets of his or her estate, the
bureau may issue a special temporary license to his or her legal
representative, unless the legal representative has committed acts or
crimes constituting grounds for denial of licensure under Section 480.
   SEC. 113. Section 7635 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7635. (a) Any person employed by, or an agent of, a licensed
funeral establishment, who consults with the family or representatives
of a family of a deceased person for the purpose of arranging for services
as set forth in subdivision (a) of Section 7615, shall receive documented
training and instruction which results in a demonstrated knowledge of
all applicable federal and state laws, rules, and regulations including
those provisions dealing with vital statistics, the coroner, anatomical
gifts, and other laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to the duties of a
funeral director. A written outline of the training program, including
documented evidence of the training time, place, and participants, shall
be maintained in the funeral establishment and shall be available for
inspection and comment by an inspector of the bureau.
   (b) This section shall not apply to anyone who has successfully
passed the funeral director’s examination pursuant to Section 7622.
   SEC. 114. Section 7641 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3829

   7641. It is unlawful for any person to embalm a body, or engage in,
or hold himself or herself out as engaged in practice as an embalmer,
unless he or she is licensed by the bureau. However, this section shall
have no effect on students and instructors of embalming in embalming
colleges approved by the bureau.
   SEC. 115. Section 7642 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7642. An application for an embalmer’s license shall be written on
a form provided by the bureau, verified by the applicant, and
accompanied by the fee fixed by this chapter.
   SEC. 116. Section 7643 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7643. In order to qualify for a license as an embalmer, the applicant
shall comply with all of the following requirements:
   (a) Be over 18 years of age.
   (b) Not have committed acts or crimes constituting grounds for denial
of licensure under Section 480.
   (c) Furnish proof showing completion of a high school course or
instead he or she may furnish the bureau with evidence that he or she has
been licensed and has practiced as an embalmer for a minimum of three
years within the seven years preceding his or her application in any other
state or country and that the license has never been suspended or revoked
for unethical conduct.
   (d) Have completed at least two years of apprenticeship under an
embalmer licensed and engaged in practice as an embalmer in this state
in a funeral establishment which shall have been approved for
apprentices by the bureau and while so apprenticed shall have assisted
in embalming not fewer than 100 human remains; provided, however,
that a person who has been licensed and has practiced as an embalmer
for a minimum of three years within the seven years preceding his or her
application in any other state or country and whose license has never
been suspended or revoked for unethical conduct shall not be required
to serve any apprenticeship in this state.
   (e) Have successfully completed a course of instruction of not less
than one academic year in an embalming school approved by the bureau
and accredited by the American Board of Funeral Service Education.
   SEC. 117. Section 7646 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7646. The bureau shall require the applicant to pass an examination,
which shall include the following subjects:
   (a) Theory and practice of embalming.
   (b) Anatomy, including histology, embryology and dissection.
   (c) Pathology and bacteriology.
   (d) Hygiene, including sanitation and public health.
 3830                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   (e) Chemistry, including toxicology.
   (f) Restorative art, including plastic surgery and demisurgery.
   (g) Laws, rules and regulations of the bureau, including those
sections of the Health and Safety Code which pertain to the funeral
industry.
   SEC. 118. Section 7647 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7647. The bureau shall examine applicants for embalmer’s licenses
at least once annually.
   Examinations shall be held at such times and places as may be
determined by the bureau.
   Notice of the time and place of such examinations shall be given as
determined by the bureau.
   SEC. 119. Section 7647.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7647.5. Where a hearing is held to determine whether an application
for a license should be granted, the proceeding shall be conducted in
accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1
of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, and the bureau shall
have all of the powers granted therein.
   SEC. 120. Section 7650 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7650. From time to time, the bureau may examine the requirements
for the issuance of licenses to embalmers in other states of the United
States and cause a record to be kept of those states in which standards
are maintained for embalmers, not lower than those provided in this
chapter.
   SEC. 121. Section 7661 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7661. An application for registration as an embalmer’s apprentice
shall be made upon a form provided by the bureau, verified by the
applicant and accompanied by the fee fixed by this chapter.
   SEC. 122. Section 7662 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7662. In order to qualify as an apprentice embalmer, an applicant
shall comply with all of the following requirements:
   (a) Be over 18 years of age.
   (b) Not have committed acts or crimes constituting grounds for denial
of licensure under Section 480.
   (c) Furnish proof showing completion of a high school course or
instead he or she may furnish the bureau with evidence that he or she has
been licensed and has practiced as an embalmer for a minimum of three
years within the seven years preceding his or her application in any other
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3831

state or country and that the license has never been suspended or revoked
for unethical conduct.
   SEC. 123. Section 7664 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7664. Certificates of apprenticeship issued pursuant to this article
shall expire when the holder has been issued a license as an embalmer,
or six years from the date of registration, whichever first occurs. The
certificates may not be renewed, but an apprentice embalmer who has
not completed his or her term of apprenticeship at the time his or her
certificate expires may apply for reregistration upon compliance with
Section 7661. The bureau may, when the circumstances warrant, allow
an apprentice credit under a reregistration for the time actually served
under a previous registration, but no reregistration shall have the effect
of continuing the term of apprenticeship beyond the period specified in
Section 7666.
   SEC. 124. Section 7665 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7665. All registered apprentice embalmers shall comply with the
following requirements during their period of apprenticeship:
   (a) Shall file a report of apprenticeship as follows:
   (1) On or before January 15 of each year covering the period of
apprenticeship ending as of December 31 preceding.
   (2) Upon change of supervising embalmer or employer, or both.
   (3) Upon completion of apprenticeship.
   (4) Upon application for leave of absence for a period in excess of 15
days.
   (5) Upon suspending apprenticeship to attend embalming college.
   (6) Upon application for reregistration after suspension or revocation
of registration if a complete report of previous registration has not been
filed.
   (b) The information contained in the report shall consist of a concise
summary of the work done by the apprentice during the period covered
thereby, shall be verified by the apprentice and certified to as correct by
his or her supervising embalmer and employer. Upon request of the
bureau, each funeral director in whose establishment an apprenticeship
is being, or has been, served, and each embalmer under whose
instruction or supervision an apprenticeship is being or has been served,
shall promptly file with the bureau a report or such other information as
may be requested relating to the apprenticeship. Failure to comply with
the request is cause for revocation by the bureau of the approval granted
to the funeral director or embalmer for the training of apprentices and is
also a cause for disciplinary action against the funeral director or
embalmer.
 3832                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   SEC. 125. Section 7666 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7666. (a) The term of apprenticeship shall be two years. However
if an apprentice after having served his or her apprenticeship fails to pass
the examination for an embalmer’s license he or she may continue for
one additional term of apprenticeship, which shall be the maximum
apprenticeship permitted and provided further that an apprentice may,
upon filing an application therefor, be permitted to continue the
apprenticeship for a period not to exceed six months, if approved, for any
of the following reasons:
   (1) While awaiting the processing of applications submitted to the
bureau.
   (2) While awaiting notification of grades of embalmers’
examinations administered by the bureau.
   (3) While awaiting the commencement of a class of an embalming
school or college when the apprentice intends to enroll in the school or
college.
   Applications filed for an extension of apprenticeship shall be filed by
the applicant with the bureau not fewer than 15 days prior to the date the
applicant requests the extension to commence.
   (b) Terms of apprenticeship may be served before, after, or divided by
the embalming college course at the option of the apprentice; provided,
however, that the term of apprenticeship must be completed, excluding
time spent in active military service, within six years from the date of
original registration, or from the date an apprentice successfully passes
the examination for an embalmer’s license required in Section 7646 of
this code, whichever first occurs, and provided further that if the term of
apprenticeship is not completed within the six-year period, the bureau
may require that the applicant serve the additional term of
apprenticeship, not to exceed two years.
   (c) A student attending an embalming college may register as an
apprentice during his or her college term but shall receive no credit for
apprenticeship on the term required by this code unless he or she is also
a full-time employee of a funeral director.
   (d) An apprentice while serving his or her required term of
apprenticeship shall be a full-time employee in the funeral establishment
in which he or she is employed.
   SEC. 126. Section 7667 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7667. (a) The bureau shall have the power to grant leaves of
absence and extensions of leaves of absence and approve absences
during the term of apprenticeship.
   (b) A leave of absence, including any extensions, shall not be
approved for a longer period than an aggregate of one year.
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3833

   (c) No credit will be given to an apprentice on his or her
apprenticeship for the period during which he or she is absent from duty
on leave.
   (d) Application for a leave of absence and for an extension thereof
shall be made by the apprentice on a form provided by the bureau.
   (e) Upon termination of a leave of absence, the apprentice shall report
that fact to the bureau within 10 days of his or her resumption of
apprenticeship by returning to the bureau, his or her certificate of
registration accompanied by a statement as to the resumption of
apprenticeship which statement shall be certified as correct by the
funeral director in whose establishment he or she is to resume his or her
duties and by the embalmer under whose supervision he or she is to
resume his or her apprenticeship.
   (f) Failure to report within 10 days after the expiration date of any
leave of absence shall be cause for cancellation of the registration of an
apprentice.
   SEC. 127. Section 7668 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7668. The bureau may suspend or revoke a certificate of
apprenticeship, after notice and upon complaint and hearing in
accordance with the provisions of Article 6, if the apprentice is guilty of
any of the following acts or omissions:
   (a) Failure to devote full-time employment to the duties of his or her
apprenticeship.
  (b) Failure to make any report required by this chapter.
  (c) Absence from duty except as provided in this code.
  (d) Being on duty as an apprentice while under the influence of any
controlled substance, as defined in Division 10 (commencing with
Section 11000) of the Health and Safety Code, or any dangerous drug as
defined in Article 2 (commencing with Section 4015) of Chapter 9 of the
Business and Professions Code, or alcoholic beverages or other
intoxicating substances, to an extent dangerous or injurious to himself,
herself, any person, or the public to the extent that such use impairs his
or her ability to conduct with safety to the public the practice authorized
by his or her certification.
  (e) Disobedience of proper orders or instructions of his or her
superior.
  (f) Violation of any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation
of the bureau.
  (g) Soliciting business for a funeral director or for an embalmer in
violation of this chapter.
  (h) Fraud or misrepresentation in obtaining a certificate of
registration as an apprentice.
 3834                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
  (i) Conviction of a crime substantially related to the qualifications,
functions and duties of an apprentice, in which case the record of
conviction, or a certified copy, shall be conclusive evidence of the
conviction.
  SEC. 128. Section 7669 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7669. An apprentice who has had his or her certificate of
apprenticeship suspended or revoked may, within one year after the
suspension or revocation apply for reregistration upon compliance with
the law in effect at the time he or she so applies and payment of the
apprentice application fee fixed by this chapter. No reregistration shall
have the effect of continuing an apprenticeship beyond the period
specified in Section 7666.
  The bureau may, when the circumstances warrant, allow an apprentice
credit under a reregistration for the time actually served under a previous
registration, but if the previous registration has been suspended or
revoked for unprofessional conduct, not more than 75 percent of the time
previously served shall be credited on the reregistration.
  SEC. 129. Section 7670 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7670. (a) The apprenticeship required by this article shall be served
in a licensed funeral establishment that shall have been previously
approved for apprenticeship training by the bureau. In order to qualify
for approval the funeral director shall submit to the bureau an
application, accompanied by the fee fixed by this chapter, showing:
  (1) That not less than 50 human remains per apprentice employed
have been embalmed in the establishment during the 12 months
immediately preceding the date of the application.
  (2) That the applicant has, and will continue to have, in full-time
employment, for each two apprentices employed in his or her
establishment, a California embalmer who has had not less than two
years’ practical experience as a California licensed embalmer
immediately preceding the date of the application.
  (3) That the licensed funeral establishment of that applicant meets the
requirements of law as to equipment, cleanliness and sanitation as
determined by an inspection report filed with the bureau.
  (b) Licensed funeral establishments under common ownership within
close geographical proximity of each other may request any of the
following from the bureau:
  (1) To be treated in aggregate for the purpose of meeting the
requirements of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a).
  (2) To designate one additional supervising embalmer per registered
apprentice.
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3835

   (3) To allow a registered apprentice to serve in any or all of the
licensed funeral establishments requested and approved pursuant to this
section.
   (c) Approval granted under this section shall be renewed annually
upon application by the funeral director, showing continued compliance
with the foregoing provisions of this section, filed with the bureau not
later than January 15 of each year. An application for renewal shall be
accompanied by the fee fixed by this chapter.
   SEC. 130. Section 7685.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7685.2. (a) No funeral director shall enter into a contract for
furnishing services or property in connection with the burial or other
disposal of human remains until he or she has first submitted to the
potential purchaser of those services or property a written or printed
memorandum containing the following information, provided that
information is available at the time of execution of the contract:
   (1) The total charge for the funeral director’s services and the use of
his or her facilities, including the preparation of the body and other
professional services, and the charge for the use of automotive and other
necessary equipment.
   (2) An itemization of charges for the following merchandise as
selected: the casket, an outside receptacle, and clothing.
   (3) An itemization of fees or charges and the total amount of cash
advances made by the funeral director for transportation, flowers,
cemetery or crematory charges, newspaper notices, clergy honorarium,
transcripts, telegrams, long distance telephone calls, music, and any
other advances as authorized by the purchaser.
   (4) An itemization of any other fees or charges not included above.
   (5) The total of the amount specified in paragraphs (1) to (4),
inclusive.
   If the charge for any of the above items is not known at the time the
contract is entered into, the funeral director shall advise the purchaser of
the charge therefor, within a reasonable period after the information
becomes available. All prices charged for items covered under Sections
7685 and 7685.1 shall be the same as those given under such sections.
   (b) A funeral establishment shall obtain from the person with the right
to control the disposition pursuant to Section 7100 of the Health and
Safety Code, or the person prearranging the cremation and disposition
of his or her own remains, a signed declaration designating specific
instructions with respect to the disposition of cremated remains. The
bureau shall make available a form upon which the declaration shall be
made. The form shall include, but not be limited to, the names of the
persons with the right to control the disposition of the cremated remains
and the person who is contracting for the cremation services; the name
 3836                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
of the deceased; the name of the funeral establishment in possession of
the remains; the name of the crematorium; and specific instructions
regarding the manner, location, and other pertinent details regarding the
disposition of cremated remains. The form shall be signed and dated by
the person arranging for the cremation and the funeral director,
employee, or agent of the funeral establishment in charge of arranging
or prearranging the cremation service.
   (c) A funeral director entering into a contract to furnish cremation
services shall provide to the purchaser of cremation services, either on
the first page of the contract for cremation services, or on a separate page
attached to the contract, a written or printed notice containing the
following information:
   (1) A person having the right to control disposition of cremated
remains may remove the remains in a durable container from the place
of cremation or interment, pursuant to Section 7054.6 of the Health and
Safety Code.
   (2) If the cremated remains container cannot accommodate all
cremated remains of the deceased, the crematory shall provide a larger
cremated remains container at no additional cost, or place the excess in
a second container that cannot easily come apart from the first, pursuant
to Section 8345 of the Health and Safety Code.
   SEC. 131. Section 7685.3 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7685.3. The current address, telephone number, and name of the
Department of Consumer Affairs, Cemetery and Funeral Bureau shall
appear on the first page of any contract for goods and services offered
by a funeral director. At a minimum, the information shall be in 8-point
boldface type and make this statement:

 ‘‘FOR MORE INFORMATION ON FUNERAL, CEMETERY, AND
CREMATION MATTERS, CONTACT: DEPARTMENT OF
CONSUMER AFFAIRS, (ADDRESS), (TELEPHONE NUMBER).’’

  SEC. 132. Section 7685.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  7685.5. (a) The bureau shall make available to funeral
establishments and cemetery authorities a copy of a consumer guide for
funeral and cemetery purchases for purposes of reproduction and
distribution. The funeral and cemetery guide that is approved by the
bureau, in consultation with the funeral and cemetery industries and any
other interested parties, shall be made available in printed form and
electronically through the Internet.
  (b) A funeral establishment shall prominently display and make
available to any individual who, in person, inquires about funeral or
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3837

cemetery purchases, a copy of the consumer guide for funeral and
cemetery purchases, reproduced as specified in subdivision (a).
   SEC. 133. Section 7686 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7686. The bureau may suspend or revoke licenses, after proper
notice and hearing to the licensee, if the licensee has been found guilty
by the bureau of any of the acts or omissions constituting grounds for
disciplinary action. The proceedings under this article shall be
conducted in accordance with Chapter 5 of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title
2 of the Government Code, and the bureau shall have all the powers
granted therein.
   SEC. 134. Section 7686.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7686.5. All accusations against licensees shall be filed with the
bureau within two years after the performance of the act or omission
alleged as the ground for disciplinary action; provided, however, that the
foregoing provision shall not constitute a defense to an accusation
alleging fraud or misrepresentation as a ground for disciplinary action.
The cause for disciplinary action in such case shall not be deemed to have
accrued until discovery, by the bureau, of the facts constituting the fraud
or misrepresentation, and, in such case, the accusation shall be filed
within three years after such discovery.
   SEC. 135. Section 7687 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7687. Upon receipt of a complaint, the bureau may make or cause
to be made such investigation as it deems necessary.
   SEC. 136. Section 7690 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7690. The bureau may discipline every accused licensee whose
default has been entered or who has been tried and found guilty, after
formal hearing, of any act or omission constituting a ground for
disciplinary action.
   Any of the following penalties may be imposed by the bureau:
   (a) Suspension of the disciplinary order.
   (b) Reproval, public or private.
   (c) Probation.
   (d) Suspension of the right to practice.
   (e) Revocation of the right to practice.
   (f) Such other penalties as the bureau deems fit.
   SEC. 137. Section 7708 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7708. The bureau, after a hearing, may deny the application of a
funeral establishment, funeral director, embalmer, or apprentice
embalmer on proof that the applicant has committed acts or crimes
 3838                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
constituting grounds for denial of licensure under Section 480. The
record of conviction, or a certified copy thereof, shall be conclusive
evidence of the conviction.
   SEC. 138. Section 7709 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7709. A plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following a plea of
nolo contendere is deemed to be a conviction within the meaning of this
article. The bureau may order the license suspended or revoked, or may
decline to issue a license, when the time for appeal has elapsed, or the
judgment of conviction has been affirmed on appeal or when an order
granting probation is made suspending the imposition of sentence,
irrespective of a subsequent order under the provisions of Section 1203.4
of the Penal Code allowing such person to withdraw his plea of guilty
and to enter a plea of not guilty, or setting aside the verdict of guilty, or
dismissing the accusation, information or indictment.
   SEC. 139. Section 7711 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7711. When a funeral establishment, funeral director or embalmer
has had his, or her, or its license suspended, canceled, or revoked by the
bureau, the bureau, upon written application by the licensee affected,
upon not less than 10 days’ notice to all parties of record in the particular
case, and after hearing all evidence offered in support of and in
opposition to that application, may, in its discretion, and upon those
terms as it may deem just, reinstate the applicant.
   SEC. 140. Section 7725 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7725. Licenses issued under this chapter shall expire at 12 p.m. on
January 31 of each year, if not in each instance renewed. To renew an
unexpired license, the holder thereof shall on or before the date on which
it would otherwise expire, apply for renewal on a form prescribed by the
bureau, and pay the renewal fee prescribed by this chapter.
   On or before the 10th day of December of each year, the bureau shall
mail to each licensed funeral establishment, funeral director, and
embalmer, addressed to him or her at his or her last known address, a
notice that a renewal fee is due and payable.
   SEC. 141. Section 7725.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7725.2. Except as otherwise provided in this article, a license which
has expired may be renewed at any time within five years after its
expiration on filing of an application for renewal on a form prescribed
by the bureau and payment of the renewal fee in effect on the last regular
renewal date. If the license is not renewed within 30 days after its
expiration the licensee, as a condition precedent to renewal, shall also
pay the delinquency fee prescribed by this chapter. Renewal under this
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3839

section shall be effective on the date on which the application is filed,
on the date on which the renewal fee is paid, or on the date on which the
delinquency fee, if any, is paid, whichever last occurs. If so renewed, the
license shall continue in effect through the date provided in Section 7725
which next occurs after the effective date of the renewal, when it shall
expire if it is not again renewed.
   If a license is not renewed within one year following its expiration, the
bureau may require as a condition of renewal that the holder of the
license pass an examination on the appropriate subjects provided by this
chapter.
   SEC. 142. Section 7725.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7725.5. A license which is not renewed within five years after its
expiration may not be renewed, restored, reissued, or reinstated
thereafter. The holder of the expired license may obtain a new license
only if the holder pays all of the fees, and meets all of the requirements,
other than requirements relating to education, set forth in this chapter for
obtaining an original license, except that the bureau may issue a new
license to the holder without an examination if the holder establishes to
the bureau’s satisfaction that, with due regard for the public interest, the
holder is qualified to engage in the activity in which the holder again
seeks to be licensed. The bureau may, by appropriate regulation, provide
for the waiver or refund of all or any part of the application fee in those
cases in which a license is issued without an examination under this
section.
   The provisions of this section do not apply to certificates of
apprenticeship.
   SEC. 143. Section 7727 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7727. On or before the 10th day of each month, the department shall
pay into the State Treasury and report to the State Controller all the fees
received for the bureau. The fees shall be received by the State Treasurer
and placed in the State Funeral Directors and Embalmers Fund, which
fund is available for expenditures necessary for the proper
administration of this chapter.
   SEC. 144. Section 7737.3 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7737.3. All commingled preneed trust funds held by a funeral
establishment shall be subject to an annual, independent certified
financial audit with a copy of the audit to be submitted to the bureau for
review within 120 days of the close of the fund’s fiscal year. Any findings
of noncompliance with existing law regarding preneed trust funds shall
be identified by the auditor in a separate report for review and action by
 3840                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
the bureau. Audits and reports of noncompliance shall be filed
simultaneously.
   SEC. 145. Section 7740 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7740. The bureau is authorized to enforce of its own initiative the
provisions of this article and may adopt such rules and regulations as in
its opinion may be necessary to perform such duties and to safeguard the
trust funds subject to this chapter.
   SEC. 146. Section 7740.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7740.5. A funeral establishment shall pay to the bureau the fee fixed
by this chapter for filing with the bureau any report on preneed trust
funds required by rules and regulations of the bureau adopted pursuant
to Section 7740.
   SEC. 147. Section 9603 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9603. The following terms as used in this chapter shall have the
meanings expressed in this section:
   (a) ‘‘Department’’ means the Department of Consumer Affairs.
   (b) ‘‘Director’’ means the Director of Consumer Affairs.
   (c) ‘‘Bureau’’ means the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau.
   SEC. 148. Section 9625 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9625. There is in the department, the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau,
under the supervision and control of the director.
   The director may appoint a chief at a salary to be fixed and determined
by the director, with the approval of the Director of Finance. The duty
of enforcing and administering this chapter is vested in the chief, and he
or she is responsible to the director therefor. The chief shall serve at the
pleasure of the director.
   SEC. 149. Section 9630 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9630. The bureau may establish necessary rules and regulations for
the administration and enforcement of this act and the laws subject to its
jurisdiction and prescribe the form of statements and reports provided
for in this act. The rules and regulations shall be adopted, amended, or
repealed in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative
Procedure Act.
   SEC. 150. Section 9631 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9631. In the enforcement of this act and the laws subject to its
jurisdiction, the bureau has all the powers and is subject to all the
responsibilities vested in and imposed upon the head of a department
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3841

under Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 11150) of Part 1 of Division
3 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
   SEC. 151. Section 9650 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9650. (a) Each cemetery authority shall file with the bureau
annually, on or before June 1, or within five months after close of their
fiscal year provided approval has been granted by the bureau as provided
for in Section 9650.1, a written report in a form prescribed by the bureau
setting forth the following:
   (1) The number of square feet of grave space and the number of crypts
and niches sold or disposed of under endowment care by specific periods
as set forth in the form prescribed.
   (2) The amount collected and deposited in both the general and
special endowment care funds segregated as to the amounts for crypts,
niches and grave space by specific periods as set forth either on the
accrual or cash basis at the option of the cemetery authority.
   (3) A statement showing separately the total amount of the general
and special endowment care funds invested in each of the investments
authorized by law and the amount of cash on hand not invested, which
statement shall actually show the financial condition of the funds.
   (4) A statement showing separately the location, description, and
character of the investments in which the special endowment care funds
are invested. The statement shall show the valuations of any securities
held in the endowment care fund as valued pursuant to Section 9659.
   (5) A statement showing the transactions entered into between the
corporation or any officer, employee or stockholder thereof and the
trustees of the endowment care funds with respect to those endowment
care funds. The statement shall show the dates, amounts of the
transactions, and shall contain a statement of the reasons for those
transactions.
   (b) The report shall be verified by the president or vice president and
one other officer of the cemetery corporation. The information submitted
pursuant to paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5) shall be accompanied by an
annual audit report of the endowment care fund and special care fund
signed by a certified public accountant or public accountant. The scope
of the audit shall include the inspection, review, and audit of the general
purpose financial statements of the endowment care fund and special
care fund, which shall include the balance sheet, the statement of
revenues, expenditures, and changes in fund balance.
   (c) If a cemetery authority files a written request prior to the date the
report is due, the bureau may, in its discretion, grant an additional 30
days within which to file the report.
   SEC. 152. Section 9650.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
 3842                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
   9650.1. Each cemetery authority requesting a change of filing date
of the endowment care fund report from a calendar year to a fiscal year
or a change in fiscal year shall file a petition with the bureau prior to the
close of the year of request. The bureau may approve such petition
provided that no report shall be for a period of more than 12 months.
   SEC. 153. Section 9650.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9650.2. The report shall state the name of the trustee or trustees of
the endowment care fund. Any change of trustee shall be reported to the
bureau within a period of 30 days after the change is made.
   SEC. 154. Section 9650.3 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9650.3. A copy of each annual audit report shall be transmitted to
the bureau and shall be a public record. It shall also be open for public
inspection at the offices of the cemetery authority during normal
business hours. If the cemetery authority does not maintain offices in the
county in which its cemetery is located, it shall file a copy of the annual
audit report with the county clerk of the county, which shall be subject
to public inspection.
   SEC. 155. Section 9650.4 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9650.4. (a) Any cemetery authority that does not file its report
within the time prescribed by Section 9650 may be assessed a fine by the
bureau in an amount not to exceed four hundred dollars ($400) per month
for a maximum of five months. The amount of the fine shall be
established by regulation in accordance with the Administrative
Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part
1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code). Failure to pay the
fine within 15 days after receipt of written notification of the assessment
or, where a timely request for waiver or reduction of the fine has been
filed, within 15 days after receipt of written notification of the bureau’s
decision in the matter, shall be cause for disciplinary action.
   (b) A cemetery authority may request waiver or reduction of a fine by
making a written request therefor. The request shall be postmarked
within the time specified above for payment of the fine and shall be
accompanied by a statement showing good cause for the request.
   (c) The bureau may waive or reduce the fine where a timely request
is made and where it determines, in its discretion, that the cemetery
authority has made a sufficient showing of good cause for the waiver or
reduction.
   SEC. 156. Section 9651 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9651. The bureau shall examine the reports filed with it as to their
compliance with the requirements of the Health and Safety Code as to
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3843

the amount of endowment care funds collected and as to the manner of
investment of such funds.
  SEC. 157. Section 9652 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  9652. The bureau shall examine the endowment care funds of a
cemetery authority:
  (a) Whenever it deems necessary and at least once every five years;
  (b) Whenever the cemetery authority in charge of endowment care
funds fails to file the report required by this article; or
  (c) Whenever the accountant or auditor qualifies his or her
certification of the report that is prepared and signed by a certified public
accountant licensed in the state and prepared in accordance with Section
9650.
  (d) The reasonable and necessary cost of the examination performed
under subdivision (b) or (c) shall be paid by the cemetery authority.
  A certified copy of the actual costs, or a good faith estimate of the costs
where actual costs are not available, signed by the director or his or her
designee, shall be prima facie evidence of the reasonable and necessary
costs of the examination.
  The actual and necessary expense of the examination under
subdivision (a) shall, in the discretion of the bureau, be paid by the
cemetery authority whenever the examination requires more than one
day and the need for continuing the examination is directly related to
identified omissions and errors in the management of endowment care
funds.
  SEC. 158. Section 9652.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  9652.1. If any cemetery authority refuses to pay such expenses, the
bureau shall refuse it a certificate of authority and shall revoke any
existing certificate of authority. All examination expense moneys
collected by the bureau shall be paid into the State Treasury to the credit
of the Cemetery Fund.
  SEC. 159. Section 9653 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  9653. (a) In making the examination the program:
  (1) Shall have free access to the books and records relating to the trust
funds, their collection and investment, and the number of graves, crypts
and niches under endowment care.
  (2) Shall inspect and examine the trust funds to determine their
condition and the existence of the investments.
  (3) Shall ascertain if the cemetery corporation has complied with all
the laws applicable to trust funds.
  (b) Upon request by the bureau, a cemetery authority shall provide
records to substantiate the expenditures of the income of the trust funds.
 3844                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
If a cemetery authority fails to reasonably comply with this request, the
bureau may have access to books, records, and accounts of a cemetery
authority for purposes of ascertaining compliance with applicable laws.
   SEC. 160. Section 9654 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9654. The bureau may administer oaths and examine under oath any
person relative to the endowment care fund. Such examination shall be
conducted in the principal office of the person or body in charge of the
endowment care fund and shall be private.
   SEC. 161. Section 9655 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9655. If any examination made by the bureau, or any report filed
with it, shows that there has not been collected and deposited in the
endowment care funds the minimum amounts required by the Health and
Safety Code since September 19, 1939, the bureau shall require such
cemetery corporation to comply with Sections 8743 and 8744 of the
Health and Safety Code.
   SEC. 162. Section 9656 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9656. Whenever the bureau finds, after notice and hearing, that any
endowment care funds have been invested in violation of the Health and
Safety Code, it shall by written order mailed to the person or body in
charge of the fund require the reinvestment of the funds in conformity
to that code within a period which shall be not less than two years if the
investment was made prior to October 1, 1949, not less than six months
if the investment was made on or after October 1, 1949, and before the
effective date of the amendment of this section by the 1969 Regular
Session of the Legislature, and not less than 30 days if the investment
is made on or after the effective date of the amendment. The period may
be extended by the bureau in its discretion.
   SEC. 163. Section 9656.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9656.1. The superior court of the county in which the principal
office of the cemetery authority in charge of endowment care funds is
located shall, upon the filing by the bureau of a verified application
showing any of the following conditions hereinafter enumerated to exist,
issue its order vesting title to any endowment care funds of a cemetery
authority in the bureau, and directing the bureau forthwith to take
possession of all necessary books, records, property, real and personal,
and assets, and to conduct as conservator, the management of such
endowment care funds, or so much thereof as to the bureau may seem
appropriate:
   (a) That the cemetery authority has refused to submit its books,
papers, accounts, or affairs to the reasonable examination of the bureau.
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3845

   (b) That the cemetery authority has neglected to observe an order of
the bureau to make good within the time prescribed by law any
deficiency in its investments of endowment care funds.
   (c) That the cemetery authority is found, after an examination, to be
in such condition that its further management of its endowment care
funds will be hazardous to its members, plotholders, or to the public.
   (d) That the cemetery authority has violated its articles of
incorporation or any law of the state.
   (e) That any officer, director, agent, servant or employee of the
cemetery authority person refuses to be examined under oath relative to
the endowment care funds thereof.
   (f) That any person has embezzled or otherwise wrongfully diverted
any of the endowment care funds of the cemetery authority.
   The order shall continue in force and effect until, on the application
either of the bureau or of the cemetery authority, it shall, after a full
hearing, appear to the court that the ground for the order does not exist
or has been removed and that the cemetery authority can properly resume
title and possession of its property and the management of its
endowment care funds.
   SEC. 164. Section 9656.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9656.2. When it has been alleged by verified petition pursuant to
Section 9652 or when the bureau on its own investigation determines
that there is probable cause to believe that any of the conditions set forth
in Section 9656.1 exist or that irreparable loss and injury to the
endowment care funds of a cemetery authority has occurred or may occur
unless the bureau so acts immediately, the bureau, without notice and
before applying to the court for any order, may take possession of the
endowment care funds and the books, records, and accounts relating
thereto of the cemetery authority, and retain possession subject to the
order of the court. Any person having possession of and refusing to
deliver any assets, books or records of a cemetery authority against
which a seizure order has been issued by the bureau shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand
dollars ($1,000) or imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both that
fine and imprisonment.
   SEC. 165. Section 9656.25 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9656.25. If any city, county, or city and county exercises its
authority to address public health, safety, or welfare issues in connection
with a cemetery within its jurisdiction and if the certificate of authority
of the cemetery has been revoked or suspended or has not been renewed,
and the bureau holds the endowment care fund of the certificate of
authority under applicable provisions of this code, the costs of any action
 3846                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
that constitutes care, maintenance, or embellishment of the cemetery
within the meaning of Section 8726 of the Health and Safety Code shall
be eligible for reimbursement from available income from any
endowment care fund in existence for the cemetery. For purposes of this
section, local jurisdiction action may be based on charter, ordinance, or
inherent police powers. Any claim for money or damages for an act or
omission by the local jurisdiction acting in accord with this section shall
be subject to all otherwise applicable immunities contained in Division
3.6 (commencing with Section 810) of Title 1 of the Government Code.
   SEC. 166. Section 9656.3 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9656.3. Whenever the bureau makes any seizure as provided in
Section 9656.2, it shall, on demand of the bureau, be the duty of the
sheriff of any county of this state, and of the police department of any
municipal corporation therein, to furnish the bureau with deputies,
patrolmen or officers as may be necessary to assist the bureau in making
and enforcing that seizure.
   SEC. 167. Section 9656.4 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9656.4. Immediately after effecting a seizure pursuant to Section
9656.2, the bureau shall institute a proceeding as provided for in Section
9656.1.
   SEC. 168. Section 9656.45 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9656.45. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the bureau
shall be the custodian of all moneys collected or surrendered pursuant
to Sections 9656.1 and 9656.2. As custodian, the bureau may deposit
those moneys, or any part thereof, without court approval, in any of the
following: a bank or trust company legally authorized and empowered
by the state to act as a trustee in the handling of trust funds; in a
centralized State Treasury system bank account; or in funds
administered by the State Treasurer.
   SEC. 169. Section 9656.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9656.5. The bureau shall maintain, regulate, operate, and control the
property situated in Amador County, referred to as the Elkin Property in
Judicial Council Coordination Proceedings Nos. 1814 and 1817, Order
Re Proposed Neptune Memorial, Disposition of the Elkin Property, and
Order Re Final Disposition of Ashes of the Sacramento Superior Court,
and legally described as ‘‘Parcel 16-B as shown on the certain Record
or Survey for Eugene S. Lowrance, et ux, filed for record May 17, 1971,
in Book 17 of Maps and Plats at page 87, Amador County Records.’’ The
bureau shall administer and supervise endowment funds established by
the court for the property. The bureau shall exercise the authority granted
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3847

by this section for the sole purpose of protecting the human remains
resting on the property and preserving the property in its natural state.
   SEC. 170. Section 9657 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9657. The bureau is authorized to bring action to enforce the
provisions of the law subject to its jurisdiction, in which actions it shall
be represented by the Attorney General.
   SEC. 171. Section 9658 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9658. The bureau shall enforce and administer Part 1 (commencing
with Section 8100), Part 3 (commencing with Section 8250), and Part
5 (commencing with Section 9501) of Division 8 of the Health and
Safety Code.
   SEC. 172. Section 9659 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9659. In any report to the bureau all bonds, debentures or other
evidences of debt held by a cemetery corporation if amply secured and
if not in default as to principal or interest may be valued as follows:
   (a) If purchased at par at the par value.
   (b) If purchased above or below par on the basis of the purchase price
adjusted so as to bring the value to par at maturity and so as to yield the
effective rate of interest on the basis at which the purchase was made.
   (c) In such valuation the purchase price shall in no case be taken at a
higher figure than the actual market value at the time of purchase.
   SEC. 173. Section 9662 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9662. The current address, telephone number, and name of the
bureau shall appear on the first page of any contract for goods and
services offered by a cemetery authority or crematory. At a minimum,
the information shall be in 8-point boldface type and make the following
statement:

 ‘‘FOR MORE INFORMATION ON CEMETERY AND
CREMATION MATTERS, CONTACT: THE CEMETERY AND
FUNERAL BUREAU, (ADDRESS), (TELEPHONE NUMBER).’’

  A cemetery authority or crematory operator shall supply the above
information in writing when presenting a sales contract to any
individual.
  SEC. 174. Section 9663 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  9663. (a) The bureau shall make available to funeral establishments
and cemetery authorities a copy of a consumer guide for funeral and
cemetery purchases for purposes of reproduction and distribution. The
 3848                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
funeral and cemetery guide that is approved by the bureau, in
consultation with the funeral and cemetery industries and any other
interested parties, shall be made available in printed form and
electronically through the Internet.
   (b) A cemetery authority shall prominently display and make
available to any individual who, in person, inquires about funeral or
cemetery purchases, a copy of the consumer guide for funeral and
cemetery purchases, reproduced as specified in subdivision (a).
   SEC. 175. Section 9676 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9676. No person shall engage in the business of, act in the capacity
of, advertise or assume to act as, a cemetery broker or cemetery
salesperson in this state without first obtaining a license from the bureau.
   SEC. 176. Section 9679 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9679. No cemetery broker shall employ or compensate, directly or
indirectly, any person for performing any of the acts within the scope of
this article who is not a licensed cemetery broker, or a cemetery
salesperson licensed under the cemetery broker employing or
compensating him or her. No cemetery salesperson shall be employed
by or accept compensation from any person other than the cemetery
broker under whom he or she is at the time licensed.
   No salesperson shall pay any compensation for performing any of the
acts within the scope of this article to any licensee except through the
cemetery broker under whom he or she is at the time licensed.
   For a violation of any of the provisions of this section, the bureau may
temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the license of the cemetery
licensee in accordance with the provisions of this act relating to
disciplinary proceedings.
   SEC. 177. Section 9680 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9680. It is a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding one
hundred dollars ($100) for each offense, for any person, whether obligor,
escrowholder or otherwise, to pay or deliver to anyone a compensation
for performing any of the acts within the scope of this article who is not
known to be or who does not present evidence to such payer that he or
she is a licensed cemetery broker at the time such compensation is
earned.
   For violation of any of the provisions of this section, the bureau may
temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the license of the cemetery
licensee in accordance with the provisions of this act relating to
disciplinary proceedings.
   SEC. 178. Section 9682 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3849

   9682. Any cemetery salesperson or cemetery broker who sells,
causes to be sold, or offers for sale any cemetery property upon the
promise, guarantee or representation to the purchaser that the same may
be resold or repurchased at a financial profit is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   For violation of any of the provisions of this section, the bureau may
temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the license of the cemetery
salesperson or cemetery broker in accordance with the provisions of this
act relating to disciplinary proceedings.
   No violation of any of the provisions of this section by any cemetery
salesperson or employee of any licensed cemetery broker shall cause the
suspension or revocation of the license of the employer of the
salesperson or employee unless it appears upon a hearing by the bureau
that the employer had guilty knowledge of such violation.
   SEC. 179. Section 9683 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9683. Every officer, agent or employee of any company, and every
other person who knowingly authorizes, directs or aids in the
publication, advertisement, distribution, or circularization of any false
statement or representation concerning any cemetery or cemetery
brokerage business and every person who, with knowledge that any
advertisement, pamphlet, prospectus or letter concerning any cemetery
brokerage business or any written statement that is false or fraudulent,
issues, circulates, publishes or distributes the same, or causes it to be
issued, circulated, published or distributed, or who in any other respect
willfully violates or fails, omits or neglects to obey, observe or comply
with any order, permit, decision, demand or requirement of the bureau
under the provisions of this act relating to cemetery brokerage, is guilty
of a misdemeanor, and, if a cemetery licensee, he or she shall be held to
trial by the bureau for a suspension or revocation of this cemetery
license, as provided in the provisions of this act relating to disciplinary
proceedings.
   SEC. 180. Section 9685 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9685. For violation of any of the provisions of Section 9684 the
bureau may temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the license of
the cemetery licensee in accordance with the provisions of this act
relating to disciplinary proceedings.
   SEC. 181. Section 9700 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9700. Application for license as a cemetery broker shall be made in
writing on the form prescribed by the bureau and filed at the principal
office of the bureau. The application shall be accompanied by the
original cemetery broker’s license fee.
 3850                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   SEC. 182. Section 9700.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9700.5. The bureau shall not grant an original cemetery broker’s
license to any person who is not a resident of this state. Change of
residence to another state shall terminate the license.
   SEC. 183. Section 9700.6 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9700.6. The bureau shall not grant an original cemetery broker’s
license to any person who has not held a cemetery salesperson’s license
for at least two years prior to the date of his or her application for the
broker’s license, and during that time was not actively engaged in the
business of a cemetery salesperson except that if an applicant for a
cemetery broker’s license having at least the equivalent of two years’
general cemetery experience files a written petition with the bureau
setting forth his or her qualifications and experience and the bureau
approves, he or she may be issued a cemetery broker’s license
immediately upon passing the appropriate examinations and satisfying
the other requirements of this article.
   SEC. 184. Section 9701 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9701. Application for license as a cemetery salesperson shall be
made in writing on the form prescribed by the bureau and filed at the
principal office of the bureau. The application shall be signed by the
applicant, and shall be accompanied by the cemetery salesperson’s
license fee.
   SEC. 185. Section 9702.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9702.1. The bureau shall investigate the qualifications of the
applicants. Except as otherwise prescribed in this article, it may issue the
license applied for to an applicant on a showing satisfactory to it that the
following facts exist:
   (a) The applicant is properly qualified to perform the duties of a
cemetery broker or salesperson.
   (b) Granting the license will not be against public interest.
   (c) The applicant intends actively and in good faith to carry on the
business of a cemetery broker or a cemetery salesperson.
   (d) In the case of a corporate applicant, the articles of incorporation
permit it to act as a cemetery broker.
   (e) In the case of an association or copartnership applying for such a
license its articles of association or agreement of partnership authorize
it to act as a cemetery broker.
   (f) The license is not being secured for the purpose of permitting the
applicant to advertise as a cemetery broker or salesperson without
actually engaging in such business.
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3851

   (g) The applicant has not committed acts or crimes constituting
grounds for denial of licensure under Section 480.
   SEC. 186. Section 9702.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9702.2. All cemetery brokers who do not possess a certificate of
authority shall in addition to the requirements of this chapter file with
the bureau a satisfactory bond to the people of the State of California,
duly executed by a sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the
bureau, in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000). That bond shall
be conditioned for the honest and faithful performance by such broker
and his or her salespersons and employees of any undertaking as a
licensed cemetery broker or salesperson or employee of said broker at
any time when licensed under this chapter, and the strict compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and of Division 8 of the Health and Safety
Code relating to cemeteries, and the honest and faithful application of
all funds received. That bond shall be further conditioned upon the
payment of all damages suffered by any person damaged or defrauded
by reason of the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or of
Division 8 of the Health and Safety Code relating to cemeteries, or by
reason of the violation of the obligation of such broker as an agent, as
such obligations are laid down by the Civil Code of the State of
California, or by reason of any fraud connected with or growing out of
any transactions contemplated by this chapter or Division 8 of the Health
and Safety Code.
   SEC. 187. Section 9702.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9702.5. The bureau shall ascertain by written examination that the
applicant, and, in case of a copartnership or corporation applicant for a
cemetery broker’s license, that each officer, agent or member thereof
through whom it proposes to act as a cemetery licensee has:
   (a) Appropriate knowledge of the English language, including
reading, writing and spelling, and of elementary arithmetic.
   (b) A fair understanding of:
   (1) Cemetery associations, cemetery corporations and duties of
directors.
   (2) Plot ownership, deeds, certificates of ownership, contracts of sale,
liens and leases.
   (3) Establishing, dedicating, maintaining, managing, operating,
improving and conducting a cemetery.
   (4) The care, preservation and embellishment of cemetery property.
   (5) The care and preservation of endowment care funds, trust funds,
and the investment thereof.
   (c) A general and fair understanding of the obligations between
principal and agent, of the principles of cemetery brokerage practice and
 3852                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
the business ethics pertaining thereto, as well as of the provisions of this
act relating to cemetery brokerage.
   SEC. 188. Section 9703 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9703. The bureau may, in its discretion, waive the examination of
any applicant for a cemetery broker’s license who held an unrevoked or
unsuspended cemetery license on June 30th of the preceding fiscal year
as an individual broker, an officer of a corporation, or member of a
copartnership.
   SEC. 189. Section 9704 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9704. An application on the form prescribed by the bureau for the
renewal of any unrevoked and unsuspended license filed before
midnight of June 30th of the year for which such unrevoked and
unsuspended license was issued, accompanied by the applicable renewal
fee, entitles the applicant to continue operating under his or her existing
license after its usual expiration date, if not previously suspended or
revoked, and until such date as he or she is notified in writing that the
application has been granted or denied.
   SEC. 190. Section 9705 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 191. Section 9710 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9710. Immediately upon the salesperson’s withdrawal from the
employ of the broker, the broker shall return the salesperson’s license to
the bureau for cancellation. A license canceled but not suspended or
revoked may be reinstated within the fiscal year upon receipt of
application therefor and the fee for the reinstatement of the license.
   SEC. 192. Section 9711 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9711. Every licensed cemetery broker shall have and maintain a
definite place of business in this state which shall serve as his or her
office for the transaction of business.
   No cemetery license authorizes the licensee to do business except
from the location for which the cemetery license was issued.
   Notice in writing shall be given the bureau of change of business
location of a cemetery broker, whereupon the bureau shall issue a new
cemetery license for the unexpired period. The change or abandonment
of business location without notification to the bureau shall
automatically cancel the license theretofore issued.
   SEC. 193. Section 9712 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9712. If the applicant for a cemetery broker’s license maintains
more than one place of business within the state he or she shall apply for
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3853

and procure an additional license for each branch office so maintained.
Every such application shall state the name of the person and the location
of the place of business for which such license is desired.
   The bureau may determine whether or not a broker is doing a cemetery
brokerage business at or from any particular location which requires him
or her to have a branch office license.
   SEC. 194. Section 9713 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9713. Each cemetery broker shall erect and maintain a sign in a
conspicuous place on the premises to indicate that he or she is a licensed
cemetery broker and his or her name shall be clearly shown thereon. The
size and place of the sign shall conform to regulations that may be
adopted by the bureau.
   SEC. 195. Section 9714 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9714. For a violation of any of the provisions of Sections 9709,
9710, 9711 and 9713, the bureau may temporarily suspend or
permanently revoke the license of the cemetery licensee in accordance
with the provisions of this act relating to disciplinary proceedings.
   SEC. 196. Section 9715 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9715. Application for a certificate of authority shall be made in
writing on the form prescribed by the bureau and filed at the principal
office of the bureau. The application shall be accompanied by the fee
provided for in this act and shall show that the cemetery authority owns
or is actively operating a cemetery in this state which is subject to the
provisions of the Cemetery Act or that the applicant is in a position to
commence operating a cemetery.
   SEC. 197. Section 9716 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9716. The bureau may require such proof as it deems advisable
concerning the compliance by such applicant to all the laws, rules,
regulations, ordinances and orders applicable.
   SEC. 198. Section 9717 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9717. (a) The bureau shall adopt, and may from time to time
amend, rules and regulations prescribing standards of knowledge and
experience and financial responsibility for applicants for certificates of
authority. In reviewing an application for a certificate of authority, the
bureau may consider acts of incorporators, officers, directors, and
stockholders of the applicant, which shall constitute grounds for the
denial of a certificate of authority under Division 1.5 (commencing with
Section 475).
 3854                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
   (b) Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of authority, the
bureau may cause an investigation to be made of the physical status,
plans, specifications and financing of the proposed cemetery, and any
other qualifications required of the applicant under this act, and for this
purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and take testimony.
   At the time of the filing of the application required by this section, the
applicant shall pay to the Cemetery Fund the sum fixed by the bureau at
not in excess of four hundred dollars ($400) to defray the expenses of
investigation. In the event the sum shall be insufficient to defray all of
the expenses, the applicant shall within five days after request therefor
deposit an additional sum sufficient to defray such expenses, provided
that the total sum shall not exceed the sum of nine hundred dollars
($900).
   SEC. 199. Section 9718 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9718. The bureau may, in accordance with its rules and regulations,
authorize interments in cemeteries for which there is no currently valid
certificate of authority outstanding if the bureau finds that rights to
interment therein will otherwise be impaired. However, nothing in this
section authorizes sales of lots, vaults, or niches by cemeteries for which
there is no currently valid certificate of authority. Interments permitted
under this section shall be conducted by persons authorized by the
bureau in accordance with its regulations, and Section 9768 shall not be
applicable to such interments.
   The bureau or its representative shall be entitled to inspect and copy
any cemetery records necessary to the performance of interments under
this section, and any person having custody of those records shall permit
inspection and copying thereof for that purpose. The bureau may apply
to the superior court for the county in which the cemetery is located for
an order temporarily transferring custody of cemetery records to it for
purposes of this section.
   SEC. 200. Section 9719 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9719. The bureau shall inspect the books, records, and premises of
any crematory licensed under this chapter or any certificate of authority
holder operating a crematory. In making those inspections, the bureau
shall have access to all books and records, the crematory building, the
cremation chambers or furnaces, and the storage areas for human
remains before and after cremation, during regular office hours or the
hours the crematory is in operation. No prior notification of the
inspection is required to be given to the certificate of authority holder or
the crematory licensee. If any certificate of authority holder or any
crematory licensee fails to allow that inspection or any part thereof, it
shall be grounds for the suspension or revocation of a license or other
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3855

disciplinary action against the licensee. In the case of a certificate of
authority holder, the suspension, revocation, or other disciplinary action
may be limited to the operation of the crematory. All proceedings under
this section shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter relating to disciplinary proceedings.
   SEC. 201. Section 9720 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9720. The bureau shall annually conduct a minimum of one
unannounced inspection of each licensed crematory.
   SEC. 202. Section 9726 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9726. The bureau may, upon its own motion, and shall, upon the
verified complaint in writing of any person, investigate the actions of
any person engaged in the business or acting in the capacity of a cemetery
licensee, and may temporarily suspend or permanently revoke a license
at any time where the licensee, within the immediately preceding three
years, while a cemetery licensee in performing or attempting to perform
any of the acts specified in this act, has been guilty of any of the
following:
   (a) Making any substantial misrepresentation.
   (b) Making any false statement of a character likely to influence or
persuade.
   (c) A continued and flagrant course of misrepresentation or making
of false promises through cemetery agents or salespersons.
   (d) Acting for more than one party in a transaction without the
knowledge or consent of all parties thereto.
   (e) Commingling the money or other property of his or her principal
with his or her own.
   (f) The practice of claiming or demanding a fee, compensation or
commission under any exclusive agreement authorizing or employing
a licensee to sell, buy or exchange cemetery property for compensation
or commission where such agreement does not contain a definite,
specified date of final and complete termination.
   (g) The claiming or taking by a licensee of any secret or undisclosed
amount of compensation, commission or profit or the failure of a
licensee to reveal to the employer of such licensee the full amount of
such licensee’s compensation, commission or profit under any
agreement authorizing or employing such licensee to sell, buy or
exchange cemetery property for compensation or commission prior to
or coincident with the signing of such agreement evidencing the meeting
of the minds of the contracting parties, regardless of the form of such
agreement, whether evidenced by documents in an escrow or by any
other or different procedure.
 3856                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   (h) The use by a licensee of any provision allowing the licensee an
option to purchase in an agreement authorizing or employing such
licensee to sell, buy, or exchange cemetery property for compensation
or commission, except when such licensee prior to or coincident with
election to exercise such option to purchase reveals in writing to the
employer the full amount of licensee’s profit and obtains the written
consent of the employer approving the amount of such profit.
   (i) Any other conduct, whether of the same or a different character
than specified in this section, which constitutes fraud or dishonest
dealing.
   The misrepresentations and false statements mentioned in this section
include also misrepresentation and false statements as to other property
than that which the cemetery licensee may be selling or attempting to
sell.
   SEC. 203. Section 9727 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9727. The bureau may suspend or revoke the license of any
cemetery licensee who, within the immediately preceding three years,
has done any of the following:
   (a) Been convicted of a crime substantially related to the
qualifications, functions and duties of such licensee. The record of
conviction, or a certified copy thereof, shall be conclusive evidence of
such conviction.
   (b) Knowingly authorized, directed, connived at or aided in the
publication, advertisement, distribution, or circulation of any material
false statement or representation concerning his or her business or any
cemetery property offered for sale.
   (c) Willfully disregarded or violated any of the provisions of this act
relating to cemetery brokerage.
   (d) Acted or conducted himself or herself in a manner which would
have warranted the denial of his or her application for a cemetery license,
or for a renewal thereof.
   SEC. 204. Section 9727.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9727.1. The bureau may suspend or revoke the license of any
cemetery licensee who procures a cemetery license, for himself or
herself or any salesperson, by fraud, misrepresentation or deceit. An
action to suspend or revoke a license for a violation of the provisions of
this section shall be commenced within three years after the discovery
by the bureau of that violation.
   SEC. 205. Section 9727.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9727.2. A plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following a plea
of nolo contendere is deemed to be a conviction within the meaning of
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3857

this article. The bureau may order the license suspended or revoked, or
may decline to issue a license, when the time for appeal has elapsed, or
the judgment of conviction has been affirmed on appeal or when an order
granting probation is made suspending the imposition of sentence,
irrespective of a subsequent order under the provisions of Section 1203.4
of the Penal Code allowing such person to withdraw his or her plea of
guilty and to enter a plea of not guilty, or setting aside the verdict of
guilty, or dismissing the accusation, information or indictment.
   SEC. 206. Section 9728 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9728. When any salesperson is discharged by his or her employer for
a violation of any of the provisions of this article prescribing a ground
for disciplinary action, a verified written statement of the facts with
reference thereto shall be filed forthwith with the bureau by the employer
and, if the employer fails to notify the bureau as required by this section,
the bureau may temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the
cemetery license of the employer in accordance with the provisions of
this act.
   SEC. 207. Section 9729 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9729. The bureau may deny, suspend or revoke the cemetery license
of a corporation as to any officer or agent acting under its cemetery
license, and the cemetery license of a copartnership as to any member
acting under its cemetery license, without revoking the cemetery license
of the corporation or of the copartnership.
   SEC. 208. Section 9730 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9730. The fees for cemetery licenses at all periods of the fiscal year
is the same as provided in this article. All cemetery license fees are
payable in advance of issuing the licenses and at the time of filing the
application. All licenses shall be issued for the fiscal year and shall
expire on June 30th of each fiscal year at midnight.
   SEC. 209. Section 9737 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9737. The proceedings under this article shall be conducted in
accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1
of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, and the bureau shall
have all the powers granted therein.
   SEC. 210. Section 9740 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9740. No person shall dispose of or offer to dispose of any cremated
human remains unless registered as a cremated remains disposer by the
bureau. This article shall not apply to any person, partnership, or
corporation holding a certificate of authority as a cemetery, crematory
 3858                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
license, cemetery broker’s license, cemetery salesperson’s license, or
funeral director’s license, nor shall this article apply to any person
having the right to control the disposition of the cremated remains of any
person or that person’s designee if the person does not dispose of or offer
to dispose of more than 10 cremated human remains within any calendar
year.
   SEC. 211. Section 9741 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9741. (a) Registration shall be on the form prescribed by the bureau
and shall include, but not be limited to, the full name of the registrant,
business and residence addresses, description and identification of
aircraft or boats which may be used in dispensing cremated human
remains, and the area to be served. Each registration application shall be
accompanied by the cremated remains disposer fee.
   (b) Every registered cremated remains disposer who dispenses
human remains by air shall post a copy of his or her current pilot’s
license, and the address of the cremated remains storage area at his or her
place of business. Every registered cremated remains disposer who
dispenses human remains by boat shall post a copy of his or her current
boating license and the address of the cremated remains storage area at
his or her place of business.
   SEC. 212. Section 9741.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9741.1. The bureau shall prepare and deliver to each registered
cremated remains disposer a booklet that includes, but is not limited to,
the following information: details about the registration and renewal
requirements for cremated remains disposers; requirements for
obtaining state permits to dispose of cremated human remains; state
storage requirements, if any; statutory duties pursuant to this article, and
other applicable state laws.
   SEC. 213. Section 9742 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9742. All aircraft used for the scattering of cremated human remains
shall be validly certified by the Federal Aviation Administration. All
boats or vessels used for the scattering of cremated human remains shall
be registered with the Department of Motor Vehicles or documented by
a federal agency, as appropriate. The certification or registration shall be
available for inspection by the bureau.
   SEC. 214. Section 9744.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9744.5. (a) Every cremated remains disposer shall do both of the
following:
   (1) Dispose of cremated remains within 60 days of the receipt of those
remains, unless a written signed reason for a delay is presented to the
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3859

person with the right to control the disposition of the remains under
Section 7100 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (2) Provide the bureau with the address and phone number of any
storage facility being used by the registrant to store cremated remains.
Cremated remains shall be stored in a place free from exposure to the
elements, and shall be responsibly maintained until disposal. The bureau
and its representatives shall conduct, on an annual basis, random
inspections of the operations of 5 to 10 percent of the registered cremated
remains disposers, and is authorized to inspect any place used by a
cremated remains disposer for the storage of cremated remains without
notice to the cremated remains disposer.
   (b) A violation of the requirements of this section is grounds for
disciplinary action.
   SEC. 215. Section 9745 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9745. Each cremated remains disposer shall file, and thereafter
maintain an updated copy of, an annual report on a form prescribed by
the bureau. The report shall include, but not be limited to, the names of
the deceased persons whose cremated remains were disposed of, the
dates of receipt of the cremated remains, the names and addresses of the
persons who authorized disposal of those remains, the dates and
locations of disposal of those remains, and the means and manner of
disposition. The report shall cover the fiscal year ending on June 30th
and shall be filed with the bureau no later than September 30th of each
year.
   SEC. 215.5. Section 9745 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9745. (a) Each cremated remains disposer shall file, and thereafter
maintain an updated copy of, an annual report on a form prescribed by
the bureau. The report shall include, but not be limited to, the names of
the deceased persons whose cremated remains were disposed of, the
dates of receipt of the cremated remains, the names and addresses of the
persons who authorized disposal of those remains, the dates and
locations of disposal of those remains, and the means and manner of
disposition. The report shall cover the fiscal year ending on June 30th
and shall be filed with the bureau no later than September 30th of each
year.
   (b) Any cremated remains disposer that makes a willful and material
false statement regarding the disposal of cremated remains in the annual
report filed or updated pursuant to subdivision (a) shall be subject to
disciplinary action.
   (c) Any cremated remains disposer that makes a willful and material
false statement in the annual report filed or updated pursuant to
subdivision (a) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
 3860                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 568 ]
   SEC. 216. Section 9746 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9746. All cremated remains disposer registrations shall expire at
midnight on September 30th of each year. A person desiring to renew his
or her registration shall file an application for renewal on a form
prescribed by the bureau accompanied by the required fee. The bureau
shall not renew the registration of any person who has not filed the
required annual report until he or she has filed a complete annual report
with the department.
   SEC. 217. Section 9749.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9749.5. A cremated remains disposer shall be subject to and shall be
disciplined by the bureau in accordance with Article 6 (commencing
with Section 9725). Any violation of this article shall also be grounds
for disciplinary action.
   SEC. 218. Section 9751 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9751. The original cemetery broker’s license fee shall be fixed by
the bureau at not more than four hundred dollars ($400).
   SEC. 219. Section 9752 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9752. The original cemetery broker’s license fee is payable at the
time of the filing of an application for an original cemetery broker’s
license.
   If the applicant fails the required written examination, he or she may
be permitted to take another examination upon the filing of an
application for reexamination and the payment of a reexamination fee.
This reexamination fee shall be fixed by the bureau at not more than one
hundred dollars ($100).
   No part of any original cemetery broker’s license fee or reexamination
fee is refundable. It is deemed earned upon receipt by the bureau,
whether the accompanying application for a license is complete or
incomplete.
   SEC. 220. Section 9753 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9753. The annual renewal fee for a cemetery broker’s license shall
be fixed by the bureau at not more than three hundred dollars ($300).
   SEC. 221. Section 9754 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9754. If the licensee is a cemetery brokerage corporation, the license
issued to it entitles one officer only, on behalf of the corporation, to
engage in the business of a cemetery broker without the payment of a
further fee, that officer to be designated in the application of the
corporation for a license. For each other officer of a licensed cemetery
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3861

brokerage corporation, through whom it engages in the business of a
cemetery broker, the annual renewal fee, in addition to the fee paid by
the corporation, shall be fixed by the bureau at not more than one
hundred dollars ($100).
   SEC. 222. Section 9755 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9755. If the licensee is a cemetery brokerage copartnership, the
license issued to it entitles one member only of the copartnership to
engage on behalf of the copartnership in the business of a cemetery
broker, which member shall be designated in the application of the
copartnership for a license. For each other member of the copartnership
who on behalf of the copartnership engages in the business of a cemetery
broker, the annual renewal fee, in addition to the fee paid by the
copartnership, shall be fixed by the bureau at not more than one hundred
dollars ($100).
   SEC. 223. Section 9756 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9756. The cemetery salesperson’s license fee shall be fixed by the
bureau at not more than thirty dollars ($30).
   SEC. 224. Section 9758 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 225. Section 9759 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9759. The annual renewal fee for a cemetery salesperson’s license
shall be fixed by the bureau at not more than twenty-five dollars ($25).
   SEC. 226. Section 9760 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9760. For a branch office broker’s license, the fee shall be fixed by
the bureau at not more than one hundred dollars ($100).
   SEC. 227. Section 9761 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9761. For change of name or of address of licensee on the records
of the bureau, the fee shall be fixed by the bureau at not more than
twenty-five dollars ($25).
   SEC. 228. Section 9762 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9762. For transfer of a salesperson’s license on change of employer,
the fee shall be fixed by the bureau at not more than twenty-five dollars
($25).
   SEC. 229. Section 9763 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9763. For a duplicate license the fee shall be fixed by the bureau at
not more than twenty-five dollars ($25).
 3862                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   SEC. 230. Section 9764 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9764. For reinstatement of a license within the fiscal year, the fee
shall be fixed by the bureau at not more than twenty-five dollars ($25).
   As used in this section, ‘‘reinstatement of a license’’ means the
reissuance of a canceled cemetery broker’s license, or a cemetery
salesperson’s license which was canceled during the year for which it
was issued upon the salesperson’s withdrawal from the employ of a
cemetery broker.
   SEC. 231. Section 9765 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9765. Every cemetery authority operating a cemetery shall pay an
annual regulatory charge for each cemetery to be fixed by the bureau at
not more than four hundred dollars ($400). In addition to an annual
regulatory charge for each cemetery, an additional quarterly charge of
not more than eight dollars and fifty cents ($8.50) for each burial,
entombment, or inurnment, and not more than eight dollars and fifty
cents ($8.50) for each cremation made during the preceding quarter shall
be paid to the department and these charges shall be deposited in the
Cemetery Fund. If the cemetery authority performed the cremation and
either the burial, entombment, or inurnment, the total of all additional
charges shall be not more than eight dollars and fifty cents ($8.50).
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including any provision
contained in the Budget Act of 1996, this section shall remain in effect
until the loans authorized by Chapter 38, Statutes of 1996, and by
Chapter 162, Statutes of 1996, are repaid, with interest at the rate
accruing to moneys in the Pooled Money Investment Account, but no
later than April 1, 2003, pursuant to a loan repayment plan approved by
the Department of Finance.
   SEC. 232. Section 9766 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9766. Upon payment of the charges set forth, the bureau shall issue
a renewal of the certificate of authority to the cemetery authority.
   SEC. 233. Section 9767 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9767. Failure to pay the charges set forth by Section 9765 of this
code prior to February 1st for each year shall be cause for suspension of
the certificate of authority. The certificate may be restored upon payment
to the bureau of the prescribed charges.
   SEC. 234. Section 9769 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9769. All moneys received by the bureau under the provisions of
this chapter shall be accounted for and reported by detailed statements
furnished by the bureau to the Controller at least once a month, and at
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3863

the same time these moneys shall be remitted to the Treasurer, and, upon
order of the Controller, shall be deposited in the Cemetery Fund in the
State Treasury, which fund is hereby created.
   SEC. 235. Section 9780 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9780. A crematory established, operated, or maintained, other than
by a licensed cemetery authority, may be operated by a corporation,
partnership, or natural person, provided that a valid crematory license
shall have been issued by the bureau.
   SEC. 236. Section 9781 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9781. Application for a crematory license shall be made in writing
on the form prescribed by the bureau and filed at the principal office of
the bureau. The application shall be accompanied by the fee provided for
in this article and shall show that the applicant owns or is actively
operating a crematory in this state or that the applicant is in a position
to commence operating such a crematory.
   SEC. 237. Section 9782 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9782. The bureau may require such proof as it deems advisable
concerning the compliance by such applicant with all the laws, rules,
regulations, ordinances, and orders applicable to the applicant and shall
not issue such crematory license until it has satisfied itself that the public
interest will be served by such applicant.
   SEC. 238. Section 9783 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9783. (a) The bureau shall adopt, and may from time to time
amend, rules and regulations prescribing standards of knowledge and
experience and financial responsibility for applicants for a crematory
license. In reviewing an application for a crematory license, the bureau
may consider acts of the applicant, including acts of incorporators,
officers, directors, and stockholders of the applicant, which shall
constitute grounds for the denial of a crematory license under Division
1.5 (commencing with Section 475).
   (b) Upon receipt of an application for a crematory license, the bureau
may cause an investigation to be made of the physical status, plans,
specifications, and financing of the proposed crematory, the character of
the applicant, including, if applicable, its officers, directors,
shareholders, or members, and any other qualifications required of the
applicant under this article, and for this purpose may subpoena
witnesses, administer oaths, and take testimony.
   At the time of the filing of the application required by this article, the
applicant shall pay to the Cemetery Fund the sum fixed by the bureau at
not in excess of four hundred dollars ($400) to defray the expenses of
 3864                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
investigation. In the event the sum shall be insufficient to defray all of
the expenses, the applicant shall within five days after request therefor
deposit an additional sum sufficient to defray such expenses, provided
that the total sum shall not exceed the sum of nine hundred dollars
($900).
  SEC. 239. Section 9784 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  9784. No crematory licensee under this article shall conduct any
cremations:
  (a) Unless the licensee has a written contract with the person or
persons entitled to custody of the remains clearly stating the location,
manner, and time of disposition to be made of the remains, agreeing to
pay the regular fees of the licensee for cremation, disposition, and other
services rendered, and any other contractual provisions as may be
required by the bureau.
  (b) Of any remains more than 24 hours after delivery of the remains,
unless the remains have been preserved in the interim by refrigeration
or embalming.
  (c) Unless the licensee has a contractual relationship with a licensed
cemetery authority for final disposition of cremated human remains by
burial, entombment or inurnment of any and all remains which are not
lawfully disposed of or which are not called for or accepted by the person
or persons entitled to the custody and control of the disposition thereof
within 90 days of the date of death.
  SEC. 240. Section 9785 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  9785. Each crematory licensee shall keep such records as may be
required by the bureau to assure compliance with all laws relating to the
disposition of cremated human remains and shall file annually with the
bureau, a report in the form prescribed by the bureau, describing the
operations of the licensee, including the number of cremations made, the
disposition thereof, and any other information as the bureau may, from
time to time, require.
  SEC. 241. Section 9786 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  9786. Every crematory licensee operating a crematory pursuant to
a license issued in compliance with this article shall pay an annual
regulatory charge for each crematory, to be fixed by the bureau at not
more than four hundred dollars ($400). In addition to an annual
regulatory charge for each crematory, every licensee operating a
crematory pursuant to a license issued pursuant to this article shall pay
an additional charge of not more than eight dollars and fifty cents ($8.50)
per cremation made during the preceding quarter, which charges shall be
deposited in the Cemetery Fund.
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3865

   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including any provision
contained in the Budget Act of 1996, this section shall remain in effect
until the loans authorized by Chapter 38, Statutes of 1996, and by
Chapter 162, Statutes of 1996, are repaid, with interest at the rate
accruing to moneys in the Pooled Money Investment Account, but no
later than April 1, 2003, pursuant to a loan repayment plan approved by
the Department of Finance.
   SEC. 242. Section 9787 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9787. Each crematory for which a crematory license is required
shall be operated under the supervision of a manager qualified as such
in accordance with rules adopted by the bureau. Each manager shall be
required to successfully pass a written examination evidencing an
understanding of the applicable provisions of this code and of the Health
and Safety Code of this state.
   SEC. 243. Section 9789 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   9789. A crematory licensee shall be subject to and shall be
disciplined by the bureau in accordance with Article 6 (commencing
with Section 9725).
   SEC. 244. Section 8113.6 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8113.6. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any cemetery
that violates any of the requirements of this chapter shall be subject to
disciplinary action by the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau.
   SEC. 245. Section 8343 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8343. A crematory shall maintain on its premises, or other business
location within the State of California, an accurate record of all
cremations performed, including all of the following information:
   (a) Name of referring funeral director, if any.
   (b) Name of deceased.
   (c) Date of cremation.
   (d) Name of cremation chamber operator.
   (e) Time and date that body was inserted in cremation chamber.
   (f) Time and date that body was removed from cremation chamber.
   (g) Time and date that final processing of cremated remains was
completed.
   (h) Disposition of cremated remains.
   (i) Name and address of authorizing agent.
   (j) The identification number assigned to the deceased pursuant to
Section 8344.
   (k) A photocopy of the disposition permit filed in connection with the
disposition.
 3866                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
   This information shall be maintained for at least 10 years after the
cremation is performed and shall be subject to inspection by the
Cemetery and Funeral Bureau.
   SEC. 246. Section 8344 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8344. A crematory shall maintain an identification system allowing
identification of each decedent beginning from the time the crematory
accepts delivery of human remains until the point at which it releases the
cremated remains to a third party. After cremation, an identifying disk,
tab, or other permanent label shall be placed within the urn or cremated
remains container before the cremated remains are released from the
crematory. Each identification disk, tab, or label shall have a unique
number that shall be recorded on all paperwork regarding the decedent’s
case and in the crematory log. Each crematory shall maintain a written
procedure for identification of remains.
   On or after March 1, 1994, any crematory that fails, when requested
by an official of the bureau to produce a written procedure for
identification of remains, shall have 15 working days from the time of
the request to produce an identification procedure for review by the chief
of the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau. The license of the crematory shall
be suspended pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500)
of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, if no
identification procedure is produced for review after 15 working days
have elapsed.
   SEC. 247. Section 8344.5 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8344.5. A crematory regulated by the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau
shall knowingly cremate only human remains in cremation chambers,
along with the cremation container, personal effects of the deceased, and
no more than a negligible amount of chlorinated plastic pouches utilized
for disease control when necessary.
   SEC. 248. Section 8346.5 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8346.5. Every crematory operator, or duly authorized representative
shall provide to any person who inquires in person, a written, or printed
list of prices for cremation and storage, cremation containers, cremated
remains containers and urns, and requirements for cremation containers.
This information shall be provided over the telephone when requested.
Commencing July 1, 1994, any written or printed list shall identify the
crematorium and shall contain, at a minimum, the current address and
phone number of the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau in 8-point boldface
type, or larger.
   SEC. 249. Section 8347 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3867

   8347. (a) The crematory licensee, or his or her authorized
representative shall provide instruction to all crematory personnel
involved in the cremation process. This instruction shall lead to a
demonstrated knowledge on the part of an employee regarding
identification procedures used during cremation, operation of the
cremation chamber and processing equipment and all laws relevant to
the handling of a body and cremated remains. This instruction shall be
outlined in a written plan maintained by the crematory licensee for
inspection and comment by an inspector of the Cemetery and Funeral
Bureau.
   (b) No employee shall be allowed to operate any cremation
equipment until he or she has demonstrated to the licensee or authorized
representative that he or she understands procedures required to ensure
that health and safety conditions are maintained at the crematory and that
cremated remains are not commingled other than for acceptable residue,
as defined. The crematory licensee shall maintain a record to document
that an employee has received the training specified in this section.
   (c) On or after March 1, 1994, any crematory that fails, when
requested by an official of the bureau, to produce a written employee
instruction plan, or record of employee training for inspection, shall
have 15 working days from the time of the request to produce a plan or
training record for review by the chief of the Cemetery and Funeral
Bureau. The license of the crematory shall be suspended, pursuant to
Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of
Title 2 of the Government Code, if no plan or training record is produced
for review after 15 working days have elapsed.
   SEC. 250. Section 8574 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8574. For a violation of any provision of Section 8573, the bureau
may temporarily suspend or permanently revoke the license of any
cemetery licensee and may order the reservation or escrowing of assets
of the cemetery authority to the extent deemed necessary to satisfy the
cost of construction of the structure or building.
   SEC. 251. Section 8585 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8585. Whenever ownership of any cemetery authority is proposed
to be transferred, the cemetery authority shall notify the Cemetery and
Funeral Bureau in the Department of Consumer Affairs. A change in
ownership, for purposes of this section, shall be deemed to occur
whenever more than 50 percent of the equitable ownership of a cemetery
authority is transferred in a single transaction or in a related series of
transactions to one or more persons, associations, or corporations. The
notice shall specify the address of the principal offices of the cemetery
 3868                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
authority, and whether it will be changed or unchanged, and shall specify
the name and address of each new owner and the stockholders thereof.
   Notice of such a change of ownership shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the cemetery is
located. The notice shall specify the address of the principal offices of
the cemetery authority, whether changed or unchanged, and shall specify
the name and address of each new owner and each stockholder owning
more than 5 percent of the stock of each new owner.
   If there is a change of ownership pursuant to this section, the existing
certificate of authority shall lapse and a new certificate of authority shall
be obtained from the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau. No person shall
purchase a cemetery, including purchase at a sale for delinquent taxes,
or purchase more than 50 percent of the equitable ownership of a
cemetery authority without having obtained a certificate of authority
from the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau prior to the purchase of the
cemetery or such an ownership interest in the cemetery authority.
   Every cemetery authority shall post and continuously maintain at each
public entrance to the cemetery a sign specifying the current name and
address of the cemetery authority, a statement that the name and address
of each director and officer of the cemetery authority may be obtained
by contacting the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau of the State of
California, and the address of the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau. Such
signs shall be at least 16 inches high and 24 inches wide and shall be
prominently mounted upright and vertical.
   The Cemetery and Funeral Bureau shall suspend the certificate of
authority of any cemetery authority which is in violation of the sign or
public notice requirements of this section. Such certificate may be
reinstated only upon compliance with such requirements.
   SEC. 252. Section 8731 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8731. (a) The cemetery authority may appoint a board of trustees
of not less than three in number as trustees of its endowment care fund.
The members of the board of trustees shall hold office subject to the
direction of the cemetery authority.
   (b) If within 30 days after notice of nonreceipt by the Cemetery and
Funeral Bureau or other agency with regulatory authority over cemetery
authorities, the cemetery authority fails to file the report required by
Section 9650 of the Business and Professions Code, or if the report is
materially not in compliance with law or the endowment care fund is
materially not in compliance with law, the cemetery authority may be
required to appoint as sole trustee of its endowment care fund under
Section 8733.5, any bank or trust company qualified under the
provisions of the Banking Law (Division 1 (commencing with Section
99) of the Financial Code) to engage in the trust business. That
[Ch. 568 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3869

requirement may be imposed by the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau or
other agency with regulatory authority over cemetery authorities,
provided that the cemetery authority has received written notice of the
alleged violation and has been given the opportunity to correct the
alleged violation, and there has been a finding of a material violation in
an administrative hearing.
   (c) (1) Each member of the board of trustees shall provide signatory
acknowledgment of understanding of the role of a trustee in managing
trust funds in the following areas:
   (A) Trustee duties, powers, and liabilities as contained in Part 4
(commencing with Section 16000) of Division 9 of the Probate Code.
   (B) Reporting and regulatory requirements contained in Article 3
(commencing with Section 9650) of Chapter 19 of Division 3 of the
Business and Professions Code.
   (C) Provisions related to the care of active cemeteries contained in
Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 8700) of Part 3 of Division 8.
   (2) The signatory acknowledgment shall be retained by the cemetery
authority during the duration of the trustee’s term of office.
   SEC. 253. Section 8734 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8734. (a) Except as provided in subdivisions (b), (c), and (d), the
board of trustees or corporate trustee of an endowment care fund or one
or more special care funds shall file a fidelity bond executed by an
admitted surety insurer with the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau in the
amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), guaranteeing payment to
each such fund of any monetary loss incurred by the fund occasioned by
acts of fraud or dishonesty by the trustees or trustee. The board of trustees
or corporate trustee of both an endowment care fund and one or more
special care funds need file only one such bond.
   (b) Any cemetery authority which has a fidelity bond on all officers
and employees issued by an admitted surety insurer and which by its
terms would cover any acts of fraud or dishonesty by the trustees or
corporate trustee of its endowment and special care funds need not file
a separate bond with the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau as provided in
subdivision (a), but shall submit to the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau
satisfactory evidence of such a fidelity bond. Such fidelity bond, except
as provided in subdivision (c), shall provide at least fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000) specifically designated to guarantee payment of any
monetary loss incurred by the endowment care or special care funds of
the cemetery authority occasioned by any acts of fraud or dishonesty by
the board of trustees or corporate trustee thereof.
   (c) Upon application, the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau may reduce
the amount of the bond required pursuant to this section if moneys in the
endowment care fund and special care funds administered by the
 3870                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 568 ]
applicant board of trustees or corporate trustee are substantially less than
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). In such cases, the Cemetery and
Funeral Bureau may permit filing of a bond pursuant to subdivision (a)
or (b) which, while the bond is on file, is not less than the aggregate
amount of all moneys in the endowment care fund and special care funds
administered by the applicant. If the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau
permits exceptions pursuant to this subdivision, it shall adopt
procedures to assure that affected bonds do not fall below such amount.
   (d) The trustees or corporate trustee of an endowment care fund or
special care fund shall take no action respecting trust funds unless there
is on file with the bureau a bond as required by this section. The
Cemetery and Funeral Bureau may suspend the certificate of authority
of any cemetery authority having endowment or special care funds with
respect to which there is no bond on file with the bureau as required by
this section, or whenever such a bond falls below the amount required
by this section.
   (e) Any state or national bank authorized to engage in the trust
business pursuant to Division 1 (commencing with Section 99) of the
Financial Code shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
   SEC. 254. Section 8740 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8740. A cemetery which otherwise complies with Section 8738 may
be designated an endowment care cemetery even though it contains a
small section which may be sold without endowment care, if the section
is separately set off from the remainder of the cemetery and if signs are
kept prominently placed around the section designating the same as a
‘‘nonendowment care section’’ in legible black lettering at least four
inches high. There shall be printed at the head of all contracts,
agreements, statements, receipts and certificates of ownership or deeds
referring to plots in the section the phrase ‘‘nonendowment care’’ in
lettering of a size and style to be approved by the Cemetery and Funeral
Bureau.
   No new ‘‘nonendowment care’’ sections shall be established, nor an
existing one enlarged in an endowment care cemetery.
   SEC. 255. Section 8743 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8743. Each nonendowment care cemetery or the Cemetery and
Funeral Bureau shall post in a conspicuous place in the office or offices
where sales are conducted and in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance of the cemetery or its administration building and readily
accessible to the public, a legible sign with lettering of a size and style
to be approved by the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau that shall contain
the following information in the order and manner set forth below:
   (a) A heading containing the words ‘‘nonendowment care.’’
[Ch. 568 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3871

   (b) This is a nonendowment care interment property.
   SEC. 256. Section 8744 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8744. There shall be printed at the head of all contracts, agreements,
statements, receipts, literature and other publications of nonendowment
care cemeteries the following form:
   ‘‘This institution is operated as a ‘nonendowment care’ interment
property.’’
   The phrase ‘‘nonendowment care’’ shall be of a size and style to be
approved by the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau.
   SEC. 257. Section 8747.5 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8747.5. Each cemetery shall at all times maintain and keep within
the State of California all books, accounts, records, cash and evidences
of investments of its general and special care funds. They shall be readily
available for inspection and examination by the Cemetery and Funeral
Bureau in accordance with the provisions of the Business and
Professions Code.
   SEC. 258. Section 8748 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   8748. Where           an    endowment       care     mausoleum        or
mausoleum-columbarium is operated within an endowment care
cemetery and the cemetery corporations or cemetery authorities owning
or operating each merge and consolidate into one cemetery authority or
corporation, the endowment care funds established by each may be
consolidated and merged into one endowment care fund. Such merger
shall be accomplished by the execution of a declaration of trust by the
successor cemetery authority or corporation, which declaration shall
provide:
   (a) That the assets of each endowment care fund shall be merged and
consolidated into one endowment care fund which shall be held and
administered by the directors of the successor cemetery authority or the
trustees appointed by them for the care, maintenance, and
embellishment of both cemeteries in accordance with the provisions of
this code.
   (b) That the income from such endowment care funds shall be used
for the general care, maintenance, and embellishment for the cemetery
as a whole, or, if the income from such consolidated fund is to be divided
between such mausoleum or mausoleum-columbarium and cemetery,
the proportion or manner in which it is to be divided.
   (c) That it accepts and will administer all special care funds for the
purpose for which they were established and in accordance with the
provisions of this code.
 3872                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 568 ]
   The declaration of trust shall be approved by all of the trustees of each
endowment care fund and by the directors of the cemetery authority or
corporation appointing such trustees, which approval shall be endorsed
upon such declaration of trust. The declaration of trust shall not be
effective unless and until approved by the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau.
   An executed copy of such declaration of trust so approved shall be
filed with the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau and in the office of the
cemetery authority or corporation owning or operating such cemetery,
where it shall be available for inspection by any owner of property
therein.
   Upon approval of the declaration of trust by the Cemetery and Funeral
Bureau, the assets and liabilities of such endowment care funds shall be
deemed merged and consolidated into one endowment care fund, and the
trustees of, or appointed by, the cemetery authority or corporation
handling such funds shall be immediately vested with the title to all of
the assets and subject to all of the liabilities thereof. The trustees of the
endowment care funds which have been thus merged or consolidated
shall be relieved of any obligations or duties arising subsequent to such
merger or consolidation.
   SEC. 259. Section 9600.5 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   9600.5. The Cemetery and Funeral Bureau may, in addition to the
construction methods and standards allowed in this chapter, adopt
regulations for the construction of private mausoleums or private
columbariums, which at a minimum, include the following:
   (a) Standards for design and construction for seismic load protection.
   (b) Methods of construction, including solid granite construction.
   (c) Methods of sealing to prevent leakage from crypts.
   (d) Ventilation of crypts.
   (e) Types of incombustible materials which may be used in
construction.
   SEC. 260. Section 9600.6 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   9600.6. Private mausoleums or columbariums may be constructed
in conformance with the methods and standards set forth in this chapter
or in conformance with the construction methods and standards as
adopted by the Cemetery and Funeral Bureau.
   SEC. 261. Section 215.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 9745 of the Business and Professions Code proposed by both
this bill and AB 2279. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are
enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill
amends Section 9745 of the Business and Professions Code, and (3) this
bill is enacted after AB 2279, in which case Section 215 of this bill shall
not become operative.
[Ch. 569 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3873

  SEC. 262. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 569

  An act to amend Sections 12168.7, 14756, 25105, 26205, 26205.1,
26205.5, 27322.2, 34090.5, and 60203 of the Government Code, to
amend Section 102235 of the Health and Safety Code, and to amend
Section 10851 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to records.
             [Approved by Governor September 18, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 21, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12168.7 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   12168.7. (a) The California Legislature hereby recognizes the need
to adopt uniform statewide standards for the purpose of storing and
recording permanent and nonpermanent documents in electronic media.
   (b) In order to ensure that uniform statewide standards remain current
and relevant, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Department
of General Services, shall approve and adopt appropriate standards
established by the American National Standards Institute or the
Association for Information and Image Management.
   (c) The standards specified in subdivision (b) shall include a
requirement that a trusted system be utilized. For this purpose and for
purposes of Sections 25105, 26205, 26205.1, 26205.5, 27322.2,
34090.5, and 60203, Section 102235 of the Health and Safety Code, and
Section 10851 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, ‘‘trusted system’’
means a combination of techniques, policies, and procedures for which
there is no plausible scenario in which a document retrieved from or
reproduced by the system could differ substantially from the document
that is originally stored.
   (d) In order to develop statewide standards as expeditiously as
possible, and until the time that statewide standards are adopted pursuant
to subdivision (b), state officials shall ensure that microfilming,
 3874                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 569 ]
electronic data imaging, and photographic reproduction are done in
compliance with the minimum standards or guidelines, or both, as
recommended by the American National Standards Institute or the
Association for Information and Image Management for recording of
permanent records or nonpermanent records.
   SEC. 2. Section 14756 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   14756. The public records of any state agency may be microfilmed,
electronically data imaged, or otherwise photographically reproduced
and certified upon the written authorization of the head of the agency.
The microfilming, electronic data imaging, or photographic
reproduction shall be made in compliance with the minimum standards
or guidelines, or both, as recommended by the American National
Standards Institute or the Association for Information and Image
Management, and as adopted by the Department of General Services in
consultation with the Secretary of State, for recording of permanent
records or nonpermanent records.
   The certification of each reproduction or set of reproductions shall be
in accordance with the standards, or have the approval, of the Attorney
General. The certification shall contain a statement of the identity,
description, and disposition or location of the records reproduced, the
date, reason, and authorization for the reproduction, and other
information that the Attorney General requires.
   The certified reproductions shall be deemed to be original public
records for all purposes, including introduction in courts of law and state
agencies.
   SEC. 3. Section 25105 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   25105. The board of supervisors may authorize the use of
photographs, microphotographs, electronic data processing records,
optical disks, or any other medium that is a trusted system and that does
not permit additions, deletions, or changes to the original document, or
photocopies of all records, books, and minutes of the board.
   (a) Each photograph, microphotograph, or photocopy shall be made
in a manner and on paper which will comply with Section 12168.7 for
recording of permanent records or nonpermanent records, whichever
applies. Every reproduction shall be deemed and considered an original;
a transcript, exemplification, or certified copy of any reproduction shall
be deemed and considered a transcript, exemplification, or certified
copy, as the case may be, of the original. Each roll of microfilm shall be
deemed and constitute a book and shall be designated and numbered, and
provision shall be made for preserving, examining, and using it. A
duplicate of each roll of microfilm shall be made and kept in a safe and
separate place.
   (b) Electronic data processing records, records recorded on optical
disk, and records recorded on any other medium shall comply with
[Ch. 569 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3875

Section 12168.7. A duplicate copy of any record reproduced in
compliance with Section 12168.7 for recording of permanent records or
nonpermanent records, whichever applies, shall be deemed an original.
   (c) In the event the authorization provided herein is granted, the
personal signatures required by Section 25103, if technically feasible,
may be reproduced by the authorized process, and the reproduced
signatures shall be deemed to satisfy the requirement of Section 25103.
If the documents are signed using a digital signature, reproduced
documents shall be considered authenticated if the reproduced
documents are created by a trusted system, as defined in pertinent digital
signature regulations.
   SEC. 4. Section 26205 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   26205. At the request of the county officer concerned, the board of
supervisors of any county may authorize the destruction of any record,
paper, or document that is not expressly required by law to be filed and
preserved if all of the following conditions are complied with:
   (a) The record, paper, or document is photographed,
microphotographed, reproduced by electronically recorded video
images on magnetic surfaces, recorded in the electronic data processing
system, recorded on optical disk, or reproduced on film or any other
medium that is a trusted system and that does not permit additions,
deletions, or changes to the original document and is produced in
compliance with Section 12168.7 for recording of permanent records or
nonpermanent records.
   (b) The device used to reproduce the record, paper, or document on
film, optical disk, or any other medium is one that accurately reproduces
the original thereof in all details and which does not permit additions,
deletions, or changes to the original document images.
   (c) The photographs, microphotographs, electronically recorded
video images on magnetic surfaces, records in the electronic data
processing system, records recorded on optical disk, or other
reproductions on film or any other medium are placed in conveniently
accessible files and provision is made for preserving, examining, and
using the files.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, destruction of the
original records, papers, or documents is not authorized when the
method of reproduction pursuant to this section is reproduction of
electronically recorded video images on magnetic surfaces unless a
duplicate videotape of the images is separately maintained. A duplicate
copy of a record contained in the electronic data processing system, on
optical disk, or on any other medium that does not permit additions,
deletions, or changes to the original document images shall also be
separately maintained.
 3876                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 569 ]
   SEC. 5. Section 26205.1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   26205.1. (a) The county officer having custody of nonjudicial
public records, documents, instruments, books, and papers may cause to
be destroyed any or all of the records, documents, instruments, books,
and papers if all of the following conditions exist:
   (1) The board of supervisors of the county has adopted a resolution
authorizing the county officer to destroy records, documents,
instruments, books, and papers pursuant to this subdivision. The
resolution may impose conditions, in addition to those specified in this
subdivision, that the board of supervisors determines are appropriate.
   (2) The county officer who destroys any record, document,
instrument, book, or paper pursuant to the authority granted by this
subdivision and a resolution of the board of supervisors adopted
pursuant to paragraph (1) shall maintain for the use of the public a
photographic or microphotographic film, electronically recorded video
production, a record contained in the electronic data processing system,
a record recorded on optical disk, a record recorded by any other medium
that does not permit additions, deletions, or changes to the original
document, or other duplicate of the record, document, instrument, book,
or paper destroyed.
   (3) The record, paper or document is photographed,
microphotographed, reproduced by electronically recorded video
images on magnetic surfaces, recorded in the electronic data processing
system, recorded on optical disk or reproduced on film or any other
medium that is a trusted system and that does not permit additions,
deletions, or changes to the original document and is produced in
compliance with Section 12168.7 for recording of permanent records or
nonpermanent records.
   (b) Paragraphs (2) and (3) of subdivision (a) do not apply to records
prepared or received other than pursuant to a state statute or county
charter, or records that are not expressly required by law to be filed and
preserved.
   For the purposes of this section, every reproduction shall be deemed
to be an original record and a transcript, exemplification, or certified
copy of any reproduction shall be deemed to be a transcript,
exemplification, or certified copy, as the case may be, of the original.
   (c) The county clerk having custody of the original or a copy of the
articles of any corporation may cause the destruction of any or all the
documents. ‘‘Articles’’ includes the articles of incorporation,
amendments thereto, amended articles, restated articles, certificate of
incorporation, certificates of determination of preferences, dissolution
certificates, merger certificates, and agreements of consolidation or
merger.
[Ch. 569 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3877

   (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, destruction
of the original records, papers, or documents is not authorized when the
method of reproduction pursuant to this section is reproduction of
electronically recorded video images on magnetic surfaces unless a
duplicate videotape of the images is separately maintained. A duplicate
copy of a record contained in the electronic data processing system, on
optical disk, or on any other medium that does not permit additions,
deletions, or changes to the original document shall also be separately
maintained.
   SEC. 6. Section 26205.5 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   26205.5. At the request of the county recorder, the board of
supervisors of any county may authorize the destruction of any or all of
the filed papers or record books created by handwriting, typing on
printed forms, by typewriting, or by photographic methods, in the
recorder’s official custody, if all of the following conditions are
complied with:
   (a) The record, paper, or document is photographed,
microphotographed, reproduced by electronically recorded video
images on magnetic surfaces, recorded in the electronic data processing
system, recorded on optical disk, reproduced on film or any other
medium that is a trusted system and that does not permit additions,
deletions, or changes to the original document, or reproduced under the
direction and control of the county recorder on film, optical disk, or any
other medium in compliance with Section 12168.7 for recording of
permanent records or nonpermanent records.
   (b) The device used to reproduce the record, paper, or document on
film, optical disk, or any other medium is one that accurately and legibly
reproduces the original thereof in all details and that does not permit
additions, deletions, or changes to the original document images.
   (c) The photographs, microphotographs, or other reproductions on
film, optical disk, or any other medium are made as accessible for public
reference as the original records were.
   (d) A true copy of archival quality of the film, optical disk, or any
other medium reproductions shall be kept in a safe and separate place for
security purposes.
   However, no page of any record, paper, or document shall be destroyed
if any page cannot be reproduced on film with full legibility. Every
unreproducible page shall be permanently preserved in a manner that
will afford easy reference.
   For the purposes of this section, every reproduction shall be deemed
to be an original record and a transcript, exemplification, or certified
copy of any reproduction shall be deemed to be a transcript,
exemplification, or certified copy, as the case may be, of the original.
 3878                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 569 ]
   SEC. 7. Section 27322.2 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   27322.2. A system of microphotography, optical disk, or
reproduction by any other technique that does not permit additions,
deletions, or changes to the original document may be used by the
recorder as a photographic reproduction process to record some or all
instruments, papers, and notices that are required or permitted by law to
be recorded or filed. All reproductions shall be made in compliance with
Section 12168.7. A true copy of the document shall be kept in a safe and
separate place that will reasonably assure its preservation for the
duration of the retention prescribed by law against loss or destruction.
A true copy of the document shall be arranged in a suitable place in the
office of the recorder to facilitate public inspection.
   SEC. 8. Section 34090.5 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   34090.5. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 34090, the city
officer having custody of public records, documents, instruments,
books, and papers, may, without the approval of the legislative body or
the written consent of the city attorney, cause to be destroyed any or all
of the records, documents, instruments, books, and papers, if all of the
following conditions are complied with:
   (a) The record, paper, or document is photographed,
microphotographed, reproduced by electronically recorded video
images on magnetic surfaces, recorded in the electronic data processing
system, recorded on optical disk, reproduced on film or any other
medium that is a trusted system and that does not permit additions,
deletions, or changes to the original document, or reproduced on film,
optical disk, or any other medium in compliance with Section 12168.7
for recording of permanent records or nonpermanent records.
   (b) The device used to reproduce the record, paper, or document on
film, optical disk, or any other medium is one which accurately and
legibly reproduces the original thereof in all details and that does not
permit additions, deletions, or changes to the original document images.
   (c) The photographs, microphotographs, or other reproductions on
film, optical disk, or any other medium are made as accessible for public
reference as the original records were.
   (d) A true copy of archival quality of the film, optical disk, or any
other medium reproductions shall be kept in a safe and separate place for
security purposes.
   However, no page of any record, paper, or document shall be destroyed
if any page cannot be reproduced on film with full legibility. Every
unreproducible page shall be permanently preserved in a manner that
will afford easy reference.
[Ch. 569 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3879

   For the purposes of this section, every reproduction shall be deemed
to be an original record and a transcript, exemplification, or certified
copy of any reproduction shall be deemed to be a transcript,
exemplification, or certified copy, as the case may be, of the original.
   SEC. 9. Section 60203 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   60203. The legislative body of a district may authorize the
destruction of any record, paper, or document that is not expressly
required by law to be filed and preserved if all of the following
conditions are complied with:
   (a) The record, paper, or document is photographed,
microphotographed, reproduced by electronically recorded video
images on magnetic surfaces, recorded in the electronic data processing
system, recorded on optical disk, reproduced on film or any other
medium that is a trusted system and that does not permit additions,
deletions, or changes to the original document in compliance with
Section 12168.7 for recording of permanent records or nonpermanent
records.
   (b) The device used to reproduce the record, paper, or document on
film, optical disk, or any other medium is one that accurately reproduces
the original thereof in all details and that does not permit additions,
deletions, or changes to the original document images.
   (c) The photographs, microphotographs, or other reproductions on
film, optical disk, or any other medium are placed in conveniently
accessible files and provision is made for preserving, examining, and
using the files.
   For the purposes of this section, every reproduction shall be deemed
to be an original record and a transcript, exemplification, or certified
copy of any reproduction shall be deemed to be a transcript,
exemplification, or certified copy, as the case may be, of the original.
   SEC. 10. Section 102235 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   102235. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law relating to
retention of public records, the State Registrar may cause the original
records of birth, death and marriage filed under this part to be destroyed
if all of the following requirements have been met:
   (a) One year has elapsed since the date of registration of the records.
   (b) The birth, death, or marriage records have been reproduced onto
microfilm or optical disk or by any other technique that does not permit
additions, deletions, or changes to the original document in compliance
with Section 12168.7 for recording of permanent records or
nonpermanent records.
   (c) Adequate provisions are made that the permanent storage medium
reflects additions or corrections to the records.
 3880                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 569 ]
   (d) A permanent copy is maintained in a manner that permits it to be
used for all purposes served by the original record.
   (e) A permanent copy has been stored at a separate physical location
in a place and manner that will reasonably assure its preservation
indefinitely against loss or destruction.
   SEC. 11. Section 10851 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   10851. (a) Each county shall establish and maintain a case record
for each public social services case and shall retain the record for a period
of three years. The three-year retention period begins on the date on
which public social services were last provided. The records shall be
retained beyond the three-year retention period when the county is
notified by the department or the State Department of Health Services,
whichever has jurisdiction over the records, to retain records for a longer
period of time. The department or the State Department of Health
Services, whichever has jurisdiction over the records, shall instruct a
county to retain records beyond the three-year period when the retention
is necessary to a pending civil or criminal action.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), the board of supervisors of any
county may authorize the destruction of the case narrative portions of the
case record that are over three years old in any case file, active or
inactive, only after audit by the department or the State Department of
Health Services, whichever has jurisdiction over the record. In addition,
the board may also authorize the destruction of those documents
contained in the case file that are over three years old and are no longer
necessary to document the recipient’s continued eligibility for public
social services. However, if a civil or criminal action against a person
based on alleged unlawful application for, or receipt of, public social
services, is commenced before the expiration of the three-year period,
no portion of the case record of the person shall be destroyed until the
action is terminated.
   (c) Each county shall maintain fiscal, statistical, and other records
necessary for maintaining accountability and meeting reporting
requirements relating to the administration of public social services.
These fiscal and reporting records shall be retained for a minimum
period of three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure
report and shall be retained beyond the three-year period when audit
findings have not been resolved.
   (d) The retention requirements imposed by subdivisions (a) and (c)
of this section are for public social services purposes only and are
superseded to the extent another statute requires retention of the same
records for a longer period for a different purpose.
   (e) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other statutory
requirement concerning the retention of public social services records,
[Ch. 570 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3881

a child protective services agency may, but need not, retain a child abuse
report that has been determined to be an unfounded report, as defined in
Section 11165.12 of the Penal Code.
   (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a county may retain
a case record established pursuant to subdivision (a), and retained
pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (c), using either electronic or other
alternative storage technologies. Permissible alternative storage
technologies shall include, but not be limited to, photography,
microphotography, electronically recorded video images on magnetic
surfaces, electronic data processing systems, optical disk storage, or any
other electronic medium that is a trusted system and that does not permit
additions, deletions, or changes to the original document and meets
Section 12168.7 for recording of permanent records or nonpermanent
records. A duplicate copy of any record reproduced shall be deemed an
original.



                             CHAPTER 570

  An act relating to Admission Day, making an appropriation therefor,
and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The sum of eight hundred ninety-five thousand dollars
($895,000) is hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the
Department of Parks and Recreation, in augmentation of Item
3790-001-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000 (Ch. 52, Stats.
2000), for costs associated with the celebration of Admission Day.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to make an appropriation that amends and supplements the
Budget Act of 2000 (Ch. 52, Stats. 2000) effective as soon as possible,
it is necessary that this act go into immediate effect.
 3882                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 571 ]
                             CHAPTER 571

  An act to amend Sections 68074 and 68075 of, and to repeal Sections
68074.1 and 68075.1 of, the Education Code, relating to public
postsecondary education.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 68074 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   68074. (a) (1) An undergraduate student who is a natural or
adopted child, stepchild, or spouse who is a dependent of a member of
the armed forces of the United States stationed in this state on active duty
shall be entitled to resident classification only for the purpose of
determining the amount of tuition and fees.
   (2) A student seeking a graduate degree who is a natural or adopted
child, stepchild, or spouse who is a dependent of a member of the armed
forces of the United States stationed in this state on active duty shall be
entitled to resident classification only for the purpose of determining the
amount of tuition and fees for no more than one academic year, and shall
thereafter be subject to Article 5 (commencing with Section 68060).
   (b) If that member of the armed forces of the United States, whose
dependent natural or adopted child, stepchild, or spouse is in attendance
at an institution, (1) is thereafter transferred on military orders to a place
outside this state where the member continues to serve in the armed
forces of the United States, or (2) is thereafter retired as an active member
of the armed forces of the United States, the student dependent shall not
lose his or her resident classification until he or she has resided in the
state the minimum time necessary to become a resident.
   SEC. 2. Section 68074.1 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 68075 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   68075. (a) An undergraduate student who is a member of the armed
forces of the United States stationed in this state on active duty, except
a member of the armed forces assigned for educational purposes to a
state-supported institution of higher education, is entitled to resident
classification only for the purpose of determining the amount of tuition
and fees.
   (b) A student seeking a graduate degree who is a member of the armed
forces of the United States stationed in this state on active duty, except
a member of the armed forces assigned for educational purposes to a
state-supported institution of higher education, shall be entitled to
resident classification only for the purpose of determining the amount
[Ch. 572 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3883

of tuition and fees for no more than one academic year, and shall
thereafter be subject to Article 5 (commencing with Section 68060).
   SEC. 4. Section 68075.1 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 5. The Legislature hereby requests the Regents of the
University of California to establish the same residency classifications
for students enrolled at the University of California as those enacted by
this act.
   SEC. 6. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 572

  An act relating to educational opportunities for veterans.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature to explore alternatives
to enhance the educational opportunities for all veterans, with an
emphasis on helping post Vietnam-era veterans.
   SEC. 2. (a) The Student Aid Commission, in consultation with the
Department of Veterans Affairs, shall conduct a study concerning all of
the following:
   (1) Identification of the veteran population in the state.
   (2) The financial needs of the veteran population in the state.
   (3) The financial resources available to veterans for education.
   (4) Identification of any gaps that exist in programs providing
financial assistance for veterans seeking further education.
   (5) Proposed solutions to remedy problems noted under this section
by the commission.
   (b) The Student Aid Commission shall report its findings and
recommendations made under subdivision (a) to the Governor and the
appropriate legislative policy and fiscal committees no later than
December 31, 2001.
 3884                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 573 ]
  (c) This section shall be implemented only during those fiscal years
for which funding is provided for the purposes of this section in the
annual Budget Act or in another measure.



                            CHAPTER 573

  An act to amend Section 2282.5 of, and to repeal and amend Section
2282 of, the Food and Agricultural Code, relating to agricultural pest
control, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2282 of the Food and Agricultural Code, as
added by Section 3 of Chapter 890 of the Statutes of 1999, is repealed.
   SEC. 2. Section 2282 of the Food and Agricultural Code, as
amended by Section 4 of Chapter 890 of the Statutes of 1999, is amended
to read:
   2282. (a) Except as provided in Section 2282.5, and to the extent
funds are appropriated in the annual Budget Act, the Secretary of Food
and Agriculture or the Director of Pesticide Regulation may allocate
annually to each county an amount determined by the secretary or the
director not to exceed one-third of the amount expended by the county
during the previous fiscal year for the programs of joint responsibility
under the jurisdiction of the secretary or director, as applicable. The
allocations shall be made from funds appropriated to the secretary or the
director for purposes of carrying out activities of joint responsibility
with the commissioners at the local levels.
   (b) The annual report to the Legislature required by Section 2281
shall include findings for each of the following joint programs, including
the amounts allocated to, and expended by, the counties in the previous
fiscal year and the proposed amount to be allocated by the secretary for
each program for the ensuing budget year:
   (1) Pest detection.
   (2) Pest eradication.
   (3) Pest management control.
   (4) Pest exclusion.
   (5) Seed inspection.
   (6) Nursery inspection.
   (7) Fruit and vegetable quality control.
   (8) Egg quality control.
[Ch. 573 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3885

   (9) Apiary inspection.
   (10) Crop statistics.
   The report shall also specify the programs that have been augmented
with state funds each year since 1980 because of new legislative
mandates, or because of pest infestations or outbreaks occurring since
that date, and the annual amounts of those augmentations.
   SEC. 3. Section 2282.5 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   2282.5. (a) The development of work plans for allocation of the
funding appropriated in the Budget Act to the department for local
assistance for agricultural plant and animal pest and disease prevention
shall be the responsibility of the department. The department shall
establish criteria for the development of the work plans and for
allocating the appropriated funds.
   (b) Of the amount appropriated in the Budget Act to the department
for local assistance for agricultural plant and animal pest and disease
prevention, five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000)
shall be utilized solely for high-risk pest exclusion activities. The work
plans for the exclusion of high-risk pests shall be developed by the
department with the county agricultural commissioners and in
consultation with affected industry representatives. In order to
determine the effectiveness of high-risk pest exclusion programs in each
county, the criteria established by the department for the work plan shall
include, but need not be limited to, the following:
   (1) The number of high-risk plant shipments entering each county.
   (2) The number of high-risk entry points in each county.
   (3) The number of state action quarantine pests intercepted or
detected annually in each county.
   (4) The work hours expended by each county in conducting exclusion
of high-risk pests.
   (5) The rate of interceptions and rejections per inspection activity.
   (c) To remain eligible for funding under this section, a county shall
maintain its support of ongoing operational costs of the county
agricultural commissioner programs listed in subdivision (b) of Section
2282, at 1997–98 fiscal year levels.
   (d) Funds allocated for high-risk pest exclusion activities pursuant to
subdivision (b) may not be expended for any purpose other than the
exclusion or detection of high-risk pests consistent with the work plans
prescribed in subdivision (a) or scientific evaluation. Funds allocated by
each county on or after September 28, 1998, shall not be allocated to
other programs listed in subdivision (b) of Section 2282 until the county
work plan is approved by the department consistent with the funding
appropriated in the Budget Act to the department for local assistance for
 3886                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 574 ]
agricultural plant and animal pest and disease prevention for this
purpose.
  SEC. 4. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to make changes to certain provisions affecting agriculture
prior to their repeal, thereby protecting public health and safety, it is
necessary that this act take effect immediately.



                            CHAPTER 574

  An act to add Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section 66450) to Part
40 of the Education Code, relating to intellectual property.
            [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section 66450) is
added to Part 40 of the Education Code, to read:

   CHAPTER 6.5. UNAUTHORIZED RECORDING, DISSEMINATION, AND
    PUBLICATION OF ACADEMIC PRESENTATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL
                          PURPOSES

   66450. (a) Except as authorized by policies developed in
accordance with subdivision (a) of Section 66452, no business, agency,
or person, including, but not necessarily limited to, an enrolled student,
shall prepare, cause to be prepared, give, sell, transfer, or otherwise
distribute or publish, for any commercial purpose, any contemporaneous
recording of an academic presentation in a classroom or equivalent site
of instruction by an instructor of record. This prohibition applies to a
recording made in any medium, including, but not necessarily limited
to, handwritten or typewritten class notes.
   (b) Nothing in this section shall be construed to interfere with the
rights of disabled students under law.
   (c) As used in this section:
   (1) ‘‘Academic presentation’’ means any lecture, speech,
performance, exhibit, or other form of academic or aesthetic
presentation, made by an instructor of record as part of an authorized
course of instruction that is not fixed in a tangible medium of expression.
[Ch. 574 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3887

   (2) ‘‘Commercial purpose’’ means any purpose that has financial or
economic gain as an objective.
   (3) ‘‘Instructor of record’’ means any teacher or staff member
employed to teach courses and authorize credit for the successful
completion of courses.
   66451. (a) Any court of competent jurisdiction may grant relief that
it finds necessary to enforce this chapter, including the issuance of an
injunction. Any person injured by a violation of this chapter, in addition
to actual damages, may recover court costs, attorney’s fees, and a civil
penalty from any person who is not a student enrolled in the institution
at which the instructor of record makes his or her academic presentation
and who seeks to obtain financial or economic gain through the
unauthorized dissemination of the academic presentation. The amount
of the civil penalty shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) for the
first offense, five thousand dollars ($5,000) for the second offense, and
for any subsequent offense, a penalty of not less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) or more than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).
   (b) Actions for any relief pursuant to this chapter may be prosecuted
in a court of competent jurisdiction by the Attorney General or any
district attorney or by any county counsel authorized by agreement with
the district attorney in actions involving violation of a county ordinance,
or any city attorney of a city, or city and county, having a population in
excess of 750,000, and, with the consent of the district attorney, by a city
prosecutor in any city having a full-time city prosecutor or, with the
consent of the district attorney, by a city attorney in any city, or city and
county, in the name of the people of the State of California upon their
own complaint or upon the complaint of any board, officer, person,
corporation, or association or by any person acting for the interests of
itself, its members, or the general public.
   (c) It does not constitute a violation of this chapter for a business,
agency, or person solely to provide access or connection to or from a
facility, system, or network over which that business, agency, or person
has no control, including related capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection. This subdivision does not apply to a
business or agency that is owned by, or to a business, agency, or person
that is controlled by, or a conspirator with, a business, agency, or person
actively involved in the creation, editing, or knowing distribution of a
contemporaneous recording that violates this chapter.
   66452. (a) The Regents of the University of California and the
governing boards of private postsecondary institutions are requested to,
the Trustees of the California State University shall, and the governing
board of each community college district may, in consultation with
faculty, in accordance with applicable procedures, develop policies to
prohibit the unauthorized recording, dissemination, and publication of
 3888                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 575 ]
academic presentations for commercial purposes. Nothing in this
chapter is intended to change existing law as it pertains to the ownership
of academic presentations.
  (b) The Regents of the University of California and the governing
boards of private postsecondary institutions are requested to, the
Trustees of the California State University shall, and the governing
board of each community college district may, adopt or provide for the
adoption of specific regulations governing a violation of this chapter by
students, along with applicable penalties for a violation of the
regulations. The regents are requested to, the trustees shall, and the
governing board of each community college district may, adopt
procedures to inform all students of those regulations, with applicable
penalties, and any revisions thereof.



                             CHAPTER 575

   An act to add Section 890.3 to the Military and Veterans Code, relating
to veterans.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 890.3 is added to the Military and Veterans
Code, to read:
   890.3. (a) (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, on or
after January 1, 2001, a claimant is not ineligible for a disabled veterans’
benefit for lack of certification of disability of the veteran with respect
to whom the benefit is sought, if there is a currently pending application
to the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (USDVA) for
certification of disability for that veteran and the subsequently received
certification qualifies the veteran for the benefit. An entity of state
government, or any political subdivision thereof, to which a claim for a
disabled veterans’ benefit is made, shall require the claimant to provide
written verification that an application had been pending with the
USDVA at the time the claim for the disabled veterans’ benefit is
submitted.
   (2) For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘disabled veterans benefit’’
means an exemption, privilege, service, or other legal benefit that is
provided pursuant to law by the state, or a political subdivision thereof,
exclusively to a disabled veteran, or his or her surviving spouse, parent,
or child.
[Ch. 576 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3889

   (b) (1) For purposes of applying the disabled veterans’ property tax
exemption set forth in Section 205.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
any amount of tax, including any interest or penalty thereon, levied upon
that portion of the assessed value of real property that would have been
exempt if the veteran’s pending application for certification of disability
had been finalized, shall be canceled or refunded if both of the following
conditions are met:
   (A) The certification is received and is forwarded to the county
assessor.
   (B) A return is made as required by Section 277 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.
   (2) Any refund issued pursuant to this subdivision is subject to the
limitations periods for refunds set forth in Section 5096 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding Section 2229 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, no appropriation is made by this act and the state shall not
reimburse any local agency for any property tax revenues lost by it
pursuant to this act.



                             CHAPTER 576

  An act to amend Sections 60604, 60605, 60640, 60641, 60643,
60643.1, 60644, 60645, and 60648 of, and to add Sections 60642.5 and
60649 to, the Education Code, relating to achievement tests.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 60604 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   60604. (a) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall design
and implement, consistent with the timetable and plan required pursuant
to subdivision (b), a statewide pupil assessment program consistent with
the testing requirements of this article in accordance with the objectives
set forth in Section 60602. That program shall include all of the
following:
   (1) A plan for producing valid, reliable, and comparable individual
pupil scores in grades 2 to 11, inclusive, and a comprehensive analysis
of these scores based on the results of the achievement test designated
by the State Board of Education that assesses a broad range of basic
academic skills pursuant to the Standardized Testing and Reporting
 3890                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 576 ]
(STAR) Program established by Article 4 (commencing with Section
60640).
   (2) A method of working with publishers to ensure valid, reliable, and
comparable individual, grade-level, school-level, district-level,
county-level, and statewide scores in grades 2 to 11, inclusive, that is
based on the achievement test designated pursuant to subdivision (b) of
Section 60605.
   (3) Statewide academically rigorous content and performance
standards that reflect the knowledge and skills that pupils will need in
order to succeed in the information-based, global economy of the 21st
century. These skills shall not include personal behavioral standards or
skills, including, but not limited to, honesty, sociability, ethics, or
self-esteem.
   (4) A statewide system that provides the results of testing in a manner
that reflects the degree to which pupils are achieving the academically
rigorous content and performance standards adopted by the State Board
of Education.
   (5) The alignment of assessment with the statewide academically
rigorous content and performance standards adopted by the State Board
of Education.
   (6) The active, ongoing involvement of parents, classroom teachers,
administrators, other educators, governing board members of school
districts, and the public in all phases of the design and implementation
of the statewide pupil assessment program.
   (7) The development of a contract or contracts with a publisher or
publishers, after the approval of statewide academically rigorous content
standards by the State Board of Education, for the development of
performance standards and assessments of applied academic skills
designed to test pupils’ knowledge of academic skills and abilities to
apply that knowledge and those skills in order to solve problems and
communicate.
   (b) The superintendent shall develop and annually update for the
Legislature a five-year cost projection, implementation plan, and
timetable for implementing the program described in subdivision (a).
The annual update shall be submitted on or before March 1 of each year
to the chairperson of the fiscal subcommittee considering budget
appropriations in each house. The update shall explain any significant
variations from the five-year cost projection for the current year budget
and the proposed budget.
   (c) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall provide each
school district with guidelines for professional development that are
designed to assist classroom teachers to use the results of the
assessments administered pursuant to this chapter to modify instruction
for the purpose of improving pupil learning. These guidelines shall be
[Ch. 576 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3891

developed in consultation with classroom teachers and approved by the
State Board of Education before dissemination.
   (d) The Superintendent of Public Instruction and the State Board of
Education shall consider comments and recommendations from school
districts and the public in the development, adoption, and approval of
assessment instruments.
   (e) The results of the achievement test administered pursuant to
Article 4 (commencing with Section 60640) shall be returned to the
school district in the same academic year in which the test was
administered and no later than July 30 of the calendar year in which the
test was administered.
   SEC. 2. Section 60605 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   60605. (a) (1) (A) Not later than January 1, 1998, the State Board
of Education shall adopt statewide academically rigorous content
standards, pursuant to the recommendations of the Commission for the
Establishment of Academic Content and Performance Standards, in the
core curriculum areas of reading, writing, and mathematics to serve as
the basis for assessing the academic achievement of individual pupils
and of schools, school districts, and the California education system. Not
later than November 1, 1998, the State Board of Education shall adopt
these standards in the core curriculum areas of history/social science and
science.
   (B) The board shall adopt statewide performance standards in the
core curriculum areas of reading, writing, mathematics, history-social
science, and science based on the recommendations made by a
contractor or contractors.
   (C) The State Board of Education shall require the contractor or
contractors to submit performance standards to the board not later than
a specified date that allows sufficient opportunity for the board to
conduct regional hearings prior to the adoption of the performance
standards by the dates specified in subparagraph (B).
   (2) (A) The State Board of Education may modify any proposed
content standards or performance standards prior to adoption and may
adopt content and performance standards in individual core curriculum
areas as those standards are submitted to the board by the commission
or the contractor. The performance standards shall be established against
specific grade level benchmarks of academic achievement for each
subject area tested and shall be based on the knowledge and skills that
pupils will need in order to succeed in the information-based, global
economy of the 21st century. These skills shall not include personal
behavioral standards or skills, including, but not limited to, honesty,
sociability, ethics, or self-esteem. The standards adopted pursuant to this
section shall be for the purpose of guiding state decisions regarding the
development, adoption, and approval of assessment instruments
 3892                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 576 ]
pursuant to this chapter and shall not be construed to mandate any
actions or activities by school districts.
   (B) Because these standards are models, the adoption of these
standards is not subject to the Administrative Procedure Act. This
subparagraph is declaratory of existing law.
   (3) Before adopting academic content and performance standards, the
board shall hold regional hearings for the purpose of giving parents and
other members of the public the opportunity to comment on the proposed
standards.
   (b) (1) The State Board of Education shall require the State
Department of Education to notify publishers of the opportunity to
submit, for consideration by the State Board of Education pursuant to
Section 60642, tests of achievement that include all of the basic
academic skills identified in subdivision (c) of Section 60603 in grades
2 to 8, inclusive, and the core curriculum areas identified in subdivision
(e) of Section 60603 in grades 9 to 11, inclusive.
   (2) On or before October 31, 1997, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction shall recommend to the State Board of Education which
achievement test to adopt pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 60642.
   (c) (1) The State Board of Education shall ensure that the statewide
assessment system adopted pursuant to this chapter yields valid, reliable
individual pupil scores and, where applicable, aggregate school scores,
school district scores, and statewide scores of pupils and assesses basic
academic skills and content standards, including the use of a direct
writing assessment or other applied academic skills if deemed valid and
reliable and if resources are made available for their use.
   (2) Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to prevent the State
Board of Education from developing or adopting an assessment
instrument that also contains assessments of basic academic skills.
   (d) To the extent feasible and as otherwise required, the State Board
of Education shall ensure that assessments developed, or contracted for,
by the state are aligned with the statewide content and performance
standards adopted pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (e) After adopting statewide content standards, the State Board of
Education shall review the achievement test designated pursuant to
Section 60642 for conformance with these statewide standards.
   (f) After adopting statewide content and performance standards, the
State Board of Education shall review the existing curriculum
frameworks for conformity with the new statewide standards and shall
modify the curriculum frameworks where appropriate to bring them into
alignment with the standards.
   (g) The State Board of Education shall adopt regulations for the
conduct and administration of the testing and assessment program.
[Ch. 576 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3893

   (h) The State Board of Education shall adopt a regulation for
minimum security procedures that test and assessment publishers and
school districts must follow to ensure the security and integrity of test
and assessment questions and materials.
   SEC. 3. Section 60640 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   60640. (a) There is hereby established the Standardized Testing
and Reporting Program, to be known as the STAR Program.
   (b) Commencing in the 1997–98 fiscal year and each fiscal year
thereafter, and from the funds available for that purpose, each school
district, charter school, and county office of education shall administer
to each of its pupils in grades 2 to 11, inclusive, before June 15, the
achievement test designated by the State Board of Education pursuant
to Section 60642 and the standards-based achievement test provided for
in Section 60642.5. The State Board of Education shall establish a
testing period to provide that all schools administer these tests to pupils
at approximately the same time during the instructional year, except as
necessary to ensure test security and to meet the final filing date.
   (c) The publisher and the school district shall provide two makeup
days for the testing of previously absent pupils no later than June 25.
   (d) The governing board of the school district may administer
achievement tests in kindergarten, and grade 1 or 12, or both, as it deems
appropriate.
   (e) Individuals with exceptional needs who have an explicit provision
in their individualized education program that exempts them from the
testing requirement of subdivision (b) shall be so exempt.
   (f) At the school district’s option, pupils of limited English
proficiency who are enrolled in any of grades 2 to 11, inclusive, may take
a second achievement test in their primary language. Primary language
tests administered pursuant to this subdivision and subdivision (g) shall
be subject to the requirements of subdivisions (b), (c), (d), and (e) of
Section 60641. These primary language tests shall produce individual
pupil scores that are valid and reliable. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the State Board of Education shall designate for use,
as part of this program, a single primary language test in each language
for which such a test is available for grades 2 to 11, inclusive, no later
than November 14, 1998, pursuant to the process used for designation
of the assessment chosen in the 1997–98 fiscal year, as specified in
Sections 60642 and 60643, as applicable.
   (g) Pupils of limited English proficiency who are enrolled in any of
grades 2 to 11, inclusive, shall be required to take a test in their primary
language if such a test is available, if fewer than 12 months have elapsed
after their initial enrollment in any public school in the state.
 3894                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 576 ]
  (h) (1) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall apportion
funds to school districts to enable school districts to meet the
requirements of subdivisions (b), (f), and (g).
  (2) The State Board of Education shall annually establish the amount
of funding to be apportioned to school districts for each test administered
and shall annually establish the amount that each publisher shall be paid
for each test administered under the agreements required pursuant to
Section 60643. The amounts to be paid to the publishers shall be
determined by considering the cost estimates submitted by each
publisher each September and the amount included in the Budget Act
and by making allowance for the estimated costs to school districts for
compliance with the requirements of subdivisions (b), (f), and (g).
  (3) An adjustment to the amount of funding to be apportioned per test
may not be valid without the approval of the Director of Finance. A
request for approval of an adjustment to the amount of funding to be
apportioned per test shall be submitted in writing to the Director of
Finance and the chairpersons of the fiscal committees of both houses of
the Legislature with accompanying material justifying the proposed
adjustment. The Director of Finance is authorized to approve only those
adjustments related to activities required by statute. The Director of
Finance shall approve or disapprove the amount within 30 days of
receipt of the request and shall notify the chairpersons of the fiscal
committees of both houses of the Legislature of the decision.
  (i) For the purposes of making the computations required by Section
8 of Article XVI of the California Constitution, the appropriation for the
apportionments made pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (h), and
the payments made to the publishers under the contracts required
pursuant to Section 60643 or subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) of Section 60605 between the State Department of
Education and the contractor, shall be deemed to be ‘‘General Fund
revenues appropriated for school districts,’’ as defined in subdivision (c)
of Section 41202 of the Education Code, for the applicable fiscal year,
and included within the ‘‘total allocations to school districts and
community college districts from General Fund proceeds of taxes
appropriated pursuant to Article XIII B,’’ as defined in subdivision (e)
of Section 41202 of the Education Code, for that fiscal year.
  (j) As a condition to receiving an apportionment pursuant to
subdivision (h), a school district shall report to the superintendent all of
the following:
  (1) The number of pupils enrolled in the school district in grades 2 to
11, inclusive.
  (2) The number of pupils to whom an achievement test was
administered in grades 2 to 11, inclusive, in the school district.
[Ch. 576 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3895

   (3) The number of pupils in paragraph (1) who were exempted from
the test pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 60640.
   (4) The number of pupils in paragraph (1) who were exempted from
the test at the request of their parents or guardians.
   SEC. 4. Section 60641 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   60641. The State Department of Education shall ensure that school
districts comply with each of the following requirements:
   (a) The achievement test designated pursuant to Section 60642 and
the standards-based achievement test provided for in Section 60642.5
are scheduled to be administered to all pupils during the period
prescribed in subdivision (b) of Section 60640.
   (b) The individual results of each pupil test administered pursuant to
Section 60640 shall be reported, in writing, to the pupil’s parent or
guardian. The written report shall include a clear explanation of the
purpose of the test, the pupil’s score, and its intended use by the school
district. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to require
teachers to prepare individualized explanations of each pupil’s test score.
   (c) The individual results of each pupil test administered pursuant to
Section 60640 shall also be reported to the pupil’s school and teachers.
The school district shall include the pupil’s test results in his or her pupil
records. However, except as provided in this section, individual pupil
test results may only be released with the permission of the pupil’s parent
or guardian.
   (d) The districtwide, school-level, and grade-level results of the
STAR Program in each of the grades designated pursuant to Section
60640, but not the score or relative position of any individually
ascertainable pupil, shall be reported to the governing board of the
school district at a regularly scheduled meeting, and the countywide,
school-level, and grade-level results for classes and programs under the
jurisdiction of the county office of education shall be similarly reported
to the county board of education at a regularly scheduled meeting. These
results shall be reported at the same meeting at which the results of the
assessments of applied academic skills are reported pursuant to Section
60609, when those assessments are implemented.
   (e) The publisher designated pursuant to Section 60642 and the
publisher of the standards-based achievement tests provided for in
Section 60642.5 shall make the individual pupil, grade, school, school
district, and state results available to the State Department of Education
pursuant to paragraph (8) of subdivision (a) of Section 60643 by August
8 of each year in which the achievement test is administered. The State
Department of Education shall make the grade, school, school district,
and state results available on the Internet by August 15 of each year in
which the achievement test is administered.
   SEC. 5. Section 60642.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:
 3896                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 576 ]
   60642.5. (a) The Superintendent of Public Instruction, with
approval of the State Board of Education, shall provide for the
development of an assessment instrument that measures the degree to
which pupils are achieving the academically rigorous content standards
and performance standards, to the extent standards have been adopted by
the State Board of Education. This standards-based achievement test
shall contain the subject areas specified in subdivision (c) of Section
60603 for grades 2 to 8, inclusive, and the core curriculum areas
specified in subdivision (e) of Section 60603 for grades 9 to 11,
inclusive, and shall include, at a minimum, a direct writing assessment
once in elementary school and once in middle or junior high school and
other items of applied academic skill if deemed valid and reliable and if
resources are made available for their use.
   (b) In approving a contract for the development or administration of
the standards-based achievement test, the State Board of Education shall
consider each of the following criteria:
   (1) The ability of the contractor to produce valid, reliable individual
pupil scores.
   (2) The ability of the contractor to report results pursuant to
subdivision (a) of Section 60643 by August 8.
   (3) The ability of the contractor to ensure alignment between the
standards-based achievement test and the academically rigorous content
and performance standards as those standards are adopted by the State
Board of Education. This criterion shall include the ability of the
contractor to implement a process to establish and maintain alignment
between the test items and the standards.
   (4) The per pupil cost estimates of developing, and, if appropriate,
administering the proposed assessment with a system to facilitate the
determination of future per pupil cost determinations.
   (5) The contractor’s procedures to ensuring the security and integrity
of test questions and materials.
   (6) The contractor’s experience in successfully conducting testing
programs adopted and administered by other states. For experience to be
considered, the number of grades and pupils tested shall be provided.
   (c) The standards-based achievement tests may use items from other
tests including items from the achievement test designated pursuant to
Section 60642.
   SEC. 6. Section 60643 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   60643. (a) To be eligible for consideration under Section 60642 or
60642.5 by the State Board of Education, test publishers shall agree in
writing each year to meet the following requirements, if selected:
   (1) Enter into an agreement, pursuant to subdivision (e), with the
State Department of Education by November 15, for the 1999–2000
school year, or by October 15, for any school year thereafter.
[Ch. 576 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3897

   (2) With respect to selection under Section 60642.5, align the
standards-based achievement test provided for in Section 60642.5 to the
academically rigorous content and performance standards adopted by
the State Board of Education.
   (3) Comply with subdivisions (c) and (d) of Section 60645.
   (4) Provide valid and reliable individual pupil scores only in the
content areas specified in subdivision (c) of Section 60642 to parents or
guardians, teachers, and school administrators.
   (5) Provide valid and reliable aggregate scores only in the content
areas specified in subdivision (c) of Section 60642 to school districts and
county boards of education in all of the following forms and formats:
   (A) Grade level.
   (B) School level.
   (C) District level.
   (D) Countywide.
   (E) Statewide.
   (F) Comparison of statewide scores relative to other states.
   (6) Provide          disaggregated         scores,       based        on
limited-English-proficient status and non-limited-English-proficient
status.     For      purposes     of    this     section,    pupils    with
‘‘non-limited-English-proficient status’’ shall include the total of those
pupils who are English-only pupils, fluent-English-proficient pupils,
and redesignated fluent-English-proficient pupils. These scores shall be
provided to school districts and county boards of education in the same
form and formats listed in paragraph (5).
   (7) Provide disaggregated scores by pupil gender and provide
disaggregated scores based on whether pupils are economically
disadvantaged or not. These disaggregated scores shall be in the same
form and formats as listed in paragraph (5). In any one year, the
disaggregation shall entail information already being collected by
school districts, county offices of education, or charter schools.
   (8) Provide disaggregated scores for pupils who have individualized
education programs and have enrolled in special education, to the extent
required by federal law. These scores shall be provided in the same forms
and formats listed in paragraph (5). This section may not be construed
to exclude the scores of special education pupils from any state or federal
accountability system.
   (9) Provide information listed in paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8) to
the State Board of Education and the State Department of Education in
the medium requested by each entity, respectively, by the date set forth
in subdivision (e) of Section 60641.
   (b) It is the intent of the Legislature that the publisher work with the
Superintendent of Public Instruction and the State Board of Education
in developing a methodology to disaggregate statewide scores as
 3898                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 576 ]
required in paragraphs (6) and (7) of subdivision (a), and in determining
which variable indicated on the STAR testing document shall serve as
a proxy for ‘‘economically disadvantaged’’ status pursuant to paragraph
(7).
   (c) Access to any information about individual pupils or their
families shall be granted to the publisher only for purposes of correctly
associating test results with the pupils who produced those results or for
reporting and disaggregating test results as required by this section.
School districts are prohibited from excluding a pupil from the test if a
parent or parents decline to disclose income. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to abridge or deny rights to confidentiality contained
in the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20 U.S.C.
Sec. 1232g) or other applicable provisions of state and federal law that
protect the confidentiality of information collected by educational
institutions.
   (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the publisher of the
achievement test designated pursuant to Section 60642 and the publisher
of the standards-based achievement test provided for in Section 60642.5
shall comply with all of the conditions and requirements enumerated in
subdivision (a) to the satisfaction of the State Board of Education.
   (e) (1) Commencing January 1, 2000, a publisher may not provide
a test described in Section 60642 or 60642.5 or in subdivision (f) of
Section 60640 for use in California public schools unless the publisher
enters into a written contract with the State Department of Education as
set forth in this subdivision.
   (2) The State Department of Education shall develop, and the State
Board of Education shall approve, a contract to be entered into with a
publisher pursuant to paragraph (1). The department may develop the
contract through negotiations with the publisher.
   (3) For purposes of the contract authorized pursuant to this
subdivision, the State Department of Education is exempt from the
requirements of Part 2 (commencing with Section 10100) of Division 2
of the Public Contract Code and from the requirements of Article 6
(commencing with Section 999) of Chapter 6 of Division 4 of the
Military and Veterans Code.
   (4) The contract shall include provisions for progress payments to the
publisher for work performed or costs incurred in the performance of the
contract. Not less than 10 percent of the amount budgeted for each
separate and distinct component task provided for in each contract shall
be withheld pending final completion of all component tasks by that
publisher. The total amount withheld pending final completion shall not
exceed 10 percent of the total contract price.
   (5) The contract shall require liquidated damages to be paid by the
publisher in the amount of up to 10 percent of the total cost of any
[Ch. 576 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3899

component task that the publisher through its own fault or that of its
subcontractors fails to substantially perform by the date specified in the
agreement.
   (6) The contract shall establish the process and criteria by which the
successful completion of each component task shall be recommended by
the State Department of Education and approved by the State Board of
Education.
   (7) The publishers shall submit, as part of the contract negotiation
process, a proposed budget and invoice schedule, that includes a detailed
listing of the costs for each component task and the expected date of the
invoice for each completed component task.
   (8) The costs associated with item development shall be provided as
a separate amount and shall not be amortized across the number of tests
to be administered.
   (9) The contract shall specify the following component tasks that are
separate and distinct:
   (A) Development of new tests or test items as required by paragraph
(2) of subdivision (a).
   (B) Test materials production or publication.
   (C) Delivery of test materials to school districts.
   (D) Test processing, scoring, and analyses.
   (E) Reporting of test results to the school districts, including, but not
limited to, all reports specified in this section.
   (F) Reporting of test results to the State Department of Education,
including, but not limited to, the electronic files required pursuant to this
section.
   (G) All other analyses or reports required by the Superintendent of
Public Instruction to meet the requirements of state and federal law and
set forth in the agreement.
   (10) The contract shall specify the specific reports and data files that
are to be provided to school districts by the publisher and the number of
copies of each report or file to be provided.
   (11) The contract shall specify the means by which the delivery date
for materials to each school district shall be verified by the publisher and
the school district.
   (12) School districts may negotiate a separate agreement with the
publisher for any additional materials or services not within the contract
specified in this subdivision, including, but not limited to, the
administration of the tests to pupils in grade levels other than grades 2
to 11, inclusive. Any separate agreement is not within the scope of the
contract specified in this subdivision.
   SEC. 7. Section 60643.1 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   60643.1. (a) (1) Commencing in the 1999–2000 school year, and
each school year thereafter, the test publisher designated by the State
 3900                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 576 ]
Board of Education pursuant to Section 60642 shall make available a
reading list on the Internet by June 1. The reading list shall include an
index that correlates ranges of pupil reading scores on the English
language arts portion of the achievement test designated pursuant to
Section 60642 to titles of materials that would be suitable for pupils in
each of grades 2 to 11, inclusive, to read in order to improve their reading
skills. This reading list shall include titles of books that allow a pupil to
practice reading at his or her current reading level and that will assist the
pupil in achieving a higher level of proficiency. To the extent possible,
the index shall also include information related to the subject matter of
each title. At a minimum, the reading list shall also categorize titles by
subject matter and identify age-appropriate distinctions in the list.
   (2) Commencing in the 1999–2000 school year, and each school year
thereafter, the test publisher shall make available, for purchase by school
districts, a report that provides a numerical distribution of the reading
scores of all pupils in California who took the achievement test
designated pursuant to Section 60642.
   (3) Commencing in the 1999–2000 school year, and each school year
thereafter, the test publisher shall make available, for purchase by school
districts, reading lists that can be distributed to pupils based on a pupil’s
age and the ranges of scores on the English language arts portion of the
achievement test designated pursuant to Section 60642.
   (4) The requirements of this subdivision shall only become operative
upon a determination by the Director of Finance that funds are available
to make an adjustment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 60640.
   (b) The State Board of Education and the Superintendent of Public
Instruction shall jointly certify that the process used by the publisher to
determine the reading levels of the corresponding reading list pursuant
to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) meets the following criteria:
   (1) The process is educationally valid.
   (2) The process results in a reading list for each reading span that
provides titles at the pupil’s current reading level and the next higher
level for challenging practice.
   (3) The process results in a selection from the universe of titles from
the list developed pursuant to subdivision (d) that matches each reading
level.
   (4) The process is unbiased in the selection of publishers’ titles from
the legal compliance list.
   (c) The titles listed at each reading level range posted on the Internet
and the reading lists made available to school districts pursuant to
subdivision (a) shall, at a minimum, include all relevant literature
materials approved as of September 1, 1999, as being legally compliant
pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 60040) of Chapter 1,
and the titles listed in all of the content area reading and literature lists
[Ch. 576 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3901

that are developed and published by the State Department of Education
and that have been determined by the department to meet the relevant
reading level as certified pursuant to subdivision (b).
   (d) By imposing the requirements of this section on publishers, it is
not the intent of the Legislature to unfairly disadvantage any publisher
who has otherwise met the requirements of this section or of Article 3
(commencing with Section 60040) of Chapter 1 of Part 33.
   SEC. 8. Section 60644 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   60644. In designating an achievement test pursuant to Section
60642, the State Board of Education shall adopt only a nationally
normed test and shall consider each of the following criteria:
   (a) Ability of the publisher to produce valid, reliable individual pupil
scores.
   (b) Quality and age of empirical data supporting national norm
referenced data analysis of the proposed assessment.
   (c) Ability to report results pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs
(4) to (7), inclusive, of subdivision (a) of Section 60643 by August 8.
   (d) Ability to report results that permit comparability between data
from school districts’ previous administration of standardized
achievement tests, if feasible.
   (e) Per-pupil cost estimates of administering the proposed
assessment.
   (f) The publisher’s procedure for ensuring the security and integrity
of test questions and materials.
   (g) Experience in the successful conduct of testing programs adopted
and administered by other states. For experience to be considered, the
number of grades and pupils tested shall be provided.
   SEC. 9. Section 60645 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   60645. (a) The panel established pursuant to Section 60606 shall
review the achievement test designated by the State Board of Education
pursuant to Section 60642, the standards-based achievement test
provided for in Section 60642.5, and items identified in subdivision (d)
for compliance with Section 60614.
   (b) Any test questions or test content identified by the panel to be out
of compliance with Section 60614 shall be recommended for deletion or
replacement pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 60606.
   (c) The State Board of Education shall ensure that any question or
content not in compliance with Section 60614 is deleted from
assessments designated pursuant to Section 60642 and the
standards-based achievement test provided for in Section 60642.5.
   (d) If necessary to maintain the requirements of Section 60642.5, the
publisher shall replace deleted test content with revisions that comply
with Section 60614 as required by the State Board of Education pursuant
to subdivision (c).
 3902                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 577 ]
   SEC. 10. Section 60648 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   60648. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall recommend,
and the State Board of Education shall adopt, levels of pupil
performance on achievement tests administered pursuant to this article
in reading, English language arts, and mathematics at each grade level.
The performance levels shall identify and establish the level of
performance that is deemed to be the minimum level required for
satisfactory performance in the next grade. These levels of performance
shall only be adopted after the standards-based achievement tests have
been aligned, pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section
60643, to the content and performance standards adopted by the State
Board of Education pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 60605.
   SEC. 11. Section 60649 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   60649. On or before March 1, 2001, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction and the State Board of Education shall report to the
Legislature and the Governor on the status of implementation of this
chapter. The report shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   (a) Description of the actions taken to ensure full coverage of
academic content standards in assessments developed pursuant to this
chapter.
   (b) Identification of the types of test items designed to measure
applied academic skills, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 60603.
   (c) The means by which the Superintendent of Public Instruction and
the State Board of Education determine assessments are valid, reliable,
and provide consistent year-to-year comparisons of student progress,
consistent with nationally recognized and accepted test construction and
implementation methodologies, as applicable.
   (d) Recommendations to improve the state’s assessment system,
identifying related costs or savings, and increases or decreases in testing
time.



                            CHAPTER 577

  An act to add Chapter 8.5 (commencing with Section 1350) to
Division 6 of the Military and Veterans Code, and to add and repeal
Article 1 (commencing with Section 18701) of Chapter 3 of Part 10.2 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to veterans.
            [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]
[Ch. 577 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3903

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 8.5 (commencing with Section 1350) is added
to Division 6 of the Military and Veterans Code, to read:

   CHAPTER 8.5.     NATIONAL WORLD WAR II VETERANS MEMORIAL
                            TRUST FUND

   1350. There is hereby established the National World War II
Veterans Memorial Trust Fund to receive those moneys transferred in
accordance with Section 18702 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
Upon appropriation by the Legislature, the moneys in the trust fund shall
be allocated to the American Battle Monuments Commission for the
construction and maintenance of the World War II Memorial described
in Section 1 of Chapter 864 of the Statutes of 1999.
   SEC. 2. Article 1 (commencing with Section 18701) is added to
Chapter 3 of Part 10.2 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
to read:

   Article 1.   National World War II Veterans Memorial Funding

   18701. (a) Any individual may designate on the tax return that a
contribution in excess of tax liability, if any, be made to the National
World War II Veterans Memorial Trust Fund, established pursuant to
Section 1350 of the Military and Veterans Code.
   (b) A contribution shall be in a full dollar amount and may be made
individually by each signatory on a joint return.
   (c) A designation made under subdivision (a) shall be made for any
taxable year on the initial return for that taxable year, and once made
shall be irrevocable. In the event that payments and credits reported on
the return, together with any other credits associated with the taxpayer’s
account do not exceed the tax liability, if any, shown thereupon, the
return shall be treated as though no designation had been made. In the
event that no designee is specified, the contribution shall, after
reimbursement of the direct actual costs of the Franchise Tax Board for
the collection and administration of funds under the article, be
transferred to the General Fund.
   (d) If an individual designates a contribution to more than one
account, and the amount available is insufficient to satisfy the total
amount designated, the contribution shall be allocated among the
designated accounts on a pro rata basis.
   (e) The Franchise Tax Board shall revise the form of the return to
include a space labeled the ‘‘National World War II Veterans Memorial’’
to allow for the designation permitted under subdivision (a). The
 3904                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 577 ]
Franchise Tax Board shall state in the accompanying tax information
booklet that the contributions will be for use on the World War II
Memorial in Washington, D.C.
   (f) Notwithstanding any other provision, a voluntary contribution
designation for the National World War II Veterans Memorial Trust Fund
shall not be added on the tax return until another voluntary contribution
designation is removed.
   (g) A deduction shall be allowed under Article 6 (commencing with
Section 17201) of Chapter 3 of Part 10 for the amount of any
contribution made under subdivision (a).
   18702. (a) The Franchise Tax Board shall annually determine the
total amount designated pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 18701
and notify the Controller of that amount.
   (b) The Controller shall transfer the amount determined under
subdivision (a), less the direct, actual costs of the Franchise Tax Board
for the collection and administration of funds under this article, to the
National World War II Veterans Memorial Trust Fund, established
pursuant to Section 1350 of the Military and Veterans Code, for use on
the World War II Memorial in Washington, D.C. Upon appropriation by
the Legislature, the Controller shall transfer the amount of
reimbursement for direct actual costs incurred by the Franchise Tax
Board and the Office of the Controller in the administration of this fund.
   18703. This article creates an additional source of funding for a
specified purpose. The funds generated by this article shall not be used
in place of funds from other sources that are available for appropriation
to the National World War II Veterans Memorial Trust Fund.
   18704. (a) This article shall remain in effect only until January 1 of
the third taxable year following the first appearance of the National
World War II Veterans Memorial Trust Fund on the tax return and as of
that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before
the applicable date, deletes or extends that date.
   (b) If, in any calendar year after the first taxable year the National
World War II Veterans Memorial Trust Fund appears on the tax return,
the Franchise Tax Board estimates by September 1 that contributions
described in this article made on returns filed in that calendar year will
be less than two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000), or the
adjusted amount specified in subdivision (c) for subsequent taxable
years, as may be applicable, then this article is repealed with respect to
taxable years beginning on or after January 1 of that calendar year. The
Franchise Tax Board shall estimate the annual contribution amount by
September 1 of each year using the actual amounts known to be
contributed and an estimate of the remaining year’s contribution.
   (c) For each calendar year, beginning with the second calendar year
the National World War II Veterans Memorial Trust Fund appears on the
[Ch. 578 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3905

tax return, the Franchise Tax Board shall adjust, on or before September
1 of that calendar year, the minimum estimated contribution amount
specified in subdivision (b) as follows:
  (1) The minimum estimated contribution amount for the calendar
year shall be an amount equal to the product of the minimum estimated
contribution amount for the prior September 1 multiplied by the
inflation factor adjustment as specified in paragraph (2) of subdivision
(h) of Section 17041, rounded off to the nearest dollar.
  (2) The inflation factor adjustment used for the calendar year shall be
based on the figures for the percentage change in the California
Consumer Price Index received on or before August 1 of the calendar
year pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (h) of Section 17041.
  (d) Notwithstanding the repeal of this article, any contribution
amounts designated pursuant to this article prior to its repeal shall
continue to be transferred and disbursed in accordance with this article
as in effect immediately prior to that repeal.



                             CHAPTER 578

 An act to add and repeal Sections 41329 and 41329.1 of the Education
Code, relating to the West Contra Costa Unified School District, and
making an appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature that the governing
board, staff, and community of the West Contra Costa Unified School
District contribute to and participate in a process to improve the district’s
performance in the five major operational areas of pupil achievement,
fiscal management, facilities management, personnel management, and
governance, including community relations.
   SEC. 2. Section 41329 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   41329. (a) The sum of one million six hundred thousand dollars
($1,600,000) is hereby appropriated from the General Fund according
to the following schedule:
   (1) Eight hundred thousand dollars ($800,000) to the Superintendent
of Public Instruction for the 2000–01 fiscal year, and an equal amount,
which shall be appropriated annually thereafter, for allocation to the
West Contra Costa Unified School District to reimburse the district for
its inability to participate, between 1993 and 1998, inclusive, in the state
 3906                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 578 ]
school facilities funding program due to the exclusion contained in
Section 17017.1. The Legislature finds that the issue of repayment is a
matter that is separate and apart from the issue of access to adequate
school facilities for pupils of the school district and that West Contra
Costa Unified School District should not be prevented from sharing in
those funds.
   (2) Eight hundred thousand dollars ($800,000) to be paid by the
Controller directly to the Kern County Office of Education for the
exclusive use by the County Office Fiscal Crisis and Management
Assistance Team for the purposes of conducting the assessments and
completing the improvement plans specified in Section 41329.1.
   (b) Funds allocated to the school district by the Superintendent of
Public Instruction pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) shall not
exceed the total school district modernization project eligibility for the
period of time between 1993 and 1998, inclusive, for which the school
district did not realize state funding assistance and to which it would
otherwise have been entitled but for the statutory exclusion, plus interest
at the rate of 1 percent less than the rate earned on the current Pooled
Money Investment Account.
   (c) Because the school district was forced to rely fully on operating
and other local discretionary funds to resolve many of its school facilities
needs during the period of time in question, funds received pursuant to
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) may be used by the school district for
any discretionary school district purpose.
   (d) As a condition of receiving funds pursuant to this section, the
West Contra Costa Unified School District shall agree to cooperate with
the County Office Fiscal Crisis and Management Assistance Team in the
fulfillment of the team’s responsibilities pursuant to Section 41329.1.
   (e) This section shall become inoperative on July 1, 2005, and, as of
January 1, 2006, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that becomes
operative on or before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends the dates on
which it becomes inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 41329.1 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   41329.1. (a) The County Office Fiscal Crisis and Management
Assistance Team shall conduct comprehensive assessments and shall
complete, by July 1, 2001, the following improvement plans for the West
Contra Costa Unified School District:
   (1) An instructional improvement plan that includes special
education and programs for English language learners and is consistent
with the financial improvement plan required by paragraph (2). The plan
shall specify pupil outcomes that reflect significant improvement in
pupil achievement, particularly in the areas of reading, writing, and
mathematics. Among the areas addressed by the plan shall be the
alignment between the written, taught, and tested curriculum consistent
[Ch. 578 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3907

with the state’s adopted instructional standards. Included in the plan
shall be a clear link between professional development for all
instructional staff consistent with pupil achievement objectives.
   (2) A financial improvement plan that is consistent with the
instructional improvement plan required by paragraph (1) and that
includes the current and future projected solvency and fiscal integrity of
the school district. The financial improvement plan shall also include,
but not be limited to, specific strategies for developing a loan repayment
plan to fully extinguish the balance on state loans provided to the district
and for improving the following:
   (A) Management information systems.
   (B) Accounting and internal control procedures.
   (C) Attendance accounting procedures.
   (3) A facilities improvement plan that shall be consistent with the
financial improvement plan required by paragraph (2), and that includes,
but is not limited to, specific strategies for improving the following:
   (A) Protection and safety for pupils, employees, and district property.
   (B) Ongoing maintenance of district property.
   (C) Management control and procedures for managing all
construction and modernization projects.
   (4) A personnel management improvement plan that is consistent
with the financial improvement plan required by paragraph (2), and that
includes, but is not limited to, specific strategies for improving the
following:
   (A) The recruitment, retention, screening, assessment, and hiring
procedures for all district staff.
   (B) The training of members of the governing board of the school
district in the subjects about which members of the governing board
must have knowledge in order to discharge their duties as board
members effectively.
   (C) The assessment of the administrative practices of the school
district and staff development to ensure that staff have the knowledge
and skills required to manage effectively the educational programs,
finances, safety, and facilities maintenance of the school district.
   (D) The calculation and maintenance of appropriate and efficient
full-time equivalent staffing rations for all school district staff.
   (E) The governance structure of the school district in relation to board
policy development, operational effectiveness, and responsiveness to
the community.
   (5) A community relations improvement plan that is consistent with
the financial improvement plan required by paragraph (2), and that
includes, but is not limited to, specific strategies for improving the
communication among the governing board, personnel of the school
district, pupils, and parents.
 3908                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 579 ]
   (b) Beginning on December 1, 2001, and each six months thereafter
until July 1, 2003, County Office Fiscal Crisis and Management
Assistance Team shall file a written status report with the appropriate
fiscal and policy committees of the Legislature, including any special
committees created for the purpose of reviewing the reports, and with the
governing board of the school district, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction, the Director of Finance, and the Secretary for Education.
The reports shall include the progress that the West Contra Costa Unified
School District is making in meeting the recommendations of the
improvement plans developed pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (c) County Office Fiscal Crisis and Management Assistance Team
shall provide to the Controller an accounting of expenditures made by
it pursuant to the requirements of this act.
   (d) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2004, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 4. Due to the unique circumstances concerning the impact that
the West Contra Costa Unified School District emergency had upon its
subsequent inability to participate in state funding for school facilities,
it is necessary that special funding provision be enacted, and the
Legislature finds and declares that a general statute cannot be made
applicable within the meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the
California Constitution.
   SEC. 5. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 579

  An act to add Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 55000) to Division
20 of the Food and Agricultural Code, relating to farm products.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]
[Ch. 579 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3909

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 55000) is added
to Division 20 of the Food and Agricultural Code, to read:

     CHAPTER 4.     CALIFORNIA RICE CERTIFICATION ACT OF 2000

            Article 1.   Declarations and Legislative Intent

   55000. The production and milling of rice constitutes an important
industry of this state that provides substantial and necessary revenues for
the state and employment for its citizens. The California rice industry
has the potential to be one of the leading segments of the state’s
agricultural industry. To realize this potential, there is a need to make
domestic and foreign consumers aware of the nutritional value of rice,
the high quality of the rice produced and milled in the state, the many
varieties of rice produced and milled in the state, the intricacies of rice
culture, and the versatility of rice as a part of a well balanced diet.
   55001. The program established pursuant to this chapter is essential
to ensuring the consistently high quality of the rice produced, milled,
distributed, or otherwise handled in the state by informing consumers,
maintaining consumer confidence, and enhancing and protecting the
reputation of California’s rice industry throughout the nation and around
the world.
   55002. This chapter is intended to allow the rice industry to work
cooperatively to maintain consumer confidence and the acceptance of
rice produced and milled in the state.
   55003. There is a growing need to maintain the identity of various
types of rice to satisfy increasing consumer demand for specialty rices.
This demand requires providing the industry with the ability to establish
the terms and conditions for the production and handling of rice in order
to minimize the potential for the commingling of various types of rice,
and in order to prevent commingling where reconditioning is infeasible
or impossible.

                         Article 2.   Definitions

   55006. Unless the context otherwise requires, the definitions in this
article govern the construction of this chapter.
   55007. ‘‘Books and records’’ means books, records, contracts,
documents, memoranda, papers, correspondence, or other data, whether
in written, magnetic, or electronic form, that pertain to matters relating
to this chapter.
 3910                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 579 ]
   55008. ‘‘Certification’’ means certification pursuant to Article 7
(commencing with Section 55070).
   55009. ‘‘Characteristics of commercial impact’’ means
characteristics that may adversely affect the marketability of rice in the
event of commingling with other rice and may include, but are not
limited to, those characteristics that cannot be visually identified without
the aid of specialized equipment or testing, those characteristics that
create a significant economic impact in their removal from commingled
rice, and those characteristics whose removal from commingled rice is
infeasible.
   55010. ‘‘Commission’’ means the California Rice Commission
created pursuant to Chapter 9.5 (commencing with Section 71000) of
Part 2 of Division 22.
   55010.5. ‘‘Committee’’ refers to the committee established under
Section 55020.
   55011. ‘‘Handler’’ means any person engaged in this state in the
business of marketing rice, including persons engaged in the drying,
milling, or storing of rice.
   55012. ‘‘Person’’ includes any individual, partnership, limited
liability company, limited liability partnership, corporation, firm,
company, or any other entity doing business in California.
   55013. ‘‘Producer’’ includes any person who produces, or causes to
be produced, rice.
   55014. ‘‘Rice’’ means all rough or ‘‘paddy’’ rice or milled rice
(Oryza species) produced in or shipped into California, including mochi
rice (sweet rice) and rice produced for seed. It does not include wild rice
(Zinzania aquatica; Zinzania palustris).
   55015. ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary of Food and Agriculture.

                       Article 3.   Administration

   55020. The secretary shall appoint a committee, from nominations
received from the commission, to administer Section 55040 and Article
5 (commencing with Section 55050), except as otherwise specified. The
committee consists of four producers, four handlers, and one
representative each of the California Crop Improvement Association,
the California Warehouse Association, and the California Cooperative
Rice Research Foundation. The secretary shall also appoint one member
from the University of California who shall not be affiliated with the
California Crop Improvement Association. If the secretary finds any of
those nominated to be unacceptable, he or she shall notify the
commission and request that another person be nominated. The
commission shall appoint one ex officio member who shall be involved
in the marketing, breeding, or distribution of seed, and may appoint any
[Ch. 579 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3911

other ex officio members deemed reasonably necessary to implement
this chapter.
   55020.5. (a) The committee shall meet periodically for the
purposes specified in Article 4 (commencing with Section 55040).
   (b) A majority of the membership of the committee shall constitute
a quorum of the committee. The vote of a majority of the members
present at which there is a quorum shall constitute an act of the
committee. The committee may continue to transact business at a
meeting at which a quorum is initially present, notwithstanding the
withdrawal of members, provided any action is approved by the requisite
majority of the required quorum.
   (c) As a committee of the commission, the committee established
pursuant to Section 55022 shall conduct itself according to the bylaws
and rules of the commission.
   (d) Sections 71051, 71053, 71063, and 71066 shall apply to the
committee.
   55021. All funds received from the assessments levied under this
chapter shall be deposited in banks that the commission may designate
and shall be disbursed by order of the commission through an agent or
agents as it may designate for that purpose. The agent or agents shall be
bonded by a fidelity bond, executed by a surety company authorized to
transact business in the state, in favor of the commission, in an amount
of not less than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).
   55022. (a) Upon receipt of a recommendation from the committee
for the promulgation of regulations, the secretary shall within 30
working days do one of the following:
   (1) Initiate the rulemaking process with the regulation as
recommended by the committee.
   (2) Decline to initiate the rulemaking process and provide the
committee with a written statement of reasons for the decision.
   (3) Request that the committee provide additional information
regarding the recommended regulations.
   (b) All regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter shall be adopted
in compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act, Chapter 3.5
(commencing with Section 11340) of Division 3 of Title 2 of the
Government Code and may be subsequently repealed or amended as
provided for in that chapter.

                    Article 4.   Duties and Powers

  55040. The powers and duties of the committee under this chapter
shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:
  (a) Identifying rices that have characteristics of commercial impact.
 3912                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 579 ]
   (b) Recommending to the secretary proposed regulations
establishing terms and conditions for planting, producing, harvesting,
transporting, drying, storing, or otherwise handling rice identified
pursuant to subdivision (a), including, but not limited to, seed
application requirements, field buffer zones, handling requirements, and
identity preservation requirements. All rice identified pursuant to
subdivision (a) shall be subject to an identity preservation program.
   (c) Reviewing the efficacy of terms, conditions, and identity
preservation programs imposed on the planting, producing, harvesting,
transporting, drying, storing, or otherwise handling of rice identified
pursuant to subdivision (a) using the most current industry standards and
generally accepted scientific principles.
   (d) Recommending to the secretary on all matters pertaining to this
chapter, including, but not limited to, enforcement of this chapter and
setting the assessment rates.
   (e) The committee shall review each rice identified as having
characteristics of commercial impact not less often than every two years,
or upon receipt of a petition from the purveyor of the rice. No purveyor
of a rice identified as having characteristics of commercial impact may
file more than one petition on a particular rice in any two-year period.
   (f) Neither the recommendations of the committee nor any regulation
adopted pursuant to this chapter shall be construed as establishing any
production, processing, or market tolerance.
   55045. (a) The commission may receive and investigate
complaints regarding alleged violations of this chapter and the
regulations adopted under it and may refer cases to the department for
action pursuant to Section 55107.
   (b) The commission shall provide notice to the person alleged to have
violated the provisions of this chapter informing him or her of the
commission’s decision to take further action pursuant to this article. The
person may seek a review of the commission’s decision by the secretary
and thereafter may seek judicial relief.
   (c) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), the commission may
immediately seek injunctive relief, as specified in Section 55046. Any
injunction obtained by the commission shall remain in full force and
effect pending any review by the secretary.
   55046. (a) The commission may investigate and commence civil
actions and utilize all remedies provided in law or equity for the
collection of assessments and for the obtaining of injunctive relief or
specific performance regarding this chapter and the regulations adopted
under it. The commission may seek a writ of attachment or injunctive
relief, including, but not limited to, a temporary restraining order,
temporary injunction, or a permanent injunction, in order to prevent any
violation or threatened violation of this chapter. A court shall issue to the
[Ch. 579 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3913

commission any requested writ of attachment or injunctive relief upon
a prima facie showing by verified complaint that a named defendant has
violated, or has threatened to violate, this chapter or any regulation
promulgated under it. No bond shall be required to be posted by the
commission as a condition for the issuance of the requested writ of
attachment or injunctive relief.
   (b) A writ of attachment shall be issued pursuant to Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 485.101) of Title 6.5 of Part 2 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, except that the showing specified in Section 485.010
of the Code of Civil Procedure shall not be required. Injunctive relief
shall be issued pursuant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 525) of
Title 7 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, except that the showing
of irreparable harm or inadequate remedy at law specified in Sections
526 and 527 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall not be required.
   (c) Upon entry of any final judgment on behalf of the commission
against any defendant, the court shall enjoin the defendant from
conducting any type of business regarding rice until there is full
compliance and satisfaction of the judgment. Upon a favorable judgment
for the commission, it shall be entitled to receive reimbursement for any
reasonable attorney’s fees and other actual related costs. Venue for these
actions may be established at the domicile or place of business of the
defendant or in the county of the principal place of business of the
commission. The commission may be sued only in the county of its
principal office.
   55047. The committee shall recommend to the secretary that
regulations be adopted by the secretary that accomplish all of the
following purposes:
   (a) Maintain the integrity and prevent the contamination of rice which
has not been identified as having characteristics of commercial impact.
   (b) Prevent the introduction of disease, weeds, or other pests.
   (c) Ensure that persons selling, offering for sale, or otherwise
distributing seed for the production of rice identified as having
characteristics of commercial impact, or that persons bringing rice
identified as having characteristics of commercial impact into the state
for processing, notify the commission of the location of planting sites
and of the dates and procedures for planting, producing, harvesting,
transporting, drying, storing, or otherwise handling of rice identified as
having characteristics of commercial impact.
   (d) Ensure that persons receiving rice having been identified as
having characteristics of commercial impact produced outside the state
for processing notify the commission of the location of the receipt and
of the procedures for processing, transporting, drying, storing, or
otherwise handling the rice to prevent commercial impact to other rice
and the spread of weeds, disease, or other pests.
 3914                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 579 ]
  (e) Ensure enforcement of terms and conditions imposed on the
planting, producing, harvesting, transporting, drying, storing, or
otherwise handling of rice identified as having characteristics of
commercial impact.
  (f) Encourage research and development of new types of rice.

                  Article 5.   Commercial Impact Rice

   55050. Except as provided for in Section 55052, no person may
plant, produce, harvest, transport, dry, store, or otherwise handle rice
identified as having characteristics of commercial impact, except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the regulations
adopted under it. Regulations shall be adopted by the secretary, in
accordance with Section 55022, to accomplish all of the following
purposes:
   (a) Maintain the integrity and prevent contamination of rice which
has not been identified as having characteristics of commercial impact.
   (b) Prevent the introduction of disease, weeds, or other pests.
   (c) Ensure that persons selling, offering for sale, or otherwise
distributing seed for the production of rice pursuant to subdivision (a)
of Section 55040 or bringing rice identified pursuant to subdivision (a)
of Section 55040 into the state for processing notify the commission of
the location of planting sites and of the dates and procedures for planting,
producing, harvesting, transporting, drying, storing, or otherwise
handling of the rice.
   (d) Ensure that persons receiving rice having been identified pursuant
to subdivision (a) of Section 55040 produced outside the state for
processing notify the commission of the location of the receipt and of the
procedures for processing, transporting, drying, storing, or otherwise
handling the rice to prevent commercial impact to other rice and the
spread of weeds, disease, or other pests.
   (e) Enforce the restrictions and conditions imposed on the planting,
producing, harvesting, transporting, drying, storing, or otherwise
handling of rice identified pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 55040.
   (f) Encourage research and development of new types of rice.
   55051. Except as specified in Section 55052, no rice may be sold,
offered for sale, or otherwise distributed, planted, harvested,
transported, dried, stored, or otherwise handled unless it has been
reviewed by the committee for the purposes of making the findings set
forth in Section 55040, and if necessary, the establishment of regulations
pursuant to Section 55047.
   55052. (a) Except as set forth in this section, this chapter shall not
apply to 50 acres or less of rice of any type planted for research purposes.
No one type may be planted on more than 50 acres in the state and be
[Ch. 579 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3915

considered research within the meaning of this section. Any person
conducting research on 50 acres or less shall notify the committee of the
location of the acreage involved, and the proposed procedures for
planting, producing, harvesting, transporting, drying, storing, or
otherwise handling the rice. The committee shall review and approve,
modify, or reject the proposed procedures to ensure that the research will
not result in commercial impacts to other rice. The committee shall
accept any procedures that have been previously approved or accepted
by an agency of state or federal government unless the committee
provides written justification for modifying or rejecting the procedures.
   (b) In addition to the information required pursuant to subdivision
(a), the committee may require any person proposing to conduct research
using rice brought into the state from another state or country to provide
the committee with proposed procedures to ensure that the introduced
rice is free of disease, weeds, or other pests. The committee shall review
and approve, modify, or reject the proposed procedures. The committee
shall accept any procedures that have been previously approved or
accepted by an agency of state or federal government unless the
committee provides written justification for modifying or rejecting the
procedures.
   (c) The notice required pursuant to this section shall not require
specific information regarding the attributes of the rice that is the subject
of the research.
   (d) The notice required by this section shall be provided in the time
and manner specified by the committee.
   (e) This chapter shall not apply to research conducted by the
University of California except for rice produced directly from the
research that enters the channels of trade.

                        Article 6.    Assessments

  55060. (a) Any person engaged in the business of selling, offering
for sale, or otherwise distributing seed for the production of rice
identified as having characteristics of commercial impact, shall annually
pay to the commission an assessment in an amount not to exceed five
dollars ($5) per hundredweight (cwt.).
  (b) The first in-state handler of paddy or brown rice identified as
having characteristics of commercial impact, or of seed for the
production of rice identified as having characteristics of commercial
impact, brought into the state from outside California, shall report the
receipt of the rice or seed and pay an assessment to the commission in
an amount not to exceed ten cents ($0.10) per hundredweight (cwt). The
report and payment shall be made in the time and manner specified by
the commission.
 3916                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 579 ]
  55061. The assessment shall be paid in the time and manner
specified by the commission. No assessment shall be paid by any person
for any rice seed for which the assessment has been previously paid.
Assessments not paid when due shall be subject to a penalty of 10 percent
of the assessment and interest at the rate of 1 percent per month.
  55062. The commission shall use all funds received pursuant to this
chapter for the purposes of this chapter.
  55063. The commission shall publish an annual report of its
activities including an accounting of the use of assessments collected
pursuant to this chapter. The report, in aggregate form, shall be made
available to any person upon request.

                    Article 7.   Certification of Rice

   55070. The commission may establish a program allowing for the
certification of any verifiable attribute of rice. The commission may
operate the program or contract with qualified entities to implement all
or any aspect of the program. No organization shall be considered
qualified for the purposes of this article unless it can provide accurate,
verifiable certification of identified attributes of seed, rough or paddy
rice, or milled rice, as determined by the commission. This article does
not authorize the certification of any rice as organic. Certification
pursuant to this article shall not be construed as establishing any
production, processing, or market tolerance.
   55071. (a) The commission shall require any organization seeking
to certify rice pursuant to this article to file the procedures and standards
of an internationally recognized identity preservation program or a
certification plan, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (1) Minimum information to be required from seed producers,
producers and handlers regarding production, growing, conditioning, or
processing practices, and methods for verifying the information
received.
   (2) Qualifications of, and training requirements for, all inspectors.
   (3) Procedures for inspection and testing methods, including a
complete description of the sampling methodologies.
   (4) Criteria for certification and attributes to be certified.
   (5) Processes for decisionmaking relative to certification procedures,
criteria, and methods.
   (b) The certification plan shall be kept by the commission and made
available for public inspection upon request.
   55072. Organizations certifying rice shall keep accurate books,
accounts, and records of all activities relating to certification. The
records shall be preserved for a period of three years and shall be
[Ch. 579 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3917

submitted for inspection at any reasonable time upon written demand of
the commission.
   55074. At the end of each rice producing season, as established by
the commission, each organization certifying rice for the commission
shall prepare a list of all persons whose rice has been certified or is
pending certification. This list shall be filed with the commission and
shall be available for public inspection.
   55075. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any
producer or handler of rice sold as a certified rice and any organization
certifying rice for the commission shall immediately make available for
inspection by, and shall within 72 hours of a request provide to, the
commission a copy of any record required to be kept under this chapter.
Records acquired pursuant to this section and any information marked
trade secret or confidential acquired by the commission in carrying out
its duties under this chapter shall not be public records as that term is
defined in Section 6252 of the Government Code and shall not be subject
to Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 6250) of the Government
Code.
   (b) The commission shall not be required to obtain records not in its
possession in response to a subpoena. Prior to releasing records required
to be kept pursuant to this chapter in response to a subpoena, the
commission shall delete any financial information about any operation
or transaction, information regarding the identity of suppliers or
customers, the quantity or price of supplies purchased or products sold
and any information marked trade secret or confidential.
   (c) Except for those records subject to public inspection pursuant to
Sections 55071 and 55074, this section shall be the exclusive means of
public access to records required to be kept or obtained by the
commission pursuant to this chapter.
   55076. Upon receipt of a petition from any person providing
adequate evidence of good cause to do so, the commission may declare
all rice produced within a specified area to be certified as to any attribute.
If the commission makes this declaration, all rice produced within the
area shall be deemed certified, and may be labeled as provided in Section
55082 if the rice is handled to preserve its identity.

                    Article 8.   Sale of Certified Rice

  55080. Every person engaged in this state in the production or
handling of rice to be identified as certified pursuant to this chapter, shall
register with the commission or its designate prior to the first sale of rice
so identified, and shall thereafter annually renew the registration unless
the person is no longer engaged in the activities requiring registration.
 3918                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 579 ]
  55081. Registration shall be on a form developed by the
commission, or developed by its designate and approved by the
commission, and shall be valid for one rice producing season.
  55082. Rice certified pursuant to this chapter shall be labeled as
follows or with substantially similar language:

‘‘THIS LOT OF RICE CERTIFIED (accurate identification of specified
attribute) IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CALIFORNIA RICE
CERTIFICATION ACT OF 2000.’’

   The label shall also include the name of any organization that provided
the certification as the commission’s designate. The commission may
revise the label language with the concurrence of the secretary.
   55083. This chapter shall apply to all rice sold as certified pursuant
to this chapter within the state, wherever produced or handled, and to all
rice produced or handled in the state, wherever sold as certified, pursuant
to this chapter; except that in lieu of registration under this chapter, the
commission may recognize a certification program operating outside the
state that certifies rice sold as certified, provided that program meets
minimum standards substantially similar to those contained in this
chapter. The commission may establish a procedure whereby
certification organizations operating outside the state may apply for and
receive recognition.

                          Article 9.   Violations

  55100. (a) It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale,
advertise, or label rice in violation of this chapter.
  (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), a person engaged in business as
a retailer of rice who in good faith sells, offers for sale, labels, or
advertises any rice in reliance on the representations of a producer or
handler that the rice may be sold as certified, shall not be found to violate
this chapter, except under any of the following circumstances:
  (1) The retailer knew or should have known that the rice could not be
sold as certified.
  (2) The retailer was engaged in producing or handling the rice.
  (3) The retailer prescribed or specified the manner in which the rice
was produced or handled.
  55101. (a) It is unlawful for any person to certify rice in violation
of this chapter.
  (b) It is unlawful for any person to certify rice unless designated by
the commission.
[Ch. 579 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3919

   (c) It is unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement
or representation, or knowingly fail to disclose a fact required to be
disclosed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 55070).
   55102. (a) It is unlawful for any person to produce or handle rice
sold as certified unless duly registered pursuant to Section 55080.
   (b) It is unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement
or representation, or knowingly fail to disclose a fact required to be
disclosed, during registration pursuant to Section 55080.
   55103. It is unlawful for any person to forge, falsify, fail to retain,
fail to obtain, or fail to disclose records as required by this chapter.
   55104. It is unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to pay any
assessments levied pursuant to this chapter.
   55105. It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, or
otherwise distribute, plant, grow, harvest, handle, or store rice, except in
compliance with this chapter and the regulations adopted under it.
   55106. (a) The secretary may levy a civil penalty against any
person who violates this chapter, or any regulations adopted pursuant to
this chapter, in an amount not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000)
for each violation. The amount of the penalty assessed for each violation
shall be based upon the nature of the violation, the seriousness of the
effect of the violation upon the effectuation of the purposes and
provisions of this chapter, and the impact of the penalty on the violator,
including the deterrent effect on future violations.
   (b) Upon a finding that a violation was unintentional, the secretary
may levy a civil penalty of not more than two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500) for each violation.
   (c) For a first offense, and upon a finding that the violation is minor
and unintentional, in lieu of a civil penalty as prescribed in subdivision
(a) or (b), the secretary may issue a notice of violation.
   (d) A person against whom a civil penalty is levied shall be afforded
an opportunity for a hearing before the secretary, upon a request made
within 30 days after the date of issuance of the notice of penalty. At the
hearing, the person shall be given the right to present evidence on his or
her own behalf. If no hearing is requested, the civil penalty shall
constitute a final and nonreviewable order.
   (e) If a hearing is held, review of the decision of the secretary may be
sought by the person against whom the civil penalty is levied within 30
days of the date of the final order of the secretary pursuant to Section
1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (f) A civil penalty levied by the secretary pursuant to this section may
be recovered in a civil action brought in the name of the state.
   55107. (a) Any violation of any provision of this chapter or the
regulations promulgated under it shall constitute grounds for injunctive
relief. An action for injunctive relief may be brought in a court of
 3920                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 580 ]
competent jurisdiction by the secretary. The commission shall also be
authorized to bring an action in its own name for injunctive relief on the
grounds provided for in this chapter.
  (b) Prior to bringing an action for injunctive relief pursuant to this
section, the commission shall review all available information,
recommend specific enforcement action to the secretary, and allow the
secretary the opportunity to respond, as provided for in Section 55060.
Notwithstanding the secretary’s response, nothing in this section shall
be construed as preventing the commission from bringing the action.
  55108. Penalties received pursuant to this article shall be handled as
specified in Section 55062.
  SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 580

 An act to amend Sections 15268, 15270, and 47605 of the Education
Code, relating to education.
            [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. (a) The Legislature hereby finds and declares all of
the following:
   (1) Paragraph (1) of subdivision (j) of Section 47605 of the Education
Code allows a charter school petitioner to submit a petition for the
establishment of a charter school directly to the State Board of Education
if the governing board of a school district denies the petition.
   (2) Under current law, the governing board of a school district or
county board of education is prohibited from denying a petition for the
establishment of a charter school unless it sets forth specific findings,
including findings that the petition does not contain reasonably
comprehensive descriptions of certain criteria. Use of the term
‘‘reasonably comprehensive’’ is somewhat subjective and should be
defined, consistent with the intent of existing charter school law, and
[Ch. 580 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3921

within the context of a rubric that will be used for the evaluation of
charter school petitions under review by the State Board of Education.
   (3) In order to ensure implementation of the appeal process
established in law, clear criteria must be established for the review and
approval of charter petitions.
   (b) It is the intent of the Legislature that the State Board of Education
shall review a petition for the establishment of a charter school pursuant
to subdivision (b) of Section 47605 of the Education Code, which
prescribes the reasons why a charter can be denied, provided it makes
written factual findings, specific to the particular petition.
   SEC. 2. Section 15268, as added by Chapter 44 of the Statutes of
2000 is amended to read:
   15268. The total amount of bonds issued, including bonds issued
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 15100), shall not
exceed 1.25 percent of the taxable property of the district as shown by
the last equalized assessment of the county or counties in which the
district is located. The bonds may only be issued if the tax rate levied to
meet the requirements of Section 18 of Article XVI of the California
Constitution in the case of indebtedness incurred by a school district
pursuant to this chapter, at a single election, would not exceed thirty
dollars ($30) per year per one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) of
taxable property when assessed valuation is projected by the district to
increase in accordance with Article XIII A of the California
Constitution. For purposes of this section, the taxable property of a
district for any fiscal year shall be calculated to include, but not be
limited to, the assessed value of all unitary and operating nonunitary
property of the district, which shall be derived by dividing the gross
assessed value of the unitary and operating nonunitary property within
the district for the 1987–88 fiscal year by the gross assessed value of all
unitary and operating nonunitary property within the county in which the
district is located for the 1987–88 fiscal year, and multiplying that result
by the gross assessed value of all unitary and operating nonunitary
property of the county on the last equalized assessment roll.
   SEC. 3. Section 15270, as added by Chapter 44 of the Statutes of
2000, is amended to read:
   15270. (a) Notwithstanding Sections 15102 and 15268, any unified
school district may issue bonds pursuant to this article that, in
aggregation with bonds issued pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 15100), may not exceed 2.5 percent of the taxable property of
the district as shown by the last equalized assessment of the county or
counties in which the district is located. The bonds may only be issued
if the tax rate levied to meet the requirements of Section 18 of Article
XVI of the California Constitution in the case of indebtedness incurred
pursuant to this chapter at a single election, by a unified school district,
 3922                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 580 ]
would not exceed sixty dollars ($60) per year per one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) of taxable property when assessed valuation is
projected by the district to increase in accordance with Article XIII A of
the California Constitution.
   (b) Notwithstanding Sections 15102 and 15268, any community
college district may issue bonds pursuant to this article that, in
aggregation with bonds issued pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 15100), may not exceed 2.5 percent of the taxable property of
the district as shown by the last equalized assessment of the county or
counties in which the district is located. The bonds may only be issued
if the tax rate levied to meet the requirements of Section 18 of Article
XVI of the California Constitution in the case of indebtedness incurred
pursuant to this chapter at a single election, by a community college
district, would not exceed twenty-five dollars ($25) per year per one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) of taxable property when assessed
valuation is projected by the district to increase in accordance with
Article XIII A of the California Constitution.
   (c) In computing the outstanding bonded indebtedness of any unified
school district or community college district for all purposes of this
section, any outstanding bonds shall be deemed to have been issued for
elementary school purposes, high school purposes, and community
college purposes, respectively, in the respective amounts that the
proceeds of the sale of those outstanding bonds, excluding any premium
and accrued interest received on that sale, were or have been allocated
by the governing board of the unified school district or community
college district to each of those purposes respectively.
   (d) For purposes of this section, the taxable property of a district for
any fiscal year shall be calculated to include, but not be limited to, the
assessed value of all unitary and operating nonunitary property of the
district, which shall be derived by dividing the gross assessed value of
the unitary and operating nonunitary property within the district for the
1987–88 fiscal year by the gross assessed value of all unitary and
operating nonunitary property within the county in which the district is
located for the 1987–88 fiscal year, and multiplying the result by the
gross assessed value of all unitary and operating nonunitary property of
the county on the last equalized assessment roll. In the event of the
unification of two or more school districts subsequent to the 1987–88
fiscal year, the assessed value of all unitary and operating nonunitary
property of the unified district shall be deemed to be the total of the
assessed value of the taxable property of each of the unifying districts
as that assessed value would be determined under Section 15268.
   (e) For the purposes of this article, ‘‘general obligation bonds,’’ as
that term is used in Section 18 of Article XVI of the California
Constitution, means bonds of a school district or community college
[Ch. 580 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3923

district the repayment of which is provided for by this chapter and
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 15100) of Part 10.
   SEC. 4. Section 47605 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   47605. (a) (1) Except as set forth in paragraph (2), a petition for the
establishment of a charter school within any school district may be
circulated by any one or more persons seeking to establish the charter
school. The petition may be submitted to the governing board of the
school district for review after either of the following conditions are met:
   (A) The petition has been signed by a number of parents or guardians
of pupils that is equivalent to at least one-half of the number of pupils
that the charter school estimates will enroll in the school for its first year
of operation.
   (B) The petition has been signed by a number of teachers that is
equivalent to at least one-half of the number of teachers that the charter
school estimates will be employed at the school during its first year of
operation.
   (2) In the case of a petition for the establishment of a charter school
through the conversion of an existing public school, that would not be
eligible for a loan pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 41365, the
petition may be circulated by any one or more persons seeking to
establish the converted charter school. The petition may be submitted to
the governing board of the school district for review after the petition has
been signed by not less than 50 percent of the permanent status teachers
currently employed at the public school to be converted.
   (3) A petition shall include a prominent statement that a signature on
the petition means that the parent or guardian is meaningfully interested
in having his or her child, or ward, attend the charter school, or in the case
of a teacher’s signature, means that the teacher is meaningfully
interested in teaching at the charter school. The proposed charter shall
be attached to the petition.
   (b) No later than 30 days after receiving a petition, in accordance with
subdivision (a), the governing board of the school district shall hold a
public hearing on the provisions of the charter, at which time the
governing board of the school district shall consider the level of support
for the petition by teachers employed by the district, other employees of
the district, and parents. Following review of the petition and the public
hearing, the governing board of the school district shall either grant or
deny the charter within 60 days of receipt of the petition, provided,
however, that the date may be extended by an additional 30 days if both
parties agree to the extension. In reviewing petitions for the
establishment of charter schools pursuant to this section, the chartering
authority shall be guided by the intent of the Legislature that charter
schools are and should become an integral part of the California
educational system and that establishment of charter schools should be
 3924                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 580 ]
encouraged. A school district governing board shall grant a charter for
the operation of a school under this part if it is satisfied that granting the
charter is consistent with sound educational practice. The governing
board of the school district shall not deny a petition for the establishment
of a charter school unless it makes written factual findings, specific to
the particular petition, setting forth specific facts to support one or more
of the following findings:
   (1) The charter school presents an unsound educational program for
the pupils to be enrolled in the charter school.
   (2) The petitioners are demonstrably unlikely to successfully
implement the program set forth in the petition.
   (3) The petition does not contain the number of signatures required
by subdivision (a).
   (4) The petition does not contain an affirmation of each of the
conditions described in subdivision (d).
   (5) The petition does not contain reasonably comprehensive
descriptions of all of the following:
   (A) A description of the educational program of the school, designed,
among other things, to identify those whom the school is attempting to
educate, what it means to be an ‘‘educated person’’ in the 21st century,
and how learning best occurs. The goals identified in that program shall
include the objective of enabling pupils to become self-motivated,
competent, and lifelong learners.
   (B) The measurable pupil outcomes identified for use by the charter
school. ‘‘Pupil outcomes,’’ for purposes of this part, means the extent to
which all pupils of the school demonstrate that they have attained the
skills, knowledge, and attitudes specified as goals in the school’s
educational program.
   (C) The method by which pupil progress in meeting those pupil
outcomes is to be measured.
   (D) The governance structure of the school, including, but not limited
to, the process to be followed by the school to ensure parental
involvement.
   (E) The qualifications to be met by individuals to be employed by the
school.
   (F) The procedures that the school will follow to ensure the health and
safety of pupils and staff. These procedures shall include the requirement
that each employee of the school furnish the school with a criminal
record summary as described in Section 44237.
   (G) The means by which the school will achieve a racial and ethnic
balance among its pupils that is reflective of the general population
residing within the territorial jurisdiction of the school district to which
the charter petition is submitted.
   (H) Admission requirements, if applicable.
[Ch. 580 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3925

   (I) The manner in which annual, independent, financial audits shall
be conducted, which shall employ generally accepted accounting
principles, and the manner in which audit exceptions and deficiencies
shall be resolved to the satisfaction of the chartering authority.
   (J) The procedures by which pupils can be suspended or expelled.
   (K) The manner by which staff members of the charter schools will
be covered by the State Teachers’ Retirement System, the Public
Employees’ Retirement System, or federal social security.
   (L) The public school attendance alternatives for pupils residing
within the school district who choose not to attend charter schools.
   (M) A description of the rights of any employee of the school district
upon leaving the employment of the school district to work in a charter
school, and of any rights of return to the school district after employment
at a charter school.
   (N) The procedures to be followed by the charter school and the entity
granting the charter to resolve disputes relating to provisions of the
charter.
   (O) A declaration whether or not the charter school shall be deemed
the exclusive public school employer of the employees of the charter
school for the purposes of the Educational Employment Relations Act
(Chapter 10.7 (commencing with Section 3540) of Division 4 of Title 1
of the Government Code).
   (c) (1) Charter schools shall meet all statewide standards and
conduct the pupil assessments required pursuant to Section 60605 and
any other statewide standards authorized in statute or pupil assessments
applicable to pupils in noncharter public schools.
   (2) Charter schools shall on a regular basis consult with their parents
and teachers regarding the school’s educational programs.
   (d) (1) In addition to any other requirement imposed under this part,
a charter school shall be nonsectarian in its programs, admission
policies, employment practices, and all other operations, shall not charge
tuition, and shall not discriminate against any pupil on the basis of
ethnicity, national origin, gender, or disability. Except as provided in
paragraph (2), admission to a charter school shall not be determined
according to the place of residence of the pupil, or of his or her parent
or guardian, within this state, except that any existing public school
converting partially or entirely to a charter school under this part shall
adopt and maintain a policy giving admission preference to pupils who
reside within the former attendance area of that public school.
   (2) (A) A charter school shall admit all pupils who wish to attend the
school.
   (B) However, if the number of pupils who wish to attend the charter
school exceeds the school’s capacity, attendance, except for existing
pupils of the charter school, shall be determined by a public random
 3926                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 580 ]
drawing. Preference shall be extended to pupils currently attending the
charter school and pupils who reside in the district. Other preferences
may be permitted by the chartering authority on an individual school
basis and only if consistent with the law.
   (C) In the event of a drawing, the chartering authority shall make
reasonable efforts to accommodate the growth of the charter school and,
in no event, shall take any action to impede the charter school from
expanding enrollment to meet pupil demand.
   (e) No governing board of a school district shall require any employee
of the school district to be employed in a charter school.
   (f) No governing board of a school district shall require any pupil
enrolled in the school district to attend a charter school.
   (g) The governing board of a school district shall require that the
petitioner or petitioners provide information regarding the proposed
operation and potential effects of the school, including, but not limited
to, the facilities to be utilized by the school, the manner in which
administrative services of the school are to be provided, and potential
civil liability effects, if any, upon the school and upon the school district.
The petitioner or petitioners shall also be required to provide financial
statements that include a proposed first-year operational budget,
including startup costs, and cash-flow and financial projections for the
first three years of operation.
   (h) In reviewing petitions for the establishment of charter schools
within the school district, the school district governing board shall give
preference to petitions that demonstrate the capability to provide
comprehensive learning experiences to pupils identified by the
petitioner or petitioners as academically low achieving pursuant to the
standards established by the State Department of Education under
Section 54032.
   (i) Upon the approval of the petition by the governing board of the
school district, the petitioner or petitioners shall provide written notice
of that approval, including a copy of the petition, to the State Board of
Education.
   (j) (1) If the governing board of a school district denies a petition, the
petitioner may elect to submit the petition for the establishment of a
charter school to either the county board of education or directly to the
State Board of Education. The county board of education or the State
Board of Education, as the case may be, shall review the petition
pursuant to subdivision (b). If the petitioner elects to submit a petition
for establishment of a charter school to the county board of education and
the county board of education denies the petition, the petitioner may file
a petition for establishment of a charter school with the State Board of
Education.
[Ch. 580 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3927

   (2) In assuming its role as a chartering agency, the State Board of
Education shall develop criteria to be used for the review and approval
of charter school petitions presented to the State Board of Education.
The criteria shall address all elements required for charter approval, as
identified in subdivision (b) of Section 47605 and shall define
‘‘reasonably comprehensive’’ as used in paragraph (5) of subdivision (b)
of Section 47605 in a way that is consistent with the intent of the Charter
Schools Act of 1992. Upon satisfactory completion of the criteria, the
State Board of Education shall adopt the criteria on or before June 30,
2001.
   (3) A charter school for which a charter is granted by either the county
board of education or the State Board of Education pursuant to this
subdivision shall qualify fully as a charter school for all funding and
other purposes of this part.
   (4) If either the county board of education or the State Board of
Education fails to act on a petition within 120 days of receipt, the
decision of the governing board of the school district, to deny a petition
shall, thereafter, be subject to judicial review.
   (5) The State Board of Education shall adopt regulations
implementing this subdivision.
   (6) Upon the approval of the petition by the county board of
education, the petitioner or petitioners shall provide written notice of
that approval, including a copy of the petition to the State Board of
Education.
   (k) (1) The State Board of Education may, by mutual agreement,
designate its supervisorial and oversight responsibilities for a charter
school approved by the State Board of Education to any local education
agency in the county in which the charter school is located or to the
governing board of the school district that first denied the petition.
   (2) The designated local education agency shall have all monitoring
and supervising authority of a chartering agency, including, but not
limited to, powers and duties set forth in Section 47607, except the
power of revocation, which shall remain with the State Board of
Education.
   (3) A charter school that has been granted its charter by the State
Board of Education and elects to seek renewal of its charter shall, prior
to expiration of the charter, submit its petition for renewal to the
governing board of the school district that initially denied the charter. If
the governing board of the school district denies the school’s petition for
renewal, the school may petition the State Board of Education for
renewal of its charter.
   (l) Teachers in charter schools shall be required to hold a Commission
on Teacher Credentialing certificate, permit, or other document
equivalent to that which a teacher in other public schools would be
 3928                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 581 ]
required to hold. These documents shall be maintained on file at the
charter school and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
chartering authority. It is the intent of the Legislature that charter schools
be given flexibility with regard to noncore, noncollege preparatory
courses.



                             CHAPTER 581

  An act to amend Section 42238.2 of the Education Code, relating to
school districts.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 42238.2 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   42238.2. (a) (1) Notwithstanding Section 42238.5 or any other
provision of law, a school district that meets any of the following
conditions shall be entitled to an adjustment to its units of average daily
attendance pursuant to this section:
   (A) The school district experiences a decline in the number of units
of average daily attendance in excess of 8 percent of its total average
daily attendance as a result of the closure of a facility operated by a
branch of the United States Armed Forces in the school district’s
boundaries.
   (B) The school district experiences a decline in the number of units
of average daily attendance that is less than 8 percent but at least 5
percent of its total average daily attendance as a result of the closure of
a facility operated by a branch of the United States Armed Forces in that
school district’s boundaries, upon a finding by both the Superintendent
of Public Instruction and the Director of Finance that both of the
following conditions exist:
   (i) The school district demonstrates that at the end of a three-year
period the school district will experience a 10-percent reduction in the
amount of funding that the school district would otherwise have received
from state apportionments, funding received pursuant to the California
State Lottery Act of 1984 (Chapter 12.5 (commencing with Section
8880) of Division 1 of Title 2 of the Government Code), and funding
received pursuant to Title VIII of Public Law 103-382, as a result of the
loss of pupils related to the closure of a facility operated by a branch of
the United States Armed Forces.
[Ch. 581 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3929

   (ii) The fiscal crisis and management assistance team established
pursuant to Section 42127.8 has reviewed the school district’s finances
and has found that the school district has taken significant steps to reduce
expenditure.
   (C) The school district experiences a decline in the number of units
of average daily attendance in excess of 5 percent of its total average
daily attendance and the Director of Finance determines that the school
district is likely, within eight years of that decline, to maintain a number
of units of average daily attendance that is equivalent to the number of
units of average daily attendance maintained by the school district prior
to the decline. Notwithstanding subdivision (b), loan repayments shall
commence no later than the fourth year after the base year or at a later
time, as determined by the Director of Finance.
   (2) For purposes of this section, the year preceding a decline shall be
the base year.
   (b) In the second year after the base year, the district average daily
attendance pursuant to Section 42238.5 may, if the district chooses, be
increased by 75 percent of the difference between the base year units of
average daily attendance and the units of average daily attendance in the
first year of decline. In the third year after the base year, the district
average daily attendance pursuant to Section 42238.5 may, if the district
chooses, be increased by 50 percent of the difference between the base
year units of average daily attendance and the units of average daily
attendance in the first year of decline. The amount of money represented
by these increases shall be considered a loan to the school district. Loan
repayments shall commence no later than the fourth year after the base
year.
   (c) (1) The Superintendent of Public Instruction, in consultation
with a school district subject to this section, shall determine a schedule
for repayment of the total amount loaned pursuant to this section which
may not exceed 10 years. Payments shall include interest charged at a
rate based on the most current investment rate of the Pooled Money
Investment Account in the General Fund as of the date of the
disbursement of funds to the school district.
   (2) Upon written notification by the Superintendent of Public
Instruction that the school district has not made one or more of the
payments required by the schedule established pursuant to paragraph
(1), the Controller shall withhold from Section A of the State School
Fund the defaulted payment which shall not exceed the amount of any
apportionment entitlement of the district to moneys in Section A of the
State School Fund. In that regard, the Controller shall withhold the
amount of any payment made under this subdivision, including
reimbursement of the Controller’s administrative costs as determined
under a schedule approved by the California Debt Advisory
 3930                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 582 ]
Commission, from subsequent apportionments to the school district
from Section A of the State School Fund.
   (3) Any apportionments made by the Controller pursuant to
paragraph (2) shall be deemed to be an allocation to the school district
for purposes of subdivision (b) of Section 8 of Article XVI of the
California Constitution, and for purposes of Chapter 2 (commencing
with Section 41200) of Part 24.
   (d) In no event shall the adjustment provided by this section cause the
apportionment to a school district to exceed the amount that would
otherwise be calculated for apportionment to the district pursuant to
Sections 42238 and 42238.1.
  (e) This section does not apply to a school district that experiences a
decline in enrollment as a result of a school district reorganization
pursuant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 35500) of Part 21 or
any other law.



                            CHAPTER 582

   An act to amend Section 8483.3 of the Education Code, relating to
after school programs.
            [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8483.3 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   8483.3. (a) The State Department of Education shall select
applicants to participate in the program established pursuant to this
article from among applicants that apply on forms and in a manner
prescribed by the department. To the extent possible, the selection of
applicants by the State Department of Education shall result in an
equitable distribution of grant awards pursuant to Section 8483.7 to
applicants in northern, southern, and central California, and in urban,
suburban, and rural areas of California.
   (b) The State Department of Education shall consider the following
in selecting schools to participate in the program established pursuant to
this article, with primary emphasis given to items (1) through (5):
   (1) Strength of the educational component.
   (2) Quality of the educational enrichment component.
   (3) Strength of staff training and development component.
[Ch. 583 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            3931

   (4) Scope and strength of collaboration, including demonstrated
support of the schoolsite principal and staff.
   (5) Capacity to facilitate better integration with the regular schoolday
and other extended learning opportunities. These opportunities may
include arts, recreation, computer use, and other activities to broaden the
pupil’s learning experience.
   (6) Inclusion of a nutritional snack.
   (7) Employment of CalWORKs recipients.
   (8) Level and type of local matching funds.
   (9) Capacity to respond to program evaluation requirements.
   (10) Demonstrated fiscal accountability.
   (c) The State Department of Education shall develop reporting
requirements and allocation procedures, including procedures to
reimburse startup costs for programs established pursuant to this article.



                             CHAPTER 583

  An act to amend Sections 69612, 69613, 69613.1, 69613.2, 69613.4,
69613.5, 69614, 69615, 69615.4, and 69615.6 of, to add Section
69613.8 to, and to repeal Sections 69612.5, 69613.15, 69615.2, and
69616 of, the Education Code, relating to student financial aid.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 69612 of the Education Code, as amended by
Chapter 70 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
   69612. (a) The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (1) There is a growing shortage of high-quality classroom teachers,
and there is a need for qualified teachers throughout California.
   (2) One of the most important elements in a pupil’s success at learning
is the quality of the teacher.
   (3) The teacher shortage is most serious in particular subject areas,
partly due to the shortage of students in these fields who enter the
teaching profession.
   (4) Many school districts have difficulty recruiting and retaining
high-quality teachers for low-performing schools, for pupils with
special needs, for schools serving rural areas or large populations of
pupils from low-income and linguistic minority families, and for
schools with a high percentage of teachers holding emergency permits.
 3932                      STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 583 ]
   (5) The rising costs of higher education, coupled with a shift in
available financial aid from scholarships and grants to loans, make loan
repayment options an important consideration in a student’s decision to
pursue a postsecondary education.
   (6) The availability of financial aid and loan repayment assistance are
important considerations for many students, especially economically
disadvantaged students, in making their educational decisions.
   (b) It is, therefore, the intent of the Legislature that all of the following
occur:
   (1) The Assumption Program of Loans for Education be designed to
encourage persons to enter into the teaching profession in designated
subject matter shortage areas and in schools serving large populations of
pupils from low-income families, schools serving rural areas, schools
with a high percentage of teachers holding emergency permits, or
schools with any or all of these characteristics.
   (2) That the enactment of this article accomplish all of the following:
   (A) Providing outstanding postsecondary students, particularly
economically disadvantaged students, with the assurance of financial
assistance to encourage them to complete postsecondary education
programs leading to teaching credentials, and to seek employment as
teachers.
   (B) Providing persons who agree to become teacher trainees or
teacher interns in a subject matter shortage area with the assurance of
financial assistance to encourage them to complete the additional
coursework necessary to obtain a teaching credential.
   (C) Identifying subject matter areas or schools in which there are
shortages of fully credentialed teachers and provide incentives for
persons to obtain teaching credentials and seek teaching positions in
those areas.
   (D) Identifying schools serving rural areas, schools serving large
populations of students from low-income families, or both, and schools
with a high percentage of teachers holding emergency permits, and
provide incentives for persons to obtain teaching credentials and seek
teaching positions in those schools.
   (E) Identifying low-performing schools and provide incentives for
persons to obtain teaching credentials and seek teaching positions in
those schools. For the purpose of this article, ‘‘low-performing school’’
means a school in the bottom half of the Academic Performance Index
rankings established pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 52056 at the
time that a teacher is hired.
   (3) Commencing with the 2000–01 school year, all persons eligible
to enter into agreements for loan assumption pursuant to this article shall
be persons who need to complete training or coursework in order to be
fully credentialed, and who agree to obtain a credential and teach in a
[Ch. 583 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3933

designated subject matter shortage area or in a school that, at the time
that the teacher is hired, meets any of the following criteria:
   (A) Serves a large population of pupils from low-income families.
   (B) Has a high percentage of teachers holding emergency permits.
For the purposes of this article, a school with a ‘‘high percentage of
teachers holding emergency permits’’ is a school in which 20 percent or
more of the teachers hold emergency permits, teach pursuant to waivers
of credential requirements, or are interns.
   (C) Is a low-performing school.
   (4) Funding necessary for the administration of this article shall be
included within the annual budget of the commission in an amount
necessary to meet the student loan obligations incurred by the
commission.
   SEC. 2. Section 69612.5 of the Education Code, as amended by
Chapter 70 of the Statutes of 2000, is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 69613 of the Education Code, as amended by
Chapter 70 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
   69613. (a) (1) Any person enrolled in an eligible institution, or any
person who agrees to participate in a teacher trainee or teacher internship
program, may be eligible to enter into an agreement for loan assumption,
to be redeemed pursuant to Section 69613.2 upon becoming employed
as a teacher. In order to be eligible to enter into an agreement for loan
assumption, an applicant shall satisfy all of the conditions specified in
subdivision (b).
   (2) As used in this article, ‘‘eligible institution’’ means a
postsecondary institution that is determined by the Student Aid
Commission to meet both of the following requirements:
   (A) The institution is eligible to participate in state and federal
financial aid programs.
   (B) The institution maintains a program of professional preparation
that has been approved by the Commission on Teacher Credentialing.
   (b) (1) The applicant has completed at least 60 semester units, or the
equivalent, and is enrolled in an academic program leading to a
baccalaureate degree at an eligible institution, has agreed to participate
in a teacher trainee program or teacher internship program, or has been
admitted to a program of professional preparation that has been
approved by the Commission on Teacher Credentialing.
   (2) The applicant is currently enrolled, or has been admitted to a
program in which he or she will be enrolled on at least a half-time basis,
as determined by the participating institution. The applicant shall agree
to maintain satisfactory academic progress and a minimum of half-time
enrollment, as defined by the participating eligible institution.
 3934                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 583 ]
  (3) The applicant has been judged by his or her postsecondary
institution to have outstanding ability on the basis of criteria that may
include, but need not be limited to, any of the following:
  (A) Grade point average.
  (B) Test scores.
  (C) Faculty evaluations.
  (D) Interviews.
  (E) Other recommendations.
  (4) The applicant has received, or is approved to receive, a loan under
one or more of the following designated loan programs:
  (A) The Federal Family Education Loan Program (20 U.S.C. Sec.
1071 et seq.).
  (B) Any loan program approved by the Student Aid Commission.
  (5) The applicant has agreed to teach full time for at least four
consecutive academic years after obtaining a teaching credential in a
public elementary or secondary school in this state, in a subject area that
is designated as a current or projected shortage area by the
Superintendent of Public Instruction, or at a school that, at the time that
the teacher is hired, meets any of the following criteria:
  (A) It serves a large population of pupils from low-income families,
as designated by the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
  (B) It has 20 percent or more teachers holding emergency permits.
For the purposes of this paragraph, ‘‘teachers holding emergency
permits’’ includes persons who teach pursuant to waivers of credential
requirements or who are interns.
  (C) It is a low-performing school.
  (c) No applicant who has completed fewer than 60 units, or the
equivalent, shall be eligible under this section to participate in the loan
assumption program set forth in this article.
  (d) The agreements entered into each year pursuant to subdivision (b)
at each eligible institution or participating school district or county
office of education shall be with applicants who meet the criteria
specified in paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of Section 69612 or agree
to teach in any of the subject areas listed pursuant to that section. An
agreement shall remain valid even if the subject area under which an
applicant becomes eligible to enter into an agreement ceases to be a
designated shortage field by the time the applicant becomes a teacher.
  (e) For the purposes of calculating eligible years of teaching for the
redemption of an award, the designation by the Superintendent of Public
Instruction of a newly-opened school pursuant to Section 52056 shall
apply retroactively from the time of opening the school.
  (f) A person participating in the program pursuant to this section shall
not enter into more than one agreement.
[Ch. 583 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3935

   SEC. 4. Section 69613.1 of the Education Code, as amended by
Chapter 70 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
   69613.1. (a) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall furnish
the commission with all of the following:
   (a) Commencing January 1, 1990, and every January 1 thereafter, a
list of teaching fields that have the most critical shortage of teachers. The
superintendent shall review this list annually and revise the list as he or
she deems necessary. Commencing January 1, 2001, the list of shortage
areas furnished pursuant to this subdivision shall include the state
special schools as a category separate from special education.
   (b) A list of schools that serve a large population of pupils from
low-income families, as designated for purposes of the Perkins Loan
Program, or according to standards the superintendent deems
appropriate.
   (c) Commencing January 31, 2001, and every January 1 thereafter, a
list of schools with a high percentage of teachers holding emergency
permits. The list shall be established according to criteria determined by
the superintendent.
   (d) Commencing January 31, 2001, and every January 1 thereafter, a
list of schools serving rural areas. The list shall be established according
to standards deemed appropriate by the superintendent.
   (e) Commencing January 31, 2001, and every January 1 thereafter, a
list of low-performing schools.
   SEC. 5. Section 69613.15 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 6. Section 69613.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   69613.2. The commission shall commence loan assumption
payments, as specified in Section 69613.4, upon verification that the
applicant has fulfilled all of the following:
   (a) The applicant has received a teaching credential requiring a
baccalaureate degree, other than an emergency teaching permit,
authorizing service for kindergarten or any of grades 1 to 12, inclusive.
   (b) The applicant has provided full-time classroom instruction in a
public elementary or secondary school for the equivalent of one school
year.
   (c) The applicant has met the requirements of the agreement and all
other pertinent conditions of this article.
   SEC. 7. Section 69613.4 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   69613.4. (a) The terms of a loan assumption granted under this
article shall be as follows, subject to the specific terms of each
agreement:
   (1) After a program participant has completed one school year of
classroom instruction pursuant to Section 69613.2, the commission
shall assume up to two thousand dollars ($2,000) of the participant’s
outstanding liability under one or more of the designated loan programs.
 3936                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 583 ]
  (2) After a program participant has completed two consecutive
school years of instruction, the commission shall assume up to an
additional three thousand dollars ($3,000) of the participant’s
outstanding liability under one or more of the designated loan programs,
for a total loan assumption of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000).
  (3) After a program participant has completed three consecutive
school years of teaching service, the commission shall assume up to a
maximum of an additional three thousand dollars ($3,000) of the
participant’s outstanding liability under one or more of the designated
loan programs, for a total loan assumption of up to eight thousand dollars
($8,000).
  (4) After a program participant has completed four consecutive
school years of teaching service, the commission shall assume up to a
maximum of an additional three thousand dollars ($3,000) of the
participant’s outstanding liability under one or more of the designated
loan programs, for a total loan assumption of up to eleven thousand
dollars ($11,000).
  (b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘school year’’ means at least 175
school days or its equivalent.
  SEC. 8. Section 69613.5 of the Education Code, as amended by
Chapter 70 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
  69613.5. Notwithstanding paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of
Section 69612 and Section 69614, for the purposes of the recruitment of
teachers from outside California, the commission may make agreements
available to out-of-state teachers who fulfill the terms of Section
69613.4 and are otherwise eligible to enter into agreements. A teacher
who enters into an agreement pursuant to this section shall hold a valid
teaching credential, in the subject area of the California teaching
position, from the state in which he or she resides.
  SEC. 9. Section 69613.8 is added to the Education Code, to read:
  69613.8. In addition to the amounts set forth in subdivision (a) of
Section 69613.4, for each of the four years of classroom instruction
referenced in subdivision (a) of Section 69613.4, the following loan
assumption benefits shall be granted:
  (a) One thousand dollars ($1,000) of additional liability per year shall
be assumed for a person who holds a credential appropriate for teaching,
and who teaches, mathematics, science, or special education.
  (b) One thousand dollars ($1,000) of additional liability per year shall
be assumed for a person who teaches in a school in the lowest 20
percentile of Academic Performance Index rankings. Eligibility for the
benefit set forth in this subdivision shall be limited to a person who holds
a credential appropriate for teaching, and who teaches, mathematics,
science, or special education.
[Ch. 583 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3937

   (c) Not more than a total of five million dollars ($5,000,000) shall be
expended in any academic year for the purposes of this section.
   SEC. 10. Section 69614 of the Education Code, as amended by
Chapter 70 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
   69614. (a) The commission shall distribute program information
and student applications to participate in the loan assumption program
to each eligible institution and to each school district or county office of
education operating a district intern program pursuant to Section 44381.
Each eligible institution shall receive at least one application, and the
remainder shall be distributed to eligible institutions proportionate to the
number of teaching candidates from each institution who completed the
coursework required for a teaching credential during the previous year.
In addition, the commission shall reexamine its outreach and marketing
strategies to inform both potential undergraduates and persons
employed outside of academia about the availability and benefits of the
loan assumption program. To this end, the commission shall enlist the
advice and support of the California Center for the Teaching Profession,
the University of California, the California State University, the
Association of Independent California Colleges and Universities, and
private employers and their associations throughout the state.
   (b) Each eligible institution, school district, and county office of
education shall sign an institutional agreement with the commission,
certifying its intent to administer the loan assumption program
according to all applicable published rules, regulations, and guidelines,
and to make special efforts to notify students regarding the availability
of the program, particularly economically disadvantaged students.
   (c) To the extent feasible, each eligible institution shall coordinate the
loan assumption program with other programs designed to recruit
students to enter the teaching profession.
   SEC. 11. Section 69615 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   69615. (a) The commission shall administer this article, and shall
adopt rules and regulations for that purpose. The rules and regulations
shall include, but need not be limited to, provisions regarding the period
of time during which an agreement shall remain valid, the reallocation
of resources in light of agreements that are not utilized by program
participants, the failure, for any reason, of a program participant to
complete a minimum of four consecutive years of classroom instruction,
and the development of projections for funding purposes.
   (b) The commission shall solicit the advice of representatives from
postsecondary education institutions, the State Department of
Education, the Commission on Teacher Credentialing, school districts,
and county offices of education regarding proposed rules and
regulations.
   SEC. 12. Section 69615.2 of the Education Code is repealed.
 3938                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 583 ]
   SEC. 13. Section 69615.4 of the Education Code, as amended by
Chapter 70 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
   69615.4. The commission shall report annually to the Legislature
regarding all of the following, on the basis of sex, age, and ethnicity:
   (a) The total number of program participants.
   (b) The number of agreements entered into with juniors, seniors,
students enrolled in teacher training programs, and persons who agree
to enroll in teacher trainee programs or teacher internship programs.
   (c) The number of participants who agree to teach in a subject matter
shortage area.
   (d) The number of participants who agree to teach in schools with a
high ratio of pupils from low-income families and in low-performing
schools.
   (e) The number of participants who agree to teach in schools serving
rural areas.
   (f) The number of participants who agree to teach in schools with a
high percentage of teachers holding emergency permits.
   (g) The number of participants who receive a loan assumption
benefit, classified by payment year.
   (h) The number of participants who have participated in the Science,
Mathematics, and Technology Teacher Pipeline Program established by
Chapter 1271 of the Statutes of 1993.
   (i) The number of out-of-state teachers who enter into agreements.
   (j) The number of participants who have participated in teacher
trainee programs or teacher internship programs, classified by school
district or county office of education.
   SEC. 14. Section 69615.6 of the Education Code, as amended by
Chapter 70 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
   69615.6. (a) Beginning no later than the 1986–87 school year, and
each school year thereafter up to and including the 1997–98 school year,
the commission shall issue warrants for the assumption of up to 500
student loans for program participants eligible under this article.
   (b) For the 1998–99 school year, the commission shall issue warrants
for the assumption of up to 4,500 student loans for program participants
eligible under this article.
   (c) For the 1999–2000 school year the commission shall issue
warrants for the assumption of up to 5,500 student loans for program
participants eligible under this article.
   (d) Commencing with the 2000–01 school year, and each school year
thereafter, all of the following shall apply:
   (1) The commission shall enter into agreements for the assumption
of up to 6,500 student loans for program participants eligible under this
article.
[Ch. 584 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3939

  (2) Notwithstanding the limitation of 6,500 warrants set forth in
paragraph (1), the commission shall issue warrants in a quantity
determined by the Governor and the Legislature in the annual Budget
Act for the assumption of student loans.
  (3) Priority for these agreements shall be given to applicants who are
recipients of federally subsidized loans or other need-based loans, as
determined by the commission.
  (4) Priority for these agreements shall be given to applicants who
agree to obtain a teaching credential in mathematics or science.
  (e) In any school year, the commission may enter into no more than
500 agreements with applicants who participate in a district intern
program operated by a school district or a county office of education.
  (f) The issuance of warrants under this article in any fiscal year shall
be subject to the provision of funding therefor in the annual Budget Act.
  SEC. 15. Section 69616 of the Education Code is repealed.



                             CHAPTER 584

  An act to amend Section 42127.8 of, and to add and repeal Section
42127.85 of, the Education Code, relating to school districts.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 42127.8 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   42127.8. (a) The governing board provided for in subdivision (b)
shall establish a unit to be known as the County Office Fiscal Crisis and
Management Assistance Team. The team shall consist of persons having
extensive experience in school district budgeting, accounting, data
processing, telecommunications, risk management, food services, pupil
transportation, purchasing and warehousing, facilities maintenance and
operation, and personnel administration, organization, and staffing. The
Superintendent of Public Instruction may appoint one employee of the
State Department of Education to serve on the unit. The unit shall be
operated under the immediate direction of an appropriate county office
of education selected jointly, in response to an application process, by
the Superintendent of Public Instruction and the Secretary for Education.
   (b) The unit established under subdivision (a) shall be selected and
governed by a 23-member governing board consisting of one
representative chosen by the California County Superintendents
 3940                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 584 ]
Educational Services Association from each of the 11 county service
regions designated by the association, 11 superintendents of school
districts chosen by the Association of California School Administrators
from each of the 11 county service regions, and one representative from
the State Department of Education chosen by the Superintendent of
Public Instruction. The governing board of the County Office Fiscal
Crisis and Management Assistance Team shall select a county
superintendent of schools to chair the unit.
   (c) The Superintendent of Public Instruction may request the unit to
provide the assistance described in subdivision (b) of Section 1624,
Section 1630, Section 33132, subdivision (b) of Section 42127.3,
subdivision (c) of Section 42127.6, Section 42127.9, and subdivision (a)
of Section 42238.2, and to review the fiscal and administrative condition
of any county office of education.
   (d) In addition to the functions described in subdivision (c), the unit
shall do all of the following:
   (1) Provide fiscal management assistance, at the request of any school
district or county office of education. Each school district or county
office of education receiving that assistance shall be required to pay the
onsite personnel costs and travel costs incurred by the unit for that
purpose, pursuant to rates determined by the governing board
established under subdivision (b). The governing board annually shall
distribute rate information to each school district and county office of
education.
   (2) Facilitate training for members of the governing board of the
school district, district and county superintendents, chief financial
officers within the district, and schoolsite personnel whose primary
responsibility is to address fiscal issues. Training services shall
emphasize efforts to improve fiscal accountability and expand the fiscal
competency of local agencies. The unit shall use state professional
associations, private organizations, and public agencies to provide
guidance, support, and the delivery of any training services.
   (3) Facilitate fiscal management training through the 10 county
service regions to county office of education staff to ensure that they
develop the technical skills necessary to perform their fiduciary duty.
The governing board established pursuant to subdivision (b) shall
determine the extent of the training that is necessary to comply with this
paragraph.
   (4) Produce a training calendar, to be disseminated semiannually to
each county service region, that publicizes all of the fiscal training
services that are being offered at the local, regional, and state levels.
   (e) The governing board shall reserve not less than 25 percent, nor
more than 50 percent, of its revenues each year for expenditure for the
costs of contracts and professional services as management assistance to
[Ch. 584 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3941

school districts or county superintendents of schools in which the board
determines that a fiscal emergency exists.
   (f) The governing board established under subdivision (b) may levy
an annual assessment against each county office of education that elects
to participate under this section in an amount not to exceed twenty cents
($0.20) per unit of total average daily attendance for all school districts
within the county. The revenues collected pursuant to that assessment
shall be applied to the expenses of the unit.
   (g) The governing board established under subdivision (b) may pay
to the State Department of Education, from any available funds, a
reasonable amount to reimburse the department for actual administrative
expenses incurred in the review of the budgets and fiscal conditions of
school districts and county superintendents of schools.
   (h) When employed as a fiscal adviser by the State Department of
Education pursuant to Section 1630, employees of the unit established
pursuant to subdivision (a) shall be considered employees of the
department for purposes of errors and omissions liability insurance.
   SEC. 2. Section 42127.85 is added to the Education Code,
immediately following Section 42127.8, to read:
   42127.85. (a) In addition to the functions described in subdivisions
(c) and (d) of Section 42127.8, the unit established pursuant to
subdivision (a) of Section 42127.8 shall conduct a review, make
recommendations, and provide technical assistance, including a
followup review and report, to streamline and improve the hiring process
and related personnel system of a school district if the school district
meets all of the following criteria:
   (1) The school district has requested for at least three consecutive
years a variable term waiver pursuant to subdivision (m) of Section
44225 for authorization to hire teachers with emergency permits. For
each of these three years, the number of emergency permits that the
school district has requested either exceeds 20 percent of the school
district’s estimated need for credentialed teachers, or exceeds 50
permits, whichever is more.
   (2) The number of emergency permits the district has requested in its
latest declaration of need for fully qualified educators either exceeds 20
percent of the school district’s estimated need for credentialed teachers,
or exceeds 50 permits, whichever is more.
   (b) School districts shall not be required to pay for the costs incurred
by the unit in conducting any activities pursuant to this section or
providing any related assistance. Costs incurred by the unit shall be
pursuant to rates determined by the governing board established under
subdivision (b) of Section 42127.8, and it is the intent of the Legislature
that the costs shall be funded through the annual Budget Act.
 3942                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 584 ]
  (c) This section shall be implemented only to the extent funding is
provided for these purposes.
  (d) First priority for a review pursuant to this section shall be given
to school districts participating in a Teacher Recruitment Incentive
Program consortium pursuant to Chapter 3.44 (commencing with
Section 44751) of Part 25.
  (e) Except for a followup review and report, a school district shall not
receive a review of its personnel systems pursuant to this section any
more frequently than once in any five-year period.
  (f) (1) To the extent that the number of school districts that qualify
for unit review pursuant to this section exceeds that capacity of unit
funding or staffing resources, the unit shall select a representative
sample of school districts to be reviewed.
  (2) The sample shall be representative of the diverse geography, size,
and population density (urban, suburban, or rural) of the school districts
in question.
  (3) Within the sample, priority shall be given to school districts with
the greatest population of pupils attending schools with scores in the
lowest half of the state Academic Performance Index.
  (4) Review pursuant to this section shall not be conducted on more
than five school districts with average daily attendance of 1,500 or less.
  (g) Any school district that qualifies for review under this section
may elect not to participate if any of the following conditions are met:
  (1) Of the schools within the school district, the schools that scored
a 5 or less on the state Academic Performance Index have fewer than 20
percent of their teachers on emergency permits.
  (2) The school district has requested emergency permits for more
than 50 teachers, but fewer than 15 percent of their total estimated need
for credentialed teachers.
  (3) The school district has an average daily attendance of 1,500 or
less.
  (h) The unit shall report its activities annually to the Legislature and
shall report in a summarized format on January 1, 2005.
  (i) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2006, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.
  SEC. 3. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
one-million-dollar ($1,000,000) reappropriation to the State
Department of Education for allocation to the Fiscal Crisis and
Management Assistance Team contained in subdivision (e) of Item
6110-485 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000 shall also be
available for costs incurred by the Fiscal Crisis and Management
Assistance Team pursuant to Section 42127.85 of the Education Code.
[Ch. 585 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3943

   SEC. 4. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 585

  An act to amend Sections 33353, 33354, and 35179 of, and to repeal
and amend Section 33352 of, the Education Code, and to amend Section
1 of Chapter 151 of the Statutes of 1996, relating to interscholastic
athletics.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 33352 of the Education Code, as amended by
Chapter 487 of the Statutes of 1993, is repealed.
  SEC. 2. Section 33352 of the Education Code, as amended by
Chapter 151 of the Statutes of 1996, is amended to read:
  33352. (a) The State Department of Education shall exercise
general supervision over the courses of physical education in elementary
and secondary schools of the state; advise school officials, school
boards, and teachers in matters of physical education; and investigate the
work in physical education in the public schools.
  (b) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
  SEC. 3. Section 33353 of the Education Code is amended to read:
  33353. (a) The California Interscholastic Federation is a voluntary
organization consisting of school and school related personnel with
responsibility for administering interscholastic athletic activities in
secondary schools. It is the intent of the Legislature that the California
Interscholastic Federation, in consultation with the State Department of
Education, implement the following policies:
  (1) Give the governing boards of school districts specific authority to
select their athletic league representatives.
 3944                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 585 ]
   (2) Require that all league, section, and state meetings affiliated with
the California Interscholastic Federation be subject to the notice and
hearing requirements of the Ralph M. Brown Act (Chapter 9
(commencing with Section 54950) of Division 2 of Title 5 of the
Government Code).
   (3) Establish a neutral final appeals body to hear complaints related
to interscholastic athletic policies.
   (b) The California Interscholastic Federation shall report to the
Legislature and the Governor on its evaluation and accountability
activities undertaken pursuant to this section on or before January 1,
2002.
   (c) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 4. Section 33354 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   33354. (a) The State Department of Education shall have the
following authority over interscholastic athletics:
   (1) The department may state that the policies of school districts, of
associations or consortia of school districts, and of the California
Interscholastic Federation, concerning interscholastic athletics, are in
compliance with both state and federal law.
   (2) If the department states that a school district, an association, or
consortium of school districts, or the California Interscholastic
Federation is not in compliance with state or federal law, the department
may require the school district, association, or consortium, or the
federation to adjust its policy so that it is in compliance. However, the
department shall not have authority to determine the specific policy that
a school district, association, or consortium, or the federation must adopt
in order to comply with state and federal laws.
   (3) If the department states that a school district, association, or
consortium, or the federation is not in compliance with state or federal
law in matters relating to interscholastic activities, and the school
district, association, or consortium, or the federation does not change its
policy in order to comply with these laws, the department may
commence with appropriate legal proceedings against the California
Interscholastic Federation, the school district or against school districts
that are members of the California Interscholastic Federation or the
association or consortium that the department states is in
noncompliance. In a legal proceeding the court shall determine the
matter de novo. The department may make recommendations for
appropriate remedies in these proceedings.
   (b) This section shall not be construed or interpreted to limit the
discretion of local governing boards, or voluntary associations formed
or maintained pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 35179, in any
[Ch. 585 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3945

policy, program, or activity that is in compliance with state and federal
law.
   (c) The state law with which the policies of school districts,
associations, or consortia of school districts, and of the California
Interscholastic Federation, concerning interscholastic athletics, are
required to comply, in accordance with this section, includes, but is not
limited to, any regulations issued by the State Board of Education
pursuant to Section 232 with regard to sex discrimination in
interscholastic athletics.
   (d) This Section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 5. Section 35179 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   35179. (a) Each school district governing board shall have general
control of, and be responsible for, all aspects of the interscholastic
athletic policies, programs, and activities in its district, including, but
not limited to, eligibility, season of sport, number of sports, personnel,
and sports facilities. In addition, the board shall assure that all
interscholastic policies, programs, and activities in its district are in
compliance with state and federal law.
   (b) Governing boards may enter into associations or consortia with
other boards for the purpose of governing regional or statewide
interscholastic athletic programs by permitting the public schools under
their jurisdictions to enter into a voluntary association with other schools
for the purpose of enacting and enforcing rules relating to eligibility for,
and participation in, interscholastic athletic programs among and
between schools.
   (c) Each governing board, or its designee, shall represent the
individual schools located within its jurisdiction in any voluntary
association of schools formed or maintained pursuant to this section.
   (d) No voluntary interscholastic athletic association, of which any
public school is a member, shall discriminate against, or deny the
benefits of any program to, any person on the basis of race, sex, or ethnic
origin.
   (e) Interscholastic athletics is defined as those policies, programs,
and activities that are formulated or executed in conjunction with, or in
contemplation of, athletic contests between two or more schools, either
public or private.
   (f) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 6. Section 1 of Chapter 151 of the Statutes of 1996 is amended
to read:
   Sec. 1. (a) The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
 3946                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 586 ]
   (1) The California Interscholastic Federation (CIF) is a voluntary
organization that was first organized in 1914. It consists of school
personnel that has had general responsibility for administering
interscholastic athletic activities in high school sports and is accountable
to governing boards of school districts and other local agencies.
   (2) The CIF is associated with over 1,200 member schools and over
400,000 girls and boys. Through participation in athletic-centered
interscholastic activities, high school pupils in California develop
values, attitudes, and skills for personal growth.
   (3) The mission of the CIF is to fulfill its commitment to educating
California’s youth for a better tomorrow and to work in partnership with
the entire community to assure equity and provide services,
opportunities, and leadership necessary to establish and maintain quality
high school athletic programs.
   (4) The CIF is governed by state and federal statutes regarding
athletics and complies with State Board of Education guidelines
regarding discrimination and gender equity. In addition, the CIF is
governed by its own constitution and corresponding bylaws that are
developed and approved by a 30-member federated council representing
all facets of the education community.
   (5) In 1994, the CIF completed a statewide strategic plan to examine
policies and practices and in 1996, a report was presented to the
Legislature.
   (b) This act shall be known and may be cited as the California
Interscholastic Athletic Act.



                             CHAPTER 586

  An act to amend Section 41365 of, and to add Sections 41366.5,
41366.7, and 41367 to, the Education Code, relating to charter schools.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 41365 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
  41365. (a) The Charter School Revolving Loan Fund is hereby
created in the State Treasury. The Charter School Revolving Loan Fund
shall be comprised of federal funds obtained by the state for charter
schools and any other funds appropriated or transferred to the fund
through the annual budget process. Funds appropriated to the Charter
[Ch. 586 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             3947

School Revolving Loan Fund shall remain available for the purposes of
the fund until reappropriated or reverted by the Legislature through the
annual Budget Act or any other act.
   (b) Loans may be made from moneys in the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund to a chartering authority for charter schools that
are not a conversion of an existing school, or directly to a charter school
that qualifies to receive funding pursuant to Chapter 6 (commencing
with Section 47630) that is not a conversion of an existing school, upon
application of a chartering authority or charter school and approval by
the Superintendent of Public Instruction. A loan is for use by the charter
school during the period from the date the charter is granted pursuant to
Section 47605 to the end of the fiscal year in which the charter school
first enrolls pupils. Money loaned to a chartering authority for a charter
school, or to a charter school, pursuant to this section shall be used only
to meet the purposes of the charter granted pursuant to Section 47605.
The loan to a chartering authority for a charter school, or to a charter
school, pursuant to this subdivision shall not exceed two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000). This subdivision does not apply to a
charter school that obtains renewal of a charter pursuant to Section
47607.
   (c) Commencing with the first fiscal year following the fiscal year the
charter school first enrolls pupils, the Controller shall deduct from
apportionments made to the chartering authority or charter school, as
appropriate, an amount equal to the annual repayment of the amount
loaned to the chartering authority or charter school for the charter school
under this section and pay the same amount into the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund in the State Treasury. Repayment of the full
amount loaned to the chartering authority shall be deducted by the
Controller in equal annual amounts over a number of years agreed upon
between the loan recipient and the State Department of Education, not
to exceed five years for any loan.
   (d) (1) Notwithstanding other provisions of law, a loan may be made
directly to a charter school pursuant to this section only in the case of a
charter school that is incorporated.
   (2) Notwithstanding other provisions of law, in the case of default of
a loan made directly to a charter school pursuant to this section, the
charter school shall be solely liable for repayment of the loan.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 41365 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   41365. (a) The Charter School Revolving Loan Fund is hereby
created in the State Treasury. The Charter School Revolving Loan Fund
shall be comprised of federal funds obtained by the state for charter
schools and any other funds appropriated or transferred to the fund
through the annual budget process. Funds appropriated to the Charter
School Revolving Loan Fund shall remain available for the purposes of
 3948                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 586 ]
the fund until reappropriated or reverted by the Legislature through the
annual Budget Act or any other act.
   (b) Loans may be made from moneys in the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund to a chartering authority for charter schools that
are not a conversion of an existing school, or directly to a charter school
that qualifies to receive funding pursuant to Chapter 6 (commencing
with Section 47630) that is not a conversion of an existing school, upon
application of a chartering authority or charter school and approval by
the Superintendent of Public Instruction. Money loaned to a chartering
authority for a charter school, or to a charter school, pursuant to this
section shall be used only to meet the purposes of the charter granted
pursuant to Section 47605. The loan to a chartering authority for a
charter school, or to a charter school, pursuant to this subdivision shall
not exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) over the
lifetime of the charter school. A charter school may receive money
obtained from multiple loans made directly to the charter school or to the
school’s chartering authority from the Charter School Revolving Loan
Fund, as long as the total amount received from the fund over the lifetime
of the charter school does not exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000). This subdivision does not apply to a charter school that
obtains renewal of a charter pursuant to Section 47607.
   (c) The Superintendent of Public Instruction may consider all of the
following when making a determination as to the approval of a charter
school’s loan application:
   (1) Soundness of the financial business plans of the applicant charter
school.
   (2) Availability of the charter school of other sources of funding.
   (3) Geographic distribution of loans made from the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund.
   (4) The impact that receipt of funds received pursuant to this section
will have on the charter school’s receipt of other private and public
financing.
   (5) Plans for creative uses of the funds received pursuant to this
section, such as loan guarantees or other types of credit enhancements.
   (6) The financial needs of the charter school.
   (d) Priority for loans from the Charter School Revolving Loan Fund
shall be given to new charter schools for startup costs.
   (e) Commencing with the first fiscal year following the fiscal year the
charter school receives the loan, the Controller shall deduct from
apportionments made to the chartering authority or charter school, as
appropriate, an amount equal to the annual repayment of the amount
loaned to the chartering authority or charter school for the charter school
under this section and pay the same amount into the Charter School
Revolving Loan Fund in the State Treasury. Repayment of the full
[Ch. 586 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3949

amount loaned to the chartering authority shall be deducted by the
Controller in equal annual amounts over a number of years agreed upon
between the loan recipient and the State Department of Education, not
to exceed five years for any loan.
   (f) (1) Notwithstanding other provisions of law, a loan may be made
directly to a charter school pursuant to this section only in the case of a
charter school that is incorporated.
   (2) Notwithstanding other provisions of law, in the case of default of
a loan made directly to a charter school pursuant to this section, the
charter school shall be solely liable for repayment of the loan.
   SEC. 2. Section 41366.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   41366.5. (a) Moneys in the Charter School Revolving Loan Fund
shall be loaned at the interest rate earned by the money in the Pooled
Money Investment Account as of the date of disbursement of the funds
to the charter school.
   (b) A charter school shall pay the interest on any loan from the fund
in regular installments withdrawn from the annual apportionment the
charter school receives.
   (c) All interest payments shall be paid into the Charter School
Security Fund established pursuant to Section 41367.
   SEC. 3. Section 41366.7 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   41366.7. The Director of Finance shall monitor the adequacy of the
amount of funds in the Charter School Security Fund and report annually
to the Legislature on the need, if any, to adjust the interest rate set forth
in Section 41366.5 or to revise any other aspect of the default recovery
plan.
   SEC. 4. Section 41367 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   41367. (a) The Charter School Security Fund is hereby created in
the State Treasury.
   (b) Moneys in the fund shall be available for deposit into the Charter
School Revolving Loan Fund in case of default on any loan made from
the Charter School Revolving Loan Fund.
   SEC. 5. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
41365 of the Education Code proposed by both this bill and SB 1728.
It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become
effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section
41365 of the Education Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 1728,
in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not become operative.
 3950                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 587 ]
                              CHAPTER 587

  An act to amend Sections 67054, 67105, 74901, and 75131 of, and to
add Section 74901.5 to, the Food and Agricultural Code, relating to
agricultural commissions.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 67054 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   67054. (a) Producer members and their alternates on the
commission shall have a financial interest in producing, or causing to be
produced, avocados for market. In order to be elected a commissioner
or alternate, a producer shall, at the time of the election, have a financial
interest in the production of avocados within the district in which the
individual stands for election.
   (b) If a producer has a financial interest in the production of avocados
within more than one district, the producer may stand for election in any
district in which the producer has a financial interest in the production
of avocados.
   (c) A producer who chooses to stand for election in a particular
district shall not stand for election in any other district for a period of four
years from the date of his or her most recent election to the commission.
However, this subdivision does not apply in an election to fill vacancies
created by the reapportionment of districts pursuant to Section 67045.
   (d) Handler members or their alternates shall have a financial interest
in handling avocados for markets.
   (e) Except for the election of another public member, the public
member or his or her alternate on the commission, shall have all the
powers, rights, and privileges of any other member on the commission.
The public member shall not have any financial interest in the avocado
industry.
   (f) In the event that no entity meets the requirements of Section
67032.5, any person then serving on the commission shall remain
eligible through the remainder of his or her current term. Thereafter, any
person elected to the commission shall serve without reference to
independent or cooperative status.
   SEC. 2. Section 67105 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   67105. All assessments shall be paid to the commission by the
handler first handling avocados who shall be primarily and personally
liable for the payment of the assessment, and failure of the handler to
[Ch. 588 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           3951

collect the assessment from any producer shall not exempt the handler
from that primary liability. Any handler subject to this section who fails
to file a return or pay any assessment within the time required shall pay
to the commission a penalty of 10 percent of the amount of the
assessment determined to be due, and, in addition, 11/2-percent interest
per month on the unpaid balance.
   SEC. 3. Section 74901 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   74901. The commission may accept contributions of, or match,
private, local, state, or federal funds and employ or make contributions
of funds to other persons or local, state or federal agencies for purposes
of maintaining, promoting, and enhancing the winegrape industry.
   SEC. 4. Section 74901.5 is added to the Food and Agricultural
Code, to read:
   74901.5. The commission may present facts to, and negotiate with,
local, state, federal, and foreign agencies on matters that affect the
winegrape industry.
   SEC. 5. Section 75131 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   75131. (a) The assessment on eggs and egg products shall be
established by the commission, with the approval of not less than five
handler members, prior to the beginning of each marketing season and,
except as provided in subdivision (d), shall not exceed one cent ($0.01)
per dozen for shell eggs, or the equivalent thereof, as determined by the
commission, for egg products.
   (b) The commission may establish an assessment rate that is different
for eggs than for egg products, so long as it does not exceed the
maximum assessment authorized in subdivision (a).
   (c) An assessment greater than the maximum specified in subdivision
(a) may be charged but only if it is approved by a vote of the handlers
as provided for in Section 75112.



                             CHAPTER 588

   An act to add and repeal Section 69561.5 of the Education Code,
relating to student financial aid.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]
 3952                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 588 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 69561.5 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   69561.5. (a) In collaboration with the various segments of higher
education, the Student Aid Commission shall develop and establish a
pilot program entitled ‘‘Transfer: Making It Happen.’’ This program
shall encourage community college students to transfer to a four-year
institution of higher education, and assist them in this endeavor by
providing academic preparation and information on financial aid
opportunities. The program shall be modeled after the ‘‘College: Making
It Happen’’ program.
   (b) The pilot program established by this section shall target students
who attend those community colleges or high schools that participate in
one of the Student Opportunity and Access Program consortia, who are
primarily from low-income households, who would be the first in their
families to attend college, or who are from schools or geographic regions
with documented low college eligibility or college participation rates.
   (c) (1) The Student Opportunity and Access Program shall provide,
in close collaboration with the personnel of the California Community
Colleges who are responsible for advising students about transfer
opportunities, each of the following direct student services under this
section:
   (A) Provision of specialized academic and financial aid information
related to a transfer to an institution that grants baccalaureate degrees.
   (B) Provision of personalized attention, such as one-on-one
counseling and group workshops that inform students of opportunities
to transfer to an institution that grants baccalaureate degrees.
   (C) Working closely with community college transfer centers in
strengthening direct services and outreach provided to students who plan
to transfer to an institution that grants baccalaureate degrees.
   (2) The services listed in paragraph (1) shall be offered to, but not
necessarily limited to, students who indicate an interest in transferring
to an institution that grants baccalaureate degrees.
   (d) (1) During the third year of the operation of the pilot program
established by this section, the California Postsecondary Education
Commission, in consultation with the Legislative Analysts’ office, shall
evaluate the program in order to determine its effectiveness. The
evaluation shall include, but not necessarily be limited to,
recommendations on both of the following:
   (A) How the program may improve the services it provides.
   (B) How the program may be expanded beyond those community
colleges that participate in one of the Student Opportunity and Access
Program consortia.
[Ch. 589 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3953

  (2) On or before December 1, 2004, the California Postsecondary
Education Commission shall submit to the Governor and the Legislature
a report including all of the findings and recommendations of its
evaluation.
  (e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2006, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.
  SEC. 2. Notwithstanding any other provision of law:
  (a) In the 2000–01 fiscal year, the Student Aid Commission shall
accomplish both of the following:
  (1) Expand the Student Opportunity and Access Program by adding
up to five new consortia.
  (2) Allow existing Student Opportunity and Access Program
consortia to expand their services as to the type of service rendered, the
number of students served, and the geographic regions in which services
are provided.
  (b) The Student Aid Commission may delay the local matching fund
requirement for any new services established by existing consortia of the
Student Opportunity and Access Program and any statewide
multiconsortia activities that are established pursuant to this section.
  SEC. 3. It is the intent of the Legislature that, of the funds
appropriated in schedule (a) of Item 7980-101-0001 of Section 2.00 of
the Budget Act of 2000 for the purposes of the Student Opportunity and
Access Program, up to one million five hundred thousand dollars
($1,500,000) shall be expended by the Student Aid Commission for the
purposes of Section 69561.5 of the Education Code. It is also the intent
of the Legislature that the remaining three million five hundred thousand
dollars ($3,500,000) of the funds appropriated in that schedule be
expended for purposes of Section 2 of this act.



                             CHAPTER 589

  An act to amend Section 52456 of, and to add Article 5 (commencing
with Section 491) to Chapter 3 of Part 1 of Division 1 of, the Food and
Agricultural Code, relating to agriculture, and making an appropriation
therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]
 3954                     STATUTES OF 2000                   [Ch. 589 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Article 5 (commencing with Section 491) is added to
Chapter 3 of Part 1 of Division 1 of the Food and Agricultural Code, to
read:

             Article 5.   Food Biotechnology Task Force

   491. The Legislature finds and declares the following:
   (a) Consumers have an interest in being informed about the benefits
and potential quantifiable risks to their health from products they
consume. This information must be grounded in sound science, must use
informative and effective communications, and shall be consistent with
other production technologies.
   (b) As new advances in biotechnology, including transgenic plants,
are developed, it is important to understand the opportunities that new
technologies offer to consumers, farmers, the livestock industry, food
processors, and the environment, as well as to evaluate the potential
risks.
   (c) Under the existing regulatory framework for biotechnology, the
United States Food and Drug Administration has the federal authority
to assure that food and pharmaceutical development using
biotechnology protects public health, the United States Environmental
Protection Agency has the authority to review environmental issues
including bioengineered pesticides, and the United States Department of
Agriculture has the responsibility to regulate the introduction of
genetically modified plants into the agricultural environment. Careful
review of existing oversight responsibility helps in understanding the
regulatory framework governing the approval of biotechnology
products and will help clarify California’s role in the endeavor.
   (d) California is the leading agricultural state in the country,
producing 350 commodities and farm gate revenues totaling nearly
twenty-seven billion dollars ($27,000,000,000) annually, of which
nearly seven billion dollars ($7,000,000,000) is exported. Support for
agricultural research based in sound science, and the utilization of
modern farming technologies is a key factor leading to California’s
strong farm economy and its competitive edge in the world market for
agricultural products.
   492. (a) The Legislature hereby creates the Food Biotechnology
Task Force. The task force shall be cochaired by the Secretary of the
California Health and Welfare Agency and the Secretary of the
California Trade and Commerce Agency, and the Secretary of the
California Department of Food and Agriculture. The task force shall
consult with appropriate state agencies and the University of California.
[Ch. 589 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3955

The California Department of Food and Agriculture shall be the lead
agency.
   (b) An advisory committee shall be appointed by the task force to
provide input on issues reviewed by the task force. The advisory
committee shall consist of representatives from consumer groups,
environmental organizations, farmers, ranchers, representatives from
the biotechnology industry, researchers, organic farmers, food
processors, retailers, and others with interests in the issues surrounding
biotechnology.
   (c) The California Department of Food and Agriculture shall make
funds available to other agencies to accomplish the purposes of this
article and shall contract, where appropriate, with the California Council
on Science and Technology, the University of California, or other
entities to review issues evaluated by the task force or support activities
of the advisory committee.
   (d) The task force may request particular agencies to lead the effort
to evaluate various factors related to food biotechnology. As funding
becomes available, the task force shall evaluate factors including all of
the following:
   (1) Definition and categorization of food biotechnology and
production processes.
   (2) Scientific literature on the subject, and a characterization of
information resources readily available to consumers.
   (3) Issues related to domestic and international marketing of
biotechnology foods such as the handling, processing, manufacturing,
distribution, labeling, and marketing of these products.
   (4) Potential benefits and impacts to human health, the state’s
economy, and the environment accruing from food biotechnology.
   (5) Existing federal and state evaluation and oversight procedures.
   (e) The task force shall report issues studied, findings, basis for their
findings, and recommendations to the Governor and the Legislature by
January 1, 2003.
   (f) An initial sum of one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars
($125,000) is hereby appropriated from the General Fund for
disbursement to the California Department of Food of Agriculture. It is
the intent of the Legislature to make further funds available to
accomplish the purposes contained in this article.
   SEC. 2. Section 52456 of the Food and Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   52456. In addition to the labeling requirements of this article, all
seed, except seed at the time of sale by a retail merchant for nonfarm use,
shall conspicuously bear upon the label adequate notice of the
requirement to follow the conciliation, mediation, or arbitration
procedures governing disputes between labelers and any person, as
 3956                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 590 ]
authorized by this chapter, and the consequences of failing to follow
those procedures.



                             CHAPTER 590

  An act to amend Section 17092 of, and to add Sections 17070.51 and
17088.2 to, the Education Code, to amend Section 14615.1 of the
Government Code, and to amend Section 12 of Chapter 1601 of the
Statutes of 1988, relating to school facilities, and making an
appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 17070.51 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   17070.51. (a) If any certified eligibility or funding application
related information is found to have been falsely certified by school
districts, architects or design professionals, hereinafter referred to as a
material inaccuracy, the Office of Public School Construction shall
notify the board.
   (b) The board shall impose the following penalties if an
apportionment and fund release has been made based upon information
in the project application or related materials that constitutes a material
inaccuracy.
   (1) Pursuant to a repayment schedule approved by the board of no
more than five years, the school district shall repay to the board, for
deposit into the 1998 State School Facilities Fund, an amount
proportionate to the additional funding received as a result of the
material inaccuracy including interest at the rate paid on moneys in the
Pooled Money Investment Account or at the highest rate of interest for
the most recent issue of state general obligation bonds as established
pursuant to the Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 16720), of Part 3
of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code, whichever is greater.
   (2) The board shall prohibit the school district from self-certifying
certain project information for any subsequent applications for project
funding for a period of up to five years following the date of the finding
of a material inaccuracy or until the district’s repayment of the entire
amount owed under paragraph (1). Although a school district that is
subject to this paragraph may not self-certify, the school district shall not
be prohibited from applying for state funding under this chapter. The
[Ch. 590 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3957

board shall establish an alternative method for state or independent
certification of compliance that shall be applicable in these cases. The
process shall include, but shall not be limited to, procedures for payment
by the school district of any increased costs associated with the
alternative certification process.
   (c) For school districts found to have provided material inaccuracies
when a funding apportionment has occurred, but no fund release has
been made, the board shall direct its staff to reduce the apportionment
as necessary to reflect the actual nature of the project and to disregard the
inaccurate information or material, and paragraph (2) of subdivision (b)
shall apply.
   (d) For those school districts found to have provided material
inaccuracies when no funding apportionment or fund release has been
made, the inaccurate information or materials shall not be considered,
and paragraph (2) of subdivision (b) shall apply. The project may
continue if the application, minus the inaccurate materials, is still
complete.
   SEC. 2. Section 17088.2 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   17088.2. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,
including, but not limited to, Section 17587, the board may transfer any
funds within the State School Building Aid Fund that are in excess of the
amounts needed by the board for the maintenance of portable buildings
or for the purchase of new portable buildings, for that fiscal year, to either
of the following:
   (a) The 1998 State School Facilities Fund for allocation by the board
for any purpose authorized pursuant to that fund.
   (b) The State School Deferred Maintenance Fund for allocation by
the board for any purpose authorized pursuant to that fund. The board
may utilize up to 100 percent of the funds transferred by the board to the
State School Deferred Maintenance Fund pursuant to this section for
funding extreme hardship critical projects.
   SEC. 3. Section 17092 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   17092. (a) No portable classrooms shall be made available to any
school district unless the district furnishes evidence, satisfactory to the
board, that the district has no available bond proceeds that could be used
for the purchase of classroom facilities.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a school district or
county superintendent of schools that has received approval for a project
that includes a justified number of new teaching stations pursuant to
Chapter 12 (commencing with Section 17000) or Chapter 12.5
(commencing with Section 17070.15) shall be eligible for at least the
same number of emergency portable classrooms as approved new
teaching stations.
 3958                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 591 ]
   (c) Subdivision (a) does not apply to leases or subleases under this
chapter for the purpose of providing facilities, pursuant to subdivision
(c) of Section 17091, for licensed child day care programs or any
recreation or enrichment activities or programs for schoolage children.
   SEC. 4. Section 14615.1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   14615.1. Where the Legislature directs or authorizes the department
to maintain, develop, or prescribe processes, procedures, or policies in
connection with the administration of its duties under this chapter,
Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 14650), or Part 2 (commencing
with Section 10100) of Division 2 of the Public Contract Code, the
action by the department shall be exempt from the Administrative
Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340), Chapter
4 (commencing with Section 11370), Chapter 4.5 (commencing with
Section 11400), and Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500)). This
section shall apply to actions taken by the department with respect to the
State Administrative Manual and the State Contracting Manual.
   SEC. 5. Section 12 of Chapter 1601 of the Statutes of 1988 is
amended to read:
   Sec. 12. All provisions of the federal model contractors
accreditation plan (40 C.F.R. Appendix C, Subpart E, Part 763), as it
became effective June 1, 1987, are hereby adopted as the contractor
accreditation plan of this state, and are hereby incorporated in Chapter
9 (commencing with Section 49400) of Part 27 of the Education Code
as though set forth in full therein.



                            CHAPTER 591

  An act to add and repeal Chapter 4.9 (commencing with Section
56490) of Part 30 of, the Education Code, relating to special education.
            [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 23, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Chapter 4.9 (commencing with Section 56490) is
added to Part 30 of the Education Code, to read:

   CHAPTER 4.9.     ALTERNATIVE HEARING PROCESS PILOT PROJECT

  56490. (a) Subject to an appropriation in the annual Budget Act or
any other measures for these purposes, the State Department of
[Ch. 591 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3959

Education shall select and allocate funds to three special education local
plan areas to implement a three-year pilot project for alternative due
process hearing procedures.
   (b) To be eligible for selection for participation, a special education
local plan area shall submit an application to the department based on
criteria developed by the department.
   (c) The department shall select special education local plan areas that
reflect the diversity of special education local plan areas in the state and
ensure representation of urban, suburban, and small or rural special
education local plan areas and northern, southern, and central regions of
the state.
  (d) If funds are appropriated for the purposes of this chapter, the total
sum of expenditures shall not exceed seven hundred thousand dollars
($700,000), pursuant to the following schedule:
  (1) Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) for the purposes of
implementing Section 56493.
  (2) One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for the purposes of
implementing Section 56492.
  (3) One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for the purposes of
implementing Section 56494.
  56491. A special education local plan area selected pursuant to
Section 56490 shall be subject to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
56500).
  56492. A hearing officer employed pursuant to Section 56504.5
shall implement, in a special education local plan area selected pursuant
to Section 56490, a voluntary, simplified nonattorney alternative
process based on settlement and alternative dispute resolution models
that would include, but not be limited to, all of the following:
  (a) No rules of evidence, except for rules regarding privileged
communications and hearsay.
  (b) Presentation of evidence could be sharply curtailed.
  (c) Parents shall represent themselves.
  (d) Schoolsite staff, not central office staff, shall represent the district.
  (e) The hearing should last no more than one day.
  (f) Participation in the process established by this section does not
waive a person’s ability to exercise his or her rights to the due process
procedure available pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
56500). The decision issued pursuant to the process established by this
section is not binding in any subsequent exercise of the person’s right to
due process proceedings pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with
Section 56500). If a person elects to exercise his or her right to due
process proceedings pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
56500) after participating in the process established by this section, the
subsequent proceeding shall be conducted by a different hearing officer
 3960                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 591 ]
who shall not communicate, and shall not have communicated, directly
or indirectly, with the hearing officer who conducted the proceeding
prescribed by this section regarding the nature or facts of the parties’
dispute or the legal conclusions drawn or to be drawn thereon.
   56493. (a) A special education local plan area selected pursuant to
Section 56490 shall establish public advocacy services using an
independent contractor to provide free advocacy and legal services to
parents of pupils with disabilities. Services shall include all of the
following:
   (1) Information about special education services, how to obtain
services, including the individualized education program process, and
the right to services under federal and state law.
   (2) Representation in mediation and due process hearings at no
charge.
   (b) To be eligible for selection as an independent contractor to
provide services pursuant to this chapter, the contractor shall
demonstrate all of the following:
   (1) Knowledge of the special education system and rights of pupils
with disabilities.
   (2) The ability to work effectively with pupils with disabilities,
families of pupils with disabilities, school personnel, community
groups, and other advocacy organizations.
   (3) Skills in interviewing pupils with disabilities and their families,
counseling individuals about their rights, and representation of pupils
with disabilities in mediation and due process hearings.
   (c) Compliance by the contractor with the terms of the contract shall
be evaluated by the participating special education local plan area using
objective performance measures that shall be specified in the contract.
   (d) In order to be eligible under this section, the contractor shall not
have represented a school district within the special education local plan
area or any other education agency in any legal matter at any time prior
to entering into the contract to provide advocacy services pursuant to this
section.
   56494. (a) On or before January 1, 2003, each special local plan
area participating in the pilot project established pursuant to this chapter,
shall submit a report to the Legislative Analyst, including, but not
limited to, all of the following:
   (1) The amount of funds used and the proportion used for small
claims and legal services.
   (2) The participation rate of pupils with special needs and their
families in the programs offered pursuant to this chapter.
   (3) The outcomes of participation in the small claims program,
including how many cases were successfully dispensed with and how
many cases continued through the existing due process hearing
[Ch. 592 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3961

procedure available pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
56500) of Part 30.
   (4) The outcomes of the use of free legal services.
   (5) Input from participating pupils and parents.
   (b) On or before March 1, 2003, the Legislative Analyst shall
coordinate the reports submitted pursuant to subdivision (a), analyze the
data, compile one comprehensive evaluation, and submit the evaluation
to the State Department of Education, the Legislature, and the Governor.
   (c) Any funds appropriated for the evaluation shall be provided to the
Legislative Analyst. No funds appropriated for the evaluation shall be
provided to any participating special education local plan area.
   56495. This chapter shall remain in effect only until January 1,
2004, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that
is enacted before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends that date.



                             CHAPTER 592

   An act to amend Sections 16061.7 and 16061.8 of the Probate Code,
relating to trusts.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 16061.7 of the Probate Code is amended to
read:
   16061.7. (a) A trustee shall serve a notification by the trustee as
described in this section in the following events:
   (1) When a revocable trust or any portion thereof becomes
irrevocable because of the death of one or more of the settlors of the trust,
or because, by the express terms of the trust, the trust becomes
irrevocable within one year of the death of a settlor because of a
contingency related to the death of one or more of the settlors of the trust.
   (2) Whenever there is a change of trustee of an irrevocable trust. The
duty to serve the notification by the trustee is the duty of the continuing
or successor trustee, and any one cotrustee may serve the notification.
   (b) The notification by the trustee required by subdivision (a) shall be
served on each of the following:
   (1) Each beneficiary of the irrevocable trust or irrevocable portion of
the trust, subject to the limitations of Section 15804.
   (2) Each heir of the deceased settlor, if the event that requires
notification is the death of a settlor or irrevocability within one year of
 3962                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 592 ]
the death of the settlor of the trust by the express terms of the trust
because of a contingency related to the death of a settlor.
   (3) If the trust is a charitable trust subject to the supervision of the
Attorney General, to the Attorney General.
   (c) A trustee shall, for purposes of this section, rely upon any final
judicial determination of heirship, known to the trustee, but the trustee
shall have discretion to make a good faith determination by any
reasonable means of the heirs of a deceased settlor in the absence of a
final judicial determination of heirship known to the trustee.
   (d) The trustee need not provide a copy of the notification by trustee
to any beneficiary or heir (1) known to the trustee but who cannot be
located by the trustee after reasonable diligence or (2) unknown to the
trustee.
   (e) The notification by trustee shall be served by mail to the last
known address, pursuant to Section 1215, or by personal delivery.
   (f) The notification by trustee shall be served not later than 60 days
following the occurrence of the event requiring service of the
notification by trustee, or 60 days after the trustee became aware of the
existence of a person entitled to receive notification by trustee, if that
person was not known to the trustee on the occurrence of the event
requiring service of the notification. If there is a vacancy in the office of
the trustee on the date of the occurrence of the event requiring service of
the notification by trustee, or if that event causes a vacancy, then the
60-day period for service of the notification by trustee commences on the
date the new trustee commences to serve as trustee.
   (g) The notification by trustee shall contain the following
information:
   (1) The identity of the settlor or settlors of the trust and the date of
execution of the trust instrument.
   (2) The name, mailing address and telephone number of each trustee
of the trust.
   (3) The address of the physical location where the principal place of
administration of the trust is located, pursuant to Section 17002.
   (4) Any additional information that may be expressly required by the
terms of the trust instrument.
   (5) A notification that the recipient is entitled, upon reasonable
request to the trustee, to receive from the trustee a true and complete copy
of the terms of the trust.
   (h) If the notification by the trustee is served because a revocable trust
or any portion of it has become irrevocable because of the death of one
or more settlors of the trust, or because, by the express terms of the trust,
the trust becomes irrevocable within one year of the death of a settlor
because of a contingency related to the death of one or more of the
settlors of the trust, the notification by the trustee shall also include a
[Ch. 593 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3963

warning, set out in a separate paragraph in not less than 10-point
boldface type, or a reasonable equivalent thereof, that states as follows:
   ‘‘You may not bring an action to contest the trust more than 120 days
from the date this notification by the trustee is served upon you or 60
days from the date on which a copy of the terms of the trust is mailed or
personally delivered to you during that 120-day period, whichever is
later.’’
   (i) Any waiver by a settlor of the requirement of serving the
notification by trustee required by this section is against public policy
and shall be void.
   (j) A trustee may serve a notification by trustee in the form required
by this section on any person in addition to those on whom the
notification by trustee is required to be served. A trustee is not liable to
any person for serving or for not serving the notice on any person in
addition to those on whom the notice is required to be served. A trustee
is not required to serve a notification by trustee if the event that otherwise
requires service of the notification by trustee occurs before January 1,
1998.
   SEC. 2. Section 16061.8 of the Probate Code is amended to read:
   16061.8. No person upon whom the notification by the trustee is
served pursuant to this chapter may bring an action to contest the trust
more than 120 days from the date the notification by the trustee is served
upon him or her, or 60 days from the day on which a copy of the terms
of the trust is mailed or personally delivered to him or her during that
120-day period, whichever is later.



                             CHAPTER 593

   An act to amend Section 120440 of the Health and Safety Code,
relating to disease prevention and control.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 120440 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
  120440. (a) For the purposes of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
  (1) ‘‘Health care provider’’ means any person licensed pursuant to
Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the Business and
 3964                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 593 ]
Professions Code or a clinic or health facility licensed pursuant to
Division 2 (commencing with Section 1200).
   (2) ‘‘Schools, child care facilities, and family child care homes’’
means those institutions referred to in subdivision (b) of Section 120335,
regardless of whether they directly provide immunizations to patients or
clients.
   (3) ‘‘WIC service provider’’ means any public or private nonprofit
agency contracting with the department to provide services under the
California Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and
Children, as provided for in Article 2 (commencing with Section
123275) of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 106.
   (4) ‘‘Health care plan’’ means a health care service plan as defined in
subdivision (f) of Section 1345 or an insurer as described in Sections
10123.5 and 10123.55 of the Insurance Code, regardless of whether the
plan directly provides immunizations to patients or clients.
   (5) ‘‘County welfare department’’ means a county welfare agency
administering the California Work Opportunity and Responsibility to
Kids (CalWORKs) program, pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 11200.5) of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code.
   (b) (1) Local health officers may operate immunization information
systems pursuant to their authority under Section 120175, in
conjunction with the Immunization Branch of the State Department of
Health Services. Local health officers and the State Department of
Health Services may operate these systems in either or both of the
following manners:
   (A) Separately within their individual jurisdictions.
   (B) Jointly among more than one jurisdiction.
   (2) Nothing in this subdivision shall preclude local health officers
from sharing the information set forth in paragraphs (1) to (9), inclusive,
of subdivision (c) with other health officers jointly operating the system.
   (c) Notwithstanding Sections 49075 and 49076 of the Education
Code, Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 10850), or any other
provision of law, unless a refusal to permit recordsharing is made
pursuant to subdivision (e), health care providers, and other agencies,
including, but not limited to, schools, child care facilities, service
providers for the California Special Supplemental Food Program for
Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), health care plans, and county
welfare departments, may disclose the information set forth in
paragraphs (1) to (9), inclusive, from the patient’s medical record, or the
client’s record, to local health departments operating countywide
immunization information and reminder systems and the State
Department of Health Services. Local health departments and the State
Department of Health Services may disclose the information set forth in
[Ch. 593 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           3965

paragraphs (1) to (9), inclusive, to each other, and upon a request for
information pertaining to a specific person, to health care providers
taking care of the patient. Local health departments and the State
Department of Health Services may disclose the information in
paragraphs (1) to (6), inclusive, and paragraphs (8) and (9), to schools,
child care facilities, county welfare departments, and family child care
homes to which the person is being admitted or in attendance, and WIC
service providers providing services to the person, health care plans
arranging for immunization services for the patient, and county welfare
departments assessing immunization histories of dependents of
CalWORKs participants, upon request for information pertaining to a
specific person. Determination of benefits based upon immunization of
a dependent CalWORKs participant shall be made pursuant to Section
11265.8 of the Welfare and Institutions Code. The following information
shall be subject to this subdivision:
   (1) The name of the patient or client and names of the parents or
guardians of the patient or client.
   (2) Date of birth of the patient or client.
   (3) Types and dates of immunizations received by the patient or
client.
   (4) Manufacturer and lot number for each immunization received.
   (5) Adverse reaction to immunizations received.
   (6) Other nonmedical information necessary to establish the patient’s
or client’s unique identity and record.
   (7) Current address and telephone number of the patient or client and
the parents or guardians of the patient or client.
   (8) Patient’s or client’s gender.
   (9) Patient’s or client’s place of birth.
   (d) (1) Health care providers, local health departments, and the State
Department of Health Services shall maintain the confidentiality of
information listed in subdivision (c) in the same manner as other medical
record information with patient identification that they possess. These
providers, departments, and contracting agencies are subject to civil
action and criminal penalties for the wrongful disclosure of the
information listed in subdivision (c), in accordance with existing law.
They shall use the information listed in subdivision (c) only for the
following purposes:
   (A) To provide immunization services to the patient or client,
including issuing reminder notifications to patients or clients or their
parents or guardians when immunizations are due.
   (B) To provide or facilitate provision of third-party payer payments
for immunizations.
   (C) To compile and disseminate statistical information of
immunization status on groups of patients or clients or populations in
 3966                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 593 ]
California, without identifying information for these patients or clients
included in these groups or populations.
   (D) In the case of health care providers only, as authorized by Part 2.6
(commencing with Section 56) of Division 1 of the Civil Code.
   (2) Schools, child care facilities, family child care homes, WIC
service providers, county welfare departments, and health care plans
shall maintain the confidentiality of information listed in subdivision (c)
in the same manner as other client, patient, and pupil information that
they possess. These institutions and providers are subject to civil action
and criminal penalties for the wrongful disclosure of the information
listed in subdivision (c), in accordance with existing law. They shall use
the information listed in subdivision (c) only for those purposes
provided in subparagraphs (A) to (D), inclusive, of paragraph (1) and as
follows:
   (A) In the case of schools, child care facilities, family child care
homes, and county welfare departments, to carry out their
responsibilities regarding required immunization for attendance or
participation benefits, or both, as described in Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 120325), and in Section 11265.8 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code.
   (B) In the case of WIC service providers, to perform immunization
status assessments of clients and to refer those clients found to be due
or overdue for immunizations to health care providers.
   (C) In the case of health care plans, to facilitate payments to health
care providers, to assess the immunization status of their clients, and to
tabulate statistical information on the immunization status of groups of
patients, without including patient-identifying information in these
tabulations.
   (e) A patient or a patient’s parent or guardian may refuse to permit
recordsharing. The health care provider administering immunization
and any other agency possessing any patient or client information listed
in subdivision (c), if planning to provide patient or client information to
an immunization system, as described in subdivision (b), shall inform
the patient or client, or the parent or guardian of the patient or client, of
the following:
   (1) The information listed in subdivision (c) may be shared with local
health departments, and the State Department of Health Services. The
health care provider or other agency shall provide the name and address
of the department or departments with which the provider or other
agency will share the information.
   (2) Any of the information shared with local health departments and
the State Department of Health Services shall be treated as confidential
medical information and shall be used only to share with each other, and,
upon request, with health care providers, schools, child care facilities,
[Ch. 593 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3967

family child care homes, WIC service providers, county welfare
departments, and health care plans. These providers, agencies, and
institutions shall, in turn, treat the shared information as confidential,
and shall use it only as described in subdivision (d).
   (3) The patient or client, or parent or guardian of the patient or client,
has the right to examine any immunization-related information shared
in this manner and to correct any errors in it.
   (4) The patient or client, or the parent or guardian of the patient or
client, may refuse to allow this information to be shared in the manner
described, or to receive immunization reminder notifications at any
time, or both.
   (f) If the patient or client, or parent or guardian of the patient or client,
refuses to allow the information to be shared, pursuant to paragraph (4)
of subdivision (e), the health care provider or other agency may not share
this information in the manner described in subdivision (c), except as
provided in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (d).
   (g) Upon request of the patient or client, or the parent or guardian of
the patient or client, in writing or by other means acceptable to the
recipient, a local health department or the State Department of Health
Services that has received information about a person pursuant to
subdivision (c) shall do all of the following:
   (1) Provide the name and address of other persons or agencies with
whom the recipient has shared the information.
   (2) Stop sharing the information in its possession after the date of the
receipt of the request.
   (h) Upon notification, in writing or by other means acceptable to the
recipient, of an error in the information, a local health department or the
State Department of Health Services that has information about a person
pursuant to subdivision (c) shall correct the error. If the recipient is aware
of a disagreement about whether an error exists, information to that
effect may be included.
   (i) Section 120330 shall not apply to this section.
   SEC. 2. Section 120440 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   120440. (a) For the purposes of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
   (1) ‘‘Health care provider’’ means any person licensed pursuant to
Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the Business and
Professions Code or a clinic or health facility licensed pursuant to
Division 2 (commencing with Section 1200).
   (2) ‘‘Schools, child care facilities, and family child care homes’’
means those institutions referred to in subdivision (b) of Section 120335,
regardless of whether they directly provide immunizations to patients or
clients.
 3968                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 593 ]
   (3) ‘‘WIC service provider’’ means any public or private nonprofit
agency contracting with the department to provide services under the
California Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and
Children, as provided for in Article 2 (commencing with Section
123275) of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 106.
   (4) ‘‘Health care plan’’ means a health care service plan as defined in
subdivision (f) of Section 1345 or an insurer as described in Sections
10123.5 and 10123.55 of the Insurance Code, regardless of whether the
plan directly provides immunizations to patients or clients.
   (5) ‘‘Local registry’’ means an immunization information system
operated by a city or county health department.
   (6) ‘‘Regional registry’’ means an immunization information system
operated on a multicounty or multicity health department basis.
   (7) ‘‘County welfare department’’ means a county welfare agency
administering the California Work Opportunity and Responsibility to
Kids (CalWORKs) program, pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 11200) of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code.
   (b) (1) Local health departments may operate local or regional
registries pursuant to their authority under Section 120175, in
conjunction with the Immunization Branch of the State Department of
Health Services.
   (2) Health care providers providing immunizations to persons 18
years of age and younger shall be required to participate in a local or
regional registry, either directly or through the Statewide Immunization
Information System, when the department has certified that the local or
regional registry is functional and able to accommodate participation by
all providers in the registry’s service area. Department certification shall
include, but shall not be limited to, consultation with health care
providers and the ability of the registry to provide technical support.
Local or regional registries may not charge health care providers for any
training that is necessary for the health care registry provider to
participate in the registry. However, with respect to information
concerning a specific patient or client, information shall not be included
in the local or regional registry if consent has been withheld by the
patient or client, or, in the case of a patient or client under 18 years of age
who is not legally emancipated, by the patient’s or client’s parent or legal
guardian.
   (3) Nothing in this section shall preclude local health officers from
sharing the information set forth in paragraphs (1) to (9), inclusive, of
subdivision (c) with other health officers jointly operating the system.
   (c) Notwithstanding Sections 49075 and 49076 of the Education
Code, Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 10850), or any other
provision of law, unless a refusal to permit recordsharing is made
[Ch. 593 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3969

pursuant to subdivision (e), health care providers, and other agencies,
including, but not limited to, schools, child care facilities, service
providers for the California Special Supplemental Food Program for
Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), health care plans, and county
welfare departments, may disclose the information set forth in
paragraphs (1) to (9), inclusive, from the patient’s medical record or the
client’s record, to local health departments operating local or regional
registries and the State Department of Health Services. Local health
departments and the State Department of Health Services may disclose
the information set forth in paragraphs (1) to (9), inclusive, to each other,
and upon a request for information pertaining to a specific person, to
health care providers taking care of the patient. Local health departments
and the State Department of Health Services may disclose the
information in paragraphs (1) to (6), inclusive, and paragraphs (8) and
(9), to schools, child care facilities, county welfare departments, and
family child care homes to which the person is being admitted or in
attendance, and WIC service providers providing services to the person,
health care plans arranging for immunization services for the patient, and
county welfare departments assessing immunization histories of
dependents of CalWORKs participants, upon request for information
pertaining to a specific person. Determination of benefits based upon
immunization of a dependent CalWORKs participant shall be made
pursuant to Section 11265.8 of the Welfare and Institutions Code. The
following information shall be subject to this subdivision:
   (1) The name of the patient or client and names of the patient’s parents
or guardians of the patient or client.
   (2) Date of birth of the patient or client.
   (3) Types and dates of immunizations received by the patient or
client.
   (4) Manufacturer and lot number for each immunization received.
   (5) Adverse reaction to immunizations received.
   (6) Other nonmedical information necessary to establish the patient’s
or client’s unique identity and record.
   (7) Current address and telephone number of the patient or client and
the parents or guardians of the patient or client.
   (8) Patient’s or client’s gender.
   (9) Patient’s or client’s place of birth.
   (d) (1) Health care providers, local health departments, and the State
Department of Health Services shall maintain the confidentiality of
information listed in subdivision (c) and any information contained in
a local or regional registry or in the Statewide Immunization Information
System in the same manner as other medical record information with
patient identification that they possess. These providers, departments
and contracting agencies shall be subject to civil action and criminal
 3970                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 593 ]
penalties for the wrongful disclosure of the information listed in
subdivision (c), in accordance with existing law. They shall use the
information listed in subdivision (c) only for the following purposes:
   (A) To provide immunization services to the patient or client,
including issuing reminder notifications to patients or clients or their
parents or guardians when immunizations are due.
   (B) To provide or facilitate provision of third-party payer payments
for immunizations.
   (C) To compile and disseminate statistical information of
immunization status on groups of patients or clients or populations in
California, without identifying information for these patients or clients
included in these groups or populations.
   (D) In the case of health care providers only, as authorized by Part 2.6
(commencing with Section 56) of Division 1 of the Civil Code.
   (2) Schools, child care facilities, family child care homes, WIC
service providers, and county welfare departments, and health care plans
shall maintain the confidentiality of information listed in subdivision (c)
in the same manner as other client, patient, and pupil information that
they possess. These institutions and providers are subject to civil action
and criminal penalties for the wrongful disclosure of the information
listed in subdivision (c), in accordance with existing law. They shall use
the information listed in subdivision (c) only for those purposes
provided in subparagraphs (A) to (D), inclusive, of paragraph (1) and as
follows:
   (A) In the case of schools, child care facilities, and family child care
homes, and county welfare departments, to carry out their
responsibilities regarding required immunization for attendance, or
participation benefits, or both, as described in Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 120325) and in Section 11265.8 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code.
   (B) In the case of WIC service providers, to perform immunization
status assessments of clients and to refer those clients found to be due
or overdue for immunizations to health care providers.
   (C) In the case of health care plans, to facilitate payments to health
care providers, to assess the immunization status of their clients, and to
tabulate statistical information on the immunization status of groups of
patients, without including patient-identifying information in these
tabulations.
   (e) A patient or a patient’s parent or guardian may refuse to permit
recordsharing. The health care provider administering immunization
and any other agency possessing any patient or client information listed
in subdivision (c), if planning to provide patient or client information to
an immunization system, as described in subdivision (b), shall inform
[Ch. 593 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3971

the patient or clients, or the parent or guardian of the patient or client of
the following:
   (1) The information listed in subdivision (c) may be shared with local
health departments, and the State Department of Health Services. The
health care provider or other agency shall provide the name and address
of the department or departments with which the provider or other
agency will share the information.
   (2) Any of the information shared with local health departments and
the State Department of Health Services shall be treated as confidential
medical information and shall be used only to share with each other, and,
upon request, with health care providers, schools, child care facilities,
family child care homes, WIC service providers, county welfare
departments, and health care plans. These providers, agencies, and
institutions shall, in turn, treat the shared information as confidential,
and shall use it only as described in subdivision (d).
   (3) The patient or client, or parent or guardian of the patient or client,
has the right to examine any immunization-related information shared
in this manner and to correct any errors in it.
   (4) The patient or the client, or parent or guardian of the patient or
client, may refuse to allow this information to be shared in the manner
described, or to receive immunization reminder notifications at any
time, or both.
   (f) If the patient or client, or parent or guardian of the patient or client,
refuses to allow the information to be shared, pursuant to paragraph (4)
of subdivision (e), the health care provider or other agency may not share
this information in the manner described in subdivision (c), except as
provided in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (d).
   (g) Upon request of the patient or the client, or the parent or guardian,
of the patient or client in writing or by other means acceptable to the
recipient, a local health department or the State Department of Health
Services that has received information about a person pursuant to
subdivision (c) shall do all of the following:
   (1) Provide the name and address of other persons or agencies with
whom the recipient has shared the information.
   (2) Stop sharing the information in its possession after the date of the
receipt of the request.
   (h) Upon notification, in writing or by other means acceptable to the
recipient, of an error in the information, a local health department or the
State Department of Health Services that has information about a person
pursuant to subdivision (c) shall correct the error. If the recipient is aware
of a disagreement about whether an error exists, information to that
effect may be included.
   (i) Section 120330 shall not apply to this section.
 3972                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 594 ]
   SEC. 3. Section 2 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
120440 of the Health and Safety Code proposed by both this bill and AB
2013. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 120440 of the Health and Safety Code, and (3) this bill is enacted
after AB 2013, in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not become
operative.



                            CHAPTER 594

   An act to add and repeal Section 20133 of the Public Contract Code,
relating to public contracts.
            [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 20133 is added to the Public Contract Code,
to read:
   20133. (a) (1) This section provides for an alternative procedure
on bidding on building construction projects in excess of ten million
dollars ($10,000,000) applicable only in the Counties of Alameda,
Contra Costa, Sacramento, Santa Clara, Solano, Sonoma, and Tulare,
upon approval of the appropriate board of supervisors.
   (2) For projects with costs ranging from ten million dollars
($10,000,000) to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), inclusive, the
contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. For projects
costing over twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), the county may
award the project using either the lowest responsible bidder or by best
value.
   (b) (1) It is the intent of the Legislature to enable these counties to
utilize cost-effective options for building and modernizing public
facilities. The Legislature also recognizes the national trend, including
authorizations in California, to allow public entities to utilize
design-build contracts as a project delivery method.
   (2) The Legislature also finds and declares that utilizing a
design-build contract requires a clear understanding of the roles and
responsibilities of each participant in the design-build process. The
benefits of a design-build contract project delivery system include an
accelerated completion of the projects, cost containment, reduction of
construction complexity, and reduced exposure to risk for the county.
The Legislature also finds that the cost-effective benefits to the counties
[Ch. 594 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3973

are achieved by shifting the liability and risk for cost containment and
project completion to the design-build entity.
   (3) It is the intent of the Legislature to provide an alternative and
optional procedure for bidding and building construction projects for
these counties.
   (4) The design-build approach may be used, but is not limited to use
when it is anticipated that it will: reduce project cost, expedite project
completion, or provide design features not achievable through the
design-bid-build method.
   (5) If the board of supervisors elects to proceed under this section, the
board of supervisors shall establish and enforce for design-build projects
a labor compliance program containing the requirements outlined in
Section 1771.5 of the Labor Code, or it shall contract with a third party
to operate a labor compliance program containing the requirements
outlined in Section 1771.5 of the Labor Code. This requirement shall not
apply to any project where the county or the design-build entity has
entered into any collective bargaining agreement or agreements that bind
all of the contractors performing work on the projects.
   (c) As used in this section:
   (1) ‘‘Best value’’ means a value determined by objective criteria and
may include, but is not limited to, price, features, functions, life-cycle
costs, and other criteria deemed appropriate by the county.
   (2) ‘‘Design-build’’ means a procurement process in which both the
design and construction of a project are procured from a single entity.
   (3) ‘‘Design-build entity’’ means a partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity that is able to provide appropriately licensed contracting,
architectural, and engineering services as needed pursuant to a
design-build contract.
   (d) Design-build projects shall progress in a four-step process, as
follows:
   (1) (A) The county shall prepare a set of documents setting forth the
scope of the project. The documents may include, but are not limited to,
the size, type and desired design character of the buildings and site,
performance specifications covering the quality of materials,
equipment, and workmanship, preliminary plans or building layouts, or
any other information deemed necessary to describe adequately the
county’s needs. The performance specifications and any plans shall be
prepared by a design professional who is duly licensed and registered in
California.
   (B) Any architect or engineer retained by the county to assist in the
development of the project specific documents shall not be eligible to
participate in the preparation of a bid with any design-build entity for
that project.
 3974                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 594 ]
   (2) (A) Based on the documents prepared in paragraph (1), the
county shall prepare a request for proposals that invites interested parties
to submit competitive sealed proposals in the manner prescribed by the
county. The request for proposals shall include, but is not limited to, the
following elements:
   (i) Identification of the basic scope and needs of the project or
contract, the expected cost range, and other information deemed
necessary by the county to inform interested parties of the contracting
opportunity, to include the methodology that will be used by the county
to evaluate proposals and specifically if the contract will be awarded to
the lowest responsible bidder.
   (ii) Significant factors which the county reasonably expects to
consider in evaluating proposals, including cost or price and all nonprice
related factors.
   (iii) The relative importance of weight assigned to each of the factors
identified in the request for proposals.
   (B) With respect to clause (iii) of paragraph (A), if a nonweighted
system is used, the agency shall specifically disclose whether all
evaluation factors other than cost or price when combined are:
   (i) Significantly more important than cost or price.
   (ii) Approximately equal in importance to cost or price.
   (iii) Significantly less important than cost or price.
   (C) If the county chooses to reserve the right to hold discussions or
negotiations with responsive bidders, it shall so specify in the request for
proposal and shall publish separately or incorporate into the request for
proposal applicable rules and procedures to be observed by the county
to ensure that any discussions or negotiations are conducted in good
faith.
   (3) (A) The county shall establish a procedure to prequalify
design-build entities using a standard questionnaire developed by the
county. In preparing the questionnaire, the county shall consult with the
construction industry, including representatives of the building trades
and surety industry. This questionnaire shall require information
including, but not limited to, all of the following:
   (i) If the design-build entity is a partnership, limited partnership, or
other association, a listing of all of the partners, general partners, or
association members known at the time of bid submission who will
participate in the design-build contract, including, but not limited to,
mechanical subcontractors.
   (ii) Evidence that the members of the design-build entity have
completed, or demonstrated the experience, competency, capability, and
capacity to complete projects of similar size, scope, or complexity, and
that proposed key personnel have sufficient experience and training to
competently manage and complete the design and construction of the
[Ch. 594 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3975

project, as well as a financial statement that assures the county that the
design-build entity has the capacity to complete the project.
   (iii) The licenses, registration, and credentials required to design and
construct the project, including information on the revocation or
suspension of any license, credential, or registration.
   (iv) Evidence that establishes that the design-build entity has the
capacity to obtain all required payment and performance bonding,
liability insurance, and errors and omissions insurance.
   (v) Any prior serious or willful violation of the California
Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1973, contained in Part 1
(commencing with Section 6300) of Division 5 of the Labor Code or the
federal Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (Public Law
91-596), settled against any member of the design-build entity, and
information concerning workers’ compensation experience history and
worker safety program.
   (vi) Information concerning any debarment, disqualification, or
removal from a federal, state, or local government public works project.
Any instance where an entity, its owners, officers, or managing
employees submitted a bid on a public works project and were found to
be nonresponsive, or were found by an awarding body not to be a
responsible bidder.
   (vii) Any instance where the entity, its owner, officers, or managing
employees defaulted on a construction contract.
   (viii) Any violations of the Contractors’ State License Law (Chapter
9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division 3 of the Business and
Professions Code), excluding alleged violations of federal or state law
including the payment of wages, benefits, apprenticeship requirements,
or personal income tax withholding, or of Federal Insurance
Contribution Act (FICA) withholding requirements settled against any
member of the design-build entity.
   (ix) Information concerning the bankruptcy or receivership of any
member of the design-build entity, including information concerning
any work completed by a surety.
   (x) Information concerning all settled adverse claims, disputes, or
lawsuits between the owner of a public works project and any member
of the design-build entity during the five years preceding submission of
a bid pursuant to this section, in which the claim, settlement, or judgment
exceeds fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). Information shall also be
provided concerning any work completed by a surety during this period.
   (xi) In the case of a partnership or other association, that is not a legal
entity, a copy of the agreement creating the partnership or association
and specifying that all partners or association members agree to be fully
liable for the performance under the design-build contract.
 3976                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 594 ]
   (B) The information required pursuant to this subdivision shall be
verified under oath by the entity and its members in the manner in which
civil pleadings in civil actions are verified. Information that is not a
public record pursuant to the California Public Records Act (Chapter
3.5, Division 7, Title 1 of the Government Code) shall not be open to
public inspection.
   (4) The county shall establish a procedure for final selection of the
design-build entity. Selection shall be based on either of the following
criteria:
   (A) A competitive bidding process resulting in lump-sum bids by the
prequalified design-build entities. Awards shall be made to the lowest
responsible bidder.
   (B) A county may use a design-build competition based upon best
value and other criteria set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d). The
design-build competition shall include the following elements:
   (i) Competitive proposals shall be evaluated by using only the criteria
and selection procedures specifically identified in the request for
proposal. However, the following minimum factors shall collectively
represent at least 50 percent of the total weight of consideration given
to all criteria factors; price, technical design and construction expertise,
life cycle costs over 15 years or more, skilled labor force availability, and
acceptable safety record.
   (ii) Once the evaluation is complete, the top three responsive bidders
shall be ranked sequentially from the most advantageous to the least.
   (iii) The award of the contract shall be made to the responsible bidder
whose proposal is determined, in writing, to be the most advantageous.
   (iv) Notwithstanding any provision of this code, upon issuance of a
contract award, the county shall publicly announce its award, identifying
the contractor to whom the award is made, along with a written decision
supporting its contract award and stating the basis of the award. The
notice of award shall also include the county’s second and third ranked
design-build entities.
   (v) For the purposes of this paragraph, ‘‘skilled labor force
availability’’ shall be determined by the existence of an agreement with
a registered apprenticeship program, approved by the California
Apprenticeship Council, which has graduated apprentices in each of the
preceding five years. This graduation requirement shall not apply to
programs providing apprenticeship training for any craft that has been
deemed by the Department of Labor and the Department of Industrial
Relations to be an apprenticeable craft in the five years prior to
enactment of this act.
   (vi) For the purposes of this paragraph, a bidder’s ‘‘safety record’’
shall be deemed ‘‘acceptable’’ if their experience modification rate for
the most recent three-year period is an average of 1.00 or less, and their
[Ch. 594 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3977

average Total Recordable Injury/Illness rate and average lost work rate
for the most recent three-year period does not exceed the applicable
statistical standards for its business category or if the bidder is a party
to an alternative dispute resolution system as provided for in Section
3201.5 of the Labor Code.
   (e) (1) Any design-build entity that is selected to design and build a
project pursuant to this section shall possess or obtain sufficient bonding
to cover the contract amount for nondesign services, and errors and
omission insurance coverage sufficient to cover all design and
architectural services provided in the contract. This section does not
prohibit a general or engineering contractor from being designated the
lead entity on a design-build entity for the purposes of purchasing
necessary bonding to cover the activities of the design-build entity.
   (2) Any payment or performance bond written for the purposes of this
section shall be written using a bond form developed by the county.
   (f) All subcontractors that were not listed by the design-build entity
in accordance with clause (i) of subparagraph (A) of paragraph (3) of
subdivision (d) shall be awarded by the design-build entity in accordance
with the design-build process set forth by the county in the design-build
package. All subcontractors bidding on contracts pursuant to this section
shall be afforded the protections contained in Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 4100) of Part 1. The design-build entity shall do both of the
following:
   (1) Provide public notice of the availability of work to be
subcontracted in accordance with the publication requirements
applicable to the competitive bidding process of the county.
   (2) Provide a fixed date and time on which the subcontracted work
will be awarded in accordance with the procedure established pursuant
to this section.
   (g) The minimum performance criteria and design standards
established pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) shall be adhered
to by the design-build entity. Any deviations from those standards may
only be allowed by written consent of the county.
   (h) The county may retain the services of a design professional or
construction project manager, or both, throughout the course of the
project in order to ensure compliance with this section.
   (i) Contracts awarded pursuant to this section shall be valid until the
project is completed.
   (j) Nothing in this section is intended to affect, expand, alter, or limit
any rights or remedies otherwise available at law.
   (k) (1) If the county elects to award a project pursuant to this section
retention proceeds withheld by the county from the design-build entity
shall not exceed 5 percent if a performance and payment bond, issued by
an admitted surety insurer, is required in the solicitation of bids.
 3978                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 594 ]
   (2) In a contract between the design-build entity and the
subcontractor, and in a contract between a subcontractor and any
subcontractor thereunder, the percentage of the retention proceeds
withheld may not exceed the percentage specified in the contract
between the county and the design-build entity. If the design-build entity
provides written notice to any subcontractor who is not a member of the
design-build entity, prior to or at the time the bid is requested, that a bond
may be required and the subcontractor subsequently is unable or refuses
to furnish a bond to the design-build entity, then the design-build entity
may withhold retention proceeds in excess of the percentage specified
in the contract between the county and the design-build entity from any
payment made by the design-build entity to the subcontractor.
   (l) Each county that elects to proceed under this section and uses the
design-build method on a public works project shall submit to the
Legislative Analyst’s office, the Senate Committee on Local
Government, and the Assembly Committee on Local Government
before December 1, 2004, a report containing a description of each
public works project procured through the design-build process, and
completed on or before November 1, 2004. The report shall include, but
shall not be limited to, all of the following information:
   (1) The type of facility.
   (2) The gross square footage of the facility.
   (3) The design-build entity who was awarded the project.
   (4) The estimated and actual length of time to complete the project.
   (5) The estimated and actual project costs.
   (6) A description of any written protests concerning any aspect of the
solicitation, bid, proposal, or award of the design-build project,
including the resolution of the protests.
   (7) An assessment of the prequalification process and criteria.
   (8) An assessment of the impact of retaining 5 percent retention on
the project.
   (9) A description of the Labor Force Compliance program and an
assessment of the project impact, where required.
   (10) A description of the method used to award the contract. If best
value was the method, the factors used to evaluate the bid shall be
described, including the weighting of each factor and an assessment of
the effectiveness of the methodology.
   (11) An assessment of the project impact of ‘‘skilled labor force
availability’’.
   (12) An assessment of the design-build dollar limits on county
projects. This shall include projects where the county wanted to use
design-build and was precluded by the dollar limitation. It shall also
include projects where the best value method of awarding contracts was
not used, due to dollar limitations.
[Ch. 595 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3979

   (13) An assessment of the most appropriate uses for the design-build
approach.
   (m) Any county named in this section that elects to not use the
authority granted herein may also submit a report to the entities named
and in accordance with the schedule in subdivision (l). This report may
include an analysis of why the authority granted herein was not used by
the county.
   (n) On or before January 1, 2005, the Legislative Analyst shall report
to the Legislature on the use of the design-build method by counties
pursuant to this section, including the information listed in subdivision
(l). The report may include recommendations for modifying or
extending this section.
   (o) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2006, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.



                             CHAPTER 595

   An act to amend Section 53398.3 of the Government Code, relating
to infrastructure financing districts.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 53398.3 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   53398.3. (a) A district may finance (1) the purchase, construction,
expansion, improvement, seismic retrofit, or rehabilitation of any real or
other tangible property with an estimated useful life of 15 years or longer
that satisfies the requirements of subdivision (b), (2) the planning and
design work that is directly related to the purchase, construction,
expansion, or rehabilitation of that property, and (3) the costs described
in Sections 53398.5 and 53398.31. A district may only finance the
purchase of facilities for which construction has been completed, as
determined by the legislative body. The facilities need not be physically
located within the boundaries of the district. A district may not finance
routine maintenance, repair work, or the costs of ongoing operation or
providing services of any kind.
   (b) The district shall finance only public capital facilities that provide
significant benefits to the area of the border development zone,
including, but not limited to, all of the following:
 3980                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 596 ]
   (1) Highways, interchanges, ramps and bridges, major and minor
arterial streets, major and minor collector streets, parking facilities, and
transit facilities. Phased road widening projects shall also be permitted.
   (2) Sewage collection, pumping, treatment and water reclamation
plants and interceptor pipes.
   (3) Facilities for the collection and treatment of water for urban uses.
   (4) Flood control levees and dams, retention basins, and drainage
facilities.
   (5) Child care facilities.
   (6) Libraries.
   (7) Parks, recreational facilities, and open space.
   (8) Facilities for the transfer and disposal of solid waste, including
transfer stations and vehicles.
   (9) Public safety facilities.
   (c) Any district that constructs dwelling units shall set aside not less
than 20 percent of those units to increase and improve the community’s
supply of low- and moderate-income housing available at an affordable
housing cost, as defined by Section 50052.5 of the Health and Safety
Code, to persons and families of low and moderate income, as defined
in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (d) A district may also finance the purchase of sewage treatment
capacity that provides significant benefits to the area of the border
development zone. The facility providing the sewage treatment capacity
need not be physically located within the boundaries of the district.



                             CHAPTER 596

  An act to repeal Title 7.7 (commencing with Section 67410) of the
Government Code, to amend Section 20301.5 of the Public Contract
Code, to amend and repeal Section 10753 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, to amend Section 339 of the Streets and Highways Code, to amend
Section 21752 of, and to add Section 12512 to, the Vehicle Code, relating
to transportation.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Title 7.7 (commencing with Section 67410) of the
Government Code is repealed.
  SEC. 2. Section 20301.5 of the Public Contract Code is amended to
read:
[Ch. 596 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              3981

   20301.5. (a) Notwithstanding Section 20301, the district may let a
design-and-build contract for any project for a transit center or station,
transit park-and-ride lot, bus and light rail maintenance facility, or
administrative office building, or any combination of those, upon
approval by the board of directors. The district also may let a
design-and-build contract for the Fremont-South Bay Commuter Rail
Project contained in Santa Clara County’s 1996 Measure B
Transportation Improvement Program, upon approval by the board of
directors.
   (b) (1) If the board of directors elects to proceed under subdivision
(a), before entering into any contract that requires advertising for bids for
a project, the board shall cause to be prepared estimates, and shall
prepare documents, for the solicitation of bids on a design-and-build
basis.
   (2) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘design and build’’ means a
method of procuring design and construction from a single source. The
selection of the single source shall occur before the development of
complete plans and specifications.
   (c) The request for submission of bids shall include all of the
following:
   (1) A clear, precise description of the services to be provided and
work to be performed.
   (2) A description of the format that submittals shall follow and the
elements they shall contain, including the qualifications and relevant
experience of the design professional and the contractor, and the criteria
that shall be used in evaluating the submittal, including the bid price.
   (3) A requirement that bidders submit their proposals with the
construction bid price and all cost information in a separate sealed
envelope.
   (4) The date on which the submittals are due, and the timetable that
will be used in reviewing and evaluating the submittals.
   (d) All submittals received prior to the closing time stated in the
request for submittal shall be reviewed to determine those that meet the
format requirements and the standards specified in the request for
submittal.
   (e) The contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder
meeting the standards of the request for submittal.
   (f) For the purposes of this section, selections of design professionals
shall meet the standards set forth in Chapter 10 (commencing with
Section 4525) of Division 5 of Title 1 of the Government Code.
   (g) This section shall apply only to a project that is under the
supervision of a licensed general building contractor, as defined in
Section 7057 of the Business and Professions Code.
 3982                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 596 ]
   SEC. 3. Section 10753 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as
amended by Section 14 of Chapter 724 of the Statutes of 1999, is
amended to read:
   10753. (a) Upon the first sale of a new vehicle to a consumer and
upon each sale of a used vehicle to a consumer, the department shall
determine the market value of the vehicle on the basis of the cost price
to the purchaser as evidenced by a certificate of cost, but not including
California sales or use tax or any local sales, transactions, use, or other
local tax. ‘‘Cost price’’ includes the value of any modifications made by
the seller.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), the department shall not
redetermine the market value of used vehicles, or modify the vehicle
license fee classification of used vehicles determined pursuant to Section
10753.1 or 10753.2, when the seller is the parent, grandparent, child,
grandchild, or spouse of the purchaser, and the seller is not engaged in
the business of selling vehicles subject to registration under the Vehicle
Code, or when a lessor, as defined in Section 372 of the Vehicle Code,
transfers title and registration of a vehicle to the lessee at the expiration
or termination of a lease.
   (c) (1) In the event any commercial vehicle is modified or additions
are made to the chassis or body at a cost of two thousand dollars ($2,000)
or more, but not including any change of engine of the same type or any
cost of repairs to a commercial vehicle, the owner of the commercial
vehicle shall report any modification or addition to the department and
the department shall classify or reclassify the commercial vehicle in its
proper class as provided in Section 10753.1 or 10753.2, taking into
consideration the increase in the market value of the commercial vehicle
due to those modifications or additions, and any reclassification
resulting in increase in market value shall be based on the cost to the
consumer of those modifications or additions. In the event any vehicle
is modified or altered resulting in a decrease in the market value thereof
of two hundred dollars ($200) or more as reported to and determined by
the department, the department shall classify or reclassify the vehicle in
its proper class as provided in Section 10753.1 or 10753.2.
   (2) Paragraph (1) does not apply under any of the following
conditions:
   (A) When the cost of any modification or addition to the chassis or
body of a commercial vehicle is less than two thousand dollars ($2,000).
   (B) When the cost is for modifications or additions necessary to
incorporate a system approved by the State Air Resources Board as
meeting the emission standards set forth in subdivisions (a) and (b) of
former Section 39102 and former Section 39102.5 of the Health and
Safety Code as they read on December 31, 1975.
[Ch. 596 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            3983

   (C) When the cost is for modifications that are necessary to enable a
disabled person to use or operate the vehicle.
   (3) For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘commercial vehicle’’ means a
‘‘commercial vehicle,’’ as defined in Section 260 of the Vehicle Code,
that is regulated by the Department of the California Highway Patrol
pursuant to Sections 2813 and 34500 of the Vehicle Code.
   (d) This section also applies to a system as specified in subdivision
(c) that is approved by the State Air Resources Board as meeting the
emission standards specified in subdivisions (a) and (b) of former
Section 39102 and former Section 39102.5 of the Health and Safety
Code as they read on December 31, 1975, for vehicles 6,001 pounds or
less, manufacturer’s gross vehicle weight, controlled to meet exhaust
emission standards when sold new, when that system is used in any
vehicle over 6,001 pounds or any vehicle 6,001 pounds or less not
controlled to meet exhaust emission standards.
   (e) The temporary attachment of any camper, as defined in Section
243 of the Vehicle Code, to a vehicle is not a modification or addition
for the purposes of subdivision (c).
   (f) The attachment to a vehicle of radiotelephone equipment
furnished by a telephone corporation, as defined in Section 234 of the
Public Utilities Code, is not a modification or addition for the purpose
of subdivision (c), when that equipment is not owned by the owner of
the vehicle.
   (g) For purposes of this section, ‘‘vehicle’’ does not include trailers
or semitrailers.
   SEC. 4. Section 10753 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as
amended by Section 15 of Chapter 724 of the Statutes of 1999, is
repealed.
   SEC. 5. Section 339 of the Streets and Highways Code is amended
to read:
   339. Route 39 is from:
   (a) Route 1 near Huntington Beach to Route 72 in La Habra via Beach
Boulevard.
   (b) Beach Boulevard to Harbor Boulevard in La Habra via Whittier
Boulevard.
   (c) Whittier Boulevard in La Habra to Route 2 via Harbor Boulevard
to the vicinity of Fullerton Road, then to Azusa Avenue, Azusa Avenue
to San Gabriel Canyon Road, San Gabriel Avenue southbound between
Azusa Avenue and San Gabriel Canyon Road, and San Gabriel Canyon
Road.
   The department shall not assume maintenance of any portion of Route
39 until that portion has been constructed or reconstructed to the
minimum state highway standards established pursuant to Sections 81
and 2109.
 3984                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 596 ]
   (d) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), the portion of Route 39 that is
within the city limits of the City of Azusa, except that portion that is
north of post mile 17, shall cease to be a state highway when the
department and the City of Azusa reach agreement on the terms of the
relinquishment of that portion of Route 39 to that city. The terms of the
relinquishment agreement shall require that any lump-sum payment
from the department to the City of Azusa be deposited by that city in a
special account and used solely for improvements on Azusa Avenue and
San Gabriel Avenue in the City of Azusa.
   (e) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), the commission may
relinquish to the City of Covina the portion of Route 39 that is located
within the city limits of that city, upon terms and conditions the
commission finds to be in the best interests of the state.
   (2) A relinquishment under this subdivision shall become effective
immediately following the commission’s approval of the terms and
conditions of the relinquishment.
   (3) On and after the effective date of the relinquishment, both of the
following shall occur:
   (A) The portion of Route 39 relinquished under this subdivision shall
cease to be a state highway.
   (B) The portion of Route 39 relinquished under this subdivision may
not be considered for future adoption under Section 81.
   SEC. 6. Section 12512 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   12512. Except as provided in Sections 12513, 12514, and 12814.6,
no license to drive shall be issued to a person under the age of 18 years.
   SEC. 7. Section 21752 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   21752. No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
   (a) When approaching or upon the crest of a grade or a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as
to create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the
opposite direction.
   (b) When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of
any bridge, viaduct, or tunnel.
   (c) When approaching within 100 feet of or when traversing any
railroad grade crossing.
   (d) When approaching within 100 feet of or when traversing any
intersection.
   This section shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
[Ch. 597 ]                    STATUTES OF 2000                                      3985

                                  CHAPTER 597

  An act to add and repeal Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section 9520)
of Division 8.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to aging,
and making an appropriation therefor.
                [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                       Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

   On this date I signed Assembly Bill 2558 with a reduction.
   AB 2558 would establish a 3-year neighborhood-based pilot program administered by
the California Commission on Improving Life through Services (CILTS), to promote the
involvement of senior volunteers in working with children and school staff.
   While I am supportive of incorporating senior volunteerism into state volunteer efforts
coordinated by CILTS, the program outlined in this bill merits further study. Therefore,
I am directing CILTS to (1) prepare a review of existing programs that engage seniors in
service, (2) identify new and promising entrepreneurial strategies that take advantage of
the unique characteristics of this new generation of seniors, (3) identify priorities which
a senior volunteer force can best impact, and (4) propose a structure for investment of any
future financial resources which maximizes public and private funding and social impact.
I expect this study to be completed within six months. Therefore, I am reducing the
appropriation contained in the bill by $900,000 to reflect the amount needed to conduct
this review. The revised appropriation shall be $100,000.
                                                              GRAY DAVIS, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (a) California’s senior citizens are the healthiest, most vigorous, and
well-educated senior population in history and are a reservoir of
experience, practical knowledge, and lasting values.
   (b) Americans aged 50 to 75 years ranked community service second
in priority only to travel in a recent survey, titled ‘‘The New Face of
Retirement,’’ by Peter D. Hart Research Associates.
   (c) Continued involvement in productive activity and the presence of
strong social networks are the two most important factors contributing
to prolonged well-being later in life, according to a decade-long inquiry
by the MacArthur Foundation into successful aging.
   (d) Retirement vastly increases free time. Upon retirement, men gain
an added 25 hours per week of free time and women gain an added 18
hours per week of free time.
   (e) The aging of the ‘‘Baby Boomer’’ generation will lead to a tripling
of the number of Californians over 65 years of age. This segment of the
population is expected to increase from 3.1 million persons in 1990 to
10.1 million persons in 2030.
 3986                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 597 ]
  (f) Although the Hart Survey found that 55 percent of older
Americans want to volunteer more while only 4 percent want to
volunteer less, volunteering currently falls off sharply after retirement.
  (g) Therefore, it is the intent of the Legislature to establish an
Experience Corps pilot program to engage the time, talents, and skills
of California seniors. It is further the intent of the Legislature, that
through the program, seniors will assist staff at schools by serving as
tutors, mentors, and role models for school children in need.
  SEC. 2. Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section 9520) is added to
Division 8.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, to read:

         CHAPTER 6.5.     SENIOR VOLUNTEER PILOT PROGRAM

   9520. The California Commission on Improving Life Through
Service, in consultation with an advisory board consisting of
representatives of the State Department of Education, the California
Department of Aging, the Corporation for National Service,
representatives of either the federal Retired Senior Volunteer Program
or the federal Foster Grandparent Program, and representatives of Civic
Ventures or one or more experts on Experience Corps programs, shall
establish a three-year intergenerational neighborhood-based pilot
program, consisting of a minimum of seven programs throughout the
state, to promote the use of senior volunteers in working with children
and school staff. Programs shall be designed and implemented by
partnerships of organizations whose membership makes significant
contributions and brings expertise in the areas of education, tutoring, and
mentoring both in school and after-school venues and mobilizing and
supporting senior volunteers. No less than 50 percent of local programs
selected for funding shall be operated by partnerships that have existing
National Senior Service Corps programs acting as the legal applicant.
Local program selection criteria will include the strength and breadth of
the partnership and its coordination with existing senior volunteer
programs in those communities where they exist. The program shall
commence operation in March 2001, and terminate in March 2004.
   9521. The pilot program established pursuant to this chapter shall
be based upon the best practices of existing Experience Corps programs
such as the Sunset Neighborhood Beacon Center Experience Corps in
San Francisco.
   9522. The advisory board specified in Section 9520 shall adopt
criteria to determine the effectiveness of the program required by this
chapter.
   9523. This chapter shall become inoperative on September 30,
2004, and, as of January 1, 2005, is repealed, unless a later enacted
[Ch. 598 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3987

statute that is enacted before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends the dates
on which it becomes inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 3. There is hereby appropriated the sum of one million dollars
($1,000,000) from the General Fund to the California Commission on
Improving Life Through Service for the purpose of implementing the
pilot program established pursuant to Chapter 6.5 (commencing with
Section 9520) of Division 8.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.



                             CHAPTER 598

  An act to add Section 6359 to the Labor Code, relating to labor.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 6359 is added to the Labor Code, to read:
  6359. (a) The Legislature finds and declares the following:
  (1) Every year 70 adolescents die from work injuries in the United
States and 200,000 are injured, 70,000 seriously enough to require
hospital treatment. Most of these injuries are preventable.
  (2) A recent report by the Institute of Medicine and the National
Research Council has brought national attention to the need for better
education and interventions to aid injury and illness prevention efforts
aimed at young workers.
  (3) Since 1996, the California Study Group on Young Workers’
Health and Safety, consisting of 30 representatives from key agencies
and organizations involved with California youth employment and
education issues, including representatives from government agencies,
business, labor, parent and teacher organizations, and others, has met to
develop recommendations to better protect and educate California’s
young workers.
  (4) The study group recommended the establishment of a Resource
Network on Young Workers’ Health and Safety, to assist in increasing
the ability of young workers and their communities to identify and
address workplace hazards in order to prevent young workers from
becoming injured or ill on the job.
  (b) It is the intent of the Legislature that the Department of Industrial
Relations, the University of California, the State Department of
Education, the State Department of Health Services, and the
Employment Development Department cooperatively and individually
 3988                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 598 ]
conduct activities aimed at the prevention of occupational injuries and
illnesses among young workers.
   (c) The Department of Industrial Relations shall contract with a
coordinator to establish a statewide young worker health and safety
resource network. The primary function of the resource network shall be
to assist in increasing the ability of young workers and their
communities statewide to identify and address workplace hazards in
order to prevent young workers from becoming injured or ill on the job.
The network shall coordinate and augment existing outreach and
education efforts and provide technical assistance, education materials
and other support to schools, job training programs, employers and other
organizations working to educate students and their communities about
workplace health and safety and child labor laws.
   (d) The resource network shall provide, and the lead center shall
coordinate, services to all key groups throughout the state involved in
education and protecting young workers, including, but not limited to:
   (1) Teachers.
   (2) Schools.
   (3) Job training programs.
   (4) Employers of youth.
   (5) Parent groups.
   (6) Youth organizations.
   (7) Work permit issuers.
   (e) The resource network shall be advised by a statewide advisory
group, including, but not limited to, representatives from the
Department of Industrial Relations, the Commission on Health and
Safety and Worker’s Compensation, the University of California, the
State Department of Education, the Department of Health Services, and
the Employment Development Department, as well as business, labor,
parents, and others experienced in working with youth doing agricultural
and nonagricultural work. The advisory group shall represent diverse
geographic regions of the state.
   (f) This section shall be implemented subject to the availability of
funding for the purposes of this section in the 2000–01 Budget Act.
   SEC. 2. The Legislature recognizes that funds appropriated by Item
8350-001-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000–01 may also
be used by the Department of Industrial Relations to enter into a contract
or an interagency agreement for costs related to the enforcement
activities by appropriate authorities due to referrals made pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 6300) of Part 1 of Division 5 of
the Labor Code.
[Ch. 600 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                3989

                              CHAPTER 599

  An act to add Section 35706.5 to the Education Code, relating to
school district reorganization.
             [Approved by Governor September 22, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 35706.5 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   35706.5. (a) No action to reorganize the boundaries of a school
district shall be initiated or completed without the consent of a majority
of all of the members of the governing board of the school district if both
of the following conditions apply to the school district:
   (1) It has obtained an emergency apportionment loan from the State
of California, but the Superintendent of Public Instruction has
determined that a state administrator is no longer necessary, and has
restored, prior to the effective date of this section, the legal rights, duties,
and powers of the governing board of the district pursuant to Section
41326.
   (2) It has a student population 70 percent of which is from either a
‘‘lower income household’’ or ‘‘very low income household’’ as those
terms are defined in Sections 50079.5 and 50105, respectively, of the
Health and Safety Code.
   (b) For purposes of this section, for any school district that meets the
description specified in paragraph (1), consent to an action to reorganize
the boundaries of the school district shall no longer be required when 10
years have elapsed from the date of final payment by the school district
of the emergency loan to the State of California.



                              CHAPTER 600

  An act to amend Sections 6055 and 6203.5 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, relating to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 6055 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
 3990                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 600 ]
   6055. (a) A retailer is relieved from liability for sales tax that
became due and payable, insofar as the measure of the tax is represented
by accounts that have been found to be worthless and charged off for
income tax purposes by the retailer or, if the retailer is not required to file
income tax returns, charged off in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A retailer that has previously paid the tax may,
under rules and regulations prescribed by the board, take as a deduction
the amount found worthless and charged off by the retailer. If these
accounts are thereafter in whole or in part collected by the retailer, the
amount collected shall be included in the first return filed after the
collection and the tax shall be paid with the return. For purposes of this
subdivision, the term ‘‘retailer’’ shall include any entity affiliated with
the retailer under Section 1504 of Title 26 of the United States Code.
   (b) (1) In the case of accounts held by a lender, a retailer or lender
who makes a proper election under paragraph (4) shall be entitled to a
deduction or refund of the tax that the retailer has previously reported
and paid if all of the following conditions are met:
   (A) No deduction was previously claimed or allowed on any portion
of the accounts.
   (B) The accounts have been found worthless and written off by the
lender in accordance with the requirements of subdivision (a).
   (C) The contract between the retailer and the lender contains an
irrevocable relinquishment of all rights to the account from the retailer
to the lender.
   (D) The retailer remitted the tax on or after January 1, 2000.
   (E) The party electing to claim the deduction or refund under
paragraph (4) files a claim in a manner prescribed by the board.
   (2) If the retailer or the lender thereafter collects in whole or in part
any accounts, one of the following shall apply:
   (A) If the retailer is entitled to the deduction or refund under the
election specified in paragraph (4), the retailer shall include the amount
collected in its first return filed after the collection and pay tax on that
amount with the return.
   (B) If the lender is entitled to the deduction or refund under the
election specified in paragraph (4), the lender shall pay the tax to the
board in accordance with Section 6451.
   (3) For purposes of this subdivision, the term ‘‘lender’’ means any of
the following:
   (A) Any person who holds a retail account which that person
purchased directly from a retailer who reported the tax.
   (B) Any person who holds a retail account pursuant to that person’s
contract directly with the retailer who reported the tax.
   (C) Any person who is either an affiliated entity, under Section 1504
of Title 26 of the United States Code, of a person described in
[Ch. 600 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               3991

subparagraph (A) or (B), or an assignee of a person described in
subparagraph (A) or (B).
   (4) Prior to claiming any deduction or refund under this subdivision,
the retailer who reported the tax and the lender shall file an election with
the board, signed by both parties, designating which party is entitled to
claim the deduction or refund. This election may not be amended or
revoked unless a new election, signed by both parties, is filed with the
board.
   SEC. 2. Section 6203.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   6203.5. (a) A retailer is relieved from liability to collect use tax that
became due and payable, insofar as the measure of the tax is represented
by accounts that have been found to be worthless and charged off for
income tax purposes by the retailer or, if the retailer is not required to file
income tax returns, charged off in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A retailer that has previously paid the amount of
the tax may, under rules and regulations prescribed by the board, take as
a deduction the amount found worthless and charged off by the retailer.
If these accounts are thereafter in whole or in part collected by the
retailer, the amount collected shall be included in the first return filed
after the collection and the amount of the tax shall be paid with the return.
For purposes of this subdivision, the term ‘‘retailer’’ shall include any
entity affiliated with the retailer under Section 1504 of Title 26 of the
United States Code.
   (b) (1) In the case of accounts held by a lender, a retailer or lender
who makes a proper election under paragraph (4) shall be entitled to a
deduction or refund of the tax that the retailer has previously reported
and paid if all of the following conditions are met:
   (A) No deduction was previously claimed or allowed on any portion
of the accounts.
   (B) The accounts have been found worthless and written off by the
lender in accordance with the requirements of subdivision (a).
   (C) The contract between the retailer and the lender contains an
irrevocable relinquishment of all rights to the account from the retailer
to the lender.
   (D) The retailer remitted the tax on or after January 1, 2000.
   (E) The party electing to claim the deduction or refund under
paragraph (4) files a claim in a manner prescribed by the board.
   (2) If the retailer or the lender thereafter collects in whole or in part
any accounts, one of the following shall apply:
   (A) If the retailer is entitled to the deduction or refund under the
election specified in paragraph (4), the retailer shall include the amount
collected in its first return filed after the collection and pay tax on that
amount with the return.
 3992                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 601 ]
  (B) If the lender is entitled to the deduction or refund under the
election specified in paragraph (4), the lender shall pay the tax to the
board in accordance with Section 6451.
  (3) For purposes of this subdivision, the term ‘‘lender’’ means any of
the following:
  (A) Any person who holds a retail account which that person
purchased directly from a retailer who reported the tax.
  (B) Any person who holds a retail account pursuant to that person’s
contract directly with the retailer who reported the tax.
  (C) Any person who is either an affiliated entity, under Section 1504
of Title 26 of the United States Code, of a person described in
subparagraph (A) or (B), or an assignee of a person described in
subparagraph (A) or (B).
  (4) Prior to claiming any deduction or refund under this subdivision,
the retailer who reported the tax and the lender shall file an election with
the board, signed by both parties, designating which party is entitled to
claim the deduction or refund. This election may not be amended or
revoked unless a new election, signed by both parties, is filed with the
board.



                             CHAPTER 601

  An act to amend Sections 214 and 237 of, and to add Section 230 to,
the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to taxation, to take effect
immediately, tax levy.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 214 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   214. (a) Property used exclusively for religious, hospital,
scientific, or charitable purposes owned and operated by community
chests, funds, foundations or corporations organized and operated for
religious, hospital, scientific, or charitable purposes is exempt from
taxation, including ad valorem taxes to pay the interest and redemption
charges on any indebtedness approved by the voters prior to July 1, 1978,
or any bonded indebtedness for the acquisition or improvement of real
property approved on or after July 1, 1978, by two-thirds of the votes cast
by the voters voting on the proposition, if:
[Ch. 601 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3993

  (1) The owner is not organized or operated for profit. However, in the
case of hospitals, the organization shall not be deemed to be organized
or operated for profit if, during the immediately preceding fiscal year,
operating revenues, exclusive of gifts, endowments and grants-in-aid,
did not exceed operating expenses by an amount equivalent to 10 percent
of those operating expenses. As used herein, operating expenses include
depreciation based on cost of replacement and amortization of, and
interest on, indebtedness.
  (2) No part of the net earnings of the owner inures to the benefit of any
private shareholder or individual.
  (3) The property is used for the actual operation of the exempt
activity, and does not exceed an amount of property reasonably
necessary to the accomplishment of the exempt purpose.
  (A) For the purposes of determining whether the property is used for
the actual operation of the exempt activity, consideration shall not be
given to use of the property for either or both of the following described
activities if that use is occasional:
  (i) The owner conducts fundraising activities on the property and the
proceeds derived from those activities are not unrelated business taxable
income, as defined in Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code, of the
owner and are used to further the exempt activity of the owner.
  (ii) The owner permits any other organization that meets all of the
requirements of this subdivision, other than ownership of the property,
to conduct fundraising activities on the property and the proceeds
derived from those activities are not unrelated business taxable income,
as defined in Section 512 of the Internal Revenue Code, of the
organization, are not subject to the tax on unrelated business taxable
income that is imposed by Section 511 of the Internal Revenue Code, and
are used to further the exempt activity of the organization.
  (B) For purposes of subparagraph (A):
  (i) ‘‘Occasional use’’ means use of the property on an irregular or
intermittent basis by the qualifying owner or any other qualifying
organization described in clause (ii) of subparagraph (A) that is
incidental to the primary activities of the owner or the other organization.
   (ii) ‘‘Fundraising activities’’ means both activities involving the
direct solicitation of money or other property and the anticipated
exchange of goods or services for money between the soliciting
organization and the organization or person solicited.
   (C) Subparagraph (A) shall have no application in determining
whether paragraph (3) has been satisfied unless the owner of the property
and any other organization using the property as provided in
subparagraph (A) have filed with the assessor duplicate copies of valid
unrevoked letters or rulings from the Internal Revenue Service that state
that the owner and the other organization qualify as exempt
 3994                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 601 ]
organizations under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
The owner of the property and any other organization using the property
as provided in subparagraph (A) also shall file duplicate copies of their
most recently filed federal income tax returns.
   (D) For the purposes of determining whether the property is used for
the actual operation of the exempt activity, consideration shall not be
given to the use of the property for meetings conducted by any other
organization if the meetings are incidental to the other organization’s
primary activities, are not fundraising meetings or activities as defined
in subparagraph (B), are held no more than once per week, and the other
organization and its use of the property meet all other requirements of
paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive, of subdivision (a). The owner or the
other organization also shall file with the assessor duplicate copies of
valid, unrevoked letters or rulings from the Internal Revenue Service or
the Franchise Tax Board stating that the other organization, or the
national organization of which it is a local chapter or affiliate, qualifies
as an exempt organization under Section 501(c)(3) or Section 501(c)(4)
of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 23701d, 23701f, or 23701w,
together with duplicate copies of that organization’s most recently filed
federal income tax return, if the organization is required by federal law
to file a return.
   Nothing in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D) shall be construed to
either enlarge or restrict the exemption provided for in subdivision (b)
of Section 4 and Section 5 of Article XIII of the California Constitution
and this section.
   (4) The property is not used or operated by the owner or by any other
person so as to benefit any officer, trustee, director, shareholder,
member, employee, contributor, or bondholder of the owner or operator,
or any other person, through the distribution of profits, payment of
excessive charges or compensations, or the more advantageous pursuit
of their business or profession.
   (5) The property is not used by the owner or members thereof for
fraternal or lodge purposes, or for social club purposes except where that
use is clearly incidental to a primary religious, hospital, scientific, or
charitable purpose.
   (6) The property is irrevocably dedicated to religious, charitable,
scientific, or hospital purposes and upon the liquidation, dissolution or
abandonment of the owner will not inure to the benefit of any private
person except a fund, foundation, or corporation organized and operated
for religious, hospital, scientific, or charitable purposes.
   (7) The property, if used exclusively for scientific purposes, is used
by a foundation or institution that, in addition to complying with the
foregoing requirements for the exemption of charitable organizations in
general, has been chartered by the Congress of the United States (except
[Ch. 601 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3995

that this requirement shall not apply when the scientific purposes are
medical research), and whose objects are the encouragement or conduct
of scientific investigation, research, and discovery for the benefit of the
community at large.
   The exemption provided for herein shall be known as the ‘‘welfare
exemption.’’ This exemption shall be in addition to any other exemption
now provided by law, and the existence of the exemption provision in
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 202 shall not preclude the
exemption under this section for museum or library property. Except as
provided in subdivision (e), this section shall not be construed to enlarge
the college exemption.
   (b) Property used exclusively for school purposes of less than
collegiate grade and owned and operated by religious, hospital, or
charitable funds, foundations, or corporations, which property and
funds, foundations, or corporations meet all of the requirements of
subdivision (a), shall be deemed to be within the exemption provided for
in subdivision (b) of Section 4 and Section 5 of Article XIII of the
California Constitution and this section.
   (c) Property used exclusively for nursery school purposes and owned
and operated by religious, hospital, or charitable funds, foundations, or
corporations, which property and funds, foundations, or corporations
meet all the requirements of subdivision (a), shall be deemed to be within
the exemption provided for in subdivision (b) of Section 4 and Section
5 of Article XIII of the California Constitution and this section.
   (d) Property used exclusively for a noncommercial educational FM
broadcast station or an educational television station, and owned and
operated by religious, hospital, scientific, or charitable funds,
foundations, or corporations meeting all of the requirements of
subdivision (a), shall be deemed to be within the exemption provided for
in subdivision (b) of Section 4 and Section 5 of Article XIII of the
California Constitution and this section.
   (e) Property used exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, or
hospital purposes and owned and operated by religious, hospital,
scientific, or charitable funds, foundations, or corporations or
educational institutions of collegiate grade, as defined in Section 203,
which property and funds, foundations, corporations, or educational
institutions meet all of the requirements of subdivision (a), shall be
deemed to be within the exemption provided for in subdivision (b) of
Section 4 and Section 5 of Article XIII of the California Constitution and
this section. As to educational institutions of collegiate grade, as defined
in Section 203, the requirements of paragraph (6) of subdivision (a) shall
be deemed to be met if both of the following are met:
   (1) The property of the educational institution is irrevocably
dedicated in its articles of incorporation to charitable and educational
 3996                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 601 ]
purposes, to religious and educational purposes, or to educational
purposes.
   (2) The articles of incorporation of the educational institution provide
for distribution of its property upon its liquidation, dissolution, or
abandonment to a fund, foundation, or corporation organized and
operated for religious, hospital, scientific, charitable, or educational
purposes meeting the requirements for exemption provided by Section
203 or this section.
   (f) Property used exclusively for housing and related facilities for
elderly or handicapped families and financed by, including, but not
limited to, the federal government pursuant to Section 202 of Public Law
86-372 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701q), as amended, Section 231 of Public Law
73-479 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1715v), Section 236 of Public Law 90-448 (12
U.S.C. Sec. 1715z), or Section 811 of Public Law 101-625 (42 U.S.C.
Sec. 8013), and owned and operated by religious, hospital, scientific, or
charitable funds, foundations, or corporations meeting all of the
requirements of this section shall be deemed to be within the exemption
provided for in subdivision (b) of Section 4 and Section 5 of Article XIII
of the California Constitution and this section.
   The amendment of this paragraph made by Chapter 1102 of the
Statutes of 1984 does not constitute a change in, but is declaratory of,
the existing law. However, no refund of property taxes shall be required
as a result of this amendment for any fiscal year prior to the fiscal year
in which the amendment takes effect.
   Property used exclusively for housing and related facilities for elderly
or handicapped families at which supplemental care or services designed
to meet the special needs of elderly or handicapped residents are not
provided, or that is not financed by the federal government pursuant to
Section 202 of Public Law 86-372 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701q), as amended,
Section 231 of Public Law 73-479 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1715v), Section 236
of Public Law 90-448 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1715z), or Section 811 of Public
Law 101-625 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 8013), shall not be entitled to exemption
pursuant to this subdivision unless the property is used for housing and
related facilities for low- and moderate-income elderly or handicapped
families. Property that would otherwise be exempt pursuant to this
subdivision, except that it includes some housing and related facilities
for other than low- or moderate-income elderly or handicapped families,
shall be entitled to a partial exemption. The partial exemption shall be
equal to that percentage of the value of the property that is equal to the
percentage that the number of low- and moderate-income elderly and
handicapped families occupying the property represents of the total
number of families occupying the property.
[Ch. 601 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               3997

   As used in this subdivision, ‘‘low and moderate income’’ has the same
meaning as the term ‘‘persons and families of low or moderate income’’
as defined by Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (g) (1) Property used exclusively for rental housing and related
facilities and owned and operated by religious, hospital, scientific, or
charitable funds, foundations, or corporations, including limited
partnerships in which the managing general partner is an eligible
nonprofit corporation, meeting all of the requirements of this section, or
by veterans’ organizations, as described in Section 215.1, meeting all the
requirements of paragraphs (1) to (7), inclusive, of subdivision (a), shall
be deemed to be within the exemption provided for in subdivision (b) of
Section 4 and Section 5 of Article XIII of the California Constitution and
this section and shall be entitled to a partial exemption equal to that
percentage of the value of the property that the portion of the property
serving lower income households represents of the total property in any
year in which either of the following criteria applies:
   (A) The acquisition, rehabilitation, development, or operation of the
property, or any combination of these factors, is financed with
tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds or general obligation bonds, or is
financed by local, state, or federal loans or grants and the rents of the
occupants who are lower income households do not exceed those
prescribed by deed restrictions or regulatory agreements pursuant to the
terms of the financing or financial assistance.
   (B) The owner of the property is eligible for and receives low-income
housing tax credits pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as added by Public Law 99-514.
   (C) In the case of a claim, other than a claim with respect to property
owned by a limited partnership in which the managing general partner
is an eligible nonprofit corporation, that is filed for the 2000–01 fiscal
year or any fiscal year thereafter, 90 percent or more of the occupants of
the property are lower income households whose rent does not exceed
the rent prescribed by Section 50053 of the Health and Safety Code. The
total exemption amount allowed under this subdivision to a taxpayer,
with respect to a single property or multiple properties for any fiscal year
on the sole basis of the application of this subparagraph, may not exceed
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) of tax.
   (2) In order to be eligible for the exemption provided by this
subdivision, the owner of the property shall do both of the following:
   (A) (i) For any claim filed for the 2000–01 fiscal year or any fiscal
year thereafter, certify and ensure, subject to the limitation in clause (ii),
that there is an enforceable and verifiable agreement with a public
agency or, a recorded deed restriction, or other legal document that
restricts the project’s usage and that provides that the units designated
for use by lower income households are continuously available to or
 3998                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 601 ]
occupied by lower income households at rents that do not exceed those
prescribed by Section 50053 of the Health and Safety Code, or, to the
extent that the terms of federal, state, or local financing or financial
assistance conflicts with Section 50053, rents that do not exceed those
prescribed by the terms of the financing or financial assistance.
  (ii) In the case of a limited partnership in which the managing general
partner is an eligible nonprofit corporation, the restriction and provision
specified in clause (i) shall be contained in an enforceable and verifiable
agreement with a public agency, or in a recorded deed restriction to
which the limited partnership certifies.
  (B) Certify that the funds that would have been necessary to pay
property taxes are used to maintain the affordability of, or reduce rents
otherwise necessary for, the units occupied by lower income households.
  (3) As used in this subdivision, ‘‘lower income households’’ has the
same meaning as the term ‘‘lower income households’’ as defined by
Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
  (h) Property used exclusively for an emergency or temporary shelter
and related facilities for homeless persons and families and owned and
operated by religious, hospital, scientific, or charitable funds,
foundations, or corporations meeting all of the requirements of this
section shall be deemed to be within the exemption provided for in
subdivision (b) of Section 4 and Section 5 of Article XIII of the
California Constitution and this section. Property that otherwise would
be exempt pursuant to this subdivision, except that it includes housing
and related facilities for other than an emergency or temporary shelter,
shall be entitled to a partial exemption.
  As used in this subdivision, ‘‘emergency or temporary shelter’’ means
a facility that would be eligible for funding pursuant to Chapter 11
(commencing with Section 50800) of Part 2 of Division 31 of the Health
and Safety Code.
  (i) Property used exclusively for housing and related facilities for
employees of religious, charitable, scientific, or hospital organizations
that meet all the requirements of subdivision (a) and owned and operated
by funds, foundations, or corporations that meet all the requirements of
subdivision (a) shall be deemed to be within the exemption provided for
in subdivision (b) of Sections 4 and 5 of Article XIII of the California
Constitution and this section to the extent the residential use of the
property is institutionally necessary for the operation of the
organization.
  (j) For purposes of this section, charitable purposes include
educational purposes. For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘educational
purposes’’ means those educational purposes and activities for the
benefit of the community as a whole or an unascertainable and indefinite
portion thereof, and shall not include those educational purposes and
[Ch. 601 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             3999

activities that are primarily for the benefit of an organization’s
shareholders. Educational activities include the study of relevant
information, the dissemination of that information to interested
members of the general public, and the participation of interested
members of the general public.
   SEC. 2. Section 230 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code, to
read:
   230. (a) With regard to taxes that attach as a lien on or after January
1, 2001, wooden vessels of historical significance, and all personal
property thereon used in their operation, are exempt from taxation. This
exemption applies if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
   (1) The owner and operator is a nonprofit organization that has
qualified for exemption under either Section 23701d of this code or
under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   (2) No part of the net earnings of the owner inures to the benefit of any
private shareholder or individual.
   (3) The vessel is used primarily as, or as a part of, a maritime museum
that is regularly open to the public.
   (4) Income from fundraising use and use for charter activities does
not exceed 40 percent of operating revenues of the vessel, and all net
earnings are used to further the exempt activity of the museum.
   (b) When claiming an exemption pursuant to this section, a claiming
organization shall give all information required and answer all questions
in an affidavit, to be furnished by the assessor, that is signed by the
claimant under penalty of perjury. The assessor may require other proof
of the facts stated in the affidavit before allowing the exemption. A
claimant for an exemption pursuant to this section is subject to Sections
255 and 260.
   (c) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
   (1) ‘‘Wooden vessel of historical significance’’ means any wooden
vessel that is a refurbished original, wooden inland waters vessel of 47
feet or larger, built in California during or prior to 1910, that
continuously thereafter has remained in California waters, and that has
been designated a California State Historical Landmark.
   (2) ‘‘Regularly open to the public’’ means that the museum was open
to the public not less than 20 hours per week for not less than 35 weeks
of the 12-month period immediately preceding the lien date for the year
for which the exemption is claimed.
   SEC. 3. Section 237 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   237. (a) (1) Subject to the requirements set forth in paragraph (2),
there is exempt from taxation under this part that portion of the assessed
value of property, owned and operated by a federally designated Indian
tribe or its tribally designated housing entity , that corresponds to that
 4000                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 601 ]
portion of the property that is continuously available to, or occupied by,
lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health
and Safety Code at rents that do not exceed those prescribed by Section
50053 of the Health and Safety Code, or, to the extent that the terms of
federal, state, or local financing or financial assistance conflict with that
section, rents that do not exceed those prescribed by the terms of the
financing agreements or financial assistance agreements.
   (2) The exemption set forth in subdivision (a) applies only if the
property and entity meet the following requirements:
   (A) At least 30 percent of the property’s housing units are either
continuously available to, or occupied by, lower income households, as
defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code, at rents that
do not exceed those prescribed by Section 50053 of the Health and
Safety Code, or, to the extent that the terms of federal, state, or local
financing or financial assistance conflict with that section, rents that do
not exceed those prescribed by the terms of the financing agreements or
financial assistance agreements.
   (B) The housing entity is nonprofit.
   (C) No part of the net earnings of the housing entity inure to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
   (b) In lieu of the tax imposed by this part, a tribe or tribally designated
housing entity may agree to make payments to a county, city, city and
county, or political subdivision of the state for services, improvements,
or facilities provided by that entity for the benefit of a low-income
housing project owned and operated by the tribe or tribally designated
housing entity. Any payments in lieu of tax may not exceed the estimated
cost to the city, county, city and county, or political subdivision of the
state of the services, improvements, or facilities to be provided.
   (c) A tribe or tribally designated housing entity applying for an
exemption under this section shall provide the following documents to
the assessor:
   (1) Documents establishing that the designating tribe is federally
recognized.
   (2) Documents establishing that the housing entity has been
designated by the tribe.
   (3) Documents establishing that there is a deed restriction,
agreement, or other legally binding document requiring that the property
be used in compliance with subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a).
   SEC. 4. Notwithstanding Section 2229 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, no appropriation is made by this act and the state shall not
reimburse any local agency for any property tax revenues lost by it
pursuant to this act.
[Ch. 602 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4001

  SEC. 5. This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.



                             CHAPTER 602

   An act to amend Section 95.31 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to local government finance.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 95.31 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   95.31. (a) (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any
eligible county may, upon the recommendation of the county assessor,
and by resolution of the board of supervisors of that county adopted not
later than December 1 of the fiscal year for which it is to first apply, elect
to participate in the State-County Property Tax Administration Loan
Program.
   (2) Except as specified in paragraph (3), for the purposes of this
section, an eligible county shall mean a county in which additional
property tax revenue allocated to school entities would reduce the
amount of General Fund moneys apportioned to school entities.
However, eligibility shall be terminated when, in combination with
resources in the Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund, additional
property tax revenues allocated to school entities will not result in a
reduction in the General Fund apportionments.
   (3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), both the County of Solano and the
County of San Benito shall be deemed eligible counties that may, upon
the recommendation of the county assessor, and by resolution of the
board of supervisors of the county adopted on or before March 31, 1996,
elect to participate in the State-County Property Tax Administration
Loan Program.
   (4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), any county in which a new
assessor is elected in 1998 may, upon the recommendation of the county
assessor, and by resolution of the board of supervisors of the county
adopted on or before January 31, 1999, elect to participate in the
State-County Property Tax Administration Loan Program commencing
with the 1998–99 fiscal year.
   (b) (1) In each fiscal year from the 1995–96 fiscal year to the
2001–02 fiscal year, inclusive, an eligible county participating in the
 4002                                  STATUTES OF 2000                          [Ch. 602 ]
State-County Property Tax Administration Loan Program may receive
a loan for up to the amount listed in paragraph (3). The loan shall be
repaid by June 30 of the fiscal year following the year in which the loan
is made. However, at the discretion of the Director of Finance, the loan
may be renewed once for an additional 12-month period at the request
of the participating county board of supervisors. For the Counties of
Fresno, Orange, San Benito, and Solano any loan agreement signed on
or before July 31, 1996, shall be deemed a loan agreement for the
1995–96 fiscal year for the purposes of this section. For any county in
which a new assessor is elected in 1998, any loan agreement signed on
or before January 31, 1999, shall be deemed a loan agreement for the
1998–99 fiscal year for the purposes of this section.
   (2) If an eligible county elects to participate in the State-County
Property Tax Administration Loan Program, it shall enter into a
contractual agreement with the Department of Finance. At a minimum,
the contractual agreement shall include the following:
   (A) The loan amount, as determined by the Director of Finance.
   (B) Repayment provisions, including the interception of Motor
Vehicle License Fee Account moneys apportioned pursuant to Section
11005 to repay the General Fund.
   (C) A listing of the proposed use of the additional resources
including, but not limited to:
   (i) Proposed new positions.
   (ii) Increased automation costs.
   (D) An agreement to provide to the Department of Finance, by March
31 of the fiscal year in which the loan is made, a report projecting the
impact of the increased funding in the current and subsequent fiscal year.
   (3) Upon request of the Department of Finance, the Controller shall
provide a loan to the following counties for up to the amount specified
by the Director of Finance, not to exceed the following amounts:

Jurisdiction                                                                    Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 2,152,429
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,124
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             80,865
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       381,956
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           109,897
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           53,957
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            2,022,088
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            36,203
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           302,795
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,165,249
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          59,197
[Ch. 602 ]                          STATUTES OF 2000                                 4003

Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          210,806
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        231,673
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      100,080
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,211,318
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       138,653
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      117,376
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         54,699
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        13,451,670
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        212,991
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       790,490
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           46,476
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           160,435
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        298,004
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          24,022
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         47,778
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          795,819
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      366,020
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        234,292
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6,826,325
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      628,047
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         80,606
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2,358,068
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1,554,245
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           90,408
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            2,139,938
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5,413,943
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,013,332
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           818,686
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             736,288
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2,220,001
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           926,817
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4,213,639
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          565,328
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      342,399
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        7,383
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         91,164
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        469,207
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,035,049
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        866,155
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      147,436
 4004                                 STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 602 ]

Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        97,222
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       24,913
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     501,907
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         126,067
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,477,789
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     278,309
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      88,968

   (4) The Department of Finance shall consider any or all of the
following items in determining the extent to which a county has satisfied
the terms and repaid the loan, pursuant to the contract, as offered under
this part:
   (A) County performance as indicated by the State Board of
Equalization’s sample survey required pursuant to Section 15640 of the
Government Code.
   (B) Performance measures adopted by the California Assessors’
Association.
   (C) Reduction of backlog of assessment appeals and Proposition 8
declines in value.
   (D) County compliance with mandatory audits required by Section
469.
   (E) Reduction of backlogs in new construction, changes in
ownership, and supplemental roll.
   (F) Other measures, as determined by the Director of Finance.
   (5) The Director of Finance shall notify the Controller of any
participating county that fails to comply with the terms of the agreement,
including the repayment of the loan. When the Controller receives notice
from the Director of Finance, the Controller shall make an
apportionment to the General Fund on behalf of the participating county
in the amount of that required payment for the purpose of making that
payment. The Controller shall make that payment only from moneys
credited to the Motor Vehicle License Fee Account in the Transportation
Tax Fund to which the participating county is entitled at that time under
Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11001) of Part 5 of Division 2, and
shall thereupon reduce, by the amount of the payment, the subsequent
allocation or allocations to which the county would otherwise be entitled
under that chapter.
   (c) (1) Funds appropriated for purposes of this section shall be used
to enhance the property tax administration system by providing
supplemental resources. Amounts provided to any county as a loan
pursuant to this section shall not be used to supplant the current level of
funding. In order to participate in the State-County Property Tax
Administration Loan Program, a participating county shall maintain a
[Ch. 603 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4005

base staffing, including contract staff, and total funding level in the
county assessor’s office, independent of the loan proceeds provided
pursuant to this act, equal to the levels in the 1994–95 fiscal year
exclusive of amounts provided to the assessor’s office pursuant to Item
9100-102-001 of the Budget Act of 1994. However, in a county in which
the 1994–95 funding level for the assessor’s office was higher than the
1993–94 level, the 1993–94 fiscal year staffing and funding levels shall
be considered the base year for purposes of this section. Commencing
with the 1996–97 fiscal year, if a county was otherwise eligible but was
unable to participate in this program in the 1995–96 fiscal year because
it did not meet the funding level and staffing requirements of this
paragraph, that county shall maintain a base staffing, including contract
staff, and total funding level in the county assessor’s office equal to the
levels in the 1995–96 fiscal year.
   (2) Prior to the assessor’s recommendation for participation in the
State-County Property Tax Administration Loan Program, the assessor
shall consult with the county tax collector, and any other county agency
directly involved in property tax administration, to discuss the needs of
the program for the duration of the contractual agreement.
   (d) A participating county may establish a tracking system whereby
a work or function number is assigned to each appraisal or administrative
activity. That system should provide statistical data on the number of
production units performed by each employee and the positive and
negative change in assessed value attributable to the activities performed
by each employee.
   (e) Notwithstanding Section 95.3, no amount of funds provided to an
eligible county pursuant to this section shall result in any deduction from
those property tax administrative costs that are eligible for
reimbursement pursuant to Section 95.3.
   (f) At the request of the Department of Finance, the board shall assist
the Department of Finance in evaluating contracts entered into pursuant
to this section.



                             CHAPTER 603

   An act to amend Section 17052.2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]
 4006                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 603 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 17052.2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
as added by Chapter 75 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
  17052.2. (a) For each taxable year beginning on or after January 1,
2000, there shall be allowed as a credit against the ‘‘net tax’’ (as defined
by Section 17039) to a credentialed teacher an amount equal to the
amount determined in subdivision (b).
  (b) The amount of the credit shall be the lesser of the amounts
computed under paragraph (1) or (2):
  (1) In the case of any credentialed teacher who has, as of the last day
of the taxable year:
  (A) Completed at least four but less than six years of service as a
credentialed teacher, the credit shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250).
  (B) Completed at least six but less than 11 years of service as a
credentialed teacher, the credit shall be five hundred dollars ($500).
  (C) Completed at least 11 but less than 20 years of service as a
credentialed teacher, the credit shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000).
  (D) Completed 20 or more years of service as a credentialed teacher,
the credit shall be one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500).
  (E) For purposes of determining years of service, years of service
performed as a teacher in a qualified education institution, which
otherwise meets the criteria specified in subdivision (d) except that the
qualified education institution is not located in this state, in another state
shall qualify for each year the teacher was credentialed by the public
education agency in that state.
  (2) Fifty percent of the amount determined as follows:
  (A) Divide the amount received by the taxpayer as wages and salary
for services as a credentialed teacher, as defined in paragraph (3) of
subdivision (c), by the taxpayer’s total adjusted gross income from all
sources.
  (B) Multiply the taxpayer’s total tax, as defined in paragraph (4) of
subdivision (c), by a ratio, not to exceed 1.00, that is otherwise equal to
the ratio determined for the taxpayer under subparagraph (A).
  (c) For purposes of this section, all of the following definitions apply:
  (1) ‘‘Credentialed teacher’’ means a person who holds a preliminary
or professional clear credential as determined by the Commission on
Teacher Credentialing pursuant to Article 1 (commencing with Section
44200) of Chapter 2 of Part 25 of Division 2 of Title 2 of the Education
Code and who teaches at a qualifying educational institution.
  (2) ‘‘Qualifying educational institution’’ means any elementary,
secondary, or vocational-technical school located in this state providing
education for kindergarten, grades 1 to 12, inclusive, or any part thereof.
‘‘Qualifying educational institution’’ includes an agency or
[Ch. 604 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4007

instrumentality of the federal government providing education for
grades kindergarten, grades 1 to 12, inclusive, or any part thereof, at any
location within this state, including an Indian reservation or a military
installation located within the geographical borders of this state, where
a credentialed teacher is employed by the federal government or an
agency or instrumentality thereof. ‘‘Qualifying educational institution’’
includes any elementary, secondary, or vocational technical school
located in California, that files an affidavit pursuant to Section 33190
and 33191 of the Education Code, and provides education for
kindergarten and grades 1 to 12, inclusive, or any part thereof.
  (3) ‘‘Wages and salaries for services as a credentialed teacher’’
includes only those amounts received with respect to services performed
as a credentialed teacher, but does not include pensions or other deferred
compensation.
  (4) ‘‘Total tax’’ means the tax imposed under this part for the taxable
year, before the application under Section 19007 of any payment of
estimated tax or any installment thereof, less all credits allowed for the
taxable year except for the following:
  (A) The credit allowed under this section.
  (B) The credit allowed under Section 17061 (relating to refunds
under the Unemployment Insurance Code).
  (C) The credit allowed under Section 19002 (relating to tax
withholding).
  (D) Any refundable credit that is allowed under this part.
  SEC. 2. The amendments made to Section 17052.2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code by this act shall apply to taxable years beginning on
or after January 1, 2000.



                             CHAPTER 604

   An act to add Section 96.19 to the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to local government finance.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 96.19 is added to the Revenue and Taxation
Code, to read:
  96.19. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the property tax
apportionment factors applied in allocating property tax revenues in the
County of Riverside for each fiscal year to the 1999–2000 fiscal year,
 4008                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 605 ]
inclusive, are deemed to be correct. However, for the 2000–01 fiscal year
and each fiscal year thereafter, property tax apportionment factors
applied in allocating property tax revenues in the County of Riverside
shall be determined on the basis of property tax apportionment factors
for prior fiscal years that have been fully corrected and adjusted,
pursuant to the review and recommendation of the Controller, as would
be required in the absence of the preceding sentence.
   SEC. 2. The Legislature finds and declares that a special law is
necessary and that a general law cannot be made applicable within the
meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution
because of the unique difficulties faced by the County of Riverside in
attempting in good faith to properly allocate property tax revenues
pursuant to ambiguous legal requirements, and the uniquely severe fiscal
and public service consequences that would be faced by the County of
Riverside in the absence of the relief provided by this act.



                            CHAPTER 605

  An act to amend Sections 15339.2 and 15339.3 of, and to add Section
15339.8 to, the Government Code, relating to small business.
            [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 15339.2 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   15339.2. For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions
apply:
   (a) ‘‘Incubator’’ means an entity that facilitates the formation and
growth of new small businesses to increase their probability of success
through the provision or sharing of needed equipment, services, and
facilities, including at least six of the following:
   (1) Reception and meeting areas, secretarial services, accounting and
bookkeeping services, and research libraries.
   (2) Onsite financial, management, marketing, business development,
and technical counseling.
   (3) Office furniture rentals and flexible lease arrangements for
business sites or for necessary equipment.
   (4) Technology and computing assistance.
   (5) Entry criteria and a graduation or exit policy.
[Ch. 605 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4009

   (6) Provision of, or reasonable access to, debt or equity financing for
client companies as a component of the incubator’s programs.
   (7) Regional collaboration, as appropriate, among facility-based
incubators, virtual, e-commerce, technology incubation systems, and
existing economic and business development programs, to meet the
ongoing demands to support development of micro and small business
enterprises for community economic development.
   (8) A comprehensive entrepreneurial program of services offered by
one or more facility-based or virtual incubation centers or business
enterprise centers.
   (b) ‘‘Office’’ means the Office of Small Business within the Trade
and Commerce Agency.
   SEC. 2. Section 15339.3 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   15339.3. (a) The Office of Small Business shall award grants to
California nonprofit corporations or public agencies pursuant to the
application process described in this section.
   (b) In developing the applications for grants, the office shall consult
with incubators and other interested parties to ensure that the application
is understandable and is disseminated as widely as possible.
   (c) Grant funds shall be encumbered no later than one year from the
date they become available to the agency for this purpose.
   (d) The grants shall be awarded to the proposals scoring the highest
points, based upon criteria that shall include the following:
   (1) Priority shall be given to proposals that provide maximum debt
or equity funding to small businesses that receive services pursuant to
Section 15339.2 from a California incubator. The office shall give
consideration to applicants that leverage the state funds with funds from
other sources used to provide funding to the incubator businesses. The
office shall give highest priority to proposals matching each state dollar
requested with at least one dollar in private or nonstate public resources,
either cash or in-kind.
   (2) Consideration shall also be given to proposals that enable the
formation and development of incubators.
   (e) Grant awardees shall provide the office with suitable financial
records to ensure their financial viability, and after receiving the grant,
shall allow the office to audit the records of the expenditure of grant
funds.
   (f) The Office of Small Business shall evaluate the Business
Incubation Program and present its findings to the Legislature on a
biennial basis, commencing January 1, 2000. This evaluation shall
include, but shall not be limited to, identifying the number of applicants
for available grants, the number of incubators assisted through the
program, the number of small businesses assisted, the graduation rate of
 4010                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 606 ]
businesses out of incubators, and the number of jobs created and their
mean wage level, and identifying the four-digit Standard Industrial
Classification (SIC) code for businesses in incubators partially financed
by the office. The evaluation shall be completed within the existing
resources of the office. The office may consult with industry
representatives, incubator associations, and the California Research
Bureau while developing the biennial evaluation.
  SEC. 3. Section 15339.8 is added to the Government Code, to read:
  15339.8. Programs and services provided pursuant to this article
shall be flexible and responsive to the needs of small businesses
identified through the regional planning process described in this article.
Services shall be demand-driven, and delivery structures shall be in
accordance with best business practices, performance-oriented, and
cost-effective, and contribute to regional and statewide economy growth
and competitiveness.



                             CHAPTER 606

  An act to amend Sections 3695.4, 3695.5, 3700, 3791.4, 3793.1,
3795, and 3795.5 of, and to repeal Sections 3793.5, 3793.6, 3794.2,
3807.3, and 3807.5 of, the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to
taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 3695.4 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
  3695.4. In addition to the provisions in Section 3695 relative to
objections to sales, the state or city or any taxing agency or revenue
district may file with the county tax collector written objection to the sale
of, along with an application to purchase in accordance with Chapter 8
(commencing with Section 3771), any property that is or may be needed
for public use. The written objection shall specify the description of the
property needed, whether the fee or an easement is required, and the
public purpose to which the property is intended to be devoted.
  The objection and application shall be filed with the tax collector
before the date of the first publication of the notice of intended sale
pursuant to Sections 3702 and 3703. If the state, a city, taxing agency,
or revenue district files an objection and application in compliance with
[Ch. 606 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4011

this section, the tax collector may not proceed with the sale of the subject
property.
   SEC. 2. Section 3695.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   3695.5. In addition to the provisions of Sections 3695 and 3695.4
relative to objections to sales, any nonprofit organization may file with
the county tax collector written objection to the sale for taxes of, and a
written application to purchase in accordance with Chapter 8
(commencing with Section 3771), any residential or vacant real property
that the nonprofit organization states in writing that it will:
   (a) In the case of residential real property, rehabilitate and sell or rent
to, or otherwise use the property to serve, low-income persons.
   (b) In the case of vacant real property, construct residential dwellings
on the property and sell or rent the property to low-income persons,
otherwise use the property to serve low-income persons, or dedicate the
vacant property to public use, including those uses referred to in
subdivision (a).
   The objection and application shall be filed with the tax collector
before the date of the first publication or posting of the notice of intended
sale pursuant to Sections 3702 and 3703. If the nonprofit organization
files an objection and application in compliance with this section and
with any conditions of sale established pursuant to Section 3795.5, the
tax collector may not proceed with the sale of the property.
   The terms ‘‘nonprofit organization,’’ ‘‘low-income persons’’ and
‘‘rehabilitation’’ shall have the same meaning in this section as in
Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 3771).
   SEC. 3. Section 3700 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   3700. Upon providing notice to the board of supervisors as required
by Section 3698, the tax collector shall forward one copy to the clerk or
secretary of the governing board of each taxing agency, other than the
county, having the right to levy taxes or assessments on the property and
may forward one copy to each nonprofit organization that has submitted,
within one year prior to the next scheduled tax sale or prior to July 31
of the current calendar year, a written request to the tax collector for
notification. The copy or copies shall be mailed or delivered at least 30
days before the first publication or posting of the notice of intended sale.
However, where the tax collector has on file a consent from each taxing
agency, the tax collector may proceed to publish or post the notice of
sale.
   SEC. 4. Section 3791.4 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   3791.4. (a) When residential or vacant property has been tax
defaulted for five years or more, or three years or more after the property
 4012                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 606 ]
has become tax-defaulted and is subject to a nuisance abatement lien,
that property may, with the approval of either the board of supervisors
of the county in which it is located or that board’s designee, be purchased
pursuant to this chapter by a nonprofit organization, provided that:
   (1) In the case of residential property, the nonprofit organization shall
rehabilitate and sell or rent to, or otherwise use the property to serve,
low-income persons.
   (2) In the case of vacant property, the nonprofit organization shall
construct residential dwellings on the property and sell or rent the
property to low-income persons, otherwise use the property to serve
low-income persons, or dedicate the vacant property to public use.
   (b) The terms and conditions of any conveyance to a nonprofit
corporation pursuant to this section shall be specified in the deed or other
instrument of conveyance.
   SEC. 5. Section 3793.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   3793.1. (a) The sales price of any property sold under this article
shall include, at a minimum, the amounts of all of the following:
   (1) All defaulted taxes and assessments, and all associated penalties
and costs.
   (2) Redemption penalties and fees incurred through the month of the
sale.
   (3) All costs of the sale.
   (b) If the property or property interests have been offered for sale at
least once and no acceptable bids therefor have been received, the tax
collector may, in his or her discretion and with the approval of the board
of supervisors or that board’s designee, offer that property or those
interests at a minimum price that the tax collector deems appropriate.
   (c) The board of supervisors, or its designee, may permit a nonprofit
organization to purchase property or property interests by way of
installment payments.
   SEC. 6. Section 3793.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 3793.6 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 8. Section 3794.2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 9. Section 3795 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   3795. The agreement shall be submitted to the Controller. If he or
she does not approve the agreement, he or she shall return the agreement
to each party with a statement of his or her objections to it, and thereafter
a new or modified agreement may be made. If the Controller approves
[Ch. 607 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4013

the agreement, he or she shall sign the executed copy, return the signed
agreement to the tax collector, and keep a copy on file in his or her office.
  SEC. 10. Section 3795.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
  3795.5. In the case of an agreement involving a nonprofit
organization, the board of supervisors may establish conditions of sale,
including reporting, to assure the completion of rehabilitation within a
reasonable time and maximum benefit to low-income persons. These
conditions shall include, but are not limited to, all of the following:
  (a) Requiring a certification of consistency with a consolidated plan
approved by the Department of Housing and Community Development.
  (b) Requiring compliance with a jurisdiction’s consolidated plan or
a community development plan.
  (c) Articles of incorporation filed with the Secretary of State, stating
that the organization is incorporated for the purposes specified in
subdivision (b) of Section 3772.5.
  SEC. 11. Section 3807.3 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
repealed.
  SEC. 12. Section 3807.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
repealed.
  SEC. 13. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district are
the result of a program for which legislative authority was requested by
that local agency or school district, within the meaning of Section 17556
of the Government Code and Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California
Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 607

   An act to amend Section 401.10 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature to do both of the
following:
   (a) Eliminate the requirement that the rate of interest accruing on
overpayments of sales and use tax be based on the rate of 13-week
treasury bills issued by the federal government.
 4014                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 607 ]
   (b) Require, subject to certain modifications, that the rate of interest
accruing on both overpayments and underpayments of sales and use tax
be determined in accordance with the rate of interest determined under
Section 6621(a) (2) of the Internal Revenue Code for underpayments of
federal taxes.
   SEC. 2. Section 401.10 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   401.10. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law relating to
the determination of the values upon which property taxes are based,
values for each tax year from the 1984–85 tax year to the 2010–11 tax
year, inclusive, for intercounty pipeline rights-of-way on publicly or
privately owned property, including those rights-of-way that are the
subject of a change in ownership, new construction, or any other
reappraisable event during the period from March 1, 1975, to June 30,
2011, inclusive, shall be rebuttably presumed to be at full cash value for
that year, if all of the following conditions are met:
   (1) (A) The full cash value is determined to equal a 1975–76 base
year value, annually adjusted for inflation in accordance with
subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article XIII A of the California
Constitution, and the 1975–76 base year value was determined in
accordance with the following schedule:
   (i) Twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) per mile for a high density
property.
   (ii) Twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) per mile for a transitional
density property.
   (iii) Nine thousand dollars ($9,000) per mile for a low density
property.
   (B) For purposes of this section, the density classifications described
in subparagraph (A) are defined as follows:
   (i) ‘‘High density’’ means Category 1 (densely urban) as established
by the State Board of Equalization.
   (ii) ‘‘Transitional density’’ means Category 2 (urban) as established
by the State Board of Equalization.
   (iii) ‘‘Low density’’ means Category 3 (valley-agricultural),
Category 4 (grazing), and Category 5 (mountain and desert) as
established by the State Board of Equalization.
   (2) The full cash value is determined utilizing the same property
density classifications that were assigned to the property by the State
Board of Equalization for the 1984–85 tax year or, if density
classifications were not so assigned to the property for the 1984–85 tax
year, the density classifications that were first assigned to the property
by the board for a subsequent tax year.
   (3) (A) If a taxpayer owns multiple pipelines in the same
right-of-way, an additional 50 percent of the value attributed to the
[Ch. 607 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4015

right-of-way for the presence of the first pipeline, as determined under
paragraphs (1) and (2), shall be added for the presence of each additional
pipeline up to a maximum of two additional pipelines. For any particular
taxpayer, the total valuation for a multiple pipeline right-of-way shall
not exceed 200 percent of the value determined for the right-of-way of
the first pipeline in the right-of-way in accordance with paragraphs (1)
and (2).
   (B) If the State Board of Equalization has determined that an
intercounty pipeline, located within a multiple pipeline right-of-way
previously valued in accordance with subparagraph (A), has been
abandoned as a result of physical removal or blockage, the assessed
value of the right-of-way attributable to the last pipeline enrolled in
accordance with subparagraph (A) shall be reduced by not less that 75
percent of that increase in assessed value that resulted from the
application of subparagraph (A).
   (4) If all pipelines of a taxpayer located within the same pipeline
right-of-way, previously valued in accordance with this section, are
determined by the State Board of Equalization to have been abandoned
as the result of physical removal or blockage, the assessed value of that
right-of-way to that taxpayer shall be determined to be no more than 25
percent of the assessed value otherwise determined for the right-of-way
for a single pipeline of that taxpayer pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2).
   (b) If the assessor assigns values for any tax year from the 1984–85
tax year to the 2010–11 tax year, inclusive, in accordance with the
methodology specified in subdivision (a), the taxpayer’s right to assert
any challenge to the right to assess that property, whether in an
administrative or judicial proceeding, shall be deemed to have been
raised and resolved for that tax year and the values determined in
accordance with that methodology shall be rebuttably presumed to be
correct. If the assessor assigns values for any tax year from the 1984–85
tax year to the 2010–11 tax year, inclusive, in accordance with the
methodology specified in subdivision (a), any pending taxpayer lawsuit
that challenges the right to assess the property shall be dismissed by the
taxpayer with prejudice as it applies to intercounty pipeline
rights-of-way.
   (c) Notwithstanding any change in ownership, new construction, or
decline in value occurring after March 1, 1975, if the assessor assigns
values for rights-of-way for any tax year from the 1984–85 tax year to
the 2010–11 tax year, inclusive, in accordance with the methodology
specified in subdivision (a), the taxpayer may not challenge the right to
assess that property and the values determined in accordance with that
methodology shall be rebuttably presumed to be correct for that property
for that tax year.
 4016                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 607 ]
   (d) Notwithstanding any change in ownership, new construction, or
decline in value occurring after March 1, 1975, if the assessor does not
assign values for rights-of-way for any tax year from the 1984–85 tax
year to the 2010–11 tax year, inclusive, at the 1975–76 base year values
specified in subdivision (a), any assessed value that is determined on the
basis of valuation standards that differ, in whole or in part, from those
valuation standards set forth in subdivision (a) shall not benefit from any
presumption of correctness, and the taxpayer may challenge the right to
assess that property or the values for that property for that tax year. As
used herein, a challenge to the right to assess shall include any
assessment appeal, claim for refund, or lawsuit asserting any right,
remedy, or cause of action relating to or arising from, but not limited to,
the following or similar contentions:
   (1) That the value of the right-of-way is included in the value of the
underlying fee or railroad right-of-way.
   (2) That assessment of the value of the right-of-way to the owner of
the pipeline would result in double assessment.
   (3) That the value of the right-of-way may not be assessed to the
owner of the pipeline separately from the assessment of the value of the
underlying fee.
   (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during a four-year
period commencing on the effective date of this section, the assessor
may issue an escape assessment in accordance with the specific
valuation standards set forth in subdivision (a) for the following
taxpayers and tax years:
   (1) Any intercounty pipeline right-of-way taxpayer who was a
plaintiff in Southern Pacific Pipe Lines, Inc. v. State Board of
Equalization (1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 42, for the tax years 1984–85 to
1996–97, inclusive.
   (2) Any intercounty pipeline right-of-way taxpayer who was not a
plaintiff in Southern Pacific Pipe Lines, Inc. v. State Board of
Equalization (1993) 14 Cal. App. 4th 42, for the tax years 1989–90 to
1996–97, inclusive.
   (f) Any escape assessment levied under subdivision (e) shall not be
subject to penalties or interest under the provisions of Section 532. If
payment of any taxes due under this section is made within 45 days of
demand by the tax collector for payment, the county shall not impose any
late payment penalty or interest. Taxes not paid within 45 days of
demand by the tax collector shall become delinquent at that time, and the
delinquent penalty, redemption penalty, or other collection provisions of
this code shall thereafter apply.
   (g) For purposes of this section, ‘‘intercounty pipeline right-of-way’’
means, except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, any interest in
publicly or privately owned real property through which or over which
[Ch. 608 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4017

an intercounty pipeline is placed. However, ‘‘intercounty pipeline
right-of-way’’ does not include any parcel or facility that the State Board
of Equalization originally separately assessed using a valuation method
other than the multiplication of pipeline length within a subject property
by a unit value determined in accordance with the density category of
that subject property.
   (h) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2011, and,
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2011, deletes or extends that date.



                             CHAPTER 608

  An act to add Chapter 7.2 (commencing with Section 11786) to Part
1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, relating to
information technology, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect
immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this act to
provide for the awarding of grants for qualifying information technology
innovation projects from funds appropriated for that purpose in the
annual Budget Act.
  SEC. 2. Chapter 7.2 (commencing with Section 11786) is added to
Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, to read:

   CHAPTER 7.2.      INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION GRANTS
                               PROGRAM

  11786. (a) The Information Technology Innovation Council is
hereby established in state government.
  (b) The council shall be composed of the following members:
  (1) Two representatives from the Governor’s office.
  (2) Two agency secretaries, appointed by the Governor.
  (3) The chief information officer of the state.
  (4) The Director of Finance.
  (5) A Member of the Assembly, designated by the Speaker of the
Assembly.
  (6) A Member of the Senate, designated by the Senate Committee on
Rules.
 4018                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 608 ]
  (c) The council shall meet at least quarterly.
  (d) The Governor shall appoint a member of the council as its
chairperson.
  (e) Council members who are Members of the Legislature shall
perform the duties of council members to the extent that those duties are
not inconsistent with their duties as Members of the Legislature.
  11786.1. (a) (1) No later than three months from the date of the
enactment of the 2000–01 Budget Act, the Department of Finance and
the Department of Information Technology, jointly, shall promulgate
guidelines for grant applications under this chapter, and create a standard
application form, to be distributed to state agencies.
  (2) The departments shall jointly review and revise, as necessary, the
guidelines and application form no later than September 1 of each
subsequent year.
  (b) (1) A state agency may submit to the Department of Information
Technology an application for funding for a proposed information
technology innovation project, which shall include all of the following:
  (A) A description of the proposed project.
  (B) A detailed justification for the proposed project.
  (C) A long-range plan for the use of the proposed new information
technology innovation.
  (D) A detailed explanation of how, if applicable, the proposed new
information technology will improve the delivery of governmental
services to the public.
  (E) A detailed explanation of how the proposed information
technology will be integrated with existing program service delivery
methodologies.
  (F) The estimated costs for development and implementation of the
project and anticipated ongoing costs beyond the grant period.
  (G) An implementation schedule for a funded project.
  (H) A description of what efforts, if any, were made to share the cost
of the project with other departments that use similar information
technology or have similar program needs.
  (I) A description of any business process reengineering efforts
planned or conducted in support of the project.
  (2) The Department of Information Technology shall review
applications submitted pursuant to this section to confirm that each is in
the form required by, and complies with, the guidelines promulgated
pursuant to subdivision (a), and shall forward them to the Information
Technology Innovation Council.
  (c) For purposes of this chapter, an ‘‘information technology
innovation project’’ or ‘‘project’’ means an information technology
project that satisfies one or more of the following criteria:
  (1) Maximizes customer satisfaction.
[Ch. 608 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4019

   (2) Encourages or increases access to services.
   (3) Has interagency or statewide participation.
   (4) Demonstrates breakthrough improvements in business efficiency.
   (5) Results in information technology capabilities that are
transferable to multiple agencies.
   (6) Provides a demonstration of a technology’s capabilities within the
context of state programs.
   (7) Combines multiple technologies in ways that improve state
functions.
   11786.2. (a) The Information Technology Innovation Council shall
evaluate competing project applications based on the guidelines
established pursuant to Section 13161, and shall make recommendations
to the Department of Finance and the Department of Information
Technology based on those evaluations. The council may rank its
recommendations in order of priority.
   (b) The Department of Finance shall award grants from funds
appropriated in the annual Budget Act for the purposes of this chapter,
according to the recommendations made pursuant to subdivision (a).
The grants shall be awarded only for the projects recommended by the
council and only in the amounts recommended by the council.
   (c) A grant made pursuant to this section shall be in an amount that
ensures implementation of a project for a maximum of three years.
   (d) Funding for a proposed project shall be limited to the amount of
the grant provided pursuant to this section. Any additional funding
necessary for expanding the scope of a project shall be requested as part
of the implementing agency’s annual budget development process.
   11786.3. (a) No grant approved under this chapter may be funded
sooner than 30 days after written notice is provided by the Department
of Finance to the Chair of the Senate Committee on Budget and Fiscal
Review, the Chair of the Assembly Committee on Budget, the Chair of
the Joint Legislative Budget Committee, the Chair of the Senate
Committee on Appropriations, the Chair of the Assembly Committee on
Appropriations, and the chairs of the relevant policy committees in the
Senate and the Assembly.
   (b) The notification provided pursuant to this section shall include all
of the following:
   (1) A brief description of the grant proposal.
   (2) The estimated cost of the proposed project.
   (3) A description of improved service delivery or other project goals
that are estimated to result from the proposed project.
   (4) An implementation schedule for the proposed project.
   11786.4. (a) The Department of Finance shall provide funding for
an outside vendor to conduct an independent evaluation of projects
implemented pursuant to this chapter, and report these findings at least
 4020                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 609 ]
annually to the Chairs of the Senate Committee on Budget and Fiscal
Review, the Assembly Committee on Budget, the Joint Legislative
Budget Committee, the Senate Committee on Appropriations, and the
Assembly Committee on Appropriations, and the chairs of the relevant
policy committees in the Senate and the Assembly.
   (b) The Department of Finance shall provide quarterly reports to the
chairs of the legislative committees described in subdivision (a), listing
the allocations made from the Information Technology Innovation Fund,
and identifying the department, the project, and the amount for each
allocation.
   (c) The Department of Information Technology, in cooperation with
the Department of Finance, shall provide, on or before January 1 of each
year, to the chairs of the legislative committees described in subdivision
(a), a report summarizing the results of the funded projects. The report
shall describe all of the following for each funded project:
   (1) The project’s purpose.
   (2) The project’s expected and actual accomplishments.
   (3) The actual costs of the project.
   (4) The results of any independent review of the project.
   (5) The future next steps, if any, for the project.
   11786.5. This chapter shall not apply to the University of California,
the California State University, the State Compensation Insurance Fund,
community college districts, or the judicial or legislative branches of
state government.
   11786.6. Funding for this chapter shall be subject to appropriations
made for that purpose in the annual Budget Act.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order that grant funds appropriated for the purposes of this act may
be allocated at the earliest possible time, it is necessary for this act to take
effect immediately.



                              CHAPTER 609

   An act to add Section 32177.5 to the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation, to take effect immediately, tax levy.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]
[Ch. 610 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4021

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 32177.5 is added to the Revenue and Taxation
Code, to read:
   32177.5. No tax shall be imposed upon the sale of distilled spirits
by brandy manufacturers, distilled spirits manufacturers, rectifiers,
importers, and distilled spirits wholesalers to the following listed
instrumentalities of the armed forces of the United States organized
under Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard regulations
and located upon territory within the geographical boundaries of the
state:
   (a) Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard
exchanges.
   (b) Officers’, noncommissioned officers’, and enlisted men’s clubs or
messes.
   If any manufacturer, rectifier, importer or wholesaler has paid the tax
on alcoholic beverages, except beer and wine, thereafter sold to an
instrumentality of the Armed Forces so located, the taxpayer may claim
and shall be allowed credit with respect to the tax so paid in any report
filed or assessment paid under this part.
   SEC. 2. This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.
However, the provisions of this act shall become operative on the first
day of the first month commencing more than 90 days after the effective
date of this act.



                             CHAPTER 610

  An act to amend Sections 33214, 33215, 33216, and 33353.2 of, and
to add Section 33214.5 to, the Health and Safety Code, relating to
redevelopment.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 33214 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
  33214. (a) Notwithstanding Section 33120, the territorial
jurisdiction of an agency in the county shall include all of the
unincorporated territory that was included in a project area selected
pursuant to Section 33322 or 34004 even if that territory is subsequently
 4022                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 610 ]
annexed to a city or included within the boundaries of a new city, unless
territorial jurisdiction over the project area is transferred from a county
to a city pursuant to Section 33215 , 33216, or 33217.
   (b) Notwithstanding Section 33120, the territorial jurisdiction of an
agency in a city shall include all of the territory within the limits of the
city that was included in a project area selected pursuant to Section
33322 or 34004 even if that territory is subsequently annexed to another
city or included within the boundaries of a new city, unless territorial
jurisdiction over the project area is transferred to the other city pursuant
to Section 33215 , 33216, or 33217.
   SEC. 2. Section 33214.5 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   33214.5. As used in Sections 33215 and 33216:
   (a) ‘‘Creating agency’’ means the community redevelopment agency
that created the project area that is to be transferred pursuant to Section
33215 or 33216.
   (b) ‘‘Receiving agency’’ means the community redevelopment
agency that will acquire jurisdiction over a project area pursuant to
Section 33215 or 33216.
   SEC. 3. Section 33215 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   33215. (a) If all of the territory included within a project area,
including any noncontiguous territory within the project area, selected
pursuant to Section 33322 or 34004 is subsequently annexed to a city or
included within the boundaries of a new city, the territorial jurisdiction
of the creating agency over all of the territory in that project area may be
transferred from the creating agency to a receiving agency pursuant to
this section.
   (b) The legislative body of the community of the receiving agency,
in which the territory described in subdivision (a) is located, may
unilaterally transfer the territorial jurisdiction described in subdivision
(a) if that legislative body agrees to reimburse the community of the
creating agency for all costs incurred by the community of the creating
agency in conducting the transfer and adopts, or has adopted, both of the
following ordinances:
   (1) An ordinance pursuant to Section 33101 declaring the need for an
agency to function in the city.
   (2) An ordinance adopting the same redevelopment plan for the
project area that was previously adopted by the legislative body of the
creating agency or an ordinance adopting that redevelopment plan, with
amendments. However, no amendment to a redevelopment plan may be
adopted if the amendment would violate any agreement entered into by
the creating agency or its legislative body, as determined by that
[Ch. 610 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4023

legislative body, prior to the effective date of the transfer of territorial
jurisdiction, as determined pursuant to subdivision (c).
   (c) The effective date of the transfer of territorial jurisdiction is the
first day of the fiscal year that begins following the effective date of the
later enacted of the ordinances adopted pursuant to subdivision (b).
   (d) The transfer of territorial jurisdiction shall have all of the
following effects on and after the effective date of the transfer of
territorial jurisdiction, as determined pursuant to subdivision (c):
   (1) The receiving agency and its legislative body shall have all of the
rights, powers, and responsibilities provided by this part with respect to
the project area and the redevelopment plan for that project area.
   (2) The debts and any other obligations of the creating agency or its
legislative body in connection with the project area or the redevelopment
plan for that project area shall be assumed by the receiving agency.
   (3) For the purposes of this part, including Section 33670, the
redevelopment plan for the project area for which territorial jurisdiction
is transferred from the creating agency to the receiving agency pursuant
to this section shall be considered to have been adopted by the legislative
body of the receiving agency on the date the redevelopment plan was
originally adopted by the legislative body of the creating agency.
   (e) The creating agency, the receiving agency, and their respective
legislative bodies may enter into any agreements which those entities
mutually determine to be necessary or desirable to facilitate the transfer
of territorial jurisdiction provided for by this section.
   SEC. 4. Section 33216 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   33216. (a) If all, or a substantial portion, of the territory included
within a project area selected pursuant to Section 33322 or 34004 is
subsequently annexed to a city or included within the boundaries of a
new city, the territorial jurisdiction of the creating agency over all, or a
substantial portion, of the territory in that project area may be transferred
from the creating agency to the receiving agency pursuant to this section.
If all, or a substantial portion, of the noncontiguous territory of a project
area of a creating agency is subsequently annexed to a city or included
within the boundaries of a new city, the jurisdiction of the creating
agency over all, or a substantial portion, of the noncontiguous territory
may be transferred to the receiving agency pursuant to this section.
   (b) The transfer of territorial jurisdiction described in subdivision (a)
is not effective unless all of the following occur:
   (1) The creating agency and the receiving agency enter into the
agreement described in subdivision (c), and their respective legislative
bodies both adopt a resolution approving that agreement.
   (2) The legislative body of the receiving agency adopts, or has
adopted, both of the following ordinances:
 4024                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 610 ]
   (A) An ordinance pursuant to Section 33101 declaring the need for
an agency to function in the city.
   (B) An ordinance adopting the same redevelopment plan for the
project area that was previously adopted by the legislative body of the
creating agency.
   (c) The agreement required to be entered into between the creating
agency and the receiving agency pursuant to paragraph (1) of
subdivision (b) shall contain all of the provisions described in
paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4), and may contain the provisions
described in paragraphs (5) and (6):
   (1) A provision specifying that all of the territory included within the
project area is transferred from the creating agency to the receiving
agency, or a provision specifying the portions of the project area over
which each agency will have territorial jurisdiction.
   (2) (A) If all of the territory included within the project area is
transferred from the creating agency to the receiving agency, a provision
for the allocation of all of the taxes payable from the project area
pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 33670 to the receiving agency.
   (B) If a substantial portion of the territory included within the project
area is transferred from the creating agency to the receiving agency, a
provision for the allocation of taxes payable from the project area
pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 33670 between the receiving
agency and the creating agency. That allocation of taxes shall be
reasonably related to the costs that the community of the creating agency
and the community of the receiving agency expect to incur in carrying
out the redevelopment plan and the outstanding indebtedness that the
creating agency has incurred in carrying out the redevelopment plan.
That indebtedness shall include repayment of expenditures to, or on
behalf of, the redevelopment project area from other resources or
borrowing of the creating agency. That allocation of taxes may differ
from the allocation that would have been made if the portion of the
project area under the territorial jurisdiction of the creating agency and
the portion of the project area under the territorial jurisdiction of the
receiving agency had been separate project areas at the time of adoption
of the redevelopment plan by the legislative body of the creating agency.
   (3) A requirement that all taxes payable from the project area pursuant
to subdivision (b) of Section 33670 that are allocated to the receiving
agency, as required by subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2), shall be
available if necessary to pay any indebtedness incurred by the creating
agency prior to the effective date of the transfer of jurisdiction in
connection with the project area and the redevelopment plan if that
indebtedness was secured by the taxes payable from the project area
pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 33670.
[Ch. 610 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                4025

   (4) If a substantial portion of the territory included within the project
area is transferred from the creating agency to the receiving agency, a
requirement that any amendment to the redevelopment plan for that
portion of the territory of the project area under the jurisdiction of the
creating agency shall, in addition to any other requirements under this
part, be approved by an ordinance adopted by the legislative body of the
receiving agency, and that any amendment to the redevelopment plan for
that portion of the territory of the project area under the jurisdiction of
the receiving agency shall, in addition to any other requirements under
this part, be approved by an ordinance adopted by the legislative body
of the creating agency.
   (5) If a substantial portion of the territory included within the project
area is transferred from the creating agency to the receiving agency, a
provision permitting the creating agency to undertake activities to
implement the redevelopment plan in portions of the project area under
the territorial jurisdiction of the receiving agency or for the receiving
agency to undertake activities to implement the redevelopment plan in
portions of the project area under the territorial jurisdiction of the
creating agency.
   (6) Any other terms and conditions that the creating agency, the
receiving agency, or their respective legislative bodies mutually
determine to be necessary or desirable to facilitate the transfer of
territorial jurisdiction over all, or a substantial portion, of the project area
and the implementation of the redevelopment plan.
   (d) The effective date of the transfer of territorial jurisdiction is the
first day of the fiscal year that begins following the effective date of the
resolution adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), or the
effective date of the later enacted of the ordinances adopted pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), whichever date is later.
   (e) On and after the effective date of the transfer of territorial
jurisdiction:
   (1) Except as otherwise provided by the agreement entered into
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), the receiving agency and
its legislative body shall have all of the rights, powers, and
responsibilities provided by this part with respect to all, or the portion,
of the project area for which the territorial jurisdiction has been
transferred to the receiving agency and with respect to all, or the portion,
of the redevelopment plan for all, or that portion, of the project area.
   (2) The debts and any other obligations of the creating agency or its
legislative body in connection with the project area, or a substantial
portion of the project area transferred to the receiving agency, as the case
may be, or the redevelopment plan for that project area, or portion of the
project area, shall be assumed by the receiving agency.
 4026                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 611 ]
   (3) For the purposes of this part, including Section 33670, the
redevelopment plan for all, or a substantial portion, of the project area
for which territorial jurisdiction is transferred from the creating agency
to the receiving agency pursuant to this section shall be considered to
have been adopted by the legislative body of the receiving agency on the
date the redevelopment plan was originally adopted by the legislative
body of the creating agency.
   SEC. 5. Section 33353.2 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   33353.2. ‘‘Affected taxing entity’’ means any governmental taxing
agency that levies a property tax on all or any portion of the property
located in the adopted project area in the fiscal year prior to the fiscal year
in which the report prepared pursuant to Section 33328 is issued or in any
fiscal year after the date the redevelopment plan is adopted. To the extent
that a new governmental taxing agency wholly or partially replaces the
geographic jurisdiction of a preexisting governmental taxing agency, the
new taxing agency shall be an ‘‘affected taxing entity’’ and the
preexisting taxing agency shall no longer be an ‘‘affected taxing entity.‘
   SEC. 6. The Legislature hereby finds and declares that the
amendment of subdivision (b) of Section 33215 of the Health and Safety
Code made by this act that changes the phrase ‘‘initiate the transfer of’’
to ‘‘unilaterally transfer the’’ does not constitute a change in, but is
declaratory of, existing law.



                             CHAPTER 611

   An act to amend Sections 97.2 and 97.3 of, and to add Section 100.4
to, the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to local government
finance.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 97.2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
  97.2. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the
computations and allocations made by each county pursuant to Section
96.1 or its predecessor section shall be modified for the 1992–93 fiscal
year pursuant to subdivisions (a) to (d), inclusive, and for the 1997–98
and 1998–99 fiscal years pursuant to subdivision (e), as follows:
[Ch. 611 ]                          STATUTES OF 2000                                            4027

  (a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amount of property
tax revenue deemed allocated in the prior fiscal year to each county shall
be reduced by the dollar amounts indicated as follows, multiplied by
0.953649:

                                                                                       Property
                                                                                     Tax Reduction
                                                                                      per County
   Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         $ 27,323,576
   Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             5,169
   Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               286,131
   Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          846,452
   Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              507,526
   Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             186,438
   Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              12,504,318
   Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               46,523
   El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1,544,590
   Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         5,387,570
   Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            378,055
   Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1,084,968
   Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             998,222
   Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           366,402
   Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6,907,282
   Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1,303,774
   Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           998,222
   Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              93,045
   Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            244,178,806
   Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             809,194
   Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,902,258
   Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                40,136
   Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              1,004,112
   Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2,445,709
   Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              134,650
   Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             319,793
   Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             2,519,507
   Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,362,036
   Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             762,585
   Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           9,900,654
   Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,991,265
   Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              71,076
   Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            7,575,353
 4028                                 STATUTES OF 2000                              [Ch. 611 ]

   Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         15,323,634
   San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          198,090
   San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           14,467,099
   San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17,687,776
   San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        53,266,991
   San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8,574,869
   San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2,547,990
   San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         7,979,302
   Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4,411,812
   Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      20,103,706
   Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,416,413
   Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,096,468
   Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       97,103
   Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        467,390
   Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5,378,048
   Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        5,455,911
   Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,242,129
   Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      831,204
   Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        450,559
   Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        50,399
   Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4,228,525
   Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          740,574
   Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9,412,547
   Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,860,499
   Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      842,857

   (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the amount of the reduction
specified in that paragraph for any county or city and county that has
been materially and substantially impacted as a result of a federally
declared disaster, as evidenced by at least 20 percent of the cities, or
cities and unincorporated areas of the county representing 20 percent of
the population within the county suffering substantial damage, as
certified by the Director of the Office of Emergency Services, occurring
between October 1, 1989, and the effective date of this section, shall be
reduced by that portion of five million dollars ($5,000,000) determined
for that county or city and county pursuant to subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (3).
   (3) On or before October 1, 1992, the Director of Finance shall do all
of the following:
   (A) Determine the population of each county and city and county in
which a federally declared disaster has occurred between October 1,
1989, and the effective date of this section.
[Ch. 611 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4029

   (B) Determine for each county and city and county as described in
subparagraph (A) its share of five million dollars ($5,000,000) on the
basis of that county’s population relative to the total population of all
counties described in subparagraph (A).
   (C) Notify each auditor of each county and city and county of the
amounts determined pursuant to subparagraph (B).
   (b) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amount of property
tax revenue deemed allocated in the prior fiscal year to each city, except
for a newly incorporated city that did not receive property tax revenues
in the 1991–92 fiscal year, shall be reduced by 9 percent. In making the
above computation with respect to cities in Alameda County, the
computation for a city described in paragraph (6) of subdivision (a) of
Section 100.7, as added by Section 73.5 of Chapter 323 of the Statutes
of 1983, shall be adjusted so that the amount multiplied by 9 percent is
reduced by the amount determined for that city for ‘‘museums’’ pursuant
to paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) of Section 95.
   (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the amount of the reduction
determined pursuant to that paragraph for any city that has been
materially and substantially impacted as a result of a federally declared
disaster, as certified by the Director of the Office of Emergency Services,
occurring between October 1, 1989, and the effective date of this section,
shall be reduced by that portion of fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000)
determined for that city pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3).
   (3) On or before October 1, 1992, the Director of Finance shall do all
of the following:
   (A) Determine the population of each city in which a federally
declared disaster has occurred between October 1, 1989, and the
effective date of this section.
   (B) Determine for each city as described in subparagraph (A) its share
of fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) on the basis of that city’s
population relative to the total population of all cities described in
subparagraph (A).
   (C) Notify each auditor of each county and city and county of the
amounts determined pursuant to subparagraph (B).
   (4) In the 1992–93 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, the
auditor shall adjust the computations required pursuant to Article 4
(commencing with Section 98) so that those computations do not result
in the restoration of any reduction required pursuant to this section.
   (c) (1) Subject to paragraph (2), the amount of property tax revenue,
other than those revenues that are pledged to debt service, deemed
allocated in the prior fiscal year to a special district, other than a
multicounty district, a local hospital district, or a district governed by a
city council or whose governing board has the same membership as a city
council, shall be reduced by 35 percent. For purposes of this subdivision,
 4030                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 611 ]
‘‘revenues that are pledged to debt service’’ include only those amounts
required to pay debt service costs in the 1991–92 fiscal year on debt
instruments issued by a special district for the acquisition of capital
assets.
   (2) No reduction pursuant to paragraph (1) for any special district,
other than a countywide water agency that does not sell water at retail,
shall exceed an amount equal to 10 percent of that district’s total annual
revenues, from whatever source, as shown in the 1989–90 edition of the
State Controller’s Report on Financial Transactions Concerning Special
Districts (not including any annual revenues from fiscal years following
the 1989–90 fiscal year). With respect to any special district, as defined
pursuant to subdivision (m) of Section 95, that is allocated property tax
revenue pursuant to this chapter but does not appear in the State
Controller’s Report on Financial Transactions Concerning Special
Districts, the auditor shall determine the total annual revenues for that
special district from the information in the 1989–90 edition of the State
Controller’s Report on Financial Transactions Concerning Counties.
With respect to a special district that did not exist in the 1989–90 fiscal
year, the auditor may use information from the first full fiscal year, as
appropriate, to determine the total annual revenues for that special
district. No reduction pursuant to paragraph (1) for any countywide
water agency that does not sell water at retail shall exceed an amount
equal to 10 percent of that portion of that agency’s general fund derived
from property tax revenues.
   (3) The auditor in each county shall, on or before January 15, 1993,
and on or before January 30 of each year thereafter, submit information
to the Controller concerning the amount of the property tax revenue
reduction to each special district within that county as a result of
paragraphs (1) and (2). The Controller shall certify that the calculation
of the property tax revenue reduction to each special district within that
county is accurate and correct, and submit this information to the
Director of Finance.
   (A) The Director of Finance shall determine whether the total of the
amounts of the property tax revenue reductions to special districts, as
certified by the Controller, is equal to the amount that would be required
to be allocated to school districts and community college districts as a
result of a three hundred seventy-five million dollar ($375,000,000) shift
of property tax revenues from special districts for the 1992–93 fiscal
year. If, for any year, the total of the amount of the property tax revenue
reductions to special districts is less than the amount as described in the
preceding sentence, the amount of property tax revenue, other than those
revenues that are pledged to debt service, deemed allocated in the prior
fiscal year to a special district, other than a multicounty district, a local
hospital district, or a district governed by a city council or whose
[Ch. 611 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4031

governing board has the same membership as a city council, shall,
subject to subparagraph (B), be reduced by an amount up to 5 percent of
the amount subject to reduction for that district pursuant to paragraphs
(1) and (2).
   (B) No reduction pursuant to subparagraph (A), in conjunction with
a reduction pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), for any special district,
other than a countywide water agency that does not sell water at retail,
shall exceed an amount equal to 10 percent of that district’s total annual
revenues, from whatever source, as shown in the most recent State
Controller’s Report on Financial Transactions Concerning Special
Districts. No reduction pursuant to subparagraph (A), in conjunction
with a reduction pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), for any countywide
water agency that does not sell water at retail shall exceed an amount
equal to 10 percent of that portion of that agency’s general fund derived
from property tax revenues.
   (C) In no event shall the amount of the property tax revenue loss to
a special district derived pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B) exceed
40 percent of that district’s property tax revenues or 10 percent of that
district’s total revenues, from whatever source.
   (4) For the purpose of determining the total annual revenues of a
special district that provides fire protection or fire suppression services,
all of the following shall be excluded from the determination of total
annual revenues:
   (A) If the district had less than two million dollars ($2,000,000) in
total annual revenues in the 1991–92 fiscal year, the revenue generated
by a fire suppression assessment levied pursuant to Article 3.6
(commencing with Section 50078) of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of Division 1
of Title 5 of the Government Code.
   (B) The total amount of all funds, regardless of the source, that are
appropriated to a district, including a fire department, by a board of
supervisors pursuant to Section 25642 of the Government Code or
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 13890) of Part 2.7 of Division 12
of the Health and Safety Code for fire protection. The amendment of this
subparagraph by Chapter 290 of the Statutes of 1997 shall not be
construed to affect any exclusion from the total annual revenues of a
special district that was authorized by this subparagraph as it read prior
to that amendment.
   (C) The revenue received by a district as a result of contracts entered
into pursuant to Section 4133 of the Public Resources Code.
   (5) For the purpose of determining the total annual revenues of a
resource conservation district, all of the following shall be excluded
from the determination of total annual revenues:
   (A) Any revenues received by that district from the state for financing
the acquisition of land, or the construction or improvement of state
 4032                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 611 ]
projects, and for which that district serves as the fiscal agent in
administering those state funds pursuant to an agreement entered into
between that district and a state agency.
   (B) Any amount received by that district as a private gift or donation.
   (C) Any amount received as a county grant or contract as
supplemental to, or independent of, that district’s property tax share.
   (D) Any amount received by that district as a federal or state grant.
   (d) (1) The amount of property tax revenues not allocated to the
county, cities within the county, and special districts as a result of the
reductions calculated pursuant to subdivisions (a), (b), and (c) shall
instead be deposited in the Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund to
be established in each county. The amount of revenue in the Educational
Revenue Augmentation Fund, derived from whatever source, shall be
allocated pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3) to school districts and
county offices of education, in total, and to community college districts,
in total, in the same proportion that property tax revenues were
distributed to school districts and county offices of education, in total,
and community college districts, in total, during the 1991–92 fiscal year.
   (2) The auditor shall, based on information provided by the county
superintendent of schools pursuant to this paragraph, allocate the
proportion of the Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund to those
school districts and county offices of education within the county that
are not excess tax school entities, as defined in subdivision (n) of Section
95. The county superintendent of schools shall determine the amount to
be allocated to each school district and county office of education in
inverse proportion to the amounts of property tax revenue per average
daily attendance in each school district and county office of education.
In no event shall any additional money be allocated from the fund to a
school district or county office of education upon that school district or
county office of education becoming an excess tax school entity.
   (3) The auditor shall, based on information provided by the
Chancellor of the California Community Colleges pursuant to this
paragraph, allocate the proportion of the Educational Revenue
Augmentation Fund to those community college districts within the
county that are not excess tax school entities, as defined in subdivision
(n) of Section 95. The chancellor shall determine the amount to be
allocated to each community college district in inverse proportion to the
amounts of property tax revenue per funded full-time equivalent student
in each community college district. In no event shall any additional
money be allocated from the fund to a community college district upon
that district becoming an excess tax school entity.
   (4) (A) If, after making the allocation required pursuant to paragraph
(2), the auditor determines that there are still additional funds to be
allocated, the auditor shall allocate those excess funds pursuant to
[Ch. 611 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4033

paragraph (3). If, after making the allocation pursuant to paragraph (3),
the auditor determines that there are still additional funds to be allocated,
the auditor shall allocate those excess funds pursuant to paragraph (2).
   (B) (i) For the 1995–96 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, if,
after making the allocations pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3) and
subparagraph (A), the auditor determines that there are still additional
funds to be allocated, the auditor shall, subject to clauses (ii) and (iii),
allocate those excess funds to the county superintendent of schools.
Funds allocated pursuant to this clause shall be counted as property tax
revenues for special education programs in augmentation of the amount
calculated pursuant to Section 2572 of the Education Code, to the extent
that those property tax revenues offset state aid for county offices of
education and school districts within the county pursuant to subdivision
(c) of Section 56836.08 of the Education Code. If, for the 2000–01 fiscal
year or any fiscal year thereafter, any additional revenues remain after
the implementation of this clause, the auditor shall allocate those
remaining revenues among the county, cities, and special districts in
proportion to the amounts of ad valorem property tax revenue otherwise
required to be shifted from those local agencies to the county’s
Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund for the relevant fiscal year.
   (ii) For the 1995–96 fiscal year only, clause (i) shall have no
application to the County of Mono and the amount allocated pursuant to
clause (i) in the County of Marin shall not exceed five million dollars
($5,000,000).
   (iii) For the 1996–97 fiscal year only, the total amount of funds
allocated by the auditor pursuant to clause (i) and clause (i) of
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 97.3
shall not exceed that portion of two million five hundred thousand
dollars ($2,500,000) that corresponds to the county’s proportionate
share of all moneys allocated pursuant to clause (i) and clause (i) of
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 97.3 for
the 1995–96 fiscal year. Upon the request of the auditor, the Department
of Finance shall provide to the auditor all information in the
department’s possession that is necessary for the auditor to comply with
this clause.
   (iv) Notwithstanding clause (i) of this subparagraph, for the
1999–2000 fiscal year only, if, after making the allocations pursuant to
paragraphs (2) and (3) and subparagraph (A), the auditor determines that
there are still additional funds to be allocated, the auditor shall allocate
the funds to the county, cities, and special districts in proportion to the
amounts of ad valorem property tax revenue otherwise required to be
shifted from those local agencies to the county’s Educational Revenue
Augmentation Fund for the relevant fiscal year. The amount allocated
pursuant to this clause shall not exceed eight million two hundred
 4034                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 611 ]
thirty-nine thousand dollars ($8,239,000), as appropriated in Item
6110-250-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 1999 (Chapter 50,
Statutes of 1999). This clause shall be operative for the 1999–2000 fiscal
year only to the extent that moneys are appropriated for purposes of this
clause in the Budget Act of 1999 by an appropriation that specifically
references this clause.
   (C) For purposes of allocating the Educational Revenue
Augmentation Fund for the 1996–97 fiscal year, the auditor shall, after
making the allocations for special education programs, if any, required
by subparagraph (B), allocate all remaining funds among the county,
cities, and special districts in proportion to the amounts of ad valorem
property tax revenue otherwise required to be shifted from those local
agencies to the county’s Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund for
the relevant fiscal year. For purposes of ad valorem property tax revenue
allocations for the 1997–98 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, no
amount of ad valorem property tax revenue allocated to the county, a city,
or a special district pursuant to this subparagraph shall be deemed to be
an amount of ad valorem property tax revenue allocated to that local
agency in the prior fiscal year.
   (5) For purposes of allocations made pursuant to Section 96.1 or its
predecessor section for the 1993–94 fiscal year, the amounts allocated
from the Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund pursuant to this
subdivision, other than amounts deposited in the Educational Revenue
Augmentation Fund pursuant to Section 33681 of the Health and Safety
Code, shall be deemed property tax revenue allocated to the Educational
Revenue Augmentation Fund in the prior fiscal year.
   (e) (1) For the 1997–98 fiscal year:
   (A) The amount of property tax revenue deemed allocated in the prior
fiscal year to any city subject to the reduction specified in paragraph (2)
of subdivision (b) shall be reduced by an amount that is equal to the
difference between the amount determined for the city pursuant to
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) and the amount of the reduction
determined for the city pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
   (B) The amount of property tax revenue deemed allocated in the prior
fiscal year to any county or city and county subject to the reduction
specified in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) shall be reduced by an
amount that is equal to the difference between the amount specified for
the county or city and county pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision
(a) and the amount of the reduction determined for the county or city and
county pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (a).
   (2) The amount of property tax revenues not allocated to a city or city
and county as a result of this subdivision shall be deposited in the
Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund described in subparagraph
(A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (d).
[Ch. 611 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4035

   (3) For purposes of allocations made pursuant to Section 96.1 for the
1998–99 fiscal year, the amounts allocated from the Educational
Revenue Augmentation Fund pursuant to this subdivision shall be
deemed property tax revenues allocated to the Educational Revenue
Augmentation Fund in the prior fiscal year.
   (f) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this section that this
section supersede and be operative in place of Section 97.03 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, as added by Senate Bill 617 of the 1991–92
Regular Session.
   SEC. 2. Section 97.3 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   97.3. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the
computations and allocations made by each county pursuant to Section
96.1 or its predecessor section, as modified by Section 97.2 or its
predecessor section for the 1992–93 fiscal year, shall be modified for the
1993–94 fiscal year pursuant to subdivisions (a) to (c), inclusive, as
follows:
   (a) The amount of property tax revenue deemed allocated in the prior
fiscal year to each county and city and county shall be reduced by an
amount to be determined by the Director of Finance in accordance with
the following:
   (1) The total amount of the property tax reductions for counties and
cities and counties determined pursuant to this section shall be one
billion nine hundred ninety-eight million dollars ($1,998,000,000) in
the 1993–94 fiscal year.
   (2) The Director of Finance shall determine the amount of the
reduction for each county or city and county as follows:
   (A) The proportionate share of the property tax revenue reduction for
each county or city and county that would have been imposed on all
counties under the proposal specified in the ‘‘May Revision of the
1993–94 Governor’s Budget’’ shall be determined by reference to the
document entitled ‘‘Estimated County Property Tax Transfers Under
Governor’s May Revision Proposal,’’ published by the Legislative
Analyst’s Office on June 1, 1993.
   (B) Each county’s or city and county’s proportionate share of total
taxable sales in all counties in the 1991–92 fiscal year shall be
determined.
   (C) An amount for each county and city and county shall be
determined by applying its proportionate share determined pursuant to
subparagraph (A) to the one billion nine hundred ninety-eight million
dollar ($1,998,000,000) statewide reduction for counties and cities and
counties.
   (D) An amount for each county and city and county shall be
determined by applying its proportionate share determined pursuant to
 4036                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 611 ]
subparagraph (B) to the one billion nine hundred ninety-eight million
dollar ($1,998,000,000) statewide reduction for counties and cities and
counties.
   (E) The Director of Finance shall add the amounts determined
pursuant to subparagraphs (C) and (D) for each county and city and
county, and divide the resulting figure by two. The amount so
determined for each county and city and county shall be divided by a
factor of 1.038. The resulting figure shall be the amount of property tax
revenue to be subtracted from the amount of property tax revenue
deemed allocated in the prior fiscal year.
   (3) The Director of Finance shall, by July 15, 1993, report to the Joint
Legislative Budget Committee its determination of the amounts
determined pursuant to paragraph (2).
   (4) On or before August 15, 1993, the Director of Finance shall notify
the auditor of each county and city and county of the amount of property
tax revenue reduction determined for each county and city and county.
   (5) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subdivision, the
amount of the reduction specified in paragraph (2) for any county or city
and county that has first implemented, for the 1993–94 fiscal year, the
alternative procedure for the distribution of property tax levies
authorized by Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 4701) of Part 8 shall
be reduced, for the 1993–94 fiscal year only, in the amount of any
increased revenue allocated to each qualifying school entity that would
not have been allocated for the 1993–94 fiscal year but for the
implementation of that alternative procedure. For purposes of this
paragraph, ‘‘qualifying school entity’’ means any school district, county
office of education, or community college district that is not an excess
tax school entity as defined in Section 95.1, and a county’s Educational
Revenue Augmentation Fund as described in subdivision (d) of this
section and subdivision (d) of Section 97.2. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this paragraph, the amount of any reduction calculated
pursuant to this paragraph for any county or city and county shall not
exceed the reduction calculated for that county or city and county
pursuant to paragraph (2).
   (6) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (5), the amount of
the reduction specified in paragraph (2) for a county of the 16th class that
has first implemented, for the 1993–94 fiscal year, the alternative
procedure for the distribution of property tax levies authorized by
Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 4701) of Part 8 shall be reduced,
for the 1993–94 fiscal year only, in the amount of any increased revenue
distributed to each qualifying school entity that would not have been
distributed for the 1993–94 fiscal year, pursuant to the historical
accounting method of that county of the 16th class, but for the
implementation of that alternative procedure. For purposes of this
[Ch. 611 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4037

paragraph, ‘‘qualifying school entity’’ means any school district, county
office of education, or community college district that is not an excess
tax school entity as defined in Section 95.1, and a county’s Educational
Revenue Augmentation Fund as described in subdivision (a) of this
section and subdivision (d) of Section 97.2. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this paragraph, the amount of any reduction calculated
pursuant to this paragraph for any county shall not exceed the reduction
calculated for that county pursuant to paragraph (2).
   (b) The amount of property tax revenue deemed allocated in the prior
fiscal year to each city shall be reduced by an amount to be determined
by the Director of Finance in accordance with the following:
   (1) The total amount of the property tax reductions determined for
cities pursuant to this section shall be two hundred eighty-eight million
dollars ($288,000,000) in the 1993–94 fiscal year.
   (2) The Director of Finance shall determine the amount of reduction
for each city as follows:
   (A) The amount of property tax revenue that is estimated to be
attributable in the 1993–94 fiscal year to the amount of each city’s state
assistance payment received by that city pursuant to Chapter 282 of the
Statutes of 1979 shall be determined.
   (B) A factor for each city equal to the amount determined pursuant to
subparagraph (A) for that city, divided by the total of the amounts
determined pursuant to subparagraph (A) for all cities, shall be
determined.
   (C) An amount for each city equal to the factor determined pursuant
to subparagraph (B), multiplied by three hundred eighty-two million
five hundred thousand dollars ($382,500,000), shall be determined.
   (D) In no event shall the amount for any city determined pursuant to
subparagraph (C) exceed a per capita amount of nineteen dollars and
thirty-one cents ($19.31), as determined in accordance with that city’s
population on January 1, 1993, as estimated by the Department of
Finance.
   (E) The amount determined for each city pursuant to subparagraphs
(C) and (D) shall be the amount of property tax revenue to be subtracted
from the amount of property tax revenue deemed allocated in the prior
year.
   (3) The Director of Finance shall, by July 15, 1993, report to the Joint
Legislative Budget Committee those amounts determined pursuant to
paragraph (2).
   (4) On or before August 15, 1993, the Director of Finance shall notify
each county auditor of the amount of property tax revenue reduction
determined for each city located within that county.
   (c) (1) The amount of property tax revenue deemed allocated in the
prior fiscal year to each special district, as defined pursuant to
 4038                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 611 ]
subdivision (m) of Section 95, shall be reduced by the amount
determined for the district pursuant to paragraph (3) and increased by the
amount determined for the district pursuant to paragraph (4). The total
net amount of these changes is intended to equal two hundred forty-four
million dollars ($244,000,000) in the 1993–94 fiscal year.
   (2) (A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subdivision, no
reduction shall be made pursuant to this subdivision with respect to any
of the following special districts:
   (i) A local hospital district as described in Division 23 (commencing
with Section 32000) of the Health and Safety Code.
   (ii) A water agency that does not sell water at retail, but not including
an agency the primary function of which, as determined on the basis of
total revenues, is flood control.
   (iii) A transit district.
   (iv) A police protection district formed pursuant to Part 1
(commencing with Section 20000) of Division 14 of the Health and
Safety Code.
   (v) A special district that was a multicounty special district as of July
1, 1979.
   (B) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subdivision, the first
one hundred four thousand dollars ($104,000) of the amount of any
reduction that otherwise would be made under this subdivision with
respect to a qualifying community services district shall be excluded.
For purposes of this subparagraph, a ‘‘qualifying community services
district’’ means a community services district that meets all of the
following requirements:
   (i) Was formed pursuant to Division 3 (commencing with Section
61000) of Title 6 of the Government Code.
   (ii) Succeeded to the duties and properties of a police protection
district upon the dissolution of that district.
   (iii) Currently provides police protection services to substantially the
same territory as did that district.
   (iv) Is located within a county in which the board of supervisors has
requested the Department of Finance that this subparagraph be operative
in the county.
   (3) (A) On or before September 15, 1993, the county auditor shall
determine an amount for each special district equal to the amount of its
allocation determined pursuant to Section 96 or 96.1, and Section 96.5
or their predecessor sections for the 1993–94 fiscal year multiplied by
the ratio determined pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of
former Section 98.6 as that section read on June 15, 1993. In those
counties that were subject to former Sections 98.66, 98.67, and 98.68,
as those sections read on that same date, the county auditor shall
determine an amount for each special district that represents the current
[Ch. 611 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                4039

amount of its allocation determined pursuant to Section 96 or 96.1, and
Section 96.5 or their predecessor sections for the 1993–94 fiscal year that
is attributed to the property tax shift from schools required by Chapter
282 of the Statutes of 1979. In that county subject to Section 100.4, the
county auditor shall determine an amount for each special district that
represents the current amount of its allocations determined pursuant to
Section 96, 96.1, 96.5, or 100.4 or their predecessor sections for the
1993–94 fiscal year that is attributable to the property tax shift from
schools required by Chapter 282 of the Statutes of 1979. In determining
these amounts, the county auditor shall adjust for the influence of
increased assessed valuation within each district, including the effect of
jurisdictional changes, and the reductions in property tax allocations
required in the 1992–93 fiscal year by Chapters 699 and 1369 of the
Statutes of 1992. In the case of a special district that has been
consolidated or reorganized, the auditor shall determine the amount of
its current property tax allocation that is attributable to the prior district’s
or districts’ receipt of state assistance payments pursuant to Chapter 282
of the Statutes of 1979. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
paragraph, for a special district that is governed by a city council or
whose governing board has the same membership as a city council and
that is a subsidiary district as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 16271
of the Government Code, the county auditor shall multiply the amount
that otherwise would be calculated pursuant to this paragraph by 0.38
and the result shall be used in the calculations required by paragraph (5).
In no event shall the amount determined by this paragraph be less than
zero.
   (B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), commencing with the
1994–95 fiscal year, in the County of Sacramento, the auditor shall
determine the amount for each special district that represents the current
amount of its allocations determined pursuant to Section 96, 96.1, 96.5,
or 100.6 for the 1994–95 fiscal year that is attributed to the property tax
shift from schools required by Chapter 282 of the Statutes of 1979.
   (4) (A) (i) On or before September 15, 1993, the county auditor
shall determine an amount for each special district that is engaged in fire
protection activities, as reported to the Controller for inclusion in the
1989–90 Edition of the Financial Transactions Report Concerning
Special Districts under the heading of ‘‘Fire Protection,’’ that is equal to
the amount of revenue allocated to that special district from the Special
District Augmentation Fund for fire protection activities in the 1992–93
fiscal year. For purposes of the preceding sentence for counties of the
second class, the phrase ‘‘amount of revenue allocated to that special
district’’ means an amount of revenue that was identified for transfer to
that special district, rather than the amount of revenue that was actually
received by that special district pursuant to that transfer.
 4040                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 611 ]
   (ii) In the case of a special district, other than a special district
governed by the county board of supervisors or whose governing body
is the same as the county board of supervisors, that is engaged in fire
protection activities as reported to the Controller, the county auditor
shall also determine the amount by which the district’s amount
determined pursuant to paragraph (3) exceeds the amount by which its
allocation was reduced by operation of former Section 98.6 in the
1992–93 fiscal year. This amount shall be added to the amount otherwise
determined for the district under this paragraph. In any county subject
to former Section 98.65, 98.66, 98.67, or 98.68 in that same fiscal year,
the county auditor shall determine for each special district that is
engaged in fire protection activities an amount that is equal to the amount
determined for that district pursuant to paragraph (3).
   (B) For purposes of this paragraph, a special district includes any
special district that is allocated property tax revenue pursuant to this
chapter and does not appear in the State Controller’s Report on Financial
Transactions Concerning Special Districts, but is engaged in fire
protection activities and appears in the State Controller’s Report on
Financial Transactions Concerning Counties.
   (5) The total amount of property taxes allocated to special districts by
the county auditor as a result of paragraph (4) shall be subtracted from
the amount of property tax revenues not allocated to special districts by
the county auditor as a result of paragraph (3) to determine the amount
to be deposited in the Education Revenue Augmentation Fund as
specified in subdivision (d).
   (6) On or before September 30, 1993, the county auditor shall notify
the Director of Finance of the net amount determined for special districts
pursuant to paragraph (5).
   (d) (1) The amount of property tax revenues not allocated to the
county, city and county, cities within the county, and special districts as
a result of the reductions required by subdivisions (a), (b), and (c) shall
instead be deposited in the Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund
established in each county or city and county pursuant to Section 97.2.
The amount of revenue in the Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund,
derived from whatever source, shall be allocated pursuant to paragraphs
(2) and (3) to school districts and county offices of education, in total,
and to community college districts, in total, in the same proportion that
property tax revenues were distributed to school districts and county
offices of education, in total, and community college districts, in total,
during the 1992–93 fiscal year.
   (2) The county auditor shall, based on information provided by the
county superintendent of schools pursuant to this paragraph, allocate
that proportion of the revenue in the Educational Revenue
Augmentation Fund to be allocated to school districts and county offices
[Ch. 611 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4041

of education only to those school districts and county offices of
education within the county that are not excess tax school entities, as
defined in subdivision (n) of Section 95. The county superintendent of
schools shall determine the amount to be allocated to each school district
in inverse proportion to the amounts of property tax revenue per average
daily attendance in each school district. For each county office of
education, the allocation shall be made based on the historical split of
base property tax revenue between the county office of education and
school districts within the county. In no event shall any additional money
be allocated from the Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund to a
school district or county office of education upon that district or county
office of education becoming an excess tax school entity. If, after
determining the amount to be allocated to each school district and county
office of education, the county superintendent of schools determines
there are still additional funds to be allocated, the county superintendent
of schools shall determine the remainder to be allocated in inverse
proportion to the amounts of property tax revenue, excluding
Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund moneys, per average daily
attendance in each remaining school district, and on the basis of the
historical split described above for each county office of education, that
is not an excess tax school entity until all funds that would not result in
a school district or county office of education becoming an excess tax
school entity are allocated. The county superintendent of schools may
determine the amounts to be allocated between each school district and
county office of education to ensure that all funds that would not result
in a school district or county office of education becoming an excess tax
school entity are allocated.
   (3) The county auditor shall, based on information provided by the
Chancellor of the California Community Colleges pursuant to this
paragraph, allocate that proportion of the revenue in the Educational
Revenue Augmentation Fund to be allocated to community college
districts only to those community college districts within the county that
are not excess tax school entities, as defined in subdivision (n) of Section
95. The chancellor shall determine the amount to be allocated to each
community college district in inverse proportion to the amounts of
property tax revenue per funded full-time equivalent student in each
community college district. In no event shall any additional money be
allocated from the Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund to a
community college district upon that district becoming an excess tax
school entity.
   (4) (A) If, after making the allocation required pursuant to paragraph
(2), the auditor determines that there are still additional funds to be
allocated, the auditor shall allocate those excess funds pursuant to
paragraph (3). If, after making the allocation pursuant to paragraph (3),
 4042                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 611 ]
the auditor determines that there are still additional funds to be allocated,
the auditor shall allocate those excess funds pursuant to paragraph (2).
If, after determining the amount to be allocated to each community
college district, the Chancellor of the California Community Colleges
determines that there are still additional funds to be allocated, the
Chancellor of the California Community Colleges shall determine the
remainder to be allocated to each community college district in inverse
proportion to the amounts of property tax revenue, excluding
Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund moneys, per funded full-time
equivalent student in each remaining community college district that is
not an excess tax school entity until all funds that would not result in a
community college district becoming an excess tax school entity are
allocated.
   (B) (i) For the 1995–96 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, if,
after making the allocations pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3) and
subparagraph (A), the auditor determines that there are still additional
funds to be allocated, the auditor shall, subject to clauses (ii) and (iii),
allocate those excess funds to the county superintendent of schools.
Funds allocated pursuant to this clause shall be counted as property tax
revenues for special education programs in augmentation of the amount
calculated pursuant to Section 2572 of the Education Code, to the extent
that those property tax revenues offset state aid for county offices of
education and school districts within the county pursuant to subdivision
(c) of Section 56836.08 of the Education Code. If, for the 2000–01 fiscal
year or any fiscal year thereafter, any additional revenues remain after
the implementation of this clause, the auditor shall allocate those
remaining revenues to the county, cities, and special districts in
proportion to the amounts of ad valorem property tax revenue otherwise
required to be shifted from those local agencies to the county’s
Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund for the relevant fiscal year.
   (ii) For the 1995–96 fiscal year only, clause (i) shall have no
application to the County of Mono and the amount allocated pursuant to
clause (i) in the County of Marin shall not exceed five million dollars
($5,000,000).
   (iii) For the 1996–97 fiscal year only, the total amount of funds
allocated by the auditor pursuant to clause (i) and clause (i) of
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 97.2
shall not exceed that portion of two million five hundred thousand
dollars ($2,500,000) that corresponds to the county’s proportionate
share of all moneys allocated pursuant to clause (i) and clause (i) of
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 97.2 for
the 1995–96 fiscal year. Upon the request of the auditor, the Department
of Finance shall provide to the auditor all information in the
[Ch. 611 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4043

department’s possession that is necessary for the auditor to comply with
this clause.
   (iv) Notwithstanding clause (i) of this subparagraph, for the
1999–2000 fiscal year only, if, after making the allocations pursuant to
paragraphs (2) and (3) and subparagraph (A), the auditor determines that
there are still additional funds to be allocated, the auditor shall allocate
the funds to the county, cities, and special districts in proportion to the
amounts of ad valorem property tax revenue otherwise required to be
shifted from those local agencies to the county’s Educational Revenue
Augmentation Fund for the relevant fiscal year. The amount allocated
pursuant to this clause shall not exceed eight million two hundred
thirty-nine thousand dollars ($8,239,000), as appropriated in Item
6110-250-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 1999 (Chapter 50,
Statutes of 1999).
   (C) For purposes of allocating the Educational Revenue
Augmentation Fund for the 1996–97 fiscal year, the auditor shall, after
making the allocations for special education programs, if any, required
by subparagraph (B), allocate all remaining funds among the county,
cities, and special districts in proportion to the amounts of ad valorem
property tax revenue otherwise required to be shifted from those local
agencies to the county’s Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund for
the relevant fiscal year. For purposes of ad valorem property tax revenue
allocations for the 1997–98 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, no
amount of ad valorem property tax revenue allocated to the county, a city,
or a special district pursuant to this subparagraph shall be deemed to be
an amount of ad valorem property tax revenue allocated to that local
agency in the prior fiscal year.
   (5) For purposes of allocations made pursuant to Section 96.1 for the
1994–95 fiscal year, the amounts allocated from the Educational
Revenue Augmentation Fund pursuant to this subdivision, other than
those amounts deposited in the Educational Revenue Augmentation
Fund pursuant to any provision of the Health and Safety Code, shall be
deemed property tax revenue allocated to the Educational Revenue
Augmentation Fund in the prior fiscal year.
   SEC. 3. Section 100.4 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code,
to read:
   100.4. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the allocations
and apportionments made in a County of the Eighteenth Class of
revenues generated by Sections 75 to 75.80, inclusive, for fiscal years
to the 1999–2000 fiscal year, inclusive, are deemed to be correct.
   SEC. 4. The Legislature finds and declares that a special law is
necessary and that a general law cannot be made applicable within the
meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution
because of the specific good faith reliance of tax officials in the County
 4044                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 612 ]
of Marin upon previous administrative interpretations and accepted
practices that have subsequently been reexamined and modified.
  SEC. 5. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because this
act provides for offsetting savings to local agencies or school districts
that result in no net costs to the local agencies or school districts, within
the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code.



                             CHAPTER 612

   An act to amend Section 14254.5 of, to add Chapter 10 (commencing
with Section 16000) and Chapter 11 (commencing with Section 16500)
to Division 5 of, and to repeal Section 14157 of, the Financial Code,
relating to credit unions.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 14157 of the Financial Code is repealed.
  SEC. 2. Section 14254.5 of the Financial Code is amended to read:
  14254.5. (a) Except as provided in subdivisions (b) and (c), within
10 business days of opening, closing, or relocating a branch office, a
credit union shall notify the commissioner in writing of the action,
including the street and mailing addresses of the branch office.
  (b) A credit union shall not establish a branch office in another state
of the United States without the approval of the governmental authority
with jurisdiction to license or charter credit unions in that state. ‘‘State’’
has the meaning set forth in Section 146.7.
  (c) A credit union shall not establish a branch office in a foreign
nation without the prior written approval of the commissioner. ‘‘Foreign
nation’’ has the meaning set forth in Section 139.3.
  SEC. 3. Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 16000) is added to
Division 5 of the Financial Code, to read:

        CHAPTER 10.      FOREIGN (OTHER STATE) CREDIT UNIONS

                     Article 1.    General Provisions

  16000. This chapter may be cited as the ‘‘Foreign (Other State)
Credit Union Law.’’
  16001. In this chapter:
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4045

   (a) ‘‘Branch business’’ means the business of issuing share accounts,
certificates for funds, and share drafts, receiving deposits, paying
checks, making loans and other obligations, and other activities that the
commissioner may specify by order or regulation.
   (b) ‘‘California branch office,’’ when used with respect to a foreign
(other state) credit union, means an office in this state at which the
foreign (other state) credit union engages in branch business.
   (c) (1) ‘‘California facility,’’ when used with respect to a foreign
(other state) credit union, means an office in this state at which the
foreign (other state) credit union engages in business other than branch
business.
   (2) In the case of an employer-supported foreign (other state) credit
union, a ‘‘California facility’’ does not include a table, counter, or booth
on the premises of the employer’s place of business at which a volunteer
of the foreign (other state) credit union provides information or services
to members but does not engage in branch business.
   (d) ‘‘Foreign nation’’ means any nation other than the United States,
including, without limitation, any subdivision, territory, trust territory,
dependency, colony, or possession of any nation other than the United
States.
   (e) ‘‘Foreign (other nation) credit union’’ means any credit union or
similar institution that is organized under the laws of a foreign nation.
   (f) ‘‘Foreign (other state) credit union’’ means a credit union that is
organized under the laws of any state of the United States other than this
state.
   (g) ‘‘Home state,’’ when used with respect to a foreign (other state)
credit union, means the state of the United States under which the foreign
(other state) credit union is organized.
   (h) ‘‘Home state regulator,’’ when used with respect to a foreign
(other state) credit union, means the state regulatory agency in the home
state of the foreign (other state) credit union which has primary
regulatory authority over the foreign (other state) credit union.
   (i) ‘‘State of the United States’’ means any state of the United States,
the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico,
Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the
Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
   16002. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to authorize a
foreign (other nation) credit union to transact business in this state.
   16003. No foreign (other state) credit union may establish or
maintain a California branch office or California facility unless it is
qualified to transact intrastate business under Chapter 21 (commencing
with Section 2100) of Division 1 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code,
except as provided in Section 8910 of the Corporations Code.
 4046                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 612 ]
   16004. No foreign (other state) credit union may establish a
California branch office or California facility unless its deposit or share
accounts are insured by the National Credit Union Administration or
other insurer that is not unsatisfactory to the commissioner.
   16005. Each application filed with the commissioner under this
chapter or under any regulation or order issued under this chapter shall
be in the form, shall contain the information, shall be signed in the
manner, and shall (if the commissioner requires by regulation or order)
be verified in the manner that the commissioner may by regulation or
order require.
   16006. Fees shall be paid to and collected by the commissioner as
follows:
   (a) The fee for an application by a foreign (other state) credit union
that is not licensed to transact business in this state for approval to
establish a branch office is one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (b) The fee for an application by a foreign (other state) credit union
that is licensed to transact business in this state for approval to establish
a California branch office is five hundred dollars ($500).
   (c) The fee for issuing a license to establish and maintain a California
branch office or California facility is twenty-five dollars ($25).
   (d) Each foreign (other state) credit union that on June 1 of any year
maintains one or more California branch offices or California facilities
shall pay, on or before the following July 1, a fee of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250) per California branch office and one hundred dollars
($100) per California facility. However, the maximum fee shall be not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (e) If the commissioner makes an examination in connection with a
pending application, the foreign (other state) credit union making the
application shall pay a fee for the examination at the rate of seventy-five
dollars ($75) per hour for each examiner engaged in the examination
plus, if in the opinion of the commissioner it is necessary for any
examiner engaged in the examination to travel outside this state, the
travel expenses of the examiner.
   (f) If the commissioner makes an examination of a foreign (other
state) credit union that maintains a California branch office or California
facility, the foreign (other state) credit union shall pay a fee for the
examination at the rate of seventy-five dollars ($75) per hour for each
examiner engaged in the examination plus, if in the opinion of the
commissioner it is necessary for any examiner engaged in the
examination to travel outside this state, the travel expenses of the
examiner.
   16007. (a) Not less than 30 days before a foreign (other state) credit
union establishes a California branch office or a California facility, the
foreign (other state) credit union shall file with the commissioner, in the
[Ch. 612 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4047

form that the commissioner may by regulation or order require, an
appointment irrevocably appointing the commissioner and the
commissioner’s successor from time to time in office to be the foreign
(other state) credit union’s attorney to receive service of any lawful
process in any noncriminal judicial or administrative proceeding against
the foreign (other state) credit union or any of its successors that arises
out of the activities of the California branch office or California facility
after the appointment has been filed, with the same force and validity as
if served personally on the foreign (other state) credit union or its
successors, as the case may be.
   (b) Any foreign (other state) credit union that maintains a California
branch office or California facility that has not filed with the
commissioner an appointment pursuant to subdivision (a) is deemed by
the maintenance of the branch office or facility to have appointed the
commissioner as its attorney to receive service of any lawful process in
any noncriminal judicial or administrative proceeding against the
foreign (other state) credit union or any of its successors that arises out
of the activities of the California branch office or California facility, with
the same force and validity as if served personally on the credit union or
its successor, as the case may be.
   (c) Service may be made on a foreign (other state) credit union that
has appointed or is deemed to have appointed the commissioner as its
attorney for service of process by leaving a copy of the process at any
office of the commissioner. However, the service is not effective unless
(1) the party making the service, who may be the commissioner,
forthwith sends notice of the service and a copy of the process by
registered or certified mail to the foreign (other state) credit union served
at the last address on file with the commissioner for any of the foreign
(other state) credit union’s offices in this state or at its head office, and
(2) an affidavit of compliance with this subdivision by the party making
the service is filed in the case on or before the return date if any, or within
any further time that the court, in the case of a judicial proceeding, or the
administrative agency, in the case of an administrative proceeding,
allows.
   16008. In administering the provisions of this chapter, the
commissioner may share information with federal and home state
regulators of foreign (other state) credit unions.
   16009. A foreign (other state) credit union that is licensed to
establish an office shall post at a conspicuous place at the office a notice
to the public which states the name of the foreign (other state) credit
union, the type of office it is, and the state of the United States under
whose laws it was organized or chartered.
   16010. No license shall be transferable or assignable.
 4048                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 612 ]
   16011. Whenever a foreign (other state) credit union is licensed to
establish more than one office, it shall designate one of its offices as its
primary office.
   16012. Each foreign (other state) credit union that is licensed to
establish an office shall conduct all of the business of the office in a
single building or in adjoining buildings. However, with prior to notice
to the commissioner, the foreign (other state) credit union may conduct
part of the business of the office elsewhere in the same vicinity.
   16013. Whenever any provision of this chapter or of any regulation
or order issued under this chapter which is applicable to or with respect
to a foreign (other state) credit union that maintains a California branch
office or California facility is inconsistent with any provision of any
other chapter of this division, the provision of the other chapter applies,
and the latter provision does not apply.

Article 2.   Establishment of a California Branch Office or California
                                Facility

   16020. (a) Except for the activities described in paragraph (2) of
subdivision (c) of Section 16001, no foreign (other state) credit union
shall transact business in this state except at a branch office or facility
that it is licensed to maintain and at which it is permitted by this chapter
to transact the business transacted.
   (b) Subdivision (a) shall not be deemed to prohibit any of the
following:
   (1) Any foreign (other state) credit union from carrying on the
activities described in subdivision (d) of Section 191 of the Corporations
Code.
   (2) The advertising or solicitation of shares or deposits in this state
by a foreign (other state) credit union made through the media of the
mail, radio, television, magazines, newspapers, the Internet, or similar
media, provided that shares or deposits are not accepted or received in
this state.
   (3) The acceptance of loan applications through agents in this state,
provided the loan applications are approved or rejected, and the loans are
funded, outside of this state.
   (c) For the purposes of subdivision (a), no foreign (other state) credit
union shall be deemed to be transacting business in this state merely
because a majority-owned subsidiary transacts business in this state.
   16021. (a) No foreign (other state) credit union shall establish or
maintain a California branch office unless the commissioner shall have
first approved its establishment and issued a license authorizing the
foreign (other state) credit union to maintain the California branch
office.
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4049

   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), this article does not apply to any
branch office or other office in this state of a foreign (other state) credit
union that was established prior to January 1, 2001, in compliance with
existing law.
   16022. (a) If the commissioner finds all of the following with
respect to an application by a foreign (other state) credit union for
approval to establish a California branch office, the commissioner shall
approve the application:
   (1) That the foreign (other state) credit union, the directors and
officers of the foreign (other state) credit union, and the proposed
management of the branch office are each of good character and sound
financial standing.
   (2) That the financial history and condition of the foreign (other state)
credit union are satisfactory.
   (3) That the management of the foreign (other state) credit union and
the proposed management of the branch office are adequate.
   (4) That it is reasonable to believe that, if licensed to maintain the
branch office, the foreign (other state) credit union will operate the
branch office in a safe and sound manner and in compliance with all
applicable laws, regulations, and orders.
   (5) That the foreign (other state) credit union’s plan to establish and
to maintain the branch office affords reasonable promise of successful
operation.
   (6) That the foreign (other state) credit union’s establishment and
maintenance of the branch office will promote the convenience and
advantage of its members, and is necessary or convenient to meet the
needs of the foreign (other state) credit union’s members.
   (7) Not more than 50 percent of the members of the foreign (other
state) credit union are or will be residents of this state.
   If the commissioner finds otherwise, the commissioner shall deny the
application.
   (b) Whenever an application by a foreign (other state) credit union for
approval to establish a California branch office has been approved and
all conditions precedent to the issuance of a license authorizing the
foreign (other state) credit union to maintain the California branch office
have been fulfilled, the commissioner shall issue the license.
   16023. The approval of an application for approval to establish a
California branch office shall be revoked by operation of law if the
applicant foreign (other state) credit union does not establish and
maintain the California branch office within one year after the date of the
approval, unless prior to the expiration of the one-year period the
commissioner extends the time within which the foreign (other state)
credit union may establish the California branch office.
 4050                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 612 ]
  16024. (a) Within 30 days of establishing a California facility, a
foreign (other state) credit union shall notify the commissioner in
writing of its intent to establish in a California facility. The notice shall
identify the proposed location of the facility, describe its proposed
activities, and contain any other information which the commissioner
may by regulation or order specify.
  (b) A foreign (other state) credit union shall not commence business
at a proposed facility without a license having been issued by the
commissioner.

Article 5.   Relocation or Discontinuance of California Branch Office
                         or California Facility

   16075. Within 10 days of relocating a California branch office or
California facility, a foreign (other state) credit union shall file a report
with the commissioner which contains the information specified by the
commissioner by regulation or order. The foreign (other state) credit
union shall not conduct business at the new location of the California
branch office or California facility without a license issued by the
commissioner for the new location.
   16076. Not less than 30 days before a foreign (other state) credit
union discontinues a California branch office or California facility, it
shall file a report with the commissioner which contains the information
specified by the commissioner by regulation or order.
   16077. Promptly after a foreign (other state) credit union relocates
or discontinues a California branch office or California facility pursuant
to this article, the foreign (other state) credit union shall surrender to the
commissioner the license which authorized the foreign (other state)
credit union to maintain the California branch office or California
facility at the old or discontinued site.

             Article 6.   Conduct of Credit Union Business

   16100. (a) A foreign (other state) credit union that has a license to
establish and maintain an office in this state may engage in activities at
such office as may be authorized under the laws of its home state and the
laws of this state that are applicable to credit unions.
   (b) Nothing in subdivision (a) authorizes a foreign (other state) credit
union to engage in any activity at a California branch office or California
facility that it is not authorized to transact or is prohibited from
transacting under the law of its home state or that credit unions organized
under the laws of this state are not authorized to transact or are prohibited
from transacting.
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4051

   16101. (a) The following provisions of this division apply to a
foreign (other state) credit union that maintains a California branch
office or California facility with respect to its business in this state as if
the foreign (other state) credit union were a credit union organized under
the laws of this state:
   (1) Section 14203.
   (2) Section 14204.
   (3) Section 14208.
   (4) Section 14210.
   (5) Section 14256.
   (6) Section 14409.
   (7) Section 14409.2.
   (8) Section 14602.
   (9) Section 14652.5.
   (10) Section 14655, to the extent promissory notes of the type
described in this section are carried on the books of a branch office of a
foreign (other state) credit union.
   (11) Section 14656, to the extent promissory notes of the type
described in this section are carried on the books of a branch office of a
foreign (other state) credit union.
   (12) Article 8 (commencing with Section 14750) of Chapter 4.
   (13) Article 1 (commencing with Section 14850) of Chapter 6.
   (14) Article 1 (commencing with Section 14950) of Chapter 7.
   (15) Article 2 (commencing with Section 15001) of Chapter 7.
   (16) Article 3 (commencing with Section 15050) of Chapter 7, to the
extent loans of the type described in that article are carried on the books
of a branch office of a foreign (other state) credit union.
   (17) Section 15102.
   (b) The laws of this state that are applicable to the activities,
operations, and transactions of credit unions organized under the laws
of this state, other than the laws in this division, similarly shall apply to
the activities, operations, and transactions of a foreign (other state) credit
union in this state. Those laws include, but are not limited to, consumer
protection laws and laws relating to creditor rights and remedies,
mortgages and deeds of trust, bank deposits and collections, and
negotiable instruments.
   16102. (a) Any foreign (other state) credit union that is authorized
to and does maintain a California branch office or California facility is
exempted from the restrictions of Section 1 of Article XV of the
California Constitution relating to rates of interest upon the loan or
forbearance of any money, goods, or things in action or on accounts after
demand.
   (b) This section does not exempt a foreign (other state) credit union
or any subsidiary from complying with all other laws and regulations
 4052                      STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 612 ]
governing the business in which the foreign (other state) credit union or
subsidiary is engaged.
  (c) This section creates and authorizes an exempt class of persons
pursuant to Section 1 of Article XV of the California Constitution.
  (d) This section does not authorize a foreign (other state) credit union
or any subsidiary to charge an interest rate on a loan or forbearance in
excess of any limitation that exists under the laws of its home state.
  16103. (a) A foreign (other state) credit union that is licensed to
establish and maintain an office or offices in this state shall keep the
assets of the offices separate and apart from the assets of its business
outside this state, if required by written order of the commissioner.
  (b) Persons who are creditors of a foreign (other state) credit union as
a result of the business of an office of the foreign (other state) credit
union in this state shall be entitled to priority over other creditors with
respect to the assets of the business in this state of the foreign (other state)
credit union.

             Article 7.   Examination, Reports, and Records

   16150. (a) The commissioner may at any time investigate into the
affairs and examine the books, accounts, and other records of a foreign
(other state) credit union and of any subsidiary thereof.
   (b) The commissioner and any person designated by him or her shall
have free access to any office of the foreign (other state) credit union and
to its books, accounts, and other records.
   16151. The commissioner may make any examination of a foreign
(other state) credit union at any office of the commissioner.
   16152. (a) Each foreign (other state) credit union shall, within 10
days after receipt or within any extended time that the commissioner
may specify, file with the commissioner a copy of any audit report
obtained by, and of any examination report prepared for or of, the foreign
(other state) credit union.
   (b) Each foreign (other state) credit union shall file with the
commissioner a copy of any response made by the foreign (other state)
credit union to an audit or examination report referred to in subdivision
(a) within 10 days after making the response or within any extended time
that the commissioner may specify.
   16153. A foreign (other state) credit union shall file with the
commissioner any other report as the commissioner may from time to
time require. Each report shall be in the form, contain the information,
and be filed on the date, as may be prescribed by the commissioner.
   16154. A foreign (other state) credit union that maintains a
California branch office or California facility, if required by the
commissioner, shall make, keep, and preserve, at the branch office,
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4053

facility, or at any other place that the commissioner may by regulation
or order approve, the books, accounts, and other records relating to the
business of the California branch office or California facility, in the
form, in the manner, and for the time that the commissioner may by
regulation or order require.

                        Article 9.   Enforcement

   16200. (a) The commissioner may bring an action in the name of
the people of this state in the superior court to enjoin any violation of,
to enforce compliance with, or to collect any penalty or other liability
imposed under this division or any regulation or order issued under this
chapter. Upon a proper showing, a permanent or preliminary injunction,
restraining order, or writ of mandate shall be granted, and a monitor,
receiver, conservator, or other designated fiduciary or officer of the court
may be granted as appropriate.
   (b) A receiver, monitor, conservator, or other designated fiduciary
officer of the court appointed by the court pursuant to this section may,
with the approval of the court, exercise all of the powers of the
defendant’s officers, directors, partners, trustees, or persons who
exercise similar powers and perform similar duties, including the filing
of a petition for bankruptcy. No action at law or in equity may be
maintained by any party against the commissioner, or a receiver,
monitor, conservator, or other designated fiduciary or officer of the court
by reason of their exercising these powers or performing these duties
pursuant to the order of, or with the approval of, the court.
   (c) If the commissioner finds that it is in the public interest, the
commissioner may include in a claim for restitution, disgorgement, or
damages on behalf of the person injured by the act or practice
constituting the subject matter of the action, and the court shall have
jurisdiction to award ancillary relief.
   (d) The provisions of this section that authorize the commissioner to
bring actions and seek relief are not intended to, and do not, affect any
right that any other person may have to bring the same or similar actions
or to seek the same or similar relief.
   16200.5. (a) If the commissioner finds that any person has violated,
or that there is reasonable cause to believe that any person is about to
violate, Section 16020, the commissioner may order the person to cease
and desist from the violation unless and until the person is issued a
license.
   (b) (1) Within 30 days after an order is issued pursuant to subdivision
(a), the person to whom the order is directed may file with the
commissioner an application for a hearing on the order. If the
commissioner fails to commence a hearing within 15 business days after
 4054                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 612 ]
the application is filed with him or her (or within such longer period to
which the person consents), the order shall be deemed rescinded. At the
hearing the commissioner shall affirm, modify, or rescind the order.
   (2) The right of any person, to whom an order is issued under
subdivision (a), to petition for judicial review of the order shall not be
affected by the failure of the person to apply to the commissioner for a
hearing on the order pursuant to paragraph (1).
   16201. If, after notice and hearing, the commissioner finds that any
person has violated any provision of this chapter or of any regulation or
order issued under this chapter, the commissioner may order the person
to pay to the commissioner a civil penalty in an amount as the
commissioner may specify; provided, however, that the amount of the
civil penalty shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100) for each
violation or, in the case of a continuing violation, one hundred dollars
($100) for each day for which the violation continues.
   16202. If, after notice and hearing, the commissioner finds any of
the following with respect to a foreign (other state) credit union that is
licensed to maintain an office in this state, the commissioner may issue
an order suspending or revoking the license of the foreign (other state)
credit union:
   (a) That the foreign (other state) credit union has violated a provision
of this division or of any regulation or order issued under this division
or a provision of any other applicable law, regulation, or order.
   (b) That the foreign (other state) credit union is transacting the
business in this state or elsewhere in an unsafe or unsound manner.
   (c) That the foreign (other state) credit union is in unsafe or unsound
condition.
   (d) That the foreign (other state) credit union has ceased to operate its
office.
   (e) That the foreign (other state) credit union is insolvent in that it has
ceased to pay its debts in the ordinary course of business, it cannot pay
its debts as they become due, or its liabilities, including share accounts
and certificates for funds, exceed its assets.
   (f) That the foreign (other state) credit union has suspended payment
of its obligations, has made an assignment for the benefit of its creditors,
or has admitted in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become
due.
   (g) That the foreign (other state) credit union has applied for an
adjudication of bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, or other relief
under any bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, or moratorium law, or
that any person has applied for such relief under any such law against the
foreign (other state) credit union, and the foreign (other state) credit
union has by any affirmative act approved of or consented to the action
or the relief has been granted.
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4055

   (h) That a receiver, liquidator, or conservator has been appointed for
the foreign (other state) credit union or that any proceeding for an
appointment or any similar proceeding has been initiated in the home
state of the foreign (other state) credit union.
   (i) That the existence of the foreign (other state) credit union or the
authority of the foreign (other state) credit union to transact banking
business under the laws of the home state of the foreign (other state)
credit union has been suspended or terminated.
   (j) That any fact or condition exists that, if it had existed at the time
when the foreign (other state) credit union applied for approval to
transact business in this state, would have been grounds for denying the
application.
   16203. (a) If the commissioner finds that any of the factors set forth
in Section 16202 is true with respect to any foreign (other state) credit
union that is licensed to maintain an office in this state and that it is
necessary for the protection of the interests of creditors of the foreign
(other state) credit union’s business in this state or, in any case, for the
protection of the public interest that the commissioner immediately
suspend or revoke the license of the foreign (other state) credit union, the
commissioner may issue an order suspending or revoking the license of
the foreign (other state) credit union.
   (b) (1) Within 30 days after an order is issued pursuant to subdivision
(a), the foreign (other state) credit union to which the order is issued may
file with the commissioner an application for a hearing on the order. If
the commissioner fails to commence the hearing within 15 business days
after the application is filed with the commissioner (or within any longer
period to which the foreign (other state) credit union consents), the order
shall be deemed rescinded. Within 30 days after the hearing, the
commissioner shall affirm, modify, or rescind the order; otherwise, the
order shall be deemed rescinded.
   (2) The right of any foreign (other state) credit union to which an
order is issued under subdivision (a) to petition for judicial review of the
order shall not be affected by the failure of the foreign (other state) credit
union to apply to the commissioner for a hearing on the order pursuant
to paragraph (1).
   16204. Any foreign (other state) credit union whose license to
maintain an office is suspended or revoked shall immediately surrender
the license to the commissioner.
   16205. (a) Any foreign (other state) credit union to which an order
is issued under Section 16202 or 16203 may apply to the commissioner
to modify or rescind the order. The commissioner shall not grant the
application unless the commissioner finds that it is in the public interest
to do so and that it is reasonable to believe that the foreign (other state)
credit union will, if and when it is again authorized to maintain an office,
 4056                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 612 ]
comply with all applicable provisions of this division and of any
regulation or order issued under this division.
   (b) The right of any foreign (other state) credit union to which an
order is issued under Section 16202 or 16203 to petition for judicial
review of the order shall not be affected by the failure of the foreign
(other state) credit union to apply to the commissioner pursuant to
subdivision (a) to modify or rescind the order.
   16206. (a) If the commissioner finds that any of the factors set forth
in Section 16202 is true with respect to any foreign (other state) credit
union which is authorized to transact business in this state and that it is
necessary for the protection of the interests of the creditors of the
business of the foreign (other state) credit union in this state or for the
protection of the public interest that he or she take immediate possession
of the property and business of the foreign (other state) credit union, the
commissioner may by order forthwith take possession of the property
and business of the foreign (other state) credit union and retain
possession until the foreign (other state) credit union resumes business
in this state or is finally liquidated. The foreign (other state) credit union
may, with the consent of the commissioner, resume business in this state
under the conditions as the commissioner may prescribe.
   (b) (1) Whenever the commissioner takes possession of the property
and business of a foreign (other state) credit union pursuant to
subdivision (a), the foreign (other state) credit union may, within 10
days, apply to the superior court in the county in which the primary office
in this state of the foreign (other state) credit union is located to enjoin
further proceedings. The court may, after citing the commissioner to
show cause why further proceedings should not be enjoined and after a
hearing, dismiss the application or enjoin the commissioner from further
proceedings and order him or her to surrender the property and business
of the foreign (other state) credit union to the foreign (other state) credit
union or make any further order as may be just.
   (2) The judgment of the court may be appealed by the commissioner
or by the foreign (other state) credit union in the manner provided by law
for appeals from the judgment of a superior court to the court of appeal.
In case the commissioner appeals the judgment of the court, the appeal
shall operate as a stay of the judgment, and the commissioner shall not
be required to post any bond.
   (c) Whenever the commissioner takes possession of the property and
business of a foreign (other state) credit union pursuant to subdivision
(a), the commissioner shall conserve or liquidate the property and
business of the foreign (other state) credit union in accordance with
Sections 14301 to 14304, inclusive.
   (d) When the commissioner has completed the liquidation of the
property and business of a foreign (other state) credit union in this state,
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4057

the commissioner shall transfer any remaining assets to the foreign
(other state) credit union in accordance with any order the court may
issue. However, in case the foreign (other state) credit union has an office
in another state of the United States which is in liquidation and the assets
of that office appear to be insufficient to pay in full the creditors of that
office, the court shall order the commissioner to transfer to the liquidator
of that office the amount of any remaining assets as appears to be
necessary to cover the insufficiency. If there are two or more offices and
the amount of remaining assets is less than the aggregate amount of
insufficiencies with respect to those offices, the court shall order the
commissioner to distribute the remaining assets among the liquidators
of the offices in the manner as the court determines.
   SEC. 4. Chapter 11 (commencing with Section 16500) is added to
Division 5 of the Financial Code, to read:

       CHAPTER 11.      FOREIGN (OTHER NATION) CREDIT UNIONS

                     Article 1.   General Provisions

  16500. This chapter may be cited as the ‘‘Foreign (Other Nation)
Credit Union Law.’’
  16501. In this chapter:
  (a) ‘‘Agency,’’ when used with respect to a foreign (other nation)
credit union, means an office in this state at which the foreign (other
nation) credit union transacts credit union business, other than branch
business.
  (b) ‘‘Branch business’’ means the business of issuing shares or
certificates, receiving deposits, paying checks, making loans, and other
activities that the commissioner may specify by order or regulation.
  (c) ‘‘Branch office,’’ when used with respect to a foreign (other
nation) credit union, means an office in this state at which the foreign
(other nation) credit union engages in branch business.
  (d) ‘‘Business in this state,’’ when used with respect to a foreign
(other nation) credit union which is licensed to maintain one or more
offices, includes the aggregate business of all of the offices.
  (e) ‘‘Foreign nation’’ means any nation other than the United States,
including, without limitation, any subdivision, territory, trust territory,
dependency, colony, or possession of any nation other than the United
States.
  (f) ‘‘Foreign (other nation) credit union’’ means any credit union or
similar institution that is organized under the laws of a foreign nation.
  (g) ‘‘Foreign (other state) state credit union’’ means a credit union
that is organized under the laws of a state of the United States other than
California.
 4058                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 612 ]
   (h) ‘‘Home country,’’ when used with respect to a foreign (other
nation) credit union, means the foreign nation under whose laws the
foreign (other nation) credit union is organized.
   (j) ‘‘Home country regulator,’’ when used with respect to a foreign
(other nation) credit union, means the regulatory agency in the home
country of the foreign (other nation) credit union which has primary
regulatory authority over the foreign (other nation) credit union.
   (k) (1) ‘‘License’’ means a license issued under this chapter,
authorizing a foreign (other nation) credit union to maintain an office.
   (2) To be ‘‘licensed’’ means to be issued or to hold a license.
   (3) To be ‘‘licensed to transact business in this state,’’ when used with
respect to a foreign (other nation) credit union, means that the foreign
(other nation) credit union is licensed to maintain an agency or branch
office.
   (l) ‘‘Office,’’ when used with respect to a foreign (other nation) credit
union, means a branch office, an agency, or a representative office
maintained by the foreign (other nation) credit union.
   (m) ‘‘Representative office,’’ when used with respect to a foreign
(other nation) credit union, means an office in this state at which the
foreign (other nation) credit union engages in representational functions
but at which it does not transact business.
   (n) ‘‘State of the United States’’ means any state of the United States,
the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico,
Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the
Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
   16502. Nothing in this chapter shall apply to a foreign (other state)
state credit union or be deemed to authorize a foreign (other state) state
credit union to transact business in this state.
   16503. No foreign (other nation) credit union may establish a
branch office unless its deposit or share accounts are insured by the
National Credit Union Administration or other insurer that is not
unsatisfactory to the commissioner.
   16504. Each application filed with the commissioner under this
chapter or under any regulation or order issued under this chapter shall
be in the form, shall contain the information, shall be signed in the
manner, and shall (if the commissioner requires by regulation or order)
be verified in the manner that the commissioner may by regulation or
order require.
   16505. Fees shall be paid to and collected by the commissioner as
follows:
   (a) The fee for filing with the commissioner an application by a
foreign (other nation) credit union that is not licensed to transact
business in this state for approval to establish a branch office shall be one
thousand dollars ($1,000).
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4059

   (b) The fee for filing with the commissioner an application by a
foreign (other nation) credit union that is not licensed to transact
business in this state for approval to establish an agency shall be five
hundred dollars ($500).
   (c) The fee for filing with the commissioner an application by a
foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed to transact business
in this state for approval to establish a branch office shall be five hundred
dollars ($500).
   (d) The fee for filing with the commissioner an application by a
foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed to transact business
in this state for approval to establish an agency shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250).
   (e) The fee for filing with the commissioner an application by a
foreign (other nation) credit union for approval to establish a
representative office shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250).
   (f) The fee for filing with the commissioner an application by a
foreign (other nation) credit union for approval to relocate or to close an
office shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150).
   (g) The fee for issuing a license shall be twenty-five dollars ($25).
   (h) Each foreign (other nation) credit union that on June 1 of any year
maintains one or more offices shall pay, on or before the following July
1, a fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250) per branch office, one
hundred dollars ($100) per agency, and fifty dollars ($50) per
representative office.
   (i) If the commissioner makes an examination in connection with a
pending application, the foreign (other nation) credit union making the
application shall pay a fee for the examination at the rate of seventy-five
dollars ($75) per hour for each examiner engaged in the examination
plus, if in the opinion of the commissioner it is necessary for any
examiner engaged in the examination to travel outside this state, the
travel expenses of the examiner.
   (j) If the commissioner makes an examination of a foreign (other
nation) credit union that is licensed to maintain an office, the foreign
(other nation) credit union shall pay a fee for the examination at the rate
of seventy-five dollars ($75) per hour for each examiner engaged in the
examination plus, if in the opinion of the commissioner it is necessary
for any examiner engaged in the examination to travel outside this state,
the travel expenses of the examiner.
   16506. (a) (1) No foreign (other nation) credit union shall be
issued a license to maintain an office unless it shall have first filed with
the commissioner, in the form that the commissioner may by regulation
or order require, an appointment irrevocably appointing the
commissioner and the commissioner’s successor from time to time in
office to be the foreign (other nation) credit union’s attorney to receive
 4060                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 612 ]
service of any lawful process in any noncriminal judicial or
administrative proceeding against the foreign (other nation) credit union
or any of its successors that arises out of the activities in this state after
the appointment has been filed, with the same force and validity as if
served personally on the foreign (other nation) credit union or its
successor, as the case may be.
   (2) Any foreign (other nation) credit union that maintains an office in
this state and that has not filed with the commissioner an appointment
pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be deemed by the maintenance of that
office to have appointed the commissioner as its attorney to receive
service of any lawful process in any noncriminal judicial or
administrative proceeding against the foreign (other nation) credit union
or any of its successors that arises out of the activities in this state with
the same force and validity as if served personally on the foreign (other
nation) credit union or its successor, as the case may be.
   (b) Service may be made on a foreign (other nation) credit union that
has appointed or is deemed to have appointed the commissioner as its
attorney for service of process by leaving a copy of the process at any
office of the commissioner. However, the service is not effective unless
(1) the party making the service, who may be the commissioner,
forthwith sends notice of the service and a copy of the process by
registered or certified mail to the foreign (other nation) credit union
served at its last address on file with the commissioner at any of its
offices in this state or at its head office, and (2) an affidavit of compliance
with this subdivision by the party making service is filed in the case on
or before the return date, if any, or within any further time that the court,
in the case of a judicial proceeding, or the administrative agency, in the
case of an administrative proceeding, allows.
   16507. In administering the provisions of this chapter, the
commissioner may share information with federal and home country
regulators of foreign (other nation) credit unions.
   16508. No license shall be transferable or assignable.
   16509. A foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed to
establish an office shall post at a conspicuous place at the office a notice
to the public which states the name of the foreign (other nation) credit
union, the type of office it is, and the foreign country under whose laws
it was organized or chartered.
   16510. Whenever a foreign (other nation) credit union is licensed to
establish more than one office, it shall designate one of its offices as its
primary office.
   16511. Each foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed to
establish an office shall conduct all of the business of the office in a
single building or in adjoining buildings. However, with the approval of
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4061

the commissioner, the foreign (other nation) credit union may conduct
part of the business of the office elsewhere in the same vicinity.
  16512. Whenever any provision of this chapter or of any regulation
or order issued under this chapter that is applicable to or with respect to
a foreign (other nation) credit union that maintains a branch office or
facility is inconsistent with any provision of any other chapter of this
division, the former provision applies, and the latter provision does not
apply.

                   Article 2.   Representative Offices

   16525. (a) No foreign (other nation) credit union shall establish or
maintain an office in this state at which it engages in representational
functions unless it is licensed to maintain a representative office, agency,
or branch office at that place.
   (b) (1) No person shall establish or maintain an office in this state as
representative of a foreign (other nation) credit union unless the foreign
(other nation) credit union is licensed to maintain the office as a
representative office.
   (2) For purposes of this chapter, if any person establishes or maintains
an office in this state as representative of a foreign (other nation) credit
union, the foreign (other nation) credit union shall be deemed to
establish and maintain the office as a representative office.
   16526. (a) No foreign (other nation) credit union shall establish or
maintain a representative office unless the commissioner shall have first
approved the establishment of the office and issued a license authorizing
the foreign (other nation) credit union to maintain the office.
   (b) If the commissioner finds the following with respect to an
application by a foreign (other nation) credit union for approval to
establish a representative office, the commissioner shall approve the
application:
   (1) That the foreign (other nation) credit union, the directors and
executive officers of the foreign (other nation) credit union, and the
proposed management of the office are each of good character and sound
financial standing.
   (2) That the financial history and condition of the foreign (other
nation) credit union are satisfactory.
   (3) That the management of the foreign (other nation) credit union
and the proposed management of the office are adequate.
   (4) That it is reasonable to believe that, if licensed to maintain the
office, the foreign (other nation) credit union will operate the office in
compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and orders.
   If the commissioner finds otherwise, the commissioner shall deny the
application.
 4062                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 612 ]
   (c) Whenever an application by a foreign (other nation) credit union
for approval to establish a representative office has been approved and
all conditions precedent to the issuance of a license authorizing the
foreign (other nation) credit union to maintain the office have been
fulfilled, the commissioner shall issue the license.
   16527. (a) No foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed to
maintain a representative office shall relocate the office unless the
commissioner shall have first approved the relocation and issued a
license authorizing the credit union to maintain the office at the new site.
   (b) (1) In case the new site of a representative office is in the same
vicinity as the old site, the commissioner shall approve an application
by a foreign (other nation) credit union for approval to relocate the
representative office if the commissioner finds that the relocation of the
office will not be substantially detrimental to the public convenience and
advantage.
   (2) In case the new site of a representative office is not in the same
vicinity as the old site, the commissioner shall approve an application
by a foreign (other nation) credit union for approval to relocate the
representative office if the commissioner finds both of the following:
   (i) The relocation of the office from the old site will not be
substantially detrimental to the public convenience and advantage in the
area that is primarily served by the office at the old site.
   (ii) The relocation of the office to the new site will promote the public
convenience and advantage.
   If the commissioner does not make the findings required under either
paragraph (1) or (2), the commissioner shall deny the application.
   (c) Whenever an application by a foreign (other nation) credit union
for approval to relocate a representative office has been approved and all
conditions precedent to the issuance of a license authorizing the foreign
(other nation) credit union to maintain the office at the new site have been
fulfilled, the commissioner shall issue the license.
   (d) Promptly after a foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed
to maintain a representative office relocates the office, the foreign (other
nation) credit union shall surrender to the commissioner the license that
authorized it to maintain the office at the old site.
   16528. A foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed to
maintain a representative office may, subject to any regulations that the
commissioner may prescribe, engage in representational functions at the
office but shall not solicit or accept share accounts or deposits or
otherwise transact business at the office.
   16529. (a) (1) No foreign (other nation) credit union that is
licensed to maintain a representative office shall close the office unless
the commissioner shall have first approved the closing.
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4063

   (2) Paragraph (1) shall not be deemed to prohibit a foreign (other
nation) credit union that is licensed to maintain a representative office
from closing the office in accordance with Article 8 (commencing with
Section 16800).
   (b) If the commissioner finds, with respect to an application by a
foreign (other nation) credit union for approval to close a representative
office, that the closing of the office will not be substantially detrimental
to the public convenience and advantage, the commissioner shall
approve the application. If the commissioner finds otherwise, the
commissioner shall deny the application.
   (c) Whenever an application by a foreign (other nation) credit union
for approval to close a representative office has been approved and all
conditions precedent to the closing have been fulfilled, the foreign (other
nation) credit union may close the office and shall promptly thereafter
surrender to the commissioner the license that authorized it to maintain
the office.
   16530. The approval of an application for approval to establish a
representative office shall be revoked by operation of law if the applicant
foreign (other nation) credit union does not establish and maintain the
office within one year after the date of the approval, unless prior to the
expiration of the one-year period the commissioner extends the time
within which the foreign (other nation) credit union may establish the
representative office.

                Article 3.   Branch Offices and Agencies

  16550. (a) No foreign (other nation) credit union shall transact
business in this state except at a branch office or agency that it is licensed
to maintain and at which it is permitted by this chapter to transact the
business transacted.
  (b) Subdivision (a) shall not be deemed to prohibit any of the
following:
  (1) Any foreign (other nation) credit union from carrying on the
activities described in subdivision (d) of Section 191 of the Corporations
Code.
  (2) The advertising or solicitation of shares or deposits in this state
by a foreign (other nation) credit union made through the media of the
mail, radio, television, magazines, newspapers, the Internet, or similar
media, provided that shares or deposits are not accepted or received in
this state.
  (3) The acceptance of loan applications through agents in this state,
provided the loan applications are approved or rejected, and the loans are
funded, outside of this state.
 4064                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 612 ]
   (c) For the purposes of subdivision (a), no foreign (other nation)
credit union shall be deemed to be transacting business in this state
merely because a majority-owned subsidiary transacts business in this
state.
   16551. No foreign (other nation) credit union shall be licensed to
maintain a branch office or agency unless it is qualified to transact
intrastate business in this state under Chapter 21 (commencing with
Section 2100) of Division 1 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code, except
as provided in Section 8910 of the Corporations Code.
   16552. (a) No foreign (other nation) credit union shall establish or
maintain a branch office or agency unless the commissioner shall have
first approved its establishment and issued a license authorizing the
foreign (other nation) credit union to maintain the branch office or
agency.
   (b) If the commissioner finds all of the following with respect to an
application by a foreign (other nation) credit union for approval to
establish a branch office or agency, the commissioner shall approve the
application:
   (1) That the foreign (other nation) credit union, the directors and
officers of the foreign (other nation) credit union, and the proposed
management of the office are each of good character and sound financial
standing.
   (2) That the financial history and condition of the foreign (other
nation) credit union are satisfactory.
   (3) That the management of the foreign (other nation) credit union
and the proposed management of the office are adequate.
   (4) That it is reasonable to believe that, if licensed to maintain the
office, the foreign (other nation) credit union will operate the office in
a safe and sound manner and in compliance with all applicable laws,
regulations, and orders.
   (5) That the foreign (other nation) credit union’s plan to establish and
to maintain the office affords reasonable promise of successful
operation.
   (6) That the foreign (other nation) credit union’s establishment and
maintenance of the office will promote the public convenience and
advantage, and is necessary or convenient to meet the needs of the
foreign (other nation) credit union’s members.
   (7) Not more than 50 percent of the members of the foreign (other
nation) credit union are or will be residents of this state.
   If the commissioner finds otherwise, the commissioner shall deny the
application.
   (c) Whenever an application by a foreign (other nation) credit union
for approval to establish a branch office or agency has been approved and
all conditions precedent to the issuance of a license authorizing the
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4065

foreign (other nation) credit union to maintain the branch office or
agency have been fulfilled, the commissioner shall issue the license.
   16553. The approval of an application for approval to establish a
branch office or agency shall be revoked by operation of law if the
applicant foreign (other nation) credit union does not establish and
maintain the office within one year after the date of the approval, unless
prior to the expiration of the one-year period the commissioner extends
the time within which the foreign (other nation) credit union may
establish the branch office or agency.
   16554. (a) No foreign (other nation) credit union which is licensed
to maintain a branch office or agency shall relocate the office unless the
commissioner shall have first approved the relocation and issued a
license authorizing the foreign (other nation) credit union to maintain the
office at the new site.
   (b) (1) In case the new site of the office is in the same vicinity as the
old site, the commissioner shall approve an application by a foreign
(other nation) credit union for approval to relocate a branch office or
agency if the commissioner finds all of the following:
   (A) That it will not be unsafe or unsound for the foreign (other nation)
credit union to relocate the office.
   (B) That the relocation of the office will not be substantially
detrimental to the public convenience and advantage, or that the
relocation is necessary in the interests of the safety and soundness of the
foreign (other nation) credit union.
   (2) In case the new site of the office is not in the same vicinity as the
old site, the commissioner shall approve an application by a foreign
(other nation) credit union for approval to relocate a branch office or
agency if the commissioner finds all of the following:
   (A) That the foreign (other nation) credit union’s plan to relocate the
office and to maintain the office at the new site affords reasonable
promise of successful operation.
   (B) That the relocation of the office from the old site will not be
substantially detrimental to the public convenience and advantage in the
area which is primarily served by the office at the old site, or that the
relocation is necessary in the interests of the safety and soundness of the
foreign (other nation) credit union.
   (C) That the relocation of the office to the new site will promote the
public convenience and advantage.
   If the commissioner finds otherwise, the commissioner shall deny the
application.
   (c) Whenever an application by a foreign (other nation) credit union
for approval to relocate a branch office or agency has been approved and
all conditions precedent to the issuance of a license authorizing the
 4066                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 612 ]
foreign (other nation) credit union to maintain the office at the new site
have been fulfilled, the commissioner shall issue the license.
   (d) Promptly after a foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed
to maintain a branch office or agency relocates the office, the foreign
(other nation) credit union shall surrender to the commissioner the
license which authorized it to maintain the office at the old site.
   16555. (a) (1) No foreign (other nation) credit union that is
licensed to maintain a branch office or agency shall close the office
unless the commissioner shall have first approved the closing.
   (2) Paragraph (1) shall not be deemed to prohibit a foreign (other
nation) credit union that is licensed to maintain a branch office or agency
from closing an office in accordance with Article 8 (commencing with
Section 16800).
   (b) If the commissioner finds the following with respect to an
application by a foreign (other nation) credit union for approval to close
a branch office or agency, the commissioner shall approve the
application:
   (1) That it will not be unsafe or unsound for the foreign (other nation)
credit union to close the office.
   (2) That the closing of the office will not be substantially detrimental
to the public convenience and advantage or that the closing of the office
is necessary in the interests of the safety and soundness of the foreign
(other nation) credit union.
   If the commissioner finds otherwise, the commissioner shall deny the
application.
   (c) Whenever an application by a foreign (other nation) credit union
for approval to close a branch office or agency has been approved and
all conditions precedent to the closing have been fulfilled, the foreign
(other nation) credit union may close the office and shall promptly
thereafter surrender to the commissioner the license which authorized it
to maintain the office.

             Article 6.   Conduct of Credit Union Business

   16600. (a) A foreign (other nation) credit union that has a license
to establish and maintain an office may engage in activities at the office
as may be authorized under applicable laws of its home country and the
laws of this state.
   (b) Nothing in subdivision (a) authorizes a foreign (other nation)
credit union to engage in any activity at an office that it is not authorized
to engage in or is prohibited from engaging in under the law of its home
country, or that credit unions organized under the laws of this state are
not authorized to engage in or are prohibited from engaging in under the
laws of this state.
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4067

   16601. (a) A foreign (other nation) credit union may not expand its
field of membership in this state without first obtaining the
commissioner’s approval.
   (b) An application for the commissioner’s approval of an expansion
of the field of membership in this state by a foreign (other nation) credit
union shall be in the form and contain the information as may be
specified, by order or regulation, by the commissioner.
   16602. (a) The following provisions of this code apply to a foreign
(other nation) credit union that maintains a branch office or agency with
respect to its business in this state as if the foreign (other nation) credit
union were a credit union organized under the laws of this state:
   (1) Section 14203.
   (2) Section 14204.
   (3) Section 14208.
   (4) Section 14210.
   (5) Section 14256.
   (6) Section 14409.
   (7) Section 14409.2.
   (8) Section 14602.
   (9) Section 14652.5.
   (10) Section 14655, to the extent promissory notes of the type
described in this section are carried on the books of a branch office of a
foreign (other nation) credit union.
   (11) Section 14656, to the extent promissory notes of the type
described in this section are carried on the books of a branch office of a
foreign (other nation) credit union.
   (12) Article 8 (commencing with Section 14750) of Chapter 4.
   (13) Section 14800.
   (14) Section 14802.
   (15) Section 14803.
   (16) Section 14807.
   (17) Section 14808.
   (18) Section 14809.
   (19) Article 1 (commencing with Section 14850) of Chapter 6.
   (20) Article 1 (commencing with Section 14950) of Chapter 7.
   (21) Article 2 (commencing with Section 15001) of Chapter 7.
   (22) Article 3 (commencing with Section 15050) of Chapter 7, to the
extent loans of the type described in that article are carried on the books
of a branch office of a foreign (other nation) credit union.
   (23) Section 15102.
   (b) In addition to the laws specified in subdivision (a), the laws of this
state applicable to transactions between a credit union organized under
the laws of this state and its members and creditors shall similarly apply
to the transactions of a foreign (other nation) credit union in this state.
 4068                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 612 ]
These laws include, but are not limited to, consumer protection laws and
laws relating to creditor rights and remedies, commercial transactions,
mortgages and deeds of trust, bank deposits and collections, and
negotiable instruments.
   16603. (a) Any foreign (other nation) credit union that is authorized
to and does maintain a branch office or agency is exempted from the
restrictions of Section 1 of Article XV of the California Constitution
relating to rates of interest upon the loan or forbearance of any money,
goods, or things in action or on accounts after demand.
   (b) This section does not exempt a foreign (other nation) credit union
or any subsidiary from complying with all other laws and regulations
governing the business in which the foreign (other nation) credit union
or subsidiary is engaged.
   (c) This section creates and authorizes an exempt class of persons
pursuant to Section 1 of Article XV of the California Constitution.
   16604. (a) A foreign (other nation) credit union which is licensed
to establish and maintain an office or offices shall keep the assets of the
offices separate and apart from the assets of its business outside this
state.
   (b) Persons who are creditors of a foreign (other nation) credit union
as a result of the business of an office of the foreign (other nation) credit
union in this state shall be entitled to priority over other creditors with
respect to the assets of the business in this state of the foreign (other
nation) credit union.
   16605. (a) In this section:
   (1) ‘‘Adjusted liabilities,’’ when used with respect to a foreign (other
nation) credit union, means the liabilities of the foreign (other nation)
credit union’s business in this state, determined in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, but excluding (A) accrued
expenses, (B) any liability to an office (whether in or outside of this state)
or majority-owned subsidiary of the foreign (other nation) credit union,
and (C) other liabilities as the commissioner may by regulation or order
exclude.
   (2) ‘‘Applicable minimum,’’ when used with respect to eligible assets
deposited or to be deposited with an approved depository by a foreign
(other nation) credit union, means the amount as the commissioner may
from time to time by regulation or order determine to be necessary for
the maintenance of sound financial condition, for the protection of the
interests of creditors of the foreign (other nation) credit union’s business
in this state, or for the protection of the public interest. However, in the
case of a foreign (other nation) credit union which is licensed to maintain
a branch office, the applicable minimum shall not be less than 5 percent
of the adjusted liabilities of the foreign (other nation) credit union.
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4069

   (3) ‘‘Approved depository,’’ when used with respect to a foreign
(other nation) credit union, means a bank or credit union organized under
the laws of this state or a national bank headquartered in this state that
has been selected by the foreign (other nation) credit union and approved
by the commissioner for the purpose of acting as the approved
depository of the foreign (other nation) credit union and that has filed
with the commissioner, in the form as the commissioner may by
regulation or order prescribe, an agreement to comply with all applicable
provisions of this section and of any regulation or order issued under this
section.
   (4) ‘‘Eligible assets’’ when used with respect to a foreign (other
nation) credit union, means any of the following:
   (A) Cash.
   (B) Any negotiable certificate of deposit that (i) has a maturity of not
more than one year, (ii) is payable in the United States, and (iii) is issued
by a bank organized under the laws of a state of the United States, by a
national bank, or by a branch office of a foreign (other nation) bank that
is located in the United States.
   (C) Any banker’s acceptance that is payable in the United States and
that is eligible for discount with a federal reserve bank.
   (D) Any other asset that the commissioner by regulation or order
determines to be eligible.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, ‘‘eligible
asset,’’ when used with respect to a foreign (other nation) credit union,
does not include any instrument the issuer of which (i) is, or is affiliated
with, the foreign (other nation) credit union, (ii) is domiciled in, or
controlled by a person domiciled in, the same foreign nation as the
foreign (other nation) credit union, or (iii) is, or is controlled by, the
foreign nation. For purposes of the foregoing provision, to be
‘‘affiliated’’ means to control, to be controlled by, or to be under
common control with; and to ‘‘control’’ has the meaning set forth in
subdivision (b) of Section 700.
   (b) For purposes of this section:
   (1) The amount of adjusted liabilities of a foreign (other nation) credit
union’s business in this state shall be computed for the period of time and
in the manner as the commissioner may by regulation or order prescribe.
   (2) An eligible asset shall be valued at the lesser of market or par.
   (c) (1) Before a foreign (other nation) credit union is authorized to
transact business in this state, the foreign (other nation) credit union shall
deposit, and each foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed to
transact business in this state shall maintain on deposit, with an approved
depository eligible assets having a value in an amount not less than the
applicable minimum.
 4070                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 612 ]
   (2) Whenever a foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed to
transact business in this state ceases to be so licensed, the foreign (other
nation) credit union shall thereafter maintain on deposit with an
approved depository eligible assets having a value in an amount not less
than the applicable minimum for the period of time as the commissioner
may determine to be necessary for the protection of creditors of the
foreign (other nation) credit union’s business in this state or for the
protection of the public interest.
   (d) (1) No foreign (other nation) credit union that maintains eligible
assets on deposit with an approved depository pursuant to this section
shall withdraw any eligible asset except with the prior approval of the
commissioner.
   (2) No approved depository that holds eligible assets on deposit from
a foreign (other nation) credit union pursuant to this section shall release
any eligible asset except with the prior approval of the commissioner or
as otherwise provided in subdivision (h).
   (e) Any foreign (other nation) credit union that maintains eligible
assets on deposit with an approved depository pursuant to this section
shall, unless the commissioner shall have suspended or revoked its
authorization to transact business in this state or taken possession of its
property and business in this state, be entitled to receive any income paid
on eligible assets.
   (f) (1) Whenever a foreign (other nation) credit union deposits
eligible assets with, or withdraws eligible assets from, an approved
depository pursuant to this section, the foreign (other nation) credit
union shall do so in accordance with the procedures and requirements as
the commissioner may by regulation or order prescribe.
   (2) Whenever an approved depository receives, holds, or releases
eligible assets pursuant to this section, the approved depository shall do
so in accordance with the procedures and requirements as the
commissioner may by regulation or order prescribe and shall file with
the commissioner reports as and when the commissioner may by
regulation or order require.
   (g) Whenever a foreign (other nation) credit union maintains eligible
assets on deposit with an approved depository pursuant to this section:
   (1) The eligible assets shall be deemed to be pledged to the
commissioner for the benefit of the creditors of the foreign (other nation)
credit union’s business in the state; and, notwithstanding any provision
of the Uniform Commercial Code to the contrary, the commissioner, for
the benefit of these creditors, shall be deemed to have a security interest
in the eligible assets.
   (2) The eligible assets shall be free from any lien, charge, right of
setoff, credit, or preference in connection with any claim of the approved
depository against the foreign (other nation) credit union.
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4071

   (h) (1) In case the commissioner takes possession of the property and
business of a foreign (other nation) credit union that maintains eligible
assets on deposit with an approved depository pursuant to this section,
the approved depository shall, upon order of the commissioner, release
the eligible assets to the commissioner, as liquidator of the property and
business of the foreign (other nation) credit union.
   (2) In case a foreign (other nation) credit union that maintains eligible
assets on deposit with an approved depository pursuant to this section
fails to pay any judgment creditor of its business in this state and the
commissioner has not taken possession of the property and business of
the foreign (other nation) credit union, the approved depository shall
release the eligible assets to the commissioner, and the commissioner
shall dispose of the eligible assets, as a court of competent jurisdiction
of this state or of the United States may order for the benefit of the
judgment creditor. For purposes of this paragraph, ‘‘judgment creditor
of its business in this state’’ means a person to whom the foreign (other
nation) credit union is required to pay money under a judgment that (A)
arose out of the foreign (other nation) credit union’s business in this state,
(B) has been entered by a court of this state or of the United States, (C)
has become final, in that all possibility of direct attack on the judgment
by way of appeal, motion for new trial, motion to vacate, or petition for
extraordinary writ has been exhausted, and (D) has remained unpaid for
a period of not less than 60 days after becoming final.
   16607. (a) In this section:
   (1) ‘‘Adjusted liabilities,’’ when used with respect to a foreign (other
nation) credit union that is licensed to maintain a branch office, means
the liabilities of the foreign (other nation) credit union’s business in this
state, excluding (A) accrued expenses, (B) any liability to an office
(whether in or outside of this state) or majority-owned subsidiary of the
foreign (other nation) credit union, and (C) other liabilities as the
commissioner may by regulation or order exclude.
   (2) ‘‘Eligible assets’’ means any asset which the commissioner by
regulation or order determines to be eligible for purposes of this section.
However, ‘‘eligible asset,’’ when used with respect to a foreign (other
nation) credit union that is licensed to maintain a branch office, includes
any asset which the foreign (other nation) credit union maintains on
deposit pursuant to Section 16606.
   (b) For purposes of this section, the amount of eligible assets and the
amount of adjusted liabilities of a foreign (other nation) credit union that
is licensed to maintain a branch office each be computed for the period
of time and in the manner as the commissioner may by regulation or
order prescribe.
   (c) A foreign (other nation) credit union licensed to maintain a branch
office shall hold at its branch offices in this state or at any other place as
 4072                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 612 ]
the commissioner may approve, eligible assets in the amount, if any, as
the commissioner may from time to time by regulation or order
determine to be necessary for the maintenance of sound financial
condition, for the protection of the interests of creditors of the foreign
(other nation) credit union’s business in this state, or for the protection
of the public interest. However, in no event shall the amount exceed 108
percent of the adjusted liabilities of the foreign (other nation) credit
union’s business in this state.
  (d) If the commissioner finds, with respect to a foreign (other nation)
credit union licensed to maintain a branch office in this state, that the
action is necessary for the maintenance of sound financial condition, for
the protection of the interests of creditors of the foreign (other nation)
credit union’s business in this state, or for the protection of the public
interest, the commissioner may order the foreign (other nation) credit
union to place all or part of the eligible assets which the foreign (other
nation) credit union is required to hold under subdivision (c) in the
custody of a bank organized under the laws of this state or a national bank
headquartered in this state as the commissioner may designate, and such
assets shall be subject to the order of the commissioner.

            Article 7.   Examination, Reports, and Records

   16700. (a) The commissioner may at any time investigate into the
affairs and examine the books, accounts, and other records of a foreign
(other nation) credit union and of any subsidiary thereof.
   (b) The commissioner and any person designated by the
commissioner shall have free access to any office of the foreign (other
nation) credit union and to its books, accounts, and other records.
   16701. The commissioner may make an examination of a foreign
(other nation) credit union at any office of the commissioner.
   16702. (a) Each foreign (other nation) credit union shall, within 10
days after receipt or within any extended time that the commissioner
may specify, file with the commissioner a copy of any audit report
obtained by, and of any examination report prepared for, the foreign
(other nation) credit union.
   (b) Each foreign (other nation) credit union shall file with the
commissioner a copy of any response made by the foreign (other nation)
credit union to an audit or examination report referred to in subdivision
(a) within 10 days after making the response or within any extended time
that the commissioner may specify.
   16703. A foreign (other nation) credit union shall file with the
commissioner any other report as the commissioner may from time to
time require. Each report shall be in the form, contain the information,
and be filed on the date, as may be prescribed by the commissioner.
[Ch. 612 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000                           4073

  16704. Each foreign (other nation) credit union that maintains an
office shall make, keep, and preserve at that office, or at any other place
that the commissioner may by regulation or order approve, the books,
accounts, and other records relating to the business of the office, in the
form, in the manner, and for the time that the commissioner may, by
regulation or order, require.

              Article 8.    Voluntary Surrender of License

   16800. (a) A foreign (other nation) credit union that is licensed to
maintain an office may voluntarily surrender the license for the office by
filing the license and a report with the commissioner. However, a foreign
(other nation) credit union that holds licenses to maintain two or more
offices may not voluntarily surrender less than all of its licenses.
   (b) (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2), a voluntary
surrender of a license shall be effective on the 30th day after the license
and the report called for in subdivision (a) are filed with the
commissioner or on an earlier date as the commissioner may by order
specify.
   (2) If a proceeding to revoke or suspend a license is pending at the
time when the license and the report called for in subdivision (a) are filed
with the commissioner or if a proceeding to revoke or suspend a license
or to impose conditions upon the surrender of a license is instituted
before the 30th day after the license and the report called for in
subdivision (a) are filed with the commissioner, the voluntary surrender
of the license shall become effective at the time and upon the conditions
that the commissioner may by order specify.

                        Article 9.   Enforcement

  16900. (a) The commissioner may bring an action in the name of
the people of this state in the superior court to enjoin any violation of,
to enforce compliance with, or to collect any penalty or other liability
imposed under this division or any regulation or order issued under this
chapter. Upon a proper showing, a permanent or preliminary injunction,
restraining order, or writ of mandate shall be granted, and a monitor,
receiver, conservator, or other designated fiduciary or officer of the court
may be granted as appropriate.
  (b) A receiver, monitor, conservator, or other designated fiduciary
officer of the court appointed by the court pursuant to this section may,
with the approval of the court, exercise all of the powers of the
defendant’s officers, directors, partners, trustees, or persons who
exercise similar powers and perform similar duties, including the filing
of a petition for bankruptcy. No action at law or in equity may be
 4074                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 612 ]
maintained by any party against the commissioner, or a receiver,
monitor, conservator, or other designated fiduciary or officer of the court
by reason of their exercising these powers or performing these duties
pursuant to the order of, or with the approval of, the court.
   (c) If the commissioner finds that it is in the public interest, the
commissioner may include in a claim for restitution, disgorgement, or
damages on behalf of the person injured by the act or practice
constituting the subject matter of the action, and the court shall have
jurisdiction to award ancillary relief.
   (d) The provisions of this section that authorize the commissioner to
bring actions and seek relief are not intended to, and do not, affect any
right that any other person may have to bring the same or similar actions
or to seek the same or similar relief.
   16900.5. (a) If the commissioner finds that any person has violated,
or that there is reasonable cause to believe that any person is about to
violate, Section 16020, the commissioner may order the person to cease
and desist from the violation unless and until the person is issued a
license.
   (b) (1) Within 30 days after an order is issued pursuant to subdivision
(a), the person to whom the order is directed may file with the
commissioner an application for a hearing on the order. If the
commissioner fails to commence a hearing within 15 business days after
the application is filed with him or her (or within such longer period to
which the person consents), the order shall be deemed rescinded. At the
hearing the commissioner shall affirm, modify, or rescind the order.
   (2) The right of any person, to whom an order is issued under
subdivision (a), to petition for judicial review of the order shall not be
affected by the failure of the person to apply to the commissioner for a
hearing on the order pursuant to paragraph (1).
   16901. If, after notice and hearing, the commissioner finds that any
person has violated any provision of this chapter or of any regulation or
order issued under this chapter, the commissioner may order the person
to pay to the commissioner a civil penalty in an amount as the
commissioner may specify; provided, however, that the amount of the
civil penalty shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100) for each
violation or, in the case of a continuing violation, one hundred dollars
($100) for each day for which the violation continues.
   16902. If, after notice and hearing, the commissioner finds any of
the following with respect to a foreign (other nation) credit union that is
licensed to maintain an office, the commissioner may issue an order
suspending or revoking the license of the foreign (other nation) credit
union.
[Ch. 612 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4075

   (a) That the foreign (other nation) credit union has violated a
provision of this division or of any regulation or order issued under this
division or a provision of any other applicable law, regulation, or order.
   (b) That the foreign (other nation) credit union is transacting the
business in this state or elsewhere in an unsafe or unsound manner.
   (c) That the foreign (other nation) credit union is in unsafe or unsound
condition.
   (d) That the foreign (other nation) credit union has ceased to operate
its office.
   (e) That the foreign (other nation) credit union is insolvent in that it
has ceased to pay its debts in the ordinary course of business, it cannot
pay its debts as they become due, or its liabilities exceed its assets.
   (f) That the foreign (other nation) credit union has suspended
payment of its obligations, has made an assignment for the benefit of its
creditors, or has admitted in writing its inability to pay its debts as they
become due.
   (g) That the foreign (other nation) credit union has applied for an
adjudication of bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, or other relief
under any bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, or moratorium law, or
that any person has applied for such relief under any such law against the
foreign (other nation) credit union, and the foreign (other nation) credit
union has by any affirmative act approved of or consented to the action
or the relief has been granted.
   (h) That a receiver, liquidator, or conservator has been appointed for
the foreign (other nation) credit union or that any proceeding for an
appointment or any similar proceeding has been initiated in the home
country of the foreign (other nation) credit union.
   (i) That the existence of the foreign (other nation) credit union or the
authority of the foreign (other nation) credit union to transact banking
business under the laws of the home country of the foreign (other nation)
credit union has been suspended or terminated.
   (j) That any fact or condition exists that, if it had existed at the time
when the foreign (other nation) credit union applied for approval to
transact business in this state, would have been grounds for denying the
application.
   16903. (a) If the commissioner finds that any of the factors set forth
in Section 16902 is true with respect to any foreign (other nation) credit
union that is licensed to maintain an office and that it is necessary for the
protection of the interests of creditors of the foreign (other nation) credit
union’s business in this state or, in any case, for the protection of the
public interest that the commissioner immediately suspend or revoke the
license of the foreign (other nation) credit union, the commissioner may
issue an order suspending or revoking the license of the foreign (other
nation) credit union.
 4076                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 612 ]
   (b) (1) Within 30 days after an order is issued pursuant to subdivision
(a), the foreign (other nation) credit union to which the order is issued
may file with the commissioner an application for a hearing on the order.
If the commissioner fails to commence the hearing within 15 business
days after the application is filed with the commissioner (or within any
longer period to which the foreign (other nation) credit union consents),
the order shall be deemed rescinded. Within 30 days after the hearing,
the commissioner shall affirm, modify, or rescind the order; otherwise,
the order shall be deemed rescinded.
   (2) The right of any foreign (other nation) credit union to which an
order is issued under subdivision (a) to petition for judicial review of the
order shall not be affected by the failure of the foreign (other nation)
credit union to apply to the commissioner for a hearing on the order
pursuant to paragraph (1).
   16904. Any foreign (other nation) credit union whose license to
maintain an office is suspended or revoked shall immediately surrender
the license to the commissioner.
   16905. (a) Any foreign (other nation) credit union to which an order
is issued under Section 16902 and 16903 may apply to the commissioner
to modify or rescind the order. The commissioner shall not grant the
application unless the commissioner finds that it is in the public interest
to do so and that it is reasonable to believe that the foreign (other nation)
credit union will, if and when it is again authorized to maintain an office,
comply with all applicable provisions of this division and of any
regulation or order issued under this division.
   (b) The right of any foreign (other nation) credit union to which an
order is issued under Section 16902 or 16903 to petition for judicial
review of the order shall not be affected by the failure of the foreign
(other nation) credit union to apply to the commissioner pursuant to
subdivision (a) to modify or rescind the order.
   16906. (a) If the commissioner finds that any of the factors set forth
in Section 16902 is true with respect to any foreign (other nation) credit
union which is authorized to transact business in this state and that it is
necessary for the protection of the interests of the creditors of the
business of the foreign (other nation) credit union in this state or for the
protection of the public interest that he or she take immediate possession
of the property and business of the foreign (other nation) credit union,
the commissioner may by order forthwith take possession of the
property and business of the foreign (other nation) credit union and
retain possession until the foreign (other nation) credit union resumes
business in this state or is finally liquidated. The foreign (other nation)
credit union may, with the consent of the commissioner, resume business
in this state under the conditions as the commissioner may prescribe.
[Ch. 613 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4077

   (b) (1) Whenever the commissioner takes possession of the property
and business of a foreign (other nation) credit union pursuant to
subdivision (a), the foreign (other nation) credit union may, within 10
days, apply to the superior court in the county in which the primary office
in this state of the foreign (other nation) credit union is located to enjoin
further proceedings. The court may, after citing the commissioner to
show cause why further proceedings should not be enjoined and after a
hearing, dismiss the application or enjoin the commissioner from further
proceedings and order him or her to surrender the property and business
of the foreign (other nation) credit union to the foreign (other nation)
credit union or make any further order as may be just.
   (2) The judgment of the court may be appealed by the commissioner
or by the foreign (other nation) credit union in the manner provided by
law for appeals from the judgment of a superior court to the court of
appeal. In case the commissioner appeals the judgment of the court, the
appeal shall operate as a stay of the judgment, and the commissioner
shall not be required to post any bond.
   (c) Whenever the commissioner takes possession of the property and
business of a foreign (other nation) credit union pursuant to subdivision
(a), the commissioner shall conserve or liquidate the property and
business of the foreign (other nation) credit union in accordance with
Sections 14301 to 14304, inclusive.
   (d) When the commissioner has completed the liquidation of the
property and business of a foreign (other nation) credit union in this state,
the commissioner shall transfer any remaining assets to the foreign
(other nation) credit union in accordance with any order the court may
issue. However, in case the foreign (other nation) credit union has an
office in another state of the United States which is in liquidation and the
assets of that office appear to be insufficient to pay in full the creditors
of that office, the court shall order the commissioner to transfer to the
liquidator of that office the amount of any remaining assets as appears
to be necessary to cover the insufficiency. If there are two or more offices
and the amount of remaining assets is less than the aggregate amount of
insufficiencies with respect to those offices, the court shall order the
commissioner to distribute the remaining assets among the liquidators
of the offices in the manner as the court determines is equitable.



                             CHAPTER 613

   An act to amend Section 469 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation.
 4078                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 613 ]
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 469 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   469. In any case in which locally assessable trade fixtures and
business tangible personal property owned, claimed, possessed, or
controlled by a taxpayer engaged in a profession, trade, or business has
a full value of four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000) or more, the
assessor shall audit the books and records of that profession, trade, or
business at least once each four years. If the board determines the value
of property pursuant to Section 15640 of the Government Code, that
determination may be deemed an audit by the assessor for purposes of
this section.
   Upon completion of an audit of the taxpayer’s books and records, the
taxpayer shall be given the assessor’s findings in writing with respect to
data that would alter any previously enrolled assessment.
   Equalization of the property by a county board of equalization or
assessment appeals board pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 1601) of Part 3 of this division shall not preclude a subsequent
audit and shall not preclude the assessor from levying an escape
assessment in appropriate instances, but shall preclude an escape
assessment being levied on that portion of the assessment that was the
subject of the equalization hearing.
   If the result of an audit for any year discloses property subject to an
escape assessment, then the original assessment of all property of the
assessee at the location of the profession, trade, or business for that year
shall be subject to review, equalization and adjustment by the county
board of equalization or assessment appeals board pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 1601) of Part 3 of this division, except in
those instances when the property had previously been equalized for the
year in question.
   If the audit for any particular tax year discloses that the property of the
taxpayer was incorrectly valued or misclassified for any cause, to the
extent that this error caused the property to be assessed at a higher value
than the assessor would have entered on the roll had the incorrect
valuation or misclassification not occurred, then the assessor shall notify
the taxpayer of the amount of the excess valuation or misclassification,
and the fact that a claim for cancellation or refund may be filed with the
county as provided by Sections 4986 and 5096.
[Ch. 615 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4079

                             CHAPTER 614

   An act to add Section 12210 to the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 12210 is added to the Revenue and Taxation
Code, to read:
  12210. (a) A life insurer or life insurance agent shall inform his or
her client of the tax imposed under this part.
  (b) A life insurer or life insurance agent who quotes only one price
that includes the gross premiums tax is exempt from compliance with the
requirements of subdivision (a).



                             CHAPTER 615

  An act relating to tax relief, making an appropriation therefor, and
declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The appropriation and respective allocations made by
this act are in augmentation of the appropriation made in Item
9100-101-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000 (Chapter 52,
Statutes of 2000) and are subject to the provisions of that act, as
appropriate, including the provisions of that act that apply to that item
of appropriation.
   SEC. 2. The sum of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000) is hereby
appropriated in augmentation of the Item 9100-101-0001 of Section
2.00 of Chapter 52 of the Statutes of 2000 in accordance with the
following schedule:
   (a) The sum of thirteen million one hundred eighty-one thousand
dollars ($13,181,000) shall be used in augmentation of Schedule (a) of
Item 9100-101-0001 (10-Senior Citizens’ Property Tax Assistance).
   (b) The sum of forty-six million eight hundred nineteen thousand
dollars ($46,819,000) shall be used in augmentation of Schedule (c) of
Item 9100-101-0001 (30-Senior Citizen Renters’ Tax Assistance).
 4080                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 616 ]
  SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order that the fiscal augmentation in this act may take effect without
delay, it is necessary that this act go into immediate effect.



                            CHAPTER 616

  An act to amend Sections 7072 , 7073, and 7074 of, and to repeal
Section 7073.3 of, the Government Code, relating to economic
development.
            [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 7072 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
  7072. For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
  (a) ‘‘Agency’’ means the Trade and Commerce Agency.
  (b) ‘‘Date of original designation’’ means the earlier of the following:
  (1) The date the eligible area receives designation as an enterprise
zone by the agency pursuant to this chapter.
  (2) In the case of an enterprise zone deemed designated pursuant to
subdivision (e) of Section 7073, the date the enterprise zone or program
area received original designation by the agency pursuant to Chapter
12.8 (commencing with Section 7070) or Chapter 12.9 (commencing
with Section 7080), as those chapters read prior to January 1, 1997.
  (c) ‘‘Eligible area’’ means any of the following:
  (1) An area designated as an enterprise zone pursuant to Chapter 12.8
(commencing with Section 7070), as it read prior to January 1, 1997, or
as a targeted economic development area, neighborhood development
area, or program area pursuant to Chapter 12.9 (commencing with
Section 7080), as it read prior to January 1, 1997.
  (2) A geographic area that, based upon the determination of the
agency, fulfills at least one of the following:
  (A) The proposed geographic area meets the Urban Development
Action Grant criteria of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development.
[Ch. 616 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4081

   (B) The area within the proposed zone has experienced plant closures
within the past two years affecting more than 100 workers.
   (C) The city or county has submitted material to the agency for a
finding that the proposed geographic area meets criteria of economic
distress related to those used in determining eligibility under the Urban
Development Action Grant Program and is therefore an eligible area.
   (D) The area within the proposed zone has a history of gang-related
activity, whether or not crimes of violence have been committed.
   (3) A geographic area that meets at least two of the following criteria:
   (A) The census tracts within the proposed zone have an
unemployment rate not less than 3 percentage points above the statewide
average for the most recent calendar year as determined by the
Employment Development Department.
   (B) The county of the proposed zone has more than 70 percent of the
children enrolled in public school participating in the federal free lunch
program.
   (C) The median household income for a family of four within the
census tracts of the proposed zone does not exceed 80 percent of the
statewide median income for the most recently available calendar year.
   (d) ‘‘Enterprise zone’’ means any area within a city, county, or city
and county that is designated as such by the agency in accordance with
the provisions of Section 7073.
   (e) ‘‘Governing body’’ means a county board of supervisors or a city
council, as appropriate.
   (f) ‘‘High technology industries’’ include, but are not limited to, the
computer, biological engineering, electronics, and telecommunications
industries.
   (g) ‘‘Resident,’’ unless otherwise defined, means a person whose
principal place of residence is within a targeted employment area.
   (h) ‘‘Targeted employment area’’ means an area within a city, county,
or city and county that is composed solely of those census tracts
designated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development as having at least 51 percent of its residents of low- or
moderate-income levels, using either the most recent United States
Department of Census data available at the time of the original enterprise
zone application or the most recent census data available at the time the
targeted employment area is designated to determine that eligibility. The
purpose of a ‘‘targeted employment area’’ is to encourage businesses in
an enterprise zone to hire eligible residents of certain geographic areas
within a city, county, or city and county. A targeted employment area
may be, but is not required to be, the same as all or part of an enterprise
zone. A targeted employment area’s boundaries need not be contiguous.
A targeted employment area does not need to encompass each eligible
census tract within a city, county, or city and county. The governing body
 4082                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 616 ]
of each city, county or city and county that has jurisdiction of the
enterprise zone shall identify those census tracts whose residents are in
the most need of this employment targeting. Only those census tracts
within the jurisdiction of the city, county, or city and county that has
jurisdiction of the enterprise zone may be included in a targeted
employment area.
   At least a part of each eligible census tract within a targeted
employment area shall be within the territorial jurisdiction of the city,
county, or city and county that has jurisdiction for an enterprise zone. If
an eligible census tract encompasses the territorial jurisdiction of two or
more local governmental entities, all of those entities shall be a party to
the designation of a targeted employment area. However, any one or
more of those entities, by resolution or ordinance, may specify that it
shall not participate in the application as an applicant, but shall agree to
complete all actions stated within the application that apply to its
jurisdiction, if the area is designated.
   Each local governmental entity of each city, county, or city and county
that has jurisdiction of an enterprise zone shall approve, by resolution or
ordinance, the boundaries of its targeted employment area, regardless of
whether a census tract within the proposed targeted employment area is
outside the jurisdiction of the local governmental entity.
   SEC. 2. Section 7073 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   7073. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (e), any city, county, or
city and county with an eligible area within its jurisdiction may complete
a preliminary application for designation as an enterprise zone. The
applying entity shall establish definitive boundaries for the proposed
enterprise zone and the targeted employment area.
   (b) (1) In designating enterprise zones, the agency shall select from
the applications submitted those proposed enterprise zones that, upon a
comparison of all of the applications submitted, indicate that they
propose the most effective, innovative, and comprehensive regulatory,
tax, program, and other incentives in attracting private sector investment
in the zone proposed.
   (2) For purposes of this subdivision, regulatory incentives include,
but are not limited to, all of the following:
   (A) The suspension or relaxation of locally originated or modified
building codes, zoning laws, general development plans, or rent
controls.
   (B) The elimination or reduction of fees for applications, permits, and
local government services.
   (C) The establishment of a streamlined permit process.
   (3) For purposes of this subdivision, tax incentives include, but are
not limited to, the elimination or reduction of construction taxes or
business license taxes.
[Ch. 616 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4083

   (4) For the purposes of this subdivision, program and other incentives
may include, but are not limited to, all of the following:
   (A) The provision or expansion of infrastructure.
   (B) The targeting of federal block grant moneys, including small
cities, education, and health and welfare block grants.
   (C) The targeting of economic development grants and loan moneys,
including grant and loan moneys provided by the federal Urban
Development Action Grant program and the federal Economic
Development Administration.
   (D) The targeting of state and federal job disadvantaged and
vocational education grant moneys, including moneys provided by the
federal Job Training Partnership Act of 1982 (P.L. 97-300).
   (E) The targeting of federal or state transportation grant moneys.
   (F) The targeting of federal or state low-income housing and rental
assistance moneys.
   (G) The use of tax allocation bonds, special assessment bonds, bonds
under the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982 (Chapter 2.5
(commencing with Section 53311) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5),
industrial development bonds, revenue bonds, private activity bonds,
housing bonds, bonds issued pursuant to the Marks-Roos Local Bond
Pooling Act of 1985 (Article 4 (commencing with Section 6584) of
Chapter 5), certificates of participation, hospital bonds, redevelopment
bonds, school bonds, and all special provisions provided for under
federal tax law for enterprise community or empowerment zone bonds.
   (5) In the process of designating new enterprise zones, the agency
shall take into consideration the location of existing zones and make
every effort to locate new zones in a manner that will not adversely affect
any existing zones.
   (6) In designating new enterprise zones, the agency shall include in
its criteria the fact that jurisdictions have been declared disaster areas by
the President of the United States within the last seven years.
   (7) When reviewing and ranking new enterprise zone applications,
the agency shall give special consideration or bonus points, or both, to
applications from jurisdictions that meet at least two of the following
criteria:
   (A) The percentage of households within the census tracts of the
proposed enterprise zone area, the income of which is below the poverty
level, is at least 17.5 percent.
   (B) The average unemployment rate for the census tracts of the
proposed enterprise zone area was not less than five percentage points
above the statewide average for the most recent calendar year as
determined by the Employment Development Department.
   (C) The applicant jurisdiction has, and can document that it has, a
unique distress factor affecting long-term economic development,
 4084                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 616 ]
including, but not limited to, resource depletion, plant closure, industry
recession, natural disaster, or military base closure.
   (c) In evaluating applications for designation, the agency shall ensure
that applications are not disqualified solely because of technical
deficiencies, and shall provide applicants with an opportunity to correct
the deficiencies. Applications shall be disqualified if the deficiencies are
not corrected within two weeks.
   (d) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), or upon dedesignation
pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 7076.1 or Section 7076.2, a
designation made by the agency shall be binding for a period of 15 years
from the date of the original designation.
   (2) The designation period for any zone designated pursuant to either
Section 7073 or 7085 prior to 1990 may total 20 years, subject to
possible dedesignation pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 7076.1 or
Section 7076.2, if the following requirements are met:
   (A) The zone receives a superior or passing audit pursuant to
subdivision (c) of Section 7076.1.
   (B) The local jurisdictions comprising the zone submit an updated
economic development plan to the agency justifying the need for an
additional five years by defining goals and objectives that still need to
be achieved and indicating what actions are to be taken to achieve these
goals and objectives.
   (e) (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any area
designated as an enterprise zone pursuant to Chapter 12.8 (commencing
with Section 7070) as it read prior to January 1, 1997, or as a targeted
economic development area, neighborhood economic development
area, or program area pursuant to Chapter 12.9 (commencing with
Section 7080) as it read prior to January 1, 1997, or any program area or
part of a program area deemed designated as an enterprise zone pursuant
to Section 7085.5 as it read prior to January 1, 1997, shall be deemed to
be designated as an enterprise zone pursuant to this chapter. The effective
date of designation of the enterprise zone shall be that of the original
designation of the enterprise zone pursuant to Chapter 12.8
(commencing with Section 7070) as it read prior to January 1, 1997, or
of the program area pursuant to Chapter 12.9 (commencing with Section
7080) as it read prior to January 1, 1997, and in no event may the total
designation period exceed 15 years, except as provided in paragraph (2)
of subdivision (d).
   (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any enterprise zone
authorized, but not designated, pursuant to Chapter 12.8 (commencing
with Section 7070) as it read prior to January 1, 1997, shall be allowed
to complete the application process started pursuant to that chapter, and
to receive final designation as an enterprise zone pursuant to this chapter.
[Ch. 616 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4085

   (3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any expansion of a
designated enterprise zone or program area authorized pursuant to
Chapter 12.8 (commencing with Section 7070) as it read prior to January
1, 1997, or Chapter 12.9 (commencing with Section 7080) as it read prior
to January 1, 1997, shall be deemed to be authorized as an expansion for
a designated enterprise zone pursuant to this chapter.
   (4) No part of this chapter may be construed to require a new
application for designation by an enterprise zone designated pursuant to
Chapter 12.8 (commencing with Section 7070) as it read prior to January
1, 1997, or a targeted economic development area, neighborhood
economic development area, or program area designated pursuant to
Chapter 12.9 (commencing with Section 7080) as it read prior to January
1, 1997.
   (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a city, county, or a
city and county may designate a joint powers authority to administer the
enterprise zone.
   (g) No more than 39 enterprise zones may be designated at any one
time pursuant to this chapter, including those deemed designated
pursuant to subdivision (e). Upon the expiration or termination of a
designation, the agency is authorized to designate another enterprise
zone to maintain a total of 39 enterprise zones.
   SEC. 3. Section 7073.3 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 7074 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   7074. (a) In the case of any enterprise zone, including an enterprise
zone formerly designated as an enterprise zone pursuant to Chapter 12.8
(commencing with Section 7070) as it read prior to January 1, 1997, or
as a program area pursuant to Chapter 12.9 (commencing with Section
7080) as it read prior to January 1, 1997, a city or county, or city and
county may propose that the enterprise zone be expanded by 15 percent
to include definitive boundaries that are contiguous to the enterprise
zone.
   (b) The agency may approve an enterprise zone expansion proposed
pursuant to this section based on the following criteria:
   (1) Each of the adjacent jurisdictions’ governing bodies approves the
expansion by adoption of an ordinance or resolution.
   (2) Land included within the proposed expansion is zoned for
industrial or commercial use.
   (3) Basic infrastructure, including, but not limited to, gas, water,
electrical service, and sewer systems, is available to the area that would
be included in the expansion.
   (c) An enterprise zone may propose to use eligible expansion
allotment to expand into an adjacent jurisdiction pursuant to this section
if the agency finds that all of the following conditions exist:
 4086                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 617 ]
   (1) The governing body of the local agency with jurisdiction over the
existing enterprise zone and the governing body of the local agency with
jurisdiction over the proposed expansion area each approve the
expansion by adoption of an ordinance or resolution. The ordinance or
resolution by the jurisdiction containing the proposed expansion area
shall indicate that the jurisdiction will provide the same or equivalent
local incentives as provided by the jurisdiction of the existing enterprise
zone.
   (2) (A) Land included within the proposed expansion is zoned for
industrial or commercial use.
   (B) An expansion area may contain noncommercial or nonindustrial
land only if that land is a right-of-way and is needed to meet the
requirement for a contiguous expansion between an existing enterprise
zone and a proposed expansion area.
   (3) Basic infrastructure, including, but not limited to, gas, water,
electrical service, and sewer systems, is available to the area that would
be included in the expansion.
   (4) The expansion area is contiguous to the existing enterprise zone.
   (d) (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2), in no event
shall an enterprise zone be permitted to expand more than 15 percent in
size from its size on the date of original designation, including any
expansion authorized pursuant to Chapter 12.8 (commencing with
Section 7070), or Chapter 12.9 (commencing with Section 7080), as
those chapters read prior to January 1, 1997.
   (2) If an enterprise zone, on the date of original designation, is no
greater than 13 square miles, it may be permitted to expand up to 20
percent in size from its size on the date of original designation.



                            CHAPTER 617

   An act to amend Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation, to take effect immediately, tax levy.
            [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   6203. (a) Except as provided by Sections 6292 and 6293, every
retailer engaged in business in this state and making sales of tangible
personal property for storage, use, or other consumption in this state, not
[Ch. 617 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4087

exempted under Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 6271) or
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 6351), shall, at the time of making
the sales or, if the storage, use, or other consumption of the tangible
personal property is not then taxable hereunder, at the time the storage,
use, or other consumption becomes taxable, collect the tax from the
purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and
form prescribed by the board.
   (b) As respects leases constituting sales of tangible personal property,
the tax shall be collected from the lessee at the time amounts are paid by
the lessee under the lease.
   (c) ‘‘Retailer engaged in business in this state’’ as used in this section
and Section 6202 means and includes any of the following:
   (1) Any retailer maintaining, occupying, or using, permanently or
temporarily, directly or indirectly, or through a subsidiary, or agent, by
whatever name called, an office, place of distribution, sales or sample
room or place, warehouse or storage place, or other place of business.
   (2) Any retailer having any representative, agent, salesperson,
canvasser, independent contractor, or solicitor operating in this state
under the authority of the retailer or its subsidiary for the purpose of
selling, delivering, installing, assembling, or the taking of orders for any
tangible personal property.
   (3) As respects a lease, any retailer deriving rentals from a lease of
tangible personal property situated in this state.
   (4) (A) Any retailer soliciting orders for tangible personal property
by mail if the solicitations are substantial and recurring and if the retailer
benefits from any banking, financing, debt collection,
telecommunication, or marketing activities occurring in this state or
benefits from the location in this state of authorized installation,
servicing, or repair facilities.
   (B) This paragraph shall become operative upon the enactment of any
congressional act that authorizes states to compel the collection of state
sales and use taxes by out-of-state retailers.
   (5) Notwithstanding Section 7262, a retailer specified in paragraph
(4) above, and not specified in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) above, is a
‘‘retailer engaged in business in this state’’ for the purposes of this part
and Part 1.5 (commencing with Section 7200) only.
   (d) (1) For purposes of this section, ‘‘engaged in business in this
state’’ does not include the taking of orders from customers in this state
through a computer telecommunications network located in this state
which is not directly or indirectly owned by the retailer when the orders
result from the electronic display of products on that same network. The
exclusion provided by this subdivision shall apply only to a computer
telecommunications network that consists substantially of online
 4088                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 617 ]
communications services other than the displaying and taking of orders
for products.
   (2) This subdivision shall become inoperative upon the operative
date of provisions of a congressional act that authorize states to compel
the collection of state sales and use taxes by out-of-state retailers.
   (e) Except as provided in this subdivision, a retailer is not a ‘‘retailer
engaged in business in this state’’ under paragraph (2) of subdivision (c)
if that retailer’s sole physical presence in this state is to engage in
convention and trade show activities as described in Section
513(d)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, and if the retailer, including
any of his or her representatives, agents, salespersons, canvassers,
independent contractors, or solicitors, does not engage in those
convention and trade show activities for more than 15 days, in whole or
in part, in this state during any 12-month period and did not derive more
than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) of net income from those
activities in this state during the prior calendar year. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, a retailer engaging in convention and trade show
activities, as described in Section 513(d)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue
Code, is a ‘‘retailer engaged in business in this state,’’ and is liable for
collection of the applicable use tax, with respect to any sale of tangible
personal property occurring at the convention and trade show activities
and with respect to any sale of tangible personal property made pursuant
to an order taken at or during those convention and trade show activities.
   (f) Any limitations created by this section upon the definition of
‘‘retailer engaged in business in this state’’ shall only apply for purposes
of tax liability under this code. Nothing in this section is intended to
affect or limit, in any way, civil liability or jurisdiction under Section
410.10 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   6203. (a) Except as provided by Sections 6292 and 6293, every
retailer engaged in business in this state and making sales of tangible
personal property for storage, use, or other consumption in this state, not
exempted under Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 6271) or
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 6351), shall, at the time of making
the sales or, if the storage, use, or other consumption of the tangible
personal property is not then taxable hereunder, at the time the storage,
use, or other consumption becomes taxable, collect the tax from the
purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and
form prescribed by the board.
   (b) As respects leases constituting sales of tangible personal property,
the tax shall be collected from the lessee at the time amounts are paid by
the lessee under the lease.
[Ch. 617 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4089

   (c) ‘‘Retailer engaged in business in this state’’ as used in this section
and Section 6202 means and includes any of the following:
   (1) Any retailer maintaining, occupying, or using, permanently or
temporarily, directly or indirectly, or through a subsidiary, or agent, by
whatever name called, an office, place of distribution, sales or sample
room or place, warehouse or storage place, or other place of business.
   (2) Any retailer having any representative, agent, salesperson,
canvasser, independent contractor, or solicitor operating in this state
under the authority of the retailer or its subsidiary for the purpose of
selling, delivering, installing, assembling, or the taking of orders for any
tangible personal property.
   (3) As respects a lease, any retailer deriving rentals from a lease of
tangible personal property situated in this state.
   (4) (A) Any retailer soliciting orders for tangible personal property
by mail if the solicitations are substantial and recurring and if the retailer
benefits from any banking, financing, debt collection,
telecommunication, or marketing activities occurring in this state or
benefits from the location in this state of authorized installation,
servicing, or repair facilities.
   (B) This paragraph shall become operative upon the enactment of any
congressional act that authorizes states to compel the collection of state
sales and use taxes by out-of-state retailers.
   (5) Notwithstanding Section 7262, a retailer specified in paragraph
(4) above, and not specified in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) above, is a
‘‘retailer engaged in business in this state’’ for the purposes of this part
and Part 1.5 (commencing with Section 7200) only.
   (d) (1) For purposes of this section, ‘‘engaged in business in this
state’’ does not include the taking of orders from customers in this state
through a computer telecommunications network located in this state
which is not directly or indirectly owned by the retailer when the orders
result from the electronic display of products on that same network. The
exclusion provided by this subdivision shall apply only to a computer
telecommunications network that consists substantially of online
communications services other than the displaying and taking of orders
for products.
   (2) This subdivision shall become inoperative upon the operative
date of provisions of a congressional act that authorize states to compel
the collection of state sales and use taxes by out-of-state retailers.
   (e) Except as provided in this subdivision, a retailer is not a ‘‘retailer
engaged in business in this state’’ under paragraph (2) of subdivision (c)
if that retailer’s sole physical presence in this state is to engage in
convention and trade show activities as described in Section
513(d)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, and if the retailer, including
any of his or her representatives, agents, salespersons, canvassers,
 4090                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 617 ]
independent contractors, or solicitors, does not engage in those
convention and trade show activities for more than 15 days, in whole or
in part, in this state during any 12-month period and did not derive more
than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) of net income from those
activities in this state during the prior calendar year. Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, a retailer engaging in convention and trade show
activities, as described in Section 513(d)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue
Code, is a ‘‘retailer engaged in business in this state,’’ and is liable for
collection of the applicable use tax, with respect to any sale of tangible
personal property occurring at the convention and trade show activities
and with respect to any sale of tangible personal property made pursuant
to an order taken at or during those convention and trade show activities.
   (f) Any limitations created by this section upon the definition of
‘‘retailer engaged in business in the state’’ shall only apply for purposes
of tax liability under this code. Nothing in this section is intended to
affect or limit, in any way, civil liability or jurisdiction under Section
410.10 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (g) (1) The processing of orders electronically, by fax, telephone, the
Internet, or other electronic ordering process, does not relieve a retailer
of responsibility for collection of the tax from the purchaser if the retailer
is engaged in business in this state pursuant to this section.
   (2) For purposes of this section, a retailer is presumed to have an agent
within the state, as defined in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (c),
if both of the following conditions exist:
   (A) The retailer holds a substantial ownership interest, directly or
through a subsidiary, in a retailer maintaining sales locations in
California or is owned in whole or in substantial part by such a retailer,
or by a parent or subsidiary thereof. For purposes of this subparagraph,
‘‘substantial ownership interest’’ in an entity means that degree of
ownership of equity interests in an entity that is not less than that degree
of ownership specified by Section 78p of Title 15 of the United States
Code, or any successor to that statute, with respect to a person other than
a director or officer.
   (B) The retailer sells the same or substantially similar line of products
as the retailer maintaining sales locations in California under the same
or substantially similar business name, or facilities or employees of the
related retailer located in this state are used to advertise or promote sales
by the retailer to California purchasers.
   SEC. 2. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code proposed by both this bill and
AB 2412. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, but this bill becomes
operative first, (2) each bill amends Section 6203 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after AB 2412, in which case
[Ch. 618 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4091

Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as amended by Section
1 of this bill, shall remain operative only until the operative date of AB
2412, at which time Section 1.5 of this bill shall become operative.
   SEC. 3. Notwithstanding Section 2230 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, no appropriation is made by this act and the state shall not
reimburse any local agency for any sales and use tax revenues lost by it
under this act.
   SEC. 4. This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.
However, the provisions of this act shall become operative on the first
day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 90 days after the
effective date of this act.



                             CHAPTER 618

   An act to amend Section 65004 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 65004 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   65004. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), no city, county,
or city and county may impose, assess, or attempt to collect any of the
following:
   (1) A tax on Internet access, Online Computer Services, or the use of
Internet access or any Online Computer Services.
   (2) A bit tax or bandwidth tax.
   (3) Any discriminatory tax on Online Computer Services or Internet
access.
   (b) The prohibition in subdivision (a) against the imposition of taxes
shall not apply to any new or existing tax of general application,
including, but not limited to, any sales and use tax, business license tax,
or utility user tax that is imposed or assessed in a uniform and
nondiscriminatory manner without regard to whether the activities or
transactions taxed are conducted through the use of the Internet, Internet
access, or Online Computer Services.
   (c) A cable television franchise fee may not be imposed on Online
Computer Services or Internet access delivered over a cable television
system if the Federal Communications Commission, by issuing final
 4092                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 619 ]
order, or a court of competent jurisdiction, by rendering a judgment
enforceable in California, finds that those are not cable services as
defined in Section 522(6) of Title 47 of the United States Code and are,
therefore, not subject to a franchise fee. However, if that final order or
judgment is overturned or modified by further administrative,
legislative, or judicial action, that action shall control. The operation of
this subdivision may be suspended by contract between a cable
television franchising authority and a cable television operator.
   (d) This part shall become inoperative on January 1, 2005.
   SEC. 2. This bill shall become operative only if Assembly Bill 2412
is enacted and becomes effective on or before January 1, 2001.



                             CHAPTER 619

  An act to add and repeal Part 18.3 (commencing with Section 38061)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 23, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 24, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature find and declares all of the following:
   (a) With the rapid development of the Internet and electronic
commerce, policymakers at all levels of government are confronted with
the challenge of finding ways to encourage this new technology and its
impact on our economy continuing to develop prosperously, while
addressing the needs for tax equity and assurance that governments at all
levels have sufficient revenue to continue providing essential services
critical to our economy’s continuing growth.
   (b) The current national debate on Internet taxation has focused
almost entirely on the collection of sales tax on remote sales of tangible
products and has produced a myriad of proposals for immediate action
that have ranged from allowing states to collect sales taxes on all
transactions to imposing a permanent moratorium on any taxes on the
Internet.
   (c) The Advisory Commission on Electronic Commerce, created by
federal law in 1998 to develop ‘‘tax and technologically neutral’’
recommendations, thus far has failed to achieve a two-thirds majority
vote on a recommendation that it can send to Congress for a national
solution that would apply in all states. Furthermore, the commission’s
charter did not lead it to examine the critical interrelated policy issues
of tax equity and government sustenance.
[Ch. 619 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4093

   (d) A roundtable of tax and technology experts that convened recently
at the University of California Berkeley School of Information
Management and Systems cautioned that ‘‘critical decisions about
e-commerce taxation should not be made without further neutral and
unbiased research.’’ Its report specified several areas for detailed study
that relate, not only to sales tax issues, but to technology and consumer
behavior in the new economy, as well.
   (e) The Legislative Analyst, in a January 2000 report titled
‘‘California Tax Policy and the Internet,’’ recommended that the
Legislature undertake a comprehensive review of the sales and use tax,
as well as telecommunications taxes and the corporate income tax, in
relation to e-commerce activity and its impact on tax administration, tax
equity, and overall state revenue.
   (f) California’s current tax structure is largely based on a 20th century
industrial economy that produced most of its wealth from manufacturing
and agriculture. California’s 21st century technology-dependent
economy is already based largely on information and services, part of a
new global economy that is built on the rapid development of ideas and
the exchange of information using multiple communications media. It
is characterized by rapid restructuring of business-to-business and
business-to-customer relationships in the state and across the world and
a shift from production and consumption of tangible goods to use of
intangible goods and services.
   (g) Numerous reports, including the California Economic Strategy
Panel’s ‘‘Collaborating to Compete in the New Economy’’ have
identified the characteristics of our state’s economic transformation at
the end of the last century. That report concluded that the state’s
developing economy is one that is ‘‘fast, flexible, global, networked, and
knowledge-based.’’ There is a need to reevaluate our entire system of tax
policies and collection mechanisms in light of this new economy.
California should lead the way for all states in designing a 21st century
tax system.
   (h) State and local revenues are generally performing well, based on
the state’s strong economic performance. This situation provides an
opportunity to assure that the tax system performs as well as possible
during periods of weaker economic performance, and altogether to
assure that sufficient revenues are available for governments to continue
providing the services essential for an economy to expand and prosper,
by: (1) removing inconsistencies and inefficiencies, (2) addressing
equity and fairness concerns, (3) improving administration, and (4)
considering base-broadening measures.
   (i) Our tax policies must continue to be formulated in ways that
recognize the need for government to provide resources for investment
in the infrastructure necessary for economic growth, as well as to provide
 4094                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 619 ]
for the legitimate health, public assistance, and safety needs of our
citizens.
   (j) It is the purpose of this act to create an open, public, fair, and
balanced participatory process for the development of a long-term
strategy for revising state and local tax structure for California that
eliminates needless complexity and nurtures and expands the state’s
global leadership in key emerging industries and for businesses that are
repositioning to take advantage of the new economy. That policy must
balance tax restructuring with the generation of sufficient resources to
continuously improve California’s educational system, its physical and
information infrastructure, its quality of life, and promote shared
prosperity.
   SEC. 2. Part 18.3 (commencing with Section 38061) is added to
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, to read:

PART 18.3.     CALIFORNIA COMMISSION ON TAX POLICY IN
                    THE NEW ECONOMY

  38061. This part is known and may be cited as the ‘‘California
Commission on Tax Policy in the New Economy.’’
  38062. The California Commission on Tax Policy in the New
Economy is hereby created.
  38063. The commission shall be comprised as follows:
  (a) Nine voting members of the commission, of which three members
shall be public members representing business, three members shall be
public members representing local government, and three members shall
be at-large members who may represent various segments of the public,
including, but not limited to, academia, organized labor, and public
interest groups.
  (1) The Governor shall appoint five members, taking into
consideration the importance of bipartisan representation of public
members. The Governor shall designate one of the public members as
Chair of the Commission.
  (2) The Senate Rules Committee shall appoint two members,
including one upon recommendation of the minority party.
  (3) The Speaker of the Assembly shall appoint two members,
including one upon recommendation of the minority party.
  (b) Ex officio nonvoting members shall include all of the following:
  (1) The Executive Officer of the Franchise Tax Board, or a designee.
  (2) The Chair of the State Board of Equalization, or a designee.
  (3) The Director of Employment Development, or a designee.
  (4) The Chair of the California Public Utilities Commission, or a
designee.
  (5) The Director of Finance, or a designee.
[Ch. 619 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4095

   (6) The Controller, or a designee.
   (7) A public member of the California Economic Strategy Panel to be
appointed by the Secretary of Trade and Commerce.
   (8) The Chair of the Senate Committee on Revenue and Taxation, or
a designee.
   (9) The Chair of the Assembly Committee on Revenue and Taxation,
or a designee.
   38064. The commission may form additional technical assistance
workgroups, including experts from government, academia, and the
private sector, and interested public stakeholders, as necessary to
complete its work.
   38065. The commission shall do all of the following:
   (a) Identify all the key stakeholders in the new economy and invite
them into the commission’s process.
   (b) Develop a comprehensive agenda of goals and a roadmap of all
critical issues that ought to be addressed in achieving a workable,
flexible, and balanced long-term solution.
   (c) Undertake the process of conducting public hearings and in the
correct phases address each of these critical issues and seek to arrive at
a comprehensive conclusion with respect to the smartest public policy
taxation of the Internet.
   (d) Examine and describe all aspects of the current and future
California economy, with special attention to the influence of new
technologies, including, but not limited to, the use of the Internet in
electronic commerce.
   (e) Assess the impact of those predictions about the economy on the
sources and size of projected public revenues, with special attention to
the needs of local government.
   (f) Study and make recommendations regarding specific elements of
the California system of state and local taxes, including, but not limited
to, the following:
   (1) With respect to the sales and use tax, the commission shall do all
of the following:
   (A) Examine the impact that economic transitions have had on the
sales and use tax.
   (B) Determine whether uneven treatment with respect to the method
of sales, the type of commodity, and the location of the buyer and the
seller may occur and the extent to which they may have led to
tax-generated distortions in economic decisionmaking and
disadvantages for certain businesses and economic sectors.
   (C) Examine the extent to which the allocation and distribution of
sales and use taxes impact local decisionmaking on land use and whether
alternative methods may be more appropriate.
 4096                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 620 ]
   (2) With respect to telecommunications taxes, the commission shall
examine the status of the current telecommunications tax system,
including state telecommunications surcharges, utility user charges, and
franchise fees, in light of changes in the competitive and technological
features of the industry. This examination should focus on the
complexity, consistency, and efficiency of the system.
   (3) With respect to income taxes, the commission shall do both of the
following:
   (A) Examine recent trends in the collection of bank and corporation
taxes and the impact that a transitioning economy has had on those
trends.
   (B) Examine the relationship between the bank and corporation tax
and the personal income tax and whether trends in the new economy will
have an impact on that relationship.
   (4) With respect to property taxes, the commission shall do both of
the following:
   (A) Investigate the revenue repercussions for local government in
assessment of real property, assuming changes in the trends of real
property versus personal property utilization.
   (B) Examine the effects of electronic commerce activity on
land-based enterprises in the new economy and evaluate the impact on
local economic development approaches and consider what new tools
could be used.
   38066. The commission shall submit an interim report to the
Governor and the Legislature not later than 12 months from the date of
the commission’s first public meeting and a final report with
recommendations not later than 24 months from the date of the
commission’s first public meeting.
   38067. This part shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2004,
and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is
enacted before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends that date.



                            CHAPTER 620

  An act to add Section 141 to the Penal Code, relating to peace officers.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1.      Section 141 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
[Ch. 621 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4097

   141. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), any person who
knowingly, willfully, and intentionally alters, modifies, plants, places,
manufactures, conceals, or moves any physical matter, with specific
intent that the action will result in a person being charged with a crime
or with the specific intent that the physical matter will be wrongfully
produced as genuine or true upon any trial, proceeding, or inquiry
whatever, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (b) Any peace officer who knowingly, willfully, and intentionally
alters, modifies, plants, places, manufactures, conceals, or moves any
physical matter, with specific intent that the action will result in a person
being charged with a crime or with the specific intent that the physical
matter will be wrongfully produced as genuine or true upon any trial,
proceeding, or inquiry whatever, is guilty of a felony punishable by two,
three, or five years in the state prison.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall preclude prosecution under both this
section and any other provision of law.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 621

  An act to amend Section 272 of the Penal Code, relating to minors.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 272 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
  272. (a) (1) Every person who commits any act or omits the
performance of any duty, which act or omission causes or tends to cause
or encourage any person under the age of 18 years to come within the
provisions of Section 300, 601, or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code or which act or omission contributes thereto, or any person who,
by any act or omission, or by threats, commands, or persuasion, induces
or endeavors to induce any person under the age of 18 years or any ward
or dependent child of the juvenile court to fail or refuse to conform to a
 4098                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 621 ]
lawful order of the juvenile court, or to do or to perform any act or to
follow any course of conduct or to so live as would cause or manifestly
tend to cause any such person to become or to remain a person within the
provisions of Section 300, 601, or 602 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500), or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one
year, or by both such fine and imprisonment in a county jail, or may be
released on probation for a period not exceeding five years.
   (2) For purposes of this subdivision, a parent or legal guardian to any
person under the age of 18 years shall have the duty to exercise
reasonable care, supervision, protection, and control over their minor
child.
   (b) (1) An adult stranger who is 21 years of age or older, who
knowingly contacts or communicates with a minor who is 12 years of
age or younger, who knew or reasonably should have known that the
minor is 12 years of age or younger, for the purpose of persuading and
luring, or transporting, or attempting to persuade and lure, or transport,
that minor away from the minor’s home or from any location known by
the minor’s parent, legal guardian, or custodian, to be a place where the
minor is located, for any purpose, without the express consent of the
minor’s parent or legal guardian, and with the intent to avoid the consent
of the minor’s parent or legal guardian, is guilty of an infraction or a
misdemeanor.
   (2) This subdivision shall not apply in an emergency situation.
   (3) As used in this subdivision, the following terms are defined to
mean:
   (A) ‘‘Emergency situation’’ means a situation where the minor is
threatened with imminent bodily harm, emotional harm, or
psychological harm.
   (B) ‘‘Contact’’ or ‘‘communication’’ includes, but is not limited to,
the use of a telephone or the Internet, as defined in Section 17538 of the
Business and Professions Code.
   (C) ‘‘Stranger’’ means a person of casual acquaintance with whom no
substantial relationship exists, or an individual with whom a relationship
has been established or promoted for the primary purpose of
victimization, as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 6600 of the
Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (D) ‘‘Express consent’’ means oral or written permission that is
positive, direct, and unequivocal, requiring no inference or implication
to supply its meaning.
   (5) This section shall not be interpreted to criminalize acts of persons
contacting minors within the scope and course of their employment, or
status as a volunteer of a recognized civic or charitable organization.
[Ch. 623 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4099

  (6) This section is intended to protect minors and to help parents and
legal guardians exercise reasonable care, supervision, protection, and
control over minor children.
  SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 622

  An act to add Section 52.3 to the Civil Code, relating to civil rights.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 52.3 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
  52.3. (a) No governmental authority, or agent of a governmental
authority, or person acting on behalf of a governmental authority, shall
engage in a pattern or practice of conduct by law enforcement officers
that deprives any person of rights, privileges, or immunities secured or
protected by the Constitution or laws of the United States or by the
Constitution or laws of California.
  (b) The Attorney General may bring a civil action in the name of the
people to obtain appropriate equitable and declaratory relief to eliminate
the pattern or practice of conduct specified in subdivision (a), whenever
the Attorney General has reasonable cause to believe that a violation of
subdivision (a) has occurred.



                             CHAPTER 623

  An act to add Section 11105.75 to the Penal Code, relating to criminal
background information.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]
 4100                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 624 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 11105.75 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   11105.75. (a) (1) If, in the course of performing a criminal history
background investigation for an agency or entity statutorily authorized
to receive a criminal history, the Department of Justice determines that
it appears that the applicant has criminal history record information that
the requesting agency is statutorily authorized to receive, but the identity
of the applicant cannot be verified with fingerprints, the department shall
provide a copy of the criminal history record to the requesting agency
or entity but shall note any entries as to which the identity of the subject
has not been fingerprint verified.
   (2) The department shall compare all available identifying
characteristics of the applicant with those that appear in the criminal
history information before responding to the requesting agency or entity
with conviction disposition information that has not been fingerprint
verified.
   (b) If an agency or entity denies a license, certificate, or employment
based upon information received from the department that is not
fingerprint verified, the agency or entity shall notify the applicant of its
decision and that he or she may challenge the identification. In that case,
the applicant may appeal the decision of the agency or entity on the
grounds that the applicant is not the person so identified.
   (c) Neither the department nor any of its employees or any requesting
agency or entity shall be liable to any applicant for misidentifications
made pursuant to this section.
   SEC. 2. This act shall become operative on July 1, 2002.
   SEC. 3. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 624

  An act to add and repeal Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section
13855) of Title 6 of Part 4 to the Penal Code, relating to firearms.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]
[Ch. 624 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4101

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section 13855) is
added to Title 6 of Part 4 of the Penal Code, to read:

 CHAPTER 6.5.     STUDY OF SECTIONS 12021 AND 12021.1 VIOLATIONS
                         AND ENFORCEMENT

   13855. (a) The Department of Justice shall study and report to the
Legislature by January 1, 2002, statewide information identifiable by
county, about the enforcement of Sections 12021 and 12021.1,
including, but not limited to the following, for the period of at least three
years prior to January 1, 2001:
   (1) The number of arrests for violations of Section 12021 or 12021.1,
identified by the number of arrests that were solely for a violation of
Section 12021 or 12021.1, and the number of arrests for violations of
Section 12021 or 12021.1 and other violations of law.
   (2) The number of prosecutions and convictions that were for
violations of Section 12021 or 12021.1, identified by the number of
prosecutions and convictions that were solely for a violation of Section
12021 or 12021.1, and the number of prosecutions and convictions for
violations of Section 12021 or 12021.1 and other violations of law.
   (3) The number of persons identified pursuant to paragraphs (1) and
(2) who had previous convictions for serious or violent felonies, and the
number sentenced pursuant to Sections 1170.12, 12022.5, 12022.53, or
subdivisions (b) to (i), inclusive, of Section 667.
   (4) The number and lengths, identified as lower, middle, and upper
term, of sentences imposed where the sentence imposed for a violation
of Section 12021 or 12021.1 was the principal term of imprisonment,
and the number of convictions where the sentence imposed for a
violation of Section 12021 or 12021.1 was a subordinate term of
imprisonment.
   (5) The number of persons who were granted probation or suspension
of the imposition of sentence for a violation of Section 12021 or
12021.1.
   (6) The length of time between the arrest for a violation of Section
12021 or 12021.1 and the previous felony conviction that resulted in the
offender being subject to Section 12021 or 12021.1.
   (b) This chapter shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
 4102                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 625 ]
                             CHAPTER 625

   An act to repeal and add Section 2914 of the Business and Professions
Code, and to add Sections 94729.3 and 94814.5 to the Education Code,
relating to psychology.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2914 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 2. Section 2914 is added to the Business and Professions
Code, to read:
   2914. Each applicant for licensure shall comply with all of the
following requirements:
   (a) Is not subject to denial of licensure under Division 1.5.
   (b) Possess an earned doctorate degree (1) in psychology, (2) in
education psychology, or (3) in education with the field of specialization
in counseling psychology or educational psychology. Except as
provided in subdivision (g), this degree or training shall be obtained
from an accredited university, college, or professional school.
   No educational institution shall be denied recognition as an accredited
academic institution solely because its program is not accredited by any
professional organization of psychologists, and nothing in this chapter
or in the administration of this chapter shall require the registration with
the board by educational institutions of their departments of psychology
or their doctoral programs in psychology.
  (c) Have engaged for at least two years in supervised professional
experience under the direction of a licensed psychologist, the specific
requirements of which shall be defined by the board in its regulations,
or under suitable alternative supervision as determined by the board in
regulations duly adopted under this chapter, at least one year of which
shall be after being awarded the doctorate in psychology. If the
supervising licensed psychologist fails to provide verification to the
board of the experience required by this subdivision within 30 days after
being so requested by the applicant, the applicant may provide written
verification directly to the board.
  If the applicant sends verification directly to the board, the applicant
shall file with the board a declaration of proof of service, under penalty
of perjury, of the request for verification. A copy of the completed
verification forms shall be provided to the supervising psychologist and
the applicant shall prove to the board that a copy has been sent to the
supervising psychologist by filing a declaration of proof of service under
[Ch. 625 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4103

penalty of perjury, and shall file this declaration with the board when the
verification forms are submitted.
   Upon receipt by the board of the applicant’s verification and
declarations, a rebuttable presumption affecting the burden of producing
evidence is created that the supervised, professional experience
requirements of this subdivision have been satisfied. The supervising
psychologist shall have 20 days from the day the board receives the
verification and declaration to file a rebuttal with the board.
   The authority provided by this subdivision for an applicant to file
written verification directly shall apply only to an applicant who has
acquired the experience required by this subdivision in the United States.
   The board shall establish qualifications by regulation for supervising
psychologists and shall review and approve applicants for this position
on a case-by-case basis.
   (d) Take and pass the examination required by Section 2941 unless
otherwise exempted by the board under this chapter.
   (e) Show by evidence satisfactory to the board that he or she has
completed training in the detection and treatment of alcohol and other
chemical substance dependency. This requirement applies only to
applicants who matriculate on or after September 1, 1985.
   (f) Show by evidence satisfactory to the board that he or she has
completed coursework, in spousal or partner abuse assessment,
detection, and intervention. Coursework required under this subdivision
may be satisfactory if taken either in fulfillment of other educational
requirements for licensure or in a separate course. This requirement
applies to applicants who begin graduate training on or after January 1,
1995. This requirement for coursework in spousal or partner abuse
detection and treatment shall be satisfied by, and the board shall accept
in satisfaction of the requirement, a certification from the chief academic
officer of the educational institution from which the applicant graduated
that the required coursework is included within the institution’s required
curriculum for graduation.
   (g) An applicant holding a doctoral degree in psychology from an
approved institution is deemed to meet the requirements of this section
if all of the following are true:
   (1) The approved institution offered a doctoral degree in psychology
designed to prepare students for a license to practice psychology and was
approved by the Bureau for Private Postsecondary and Vocational
Education on or before July 1, 1999.
   (2) The approved institution has not, since July 1, 1999, had a new
location, as described in Section 94721 of the Education Code.
   (3) The approved institution is not a franchise institution, as defined
in Section 94729.3 of the Education Code.
   SEC. 3. Section 94729.3 is added to the Education Code, to read:
 4104                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 625 ]
   94729.3. ‘‘Franchise institution’’ means a newly established
location of an existing approved institution offering postsecondary
education services leading to candidacy for psychology licensure that
bears the same name as the existing approved institution and about
which either of the following is true:
   (a) The newly established location is owned or financially controlled
by an individual or individuals other than those who own or financially
control the existing approved institution.
   (b) The newly established institution is administered by an individual
or individuals other than those persons who administer the existing
approved institution.
   SEC. 4. Section 94814.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   94814.5. (a) Each institution subject to this article, and offering a
doctoral degree in psychology designed to prepare students for a license
to practice psychology in California, shall provide to each prospective
student in professional psychology a California Unaccredited Graduate
Psychology School Disclosure Form that discloses all of the following
information:
   (1) The number of graduates of the institution who have taken, and
the number of graduates of the institution who have passed, the
psychology written licensing examination administered by the
California Board of Psychology during the immediately preceding four
years.
   (2) The number of graduates of the institution who have taken, and
the number of graduates of the institution who have passed, the
psychology oral licensing examination administered by the California
Board of Psychology during the immediately preceding four years.
   (3) The number of graduates of the institution who have become
licensed psychologists in the State of California during the immediately
preceding four years.
   (4) The practice limitations imposed on graduates of the institution
who hold doctoral degrees in psychology. This paragraph shall be in
14-point boldface type, and shall read as follows:
   ‘‘Prospective students should be aware that as a graduate of an
unaccredited school of psychology you may face restrictions that could
include difficulty in obtaining licensing in a state outside of California
and difficulty in obtaining a teaching job or appointment at an accredited
college or university. It may also be difficult to work as a psychologist
for some federal government or other public agencies, or to be appointed
to the medical staff of a hospital. Some major managed care
organizations, insurance companies, or preferred provider organizations
may not reimburse individuals whose degrees are from unaccredited
schools. Graduates of unaccredited schools may also face limitations in
their abilities to be listed in the ‘National Register of Health Service
[Ch. 626 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4105

Providers’ or to hold memberships in other major organizations of
psychologists.’’
   (b) Annually, each institution shall provide to the bureau a copy of the
disclosure form signed by each student who has enrolled in any course
during the year that may be used in the graduate education leading to a
doctoral degree in psychology that qualifies the graduate as a candidate
for the psychology licensure examination.
   (c) If an institution fails to satisfy any of the requirements of this
section, the bureau may revoke the institution’s approval to operate or
to offer the psychology degree that leads to licensure as a psychologist,
or may impose either an administrative penalty or a civil penalty not to
exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per noted violation.



                             CHAPTER 626

   An act to amend Sections 12512, 12520, and 12544 of the
Government Code, and to amend Section 13023 of the Penal Code,
relating to the Attorney General.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12512 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   12512. The Attorney General shall attend the Supreme Court and
prosecute or defend all causes to which the State, or any State officer is
a party in his or her official capacity.
   SEC. 2. Section 12520 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   12520. (a) The Attorney General may not employ special counsel
in any case except pursuant to either of the following:
   (1) Article 3 (commencing with Section 12540).
   (2) Article 4 (commencing with Section 12550).
   (b) Subdivision (a) does not affect the right of the Attorney General
to employ counsel to represent, or to assist in the representation of, a
state agency as defined in Section 11000, including the Attorney General
or the Department of Justice, or to represent a state employee if that
representation meets any of the standards set forth in paragraph (3), (5),
(7), (8), (9), or (10) of subdivision (b) of Section 19130.
   SEC. 3. Section 12544 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   12544. If an escheat proceeding is prosecuted by the staff of the
Attorney General’s office, the Attorney General shall recover, by
 4106                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 627 ]
presenting a claim to the Controller, all costs and charges of
commencing and prosecuting the suit, from the funds so escheated.
Those claims shall be paid from the Abandoned Property Account in the
Unclaimed Property Fund and credited to and in augmentation of any
support appropriation of the Attorney General. The costs and charges
may not in any case exceed 10 per cent of the sum or sums actually
escheated to the State in those suits.
   SEC. 4. Section 13023 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   13023. Commencing July 1, 1990, subject to the availability of
adequate funding, the Attorney General shall direct local law
enforcement agencies to report to the Department of Justice, in a manner
to be prescribed by the Attorney General, any information that may be
required relative to any criminal acts or attempted criminal acts to cause
physical injury, emotional suffering, or property damage where there is
a reasonable cause to believe that the crime was motivated, in whole or
in part, by the victim’s race, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual
orientation, national origin, or physical or mental disability. On or before
July 1, 1992, and every July 1 thereafter, the Department of Justice shall
submit a report to the Legislature analyzing the results of the information
obtained from local law enforcement agencies pursuant to this section.
   SEC. 5. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 627

  An act to amend Section 4501.1 of, and to add Section 243.9 to, the
Penal Code, and to add Section 1768.85 to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, relating to prisoners.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 243.9 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
  243.9. (a) Every person confined in any local detention facility who
commits a battery by gassing upon the person of any peace officer, as
[Ch. 627 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4107

defined in Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of Part
2, or employee of the local detention facility is guilty of aggravated
battery and shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail or by
imprisonment in the state prison for two, three, or four years.
   (b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘gassing’’ means intentionally
placing or throwing, or causing to be placed or thrown, upon the person
of another, any human excrement or other bodily fluids or bodily
substances or any mixture containing human excrement or other bodily
fluids or bodily substances that results in actual contact with the person’s
skin or membranes.
   (c) The person in charge of the local detention facility shall use every
available means to immediately investigate all reported or suspected
violations of subdivision (a), including, but not limited to, the use of
forensically acceptable means of preserving and testing the suspected
gassing substance to confirm the presence of human excrement or other
bodily fluids or bodily substances. If there is probable cause to believe
that the inmate has violated subdivision (a), the chief medical officer of
the local detention facility, or his or her designee, may, when he or she
deems it medically necessary to protect the health of an officer or
employee who may have been subject to a violation of this section, order
the inmate to receive an examination or test for hepatitis or tuberculosis
or both hepatitis and tuberculosis on either a voluntary or involuntary
basis immediately after the event, and periodically thereafter as
determined to be necessary by the medical officer in order to ensure that
further hepatitis or tuberculosis transmission does not occur. These
decisions shall be consistent with an occupational exposure as defined
by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. The results of any
examination or test shall be provided to the officer or employee who has
been subject to a reported or suspected violation of this section. Nothing
in this subdivision shall be construed to otherwise supersede the
operation of Title 8 (commencing with Section 7500). Any person
performing tests, transmitting test results, or disclosing information
pursuant to this section shall be immune from civil liability for any
action taken in accordance with this section.
   (d) The person in charge of the local detention facility shall refer all
reports for which there is probable cause to believe that the inmate has
violated subdivision (a) to the local district attorney for prosecution.
   (e) Nothing in this section shall preclude prosecution under both this
section and any other provision of law.
   SEC. 2. Section 4501.1 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   4501.1. (a) Every person confined in the state prison who commits
a battery by gassing upon the person of any peace officer, as defined in
Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of Part 2, or
employee of the state prison is guilty of aggravated battery and shall be
 4108                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 627 ]
punished by imprisonment in a county jail or by imprisonment in the
state prison for two, three, or four years. Every state prison inmate
convicted of a felony under this section shall serve his or her term of
imprisonment as prescribed in Section 4501.5.
   (b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘gassing’’ means intentionally
placing or throwing, or causing to be placed or thrown, upon the person
of another, any human excrement or other bodily fluids or bodily
substances or any mixture containing human excrement or other bodily
fluids or bodily substances that results in actual contact with the person’s
skin or membranes.
   (c) The warden or other person in charge of the state prison shall use
every available means to immediately investigate all reported or
suspected violations of subdivision (a), including, but not limited to, the
use of forensically acceptable means of preserving and testing the
suspected gassing substance to confirm the presence of human
excrement or other bodily fluids or bodily substances. If there is
probable cause to believe that the inmate has violated subdivision (a), the
chief medical officer of the state prison or his or her designee, may, when
he or she deems it medically necessary to protect the health of an officer
or employee who may have been subject to a violation of this section,
order the inmate to receive an examination or test for hepatitis or
tuberculosis or both hepatitis and tuberculosis on either a voluntary or
involuntary basis immediately after the event, and periodically
thereafter as determined to be necessary by the medical officer in order
to ensure that further hepatitis or tuberculosis transmission does not
occur. These decisions shall be consistent with an occupational exposure
as defined by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. The results
of any examination or test shall be provided to the officer or employee
who has been subject to a reported or suspected violation of this section.
Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to otherwise supersede the
operation of Title 8 (commencing with Section 7500). Any person
performing tests, transmitting test results, or disclosing information
pursuant to this section shall be immune from civil liability for any
action taken in accordance with this section.
   (d) The warden or other person in charge of the state prison shall refer
all reports for which there is probable cause to believe that the inmate has
violated subdivision (a) to the local district attorney for prosecution.
   (e) The Department of Corrections shall report to the Legislature, by
January 1, 2000, its findings and recommendations on gassing incidents
at the state prison and the medical testing authorized by this section. The
report shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following:
   (1) The total number of gassing incidents at each state prison facility
up to the date of the report.
[Ch. 627 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4109

   (2) The disposition of each gassing incident, including the
administrative penalties imposed, the number of incidents that are
prosecuted, and the results of those prosecutions, including any penalties
imposed.
   (3) A profile of the inmates who commit the aggravated batteries,
including the number of inmates who have one or more prior serious or
violent felony convictions.
   (4) Efforts that the department has taken to limit these incidents,
including staff training and the use of protective clothing and goggles.
   (5) The results and costs of the medical testing authorized by this
section.
   (f) Nothing in this section shall preclude prosecution under both this
section and any other provision of law.
   SEC. 3. Section 1768.85 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
   1768.85. (a) Every person confined under the jurisdiction of the
Department of the Youth Authority who commits a battery by gassing
upon the person of any peace officer, as defined in Chapter 4.5
(commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of Part 2, or employee of the
institution is guilty of aggravated battery and shall be punished by
imprisonment in a county jail or by imprisonment in the state prison for
two, three, or four years.
   (b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘gassing’’ means intentionally
placing or throwing, or causing to be placed or thrown, upon the person
of another, any human excrement or other bodily fluids or bodily
substances or any mixture containing human excrement or other bodily
fluids or bodily substances that results in actual contact with the person’s
skin or membranes.
   (c) The person in charge of the institution under the jurisdiction of the
Department of the Youth Authority shall use every available means to
immediately investigate all reported or suspected violations of
subdivision (a), including, but not limited to, the use of forensically
acceptable means of preserving and testing the suspected gassing
substance to confirm the presence of human excrement or other bodily
fluids or bodily substances. If there is probable cause to believe that a
ward has violated subdivision (a), the chief medical officer of the
institution under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Youth
Authority, or his or her designee, may, when he or she deems it medically
necessary to protect the health of an officer or employee who may have
been subject to a violation of this section, order the ward to receive an
examination or test for hepatitis or tuberculosis or both hepatitis and
tuberculosis on either a voluntary or involuntary basis immediately after
the event, and periodically thereafter as determined to be necessary by
the medical officer in order to ensure that further hepatitis or tuberculosis
 4110                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 627 ]
transmission does not occur. These decisions shall be consistent with an
occupational exposure as defined by the Center for Disease Control and
Prevention. The results of any examination or test shall be provided to
the officer or employee who has been subject to a reported or suspected
violation of this section. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed
to otherwise supersede the operation of Title 8 (commencing with
Section 7500). Any person performing tests, transmitting test results, or
disclosing information pursuant to this section shall be immune from
civil liability for any action taken in accordance with this section.
   (d) The person in charge of the institution under the jurisdiction of the
Department of the Youth Authority shall refer all reports for which there
is probable cause to believe that the inmate has violated subdivision (a)
to the local district attorney for prosecution.
   (e) The Department of the Youth Authority shall report to the
Legislature, by January 1, 2003, its findings and recommendations on
gassing incidents at the department’s facilities and the medical testing
authorized by this section. The report shall include, but not be limited
to, all of the following:
   (1) The total number of gassing incidents at each youth correctional
facility up to the date of the report.
   (2) The disposition of each gassing incident, including the
administrative penalties imposed, the number of incidents that are
prosecuted, and the results of those prosecutions, including any penalties
imposed.
   (3) A profile of the wards who commit the batteries by gassing,
including the number of wards who have one or more prior serious or
violent felony convictions.
   (4) Efforts that the department has taken to limit these incidents,
including staff training and the use of protective clothing and goggles.
   (5) The results and costs of the medical testing authorized by this
section.
   (f) Nothing in this section shall preclude prosecution under both this
section and any other provision of law.
   SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
[Ch. 628 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4111

                             CHAPTER 628

  An act to amend Section 502.01 of the Penal Code, relating to crimes.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 502.01 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   502.01. (a) As used in this section:
   (1) ‘‘Property subject to forfeiture’’ means any property of the
defendant that is illegal telecommunications equipment as defined in
subdivision (g) of Section 502.8, or a computer, computer system, or
computer network, and any software or data residing thereon, if the
telecommunications device, computer, computer system, or computer
network was used in committing a violation of, or conspiracy to commit
a violation of, Section 422, 470, 470a, 472, 475, 476, 480, 483.5, 484g,
or subdivision (a), (b), or (d) of Section 484e, subdivision (a) of Section
484f, subdivision (b) or (c) of Section 484i, subdivision (c) of Section
502, or Section 502.7, 502.8, 529, 529a, or 530.5, 537e, 593d, 593e, or
646.9, or was used as a repository for the storage of software or data
obtained in violation of those provisions. Forfeiture shall not be
available for any property used solely in the commission of an infraction.
If the defendant is a minor, it also includes property of the parent or
guardian of the defendant.
   (2) ‘‘Sentencing court’’ means the court sentencing a person found
guilty of violating or conspiring to commit a violation of Section 422,
470, 470a, 472, 475, 476, 480, 483.5, 484g, or subdivision (a), (b), or
(d) of Section 484e, subdivision (d) of Section 484e, subdivision (a) of
Section 484f, subdivision (b) or (c) of Section 484i, subdivision (c) of
Section 502, or Section 502.7, 502.8, 529, 529a, 530.5, 537e, 593d,
593e, or 646.9, or, in the case of a minor, found to be a person described
in Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code because of a
violation of those provisions, the juvenile court.
   (3) ‘‘Interest’’ means any property interest in the property subject to
forfeiture.
   (4) ‘‘Security interest’’ means an interest that is a lien, mortgage,
security interest, or interest under a conditional sales contract.
   (5) ‘‘Value’’ has the following meanings:
   (A) When counterfeit items of computer software are manufactured
or possessed for sale, the ‘‘value’’ of those items shall be equivalent to
the retail price or fair market price of the true items that are counterfeited.
   (B) When counterfeited but unassembled components of computer
software packages are recovered, including, but not limited to,
 4112                      STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 628 ]
counterfeited computer diskettes, instruction manuals, or licensing
envelopes, the ‘‘value’’ of those components of computer software
packages shall be equivalent to the retail price or fair market price of the
number of completed computer software packages that could have been
made from those components.
   (b) The sentencing court shall, upon petition by the prosecuting
attorney, at any time following sentencing, or by agreement of all parties,
at the time of sentencing, conduct a hearing to determine whether any
property or property interest is subject to forfeiture under this section.
At the forfeiture hearing, the prosecuting attorney shall have the burden
of establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the property or
property interests are subject to forfeiture. The prosecuting attorney may
retain seized property that may be subject to forfeiture until the
sentencing hearing.
   (c) Prior to the commencement of a forfeiture proceeding, the law
enforcement agency seizing the property subject to forfeiture shall make
an investigation as to any person other than the defendant who may have
an interest in it. At least 30 days before the hearing to determine whether
the property should be forfeited, the prosecuting agency shall send
notice of the hearing to any person who may have an interest in the
property that arose before the seizure.
   A person claiming an interest in the property shall file a motion for the
redemption of that interest at least 10 days before the hearing on
forfeiture, and shall send a copy of the motion to the prosecuting agency
and to the probation department.
   If a motion to redeem an interest has been filed, the sentencing court
shall hold a hearing to identify all persons who possess valid interests
in the property. No person shall hold a valid interest in the property if,
by a preponderance of the evidence, the prosecuting agency shows that
the person knew or should have known that the property was being used
in violation of, or conspiracy to commit a violation of, Section 311.1,
311.2, 311.3, 311.4, 311.5, 311.10, 311.11, 470, 470a, 472, 475, 476,
480, 483.5, 484g, or subdivision (a), (b), or (d) of Section 484e,
subdivision (a) of Section 484f, subdivision (b) or (c) of Section 484i,
subdivision (c) of Section 502, or Section 502.7, 502.8, 529, 529a,
530.5, 537e, 593d, 593e, or 646.9, and that the person did not take
reasonable steps to prevent that use, or if the interest is a security interest,
the person knew or should have known at the time that the security
interest was created that the property would be used for a violation.
   (d) If the sentencing court finds that a person holds a valid interest in
the property, the following provisions shall apply:
   (1) The court shall determine the value of the property.
   (2) The court shall determine the value of each valid interest in the
property.
[Ch. 628 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4113

   (3) If the value of the property is greater than the value of the interest,
the holder of the interest shall be entitled to ownership of the property
upon paying the court the difference between the value of the property
and the value of the valid interest.
   If the holder of the interest declines to pay the amount determined
under paragraph (2), the court may order the property sold and designate
the prosecutor or any other agency to sell the property. The designated
agency shall be entitled to seize the property and the holder of the interest
shall forward any documentation underlying the interest, including any
ownership certificates for that property, to the designated agency. The
designated agency shall sell the property and pay the owner of the
interest the proceeds, up to the value of that interest.
   (4) If the value of the property is less than the value of the interest, the
designated agency shall sell the property and pay the owner of the
interest the proceeds, up to the value of that interest.
   (e) If the defendant was a minor at the time of the offense, this
subdivision shall apply to property subject to forfeiture that is the
property of the parent or guardian of the minor.
   (1) The prosecuting agency shall notify the parent or guardian of the
forfeiture hearing at least 30 days before the date set for the hearing.
   (2) The computer or telecommunications device shall not be subject
to forfeiture if the parent or guardian files a signed statement with the
court at least 10 days before the date set for the hearing that the minor
shall not have access to any computer or telecommunications device
owned by the parent or guardian for two years after the date on which the
minor is sentenced.
   (3) If the minor is convicted of a violation of Section 470, 470a, 472,
476, 480, or subdivision (b) of Section 484e, subdivision (d) of Section
484e, subdivision (a) of Section 484f, subdivision (b) of Section 484i,
subdivision (c) of Section 502, or Section 502.7, 502.8, 529, 529a, or
530.5, within two years after the date on which the minor is sentenced,
and the violation involves a computer or telecommunications device
owned by the parent or guardian, the original property subject to
forfeiture, and the property involved in the new offense, shall be subject
to forfeiture notwithstanding paragraph (2).
   (4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), (2), or (3), or any other provision
of this chapter, if a minor’s parent or guardian makes full restitution to
the victim of a crime enumerated in this chapter in an amount or manner
determined by the court, the forfeiture provisions of this chapter do not
apply to the property of that parent or guardian if the property was
located in the family’s primary residence during the commission of the
crime.
   (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the court may
exercise its discretion to deny forfeiture where the court finds that the
 4114                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 628 ]
convicted defendant, or minor adjudicated to come within the
jurisdiction of the juvenile court, is not likely to use the property
otherwise subject to forfeiture for future illegal acts.
   (g) If the defendant is found to have the only valid interest in the
property subject to forfeiture, it shall be distributed as follows:
   (1) First, to the victim, if the victim elects to take the property as full
or partial restitution for injury, victim expenditures, or compensatory
damages, as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (e) of Section 502.
If the victim elects to receive the property under this paragraph, the value
of the property shall be determined by the court and that amount shall
be credited against the restitution owed by the defendant. The victim
shall not be penalized for electing not to accept the forfeited property in
lieu of full or partial restitution.
   (2) Second, at the discretion of the court, to one or more of the
following agencies or entities:
   (A) The prosecuting agency.
   (B) The public entity of which the prosecuting agency is a part.
   (C) The public entity whose officers or employees conducted the
investigation resulting in forfeiture.
   (D) Other state and local public entities, including school districts.
   (E) Nonprofit charitable organizations.
   (h) If the property is to be sold, the court may designate the
prosecuting agency or any other agency to sell the property at auction.
The proceeds of the sale shall be distributed by the court as follows:
   (1) To the bona fide or innocent purchaser or encumbrancer,
conditional sales vendor, or mortgagee of the property up to the amount
of his or her interest in the property, if the court orders a distribution to
that person.
   (2) The balance, if any, to be retained by the court, subject to the
provisions for distribution under subdivision (g).
   SEC. 1.5. Section 502.01 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   502.01. (a) As used in this section:
   (1) ‘‘Property subject to forfeiture’’ means any property of the
defendant that is illegal telecommunications equipment as defined in
subdivision (g) of Section 502.8, or a computer, computer system, or
computer network, and any software or data residing thereon, if the
telecommunications device, computer, computer system, or computer
network was used in committing a violation of, or a conspiracy to
commit a violation of, Section 422, 470, 470a, 472, 475, 476, 480,
483.5, 484g, or subdivision (a), (b), or (d) of Section 484e, subdivision
(a) of Section 484f, subdivision (b) or (c) of Section 484i, subdivision
(c) of Section 502, or Section 502.7, 502.8, 529, 529a, or 530.5, 537e,
593d, 593e, or 646.9, or was used as a repository for the storage of
software or data obtained in violation of those provisions. Forfeiture
[Ch. 628 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4115

shall not be available for any property used solely in the commission of
an infraction. If the defendant is a minor, it also includes property of the
parent or guardian of the defendant.
   (2) ‘‘Sentencing court’’ means the court sentencing a person found
guilty of violating or conspiring to commit a violation of Section 422,
470, 470a, 472, 475, 476, 480, 483.5, 484g, or subdivision (a), (b), or
(d) of Section 484e, subdivision (d) of Section 484e, subdivision (a) of
Section 484f, subdivision (b) or (c) of Section 484i, subdivision (c) of
Section 502, or Section 502.7, 502.8, 529, 529a, 530.5, 537e, 593d,
593e, or 646.9, or, in the case of a minor, found to be a person described
in Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code because of a
violation of those provisions, the juvenile court.
   (3) ‘‘Interest’’ means any property interest in the property subject to
forfeiture.
   (4) ‘‘Security interest’’ means an interest that is a lien, mortgage,
security interest, or interest under a conditional sales contract.
   (5) ‘‘Value’’ has the following meanings:
   (A) When counterfeit items of computer software are manufactured
or possessed for sale, the ‘‘value’’ of those items shall be equivalent to
the retail price or fair market price of the true items that are counterfeited.
   (B) When counterfeited but unassembled components of computer
software packages are recovered, including, but not limited to,
counterfeited computer diskettes, instruction manuals, or licensing
envelopes, the ‘‘value’’ of those components of computer software
packages shall be equivalent to the retail price or fair market price of the
number of completed computer software packages that could have been
made from those components.
   (b) The sentencing court shall, upon petition by the prosecuting
attorney, at any time following sentencing, or by agreement of all parties,
at the time of sentencing, conduct a hearing to determine whether any
property or property interest is subject to forfeiture under this section.
At the forfeiture hearing, the prosecuting attorney shall have the burden
of establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the property or
property interests are subject to forfeiture. The prosecuting attorney may
retain seized property that may be subject to forfeiture until the
sentencing hearing.
   (c) (1) Prior to the commencement of a forfeiture proceeding, the law
enforcement agency seizing the property subject to forfeiture shall make
an investigation as to any person other than the defendant who may have
an interest in it. At least 30 days before the hearing to determine whether
the property should be forfeited, the prosecuting agency shall send
notice of the hearing to any person who may have an interest in the
property that arose before the seizure.
 4116                      STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 628 ]
  (2) A person claiming an interest in the property shall file a motion
for the redemption of that interest at least 10 days before the hearing on
forfeiture, and shall send a copy of the motion to the prosecuting agency
and to the probation department.
  (3) If a motion to redeem an interest has been filed, the sentencing
court shall hold a hearing to identify all persons who possess valid
interests in the property. No person shall hold a valid interest in the
property if, by a preponderance of the evidence, the prosecuting agency
shows that the person knew or should have known that the property was
being used in violation of, or conspiracy to commit a violation of,
Section 311.1, 311.2, 311.3, 311.4, 311.5, 311.10, 311.11, 470, 470a,
472, 475, 476, 480, 483.5, 484g, or subdivision (a), (b), or (d) of Section
484e, subdivision (a) of Section 484f, subdivision (b) or (c) of Section
484i, subdivision (c) of Section 502, or Section 502.7, 502.8, 529, 529a,
530.5, 537e, 593d, 593e, or 646.9, and that the person did not take
reasonable steps to prevent that use, or if the interest is a security interest,
the person knew or should have known at the time that the security
interest was created that the property would be used for a violation.
   (d) If the sentencing court finds that a person holds a valid interest in
the property, the following provisions shall apply:
   (1) The court shall determine the value of the property.
   (2) The court shall determine the value of each valid interest in the
property.
   (3) If the value of the property is greater than the value of the interest,
the holder of the interest shall be entitled to ownership of the property
upon paying the court the difference between the value of the property
and the value of the valid interest.
   If the holder of the interest declines to pay the amount determined
under paragraph (2), the court may order the property sold and designate
the prosecutor or any other agency to sell the property. The designated
agency shall be entitled to seize the property and the holder of the interest
shall forward any documentation underlying the interest, including any
ownership certificates for that property, to the designated agency. The
designated agency shall sell the property and pay the owner of the
interest the proceeds, up to the value of that interest.
   (4) If the value of the property is less than the value of the interest, the
designated agency shall sell the property and pay the owner of the
interest the proceeds, up to the value of that interest.
   (e) If the defendant was a minor at the time of the offense, this
subdivision shall apply to property subject to forfeiture that is the
property of the parent or guardian of the minor.
   (1) The prosecuting agency shall notify the parent or guardian of the
forfeiture hearing at least 30 days before the date set for the hearing.
[Ch. 628 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4117

   (2) The computer or telecommunications device shall not be subject
to forfeiture if the parent or guardian files a signed statement with the
court at least 10 days before the date set for the hearing that the minor
shall not have access to any computer or telecommunications device
owned by the parent or guardian for two years after the date on which the
minor is sentenced.
   (3) If the minor is convicted in an adult prosecution or is adjudicated
to be a person to come within the jurisdiction of the juvenile court for
the commission of a violation of, or a conspiracy to commit a violation
of, a section specified in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a), within two
years after the date on which the minor was subject to the disposition of
the juvenile court, and the violation involves a computer or
telecommunications device owned by the parent or guardian, the
original property subject to forfeiture, and the property involved in the
new offense, shall be subject to forfeiture notwithstanding paragraph (2).
   (4) Notwithstanding paragraph (3), if the minor is convicted in an
adult prosecution or is adjudicated to be a person to come within the
jurisdiction of the juvenile court for the commission of a violation of, or
a conspiracy to commit a violation of, this section or a section specified
in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a), within two years after the date on
which the minor was subject to the disposition of the juvenile court for
an offense under this section, the property involved in the prior offense
shall not be subject to forfeiture if the parent made restitution to the
victim of the first offense and the second offense was not committed with
a telecommunications device or computer located in the parent’s primary
residence.
   (5) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), (2), or (3), or any other provision
of this chapter, if a minor’s parent or guardian makes full restitution to
the victim of a crime enumerated in this chapter in an amount or manner
determined by the court, the forfeiture provisions of this chapter do not
apply to the property of that parent or guardian if the property was
located in the family’s primary residence during the commission of the
crime.
   (f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the court may
exercise its discretion to deny forfeiture where the court finds that the
convicted defendant, or minor adjudicated to come within the
jurisdiction of the juvenile court, is not likely to use the property
otherwise subject to forfeiture for future illegal acts.
   (g) If the defendant is found to have the only valid interest in the
property subject to forfeiture, it shall be distributed as follows:
   (1) First, to the victim, if the victim elects to take the property as full
or partial restitution for injury, victim expenditures, or compensatory
damages, as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (e) of Section 502.
If the victim elects to receive the property under this paragraph, the value
 4118                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 628 ]
of the property shall be determined by the court and that amount shall
be credited against the restitution owed by the defendant. The victim
shall not be penalized for electing not to accept the forfeited property in
lieu of full or partial restitution.
   (2) Second, at the discretion of the court, to one or more of the
following agencies or entities:
   (A) The prosecuting agency.
   (B) The public entity of which the prosecuting agency is a part.
   (C) The public entity whose officers or employees conducted the
investigation resulting in forfeiture.
   (D) Other state and local public entities, including school districts.
   (E) Nonprofit charitable organizations.
   (h) If the property is to be sold, the court may designate the
prosecuting agency or any other agency to sell the property at auction.
The proceeds of the sale shall be distributed by the court as follows:
   (1) To the bona fide or innocent purchaser or encumbrancer,
conditional sales vendor, or mortgagee of the property up to the amount
of his or her interest in the property, if the court orders a distribution to
that person.
   (2) The balance, if any, to be retained by the court, subject to the
provisions for distribution under subdivision (g).
   (i) (1) A claimant of seized property alleged in the complaint of
forfeiture may move the court for immediate release of the property. The
motion shall be in writing and shall be served upon the agency that seized
the property. The court shall grant the motion after making all of the
following findings:
   (A) The claimant has a valid possessory interest in the property.
   (B) Continued possession by the government will cause substantial
hardship to the claimant.
   (C) The hardship to the claimant outweighs the risk that the property
will be destroyed, damaged, lost, concealed, or transferred if it is
returned to the claimant during the pendency of the forfeiture
proceedings.
   (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to property that is owned by a person
charged with the underlying criminal offense for which the property is
subject to forfeiture.
   (j) (1) A law enforcement agency shall be liable for the real damages
caused by the destruction, injury, or loss of goods, merchandise, or other
property, while in the possession of a law enforcement officer employed
by that agency, if that property was seized for the purpose of forfeiture
under this section.
   (2) A law enforcement agency shall not be liable under paragraph (1)
to a person who is convicted of the underlying criminal offense for which
the property was subject to forfeiture under this section.
[Ch. 629 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4119

  SEC. 2. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
502.01 of the Penal Code proposed by both this bill and SB 2106. It shall
only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective
on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section 502.01 of the
Penal Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 2106, in which case
Section 1 of this bill shall not become operative.



                             CHAPTER 629

  An act to amend Sections 26720.9, 26721, 26721.1, 26722, 26725,
26726, 26728, 26730, 26731, 26734, 26736, 26738, 26742, 26743,
26746, 26746.1, and 26750 of, and to add Section 26721.2 to, the
Government Code, relating to sheriff’s fees.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 26720.9 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   26720.9. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the amounts
set forth in Sections 26721, 26721.1, 26725, 26728, 26734, 26742, and
26743 shall be increased to thirty dollars ($30) on January 1, 2001.
   SEC. 2. Section 26721 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   26721. Except as provided in this article, the fee for serving or
executing any process or notice required by law or the litigants to be
served shall be the amount described in Section 26720.9, and there shall
be no additional fee for substitute service when substitute service is
authorized.
   However, no fee shall be charged for serving an emergency protective
order, protective order, or restraining order issued pursuant to Division
10 of the Family Code (the Domestic Violence Prevention Act) on a
respondent who is in custody.
   In any case where property has been levied upon and, pursuant to the
levy, a copy of the writ of execution and a notice of levy are required by
statute to be served either personally or by mail upon the judgment
debtor or other person, no fee shall be charged for that service.
   SEC. 3. Section 26721.1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   26721.1. In an action for unlawful detainer, the fee for service of a
summons, complaint, and prejudgment claim of right to possession
pursuant to Section 415.46 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall be the
 4120                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 629 ]
amount described in Section 26720.9 for all occupants not named in the
summons. The fee is not refundable.
   SEC. 3.5. Section 26721.2 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   26721.2. For any action commenced in the superior court, the fee for
the service of the summons, the complaint for which the summons is
issued, and all other documents or notices required to be served with the
summons and complaint, is twenty-eight dollars ($28).
   SEC. 4. Section 26722 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   26722. The fee for serving, executing, or processing any writ or
order where the levying officer is required to take immediate possession
of the property levied upon is eighty-five dollars ($85).
   SEC. 5. Section 26725 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   26725. The fee for serving, executing, or processing a writ of
attachment, writ of execution, writ of sale, or order on real estate, as to
the initial service or posting of a continuous unbroken parcel or tract, and
the fee for serving a record owner other than the defendant shall be the
amount described in Section 26720.9.
   SEC. 6. Section 26726 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   26726. (a) The fee for keeping and caring for property under a writ
of attachment, execution, possession, or sale shall be one hundred ten
dollars ($110) when necessarily employed for any eight-hour period or
any part thereof. If an additional keeper or keepers are required during
these periods, the fee for the additional keeper or keepers shall be the
same as fixed, but, in no event shall any one keeper receive more than
one hundred eighty-five dollars ($185) during any 24-hour period when
so employed.
   (b) In addition to the fees provided by Section 26721, the fee for
maintaining custody of property under levy by the use of a keeper is
thirty dollars ($30) for each day custody is maintained after the first day.
   (c) Notwithstanding any other fee charged, a keeper shall receive
thirty dollars ($30) when, pursuant to Section 26738, a levying officer
prepares a not-found return.
   SEC. 7. Section 26728 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   26728. The fee for preparing and posting the initial notice of
personal property sale under a writ of attachment, execution, or sale or
order of court shall be the amount described in Section 26720.9.
   SEC. 8. Section 26730 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   26730. The fee for conducting or postponing the sale of real or
personal property as required by law or the litigant is eighty-five dollars
($85).
   SEC. 9. Section 26731 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   26731. Five dollars ($5) of any fee collected by the sheriff’s civil
division or marshal under Sections 26721, 26722, 26725, 26726, 26728,
[Ch. 629 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4121

26730, 26733.5, 26734, 26736, 26738, 26742, 26743, 26744, and 26750
of the Government Code shall be deposited in a special fund in the
county treasury. A separate accounting of funds deposited shall be
maintained for each depositor, and funds deposited shall be for the
exclusive use of the sheriff’s civil division or marshal.
   Ninety-five percent of the moneys in the special fund shall be
expended to supplement the costs of the depositor for the
implementation, maintenance, and purchase of auxiliary equipment and
furnishings for automated systems or other nonautomated operational
equipment and furnishings deemed necessary by the sheriff’s civil
division or marshal. Five percent of the moneys in the special fund shall
be used to supplement the expenses of the sheriff’s civil division or
marshal in administering the funds.
   SEC. 10. Section 26734 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   26734. The fee for making a levy on personal property already in
possession of the officer who is holding it under attachment in the same
action shall be the amount described in Section 26720.9.
   SEC. 11. Section 26736 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   26736. The fee for cancellation of the service or execution of any
process or notice prior to its completion shall be twenty-eight dollars
($28). The fee provided by this section shall not be charged where a
charge is made pursuant to any other section of this article in attempting
to serve or execute the process or notice.
   SEC. 12. Section 26738 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   26738. The fee for making a not found return on a summons,
affidavit and order, order for appearance, subpoena, writ of attachment,
writ of execution, writ of possession, order for delivery of personal
property, or other process or notice required to be served, certifying that
the person or property cannot be found at the address specified shall be
twenty-eight dollars ($28).
   SEC. 13. Section 26742 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   26742. The fee for executing and delivering any other instrument
shall be the amount described in Section 26720.9.
   SEC. 14. Section 26743 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   26743. The fee for subpoenaing a witness, including a copy of the
subpoena and any affidavit required to be served therewith, shall be the
amount described in Section 26720.9.
   SEC. 15. Section 26746 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
 4122                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 629 ]
   26746. In addition to any other fees required by law, a processing fee
of eight dollars ($8) shall be assessed for each disbursement of money
collected under a writ of attachment, execution, possession, or sale, but
excluding any action by the district attorney’s office for the
establishment or enforcement of a child support obligation. The fee shall
be collected from the judgment debtor in addition to, and in the same
manner as, the moneys collected under the writ. All proceeds of this fee
shall be deposited in a special fund in the county treasury. A separate
accounting of funds deposited shall be maintained for each depositor,
and funds deposited shall be for the exclusive use of the depositor.
   Seventy percent of the moneys in the special fund shall be expended
to supplement the county’s cost for vehicle fleet replacement and
equipment for the sheriff and the marshal. Thirty percent of the moneys
in the special fund shall be expended to supplement the county’s cost of
vehicle and equipment maintenance for the sheriff and the marshal, and
for the county’s expenses in administering the funds.
   No fee shall be charged where the only disbursement is the return of
the judgment creditor’s deposit for costs.
   SEC. 16. Section 26746.1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   26746.1. A fifteen dollar ($15) fee shall be assessed by the sheriff
or marshal for certification of correction on each citation that requires
inspection for proof of correction of any violation pursuant to Section
40616 of the Vehicle Code.
   All proceeds of the fee shall be deposited in a special fund in the
county treasury. A separate accounting of funds deposited shall be
maintained for each depositor, and funds deposited shall be for the
exclusive use of the sheriff’s civil division or marshal.
   Ninety-five percent of the moneys in the special fund shall be
expended to supplement the costs of the depositor for the
implementation, maintenance, and purchase of auxiliary equipment and
furnishings for automated systems or other nonautomated operational
equipment and furnishings deemed necessary by the sheriff’s civil
division or marshal. Five percent of the moneys in the special fund shall
be used to supplement the expenses of the sheriff’s civil division or
marshal in administering the funds.
   SEC. 17. Section 26750 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   26750. (a) The fee for serving an earnings withholding order under
the Wage Garnishment Law, Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
706.010) of Division 2 of Title 9 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
including but not limited to the costs of postage or traveling, and for
performing all other duties of the levying officer under that law with
respect to the levy shall be twenty-five dollars ($25).
[Ch. 631 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4123

  (b) Except as provided in Section 26746, no additional fees, costs, or
expenses may be charged by the levying officer for performing the duties
under the Wage Garnishment Law, Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
706.010) of Division 2 of Title 9 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure.



                             CHAPTER 630

  An act to amend Section 4904 of the Penal Code, and to add Section
17157 to the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to indemnification.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 4904 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   4904. If the evidence shows that the crime with which the claimant
was charged was either not committed at all, or, if committed, was not
committed by the claimant, and that the claimant did not, by any act or
omission either intentionally or negligently, contribute to the bringing
about of his or her arrest or conviction, and that the claimant has
sustained pecuniary injury through his or her erroneous conviction and
imprisonment, the State Board of Control shall report the facts of the
case and its conclusions to the next Legislature of this state, with a
recommendation that an appropriation be made by the Legislature for the
purpose of indemnifying the claimant for the pecuniary injury; but the
amount of the appropriation recommended shall be a sum equivalent to
one hundred dollars ($100) per day of incarceration served subsequent
to the claimant’s conviction and that appropriation shall not be treated
as gross income to the recipient under the provisions of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.
   SEC. 2. Section 17157 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code,
to read:
   17157. Gross income shall not include any amount received in any
taxable year by a claimant pursuant to Section 4904 of the Penal Code.



                             CHAPTER 631

  An act to add Section 530.7 to the Penal Code, relating to identity
theft.
 4124                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 632 ]
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 530.7 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
  530.7. (a) In order for a victim of identity theft to be included in the
data base established pursuant to subdivision (c), he or she shall submit
to the Department of Justice a court order obtained pursuant to any
provision of law a full set of fingerprints, and any other information
prescribed by the department.
  (b) Upon receiving information pursuant to subdivision (a), the
Department of Justice shall verify the identity of the victim against any
drivers license or other identification record maintained by the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
  (c) The Department of Justice shall establish and maintain a data base
of individuals who have been victims of identity theft. The department
shall provide a victim of identity theft or his or her authorized
representative access to the data base in order to establish that the
individual has been a victim of identity theft. Access to the data base
shall be limited to criminal justice agencies, victims of identity theft, and
individuals and agencies authorized by the victims.
  (d) The Department of Justice shall establish and maintain a toll free
number to provide access to information under subdivision (c).
  (e) This section shall be operative September 1, 2001.



                             CHAPTER 632

   An act to amend Section 99314 of, and to add Sections 99314.1
99314.2, and 99314.3 to, the Public Utilities Code, relating to
transportation.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 99314 of the Public Utilities Code is amended
to read:
   99314. (a) From funds made available pursuant to subdivision (b)
of Section 99312, an amount shall be allocated by the Controller to each
transportation planning agency and county transportation commission,
and the San Diego Metropolitan Transit Development Board. The
[Ch. 632 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4125

allocation shall include an amount corresponding to each of the member
agencies of the Altamont Commuter Express Authority and the Southern
California Regional Rail Authority. The amount of funds allocated shall
be based on the ratio of the total revenue of all the operators and the
member agencies of the Altamont Commuter Express Authority and the
Southern California Regional Rail Authority in the area under their
respective jurisdictions during the prior fiscal year to the total revenue
of all the operators in the state and the member agencies of the Altamont
Commuter Express Authority and the member agencies of the Southern
California Regional Rail Authority during the prior fiscal year.
   (b) For purposes of this section and Section 99314.3, ‘‘revenue’’
means fare revenues and any other funds used by the operator for its
transit operation, and the revenue that is derived from operating as a
member of the authority pursuant to Section 99314.1, except federal and
state funds which may only be used for transportation purposes and
funds allocated pursuant to Section 99233. The revenue amount for each
operator shall be determined from the annual report submitted to the
Legislature by the Controller pursuant to Section 99243.5. The revenue
amount for each member agency of the Altamont Commuter Express
Authority and the Southern California Regional Rail Authority shall be
determined by the revenues reported to the Controller by the respective
authorities in accordance to subdivision (b) of Section 99314.1 and
subdivision (b) of Section 99314.2, respectively.
   SEC. 2. Section 99314.1 is added to the Public Utilities Code, to
read:
   99314.1. (a) For purposes of this section, the following terms have
the following meanings:
   (1) The ‘‘Altamont Commuter Express Authority’’ or the
‘‘authority’’ is the joint powers agency duly formed pursuant to Article
1 (commencing with Section 6500) of Chapter 5 of Division 7 of Title
1 of the Government Code, by and between the Alameda Congestion
Management Agency, the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority,
and the San Joaquin Regional Rail Commission.
   (2) ‘‘Revenue’’ means revenue, as defined in subdivision (b) of
Section 99314, that is derived from operating as a member agency of the
authority.
   (b) The Altamont Commuter Express Authority shall report to the
Controller, for each fiscal year, the ratio that the revenue of each member
agency of the authority during the prior fiscal year bears to the total
revenue of the authority during that fiscal year.
   (c) (1) From funds made available pursuant to subdivision (b) of
Section 99312, the Controller shall allocate to each member agency of
the authority an amount that is based on the ratio provided under
subdivision (b).
 4126                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 632 ]
   (2) The allocation set forth in paragraph (1) shall be in addition to any
other allocation provided under this article.
   (3) Allocations made under this section shall be used only for
purposes authorized under this chapter.
   SEC. 3. Section 99314.2 is added to the Public Utilities Code, to
read:
   99314.2. (a) For purposes of this section, the following terms have
the following meanings:
   (1) The ‘‘Southern California Regional Rail Authority’’ or the
‘‘authority’’ is that joint powers authority described in Section 14072 of
the Government Code and includes any additional agencies that may
join the authority under Section 14072.2 of that code.
   (2) ‘‘Revenue’’ means revenue, as defined in subdivision (b) of
Section 99314, that is derived from operating as a member agency of the
authority.
   (b) The Southern California Regional Rail Authority shall report to
the Controller, on an annual basis, the ratio that the revenue of each
member agency of the authority during the prior fiscal year bears to the
total revenue of the authority during that fiscal year.
   (c) (1) From funds made available pursuant to subdivision (b) of
Section 99312, the Controller shall allocate to each member agency of
the authority an amount that is based on the ratio provided under
subdivision (b).
   (2) The allocation set forth in paragraph (1) shall be in addition to any
other allocation provided under this article.
   (3) Allocations made under this section shall be used only for
purposes authorized under this chapter.
   SEC. 4. Section 99314.3 of the Public Utilities Code is amended to
read:
   99314.3. (a) The amount received by each transportation planning
agency and county transportation commission, and the San Diego
Metropolitan Transit Development Board, pursuant to Section 99314
shall be allocated to the operators in the area of its jurisdiction.
   (b) The amount of funds allocated by the Controller corresponding to
each of the member agencies of the Altamont Commuter Express
Authority and the member agencies of the Southern California Regional
Rail Authority, pursuant to Section 99314, shall be allocated by the
transportation planning agency having jurisdiction over the member
agency’s area, for purposes authorized in this chapter. The allocation
shall be based on the ratio of the revenues of each of the member agencies
and of all the operators during the prior fiscal year within the area of
jurisdiction of the allocating agency, commission, or board as the case
may be.
[Ch. 633 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4127

   (c) The amount allocated to each operator pursuant to this section
shall be based on the ratio of its revenue of all the operations and the
member agencies of the Altamont Commuter Express Authority and the
member agencies of the Southern California Rail Authority during the
prior fiscal year to the total revenue of all the operators during the prior
fiscal year within the area of jurisdiction of the allocating agency,
commission, or board, as the case may be.
   (d) For purposes of subdivision (a), the City and County of San
Francisco with respect to its municipal railway system, the
Alameda-Contra Costa Transit District, and the San Francisco Bay Area
Rapid Transit District shall be considered one operator. The amount
allocated to them as one operator shall be apportioned to each of them
based on the ratio of its revenue to the sum of their revenues, excluding
from the determination of that ratio the amount allocated to each of them
pursuant to Section 29142.2.
   SEC. 5. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district are
the result of a program for which legislative authority was requested by
that local agency or school district, within the meaning of Section 17556
of the Government Code and Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California
Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 633

  An act to add Section 832.25 to the Penal Code, relating to peace
officers.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 832.25 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   832.25. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all welfare
fraud investigators or inspectors who are appointed as peace officers
pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 830.35 on or after January 1, 2001,
shall attend and complete a specialized investigators basic course
approved by the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training
within one year of being hired as a welfare investigator or inspector. Any
welfare fraud investigator or inspector appointed prior to January 1,
2001, shall not be required to attend and complete the training required
by this section, provided that he or she has been continuously employed
 4128                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 634 ]
in that capacity prior to January 1, 2001, by the county that made the
appointment.
   (b) Any investigator or inspector who possesses a valid basic peace
officer certificate as awarded by the Commission on Peace Officer
Standards and Training or who has successfully completed the regular
basic course certified by the Commission on Peace Officer Standards
and Training basic course within three years prior to appointment shall
be exempt from the training requirements of subdivision (a).
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 634

   An act to amend Section 502 of the Penal Code, relating to computer
crimes.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 502 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
  502. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this section to
expand the degree of protection afforded to individuals, businesses, and
governmental agencies from tampering, interference, damage, and
unauthorized access to lawfully created computer data and computer
systems. The Legislature finds and declares that the proliferation of
computer technology has resulted in a concomitant proliferation of
computer crime and other forms of unauthorized access to computers,
computer systems, and computer data.
  The Legislature further finds and declares that protection of the
integrity of all types and forms of lawfully created computers, computer
systems, and computer data is vital to the protection of the privacy of
individuals as well as to the well-being of financial institutions, business
concerns, governmental agencies, and others within this state that
lawfully utilize those computers, computer systems, and data.
[Ch. 634 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4129

   (b) For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Access’’ means to gain entry to, instruct, or communicate with
the logical, arithmetical, or memory function resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (2) ‘‘Computer network’’ means any system that provides
communications between one or more computer systems and
input/output devices including, but not limited to, display terminals and
printers connected by telecommunication facilities.
   (3) ‘‘Computer program or software’’ means a set of instructions or
statements, and related data, that when executed in actual or modified
form, cause a computer, computer system, or computer network to
perform specified functions.
   (4) ‘‘Computer services’’ includes, but is not limited to, computer
time, data processing, or storage functions, or other uses of a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (5) ‘‘Computer system’’ means a device or collection of devices,
including support devices and excluding calculators that are not
programmable and capable of being used in conjunction with external
files, one or more of which contain computer programs, electronic
instructions, input data, and output data, that performs functions
including, but not limited to, logic, arithmetic, data storage and retrieval,
communication, and control.
   (6) ‘‘Data’’ means a representation of information, knowledge, facts,
concepts, computer software, computer programs or instructions. Data
may be in any form, in storage media, or as stored in the memory of the
computer or in transit or presented on a display device.
   (7) ‘‘Supporting documentation’’ includes, but is not limited to, all
information, in any form, pertaining to the design, construction,
classification, implementation, use, or modification of a computer,
computer system, computer network, computer program, or computer
software, which information is not generally available to the public and
is necessary for the operation of a computer, computer system, computer
network, computer program, or computer software.
   (8) ‘‘Injury’’ means any alteration, deletion, damage, or destruction
of a computer system, computer network, computer program, or data
caused by the access, or the denial of access to legitimate users of a
computer system, network, or program.
   (9) ‘‘Victim expenditure’’ means any expenditure reasonably and
necessarily incurred by the owner or lessee to verify that a computer
system, computer network, computer program, or data was or was not
altered, deleted, damaged, or destroyed by the access.
   (10) ‘‘Computer contaminant’’ means any set of computer
instructions that are designed to modify, damage, destroy, record, or
 4130                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 634 ]
transmit information within a computer, computer system, or computer
network without the intent or permission of the owner of the
information. They include, but are not limited to, a group of computer
instructions commonly called viruses or worms, that are self-replicating
or self-propagating and are designed to contaminate other computer
programs or computer data, consume computer resources, modify,
destroy, record, or transmit data, or in some other fashion usurp the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer
network.
   (11) ‘‘Internet domain name’’ means a globally unique, hierarchical
reference to an Internet host or service, assigned through centralized
Internet naming authorities, comprising a series of character strings
separated by periods, with the rightmost character string specifying the
top of the hierarchy.
   (c) Except as provided in subdivision (h), any person who commits
any of the following acts is guilty of a public offense:
   (1) Knowingly accesses and without permission alters, damages,
deletes, destroys, or otherwise uses any data, computer, computer
system, or computer network in order to either (A) devise or execute any
scheme or artifice to defraud, deceive, or extort, or (B) wrongfully
control or obtain money, property, or data.
   (2) Knowingly accesses and without permission takes, copies, or
makes use of any data from a computer, computer system, or computer
network, or takes or copies any supporting documentation, whether
existing or residing internal or external to a computer, computer system,
or computer network.
   (3) Knowingly and without permission uses or causes to be used
computer services.
   (4) Knowingly accesses and without permission adds, alters,
damages, deletes, or destroys any data, computer software, or computer
programs which reside or exist internal or external to a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (5) Knowingly and without permission disrupts or causes the
disruption of computer services or denies or causes the denial of
computer services to an authorized user of a computer, computer system,
or computer network.
   (6) Knowingly and without permission provides or assists in
providing a means of accessing a computer, computer system, or
computer network in violation of this section.
   (7) Knowingly and without permission accesses or causes to be
accessed any computer, computer system, or computer network.
   (8) Knowingly introduces any computer contaminant into any
computer, computer system, or computer network.
[Ch. 634 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4131

   (9) Knowingly and without permission uses the Internet domain
name of another individual, corporation, or entity in connection with the
sending of one or more electronic mail messages, and thereby damages
or causes damage to a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   (d) (1) Any person who violates any of the provisions of paragraph
(1), (2), (4), or (5) of subdivision (c) is punishable by a fine not exceeding
ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison
for 16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and
imprisonment, or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000),
or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both
that fine and imprisonment.
   (2) Any person who violates paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
   (A) For the first violation that does not result in injury, and where the
value of the computer services used does not exceed four hundred dollars
($400), by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (B) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000) or in an injury, or if the value
of the computer services used exceeds four hundred dollars ($400), or
for any second or subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison for
16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and imprisonment,
or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (3) Any person who violates paragraph (6) or (7) of subdivision (c)
is punishable as follows:
   (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, an infraction
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (B) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
not greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000), or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or
by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (C) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000), by a fine not exceeding ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison for
16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and imprisonment
or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
 4132                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 634 ]
   (4) Any person who violates paragraph (8) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
   (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (B) For any violation that results in injury, or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars
($10,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year,
or in the state prison, or by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (5) Any person who violates paragraph (9) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
   (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, an infraction
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (B) For any violation that results in injury, or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or
by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (e) (1) In addition to any other civil remedy available, the owner or
lessee of the computer, computer system, computer network, computer
program, or data may bring a civil action against any person convicted
under this section for compensatory damages, including any expenditure
reasonably and necessarily incurred by the owner or lessee to verify that
a computer system, computer network, computer program, or data was
or was not altered, damaged, or deleted by the access. For the purposes
of actions authorized by this subdivision, the conduct of an
unemancipated minor shall be imputed to the parent or legal guardian
having control or custody of the minor, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 1714.1 of the Civil Code.
   (2) In any action brought pursuant to this subdivision the court may
award reasonable attorney’s fees to a prevailing party.
   (3) A community college, state university, or academic institution
accredited in this state is required to include computer-related crimes as
a specific violation of college or university student conduct policies and
regulations that may subject a student to disciplinary sanctions up to and
including dismissal from the academic institution. This paragraph shall
not apply to the University of California unless the Board of Regents
adopts a resolution to that effect.
   (f) This section shall not be construed to preclude the applicability of
any other provision of the criminal law of this state which applies or may
apply to any transaction, nor shall it make illegal any employee labor
relations activities that are within the scope and protection of state or
federal labor laws.
[Ch. 634 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4133

   (g) Any computer, computer system, computer network, or any
software or data, owned by the defendant, that is used during the
commission of any public offense described in subdivision (c) or any
computer, owned by the defendant, which is used as a repository for the
storage of software or data illegally obtained in violation of subdivision
(c) shall be subject to forfeiture, as specified in Section 502.01.
   (h) (1) Subdivision (c) does not apply to punish any acts which are
committed by a person within the scope of his or her lawful employment.
For purposes of this section, a person acts within the scope of his or her
employment when he or she performs acts which are reasonably
necessary to the performance of his or her work assignment.
   (2) Paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) does not apply to penalize any
acts committed by a person acting outside of his or her lawful
employment, provided that the employee’s activities do not cause an
injury, as defined in paragraph (8) of subdivision (b), to the employer or
another, or provided that the value of supplies or computer services, as
defined in paragraph (4) of subdivision (b), which are used does not
exceed an accumulated total of one hundred dollars ($100).
   (i) No activity exempted from prosecution under paragraph (2) of
subdivision (h) which incidentally violates paragraph (2), (4), or (7) of
subdivision (c) shall be prosecuted under those paragraphs.
   (j) For purposes of bringing a civil or a criminal action under this
section, a person who causes, by any means, the access of a computer,
computer system, or computer network in one jurisdiction from another
jurisdiction is deemed to have personally accessed the computer,
computer system, or computer network in each jurisdiction.
   (k) In determining the terms and conditions applicable to a person
convicted of a violation of this section the court shall consider the
following:
   (1) The court shall consider prohibitions on access to and use of
computers.
   (2) Except as otherwise required by law, the court shall consider
alternate sentencing, including community service, if the defendant
shows remorse and recognition of the wrongdoing, and an inclination
not to repeat the offense.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 502 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   502. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this section to
expand the degree of protection afforded to individuals, businesses, and
governmental agencies from tampering, interference, damage, and
unauthorized access to lawfully created computer data and computer
systems. The Legislature finds and declares that the proliferation of
computer technology has resulted in a concomitant proliferation of
computer crime and other forms of unauthorized access to computers,
computer systems, and computer data.
 4134                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 634 ]
   The Legislature further finds and declares that protection of the
integrity of all types and forms of lawfully created computers, computer
systems, and computer data is vital to the protection of the privacy of
individuals as well as to the well-being of financial institutions, business
concerns, governmental agencies, and others within this state that
lawfully utilize those computers, computer systems, and data.
   (b) For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Access’’ means to gain entry to, instruct, or communicate with
the logical, arithmetical, or memory function resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (2) ‘‘Computer network’’ means any system that provides
communications between one or more computer systems and
input/output devices including, but not limited to, display terminals and
printers connected by telecommunication facilities.
   (3) ‘‘Computer program or software’’ means a set of instructions or
statements, and related data, that when executed in actual or modified
form, cause a computer, computer system, or computer network to
perform specified functions.
   (4) ‘‘Computer services’’ includes, but is not limited to, computer
time, data processing, or storage functions, or other uses of a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (5) ‘‘Computer system’’ means a device or collection of devices,
including support devices and excluding calculators that are not
programmable and capable of being used in conjunction with external
files, one or more of which contain computer programs, electronic
instructions, input data, and output data, that performs functions
including, but not limited to, logic, arithmetic, data storage and retrieval,
communication, and control.
   (6) ‘‘Data’’ means a representation of information, knowledge, facts,
concepts, computer software, computer programs or instructions. Data
may be in any form, in storage media, or as stored in the memory of the
computer or in transit or presented on a display device.
   (7) ‘‘Supporting documentation’’ includes, but is not limited to, all
information, in any form, pertaining to the design, construction,
classification, implementation, use, or modification of a computer,
computer system, computer network, computer program, or computer
software, which information is not generally available to the public and
is necessary for the operation of a computer, computer system, computer
network, computer program, or computer software.
   (8) ‘‘Injury’’ means any alteration, deletion, damage, or destruction
of a computer system, computer network, computer program, or data
caused by the access, or the denial of access to legitimate users of a
computer system, network, or program.
[Ch. 634 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           4135

   (9) ‘‘Victim expenditure’’ means any expenditure reasonably and
necessarily incurred by the owner or lessee to verify that a computer
system, computer network, computer program, or data was or was not
altered, deleted, damaged, or destroyed by the access.
   (10) ‘‘Computer contaminant’’ means any set of computer
instructions that are designed to modify, damage, destroy, record, or
transmit information within a computer, computer system, or computer
network without the intent or permission of the owner of the
information. They include, but are not limited to, a group of computer
instructions commonly called viruses or worms, that are self-replicating
or self-propagating and are designed to contaminate other computer
programs or computer data, consume computer resources, modify,
destroy, record, or transmit data, or in some other fashion usurp the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer
network.
   (11) ‘‘Internet domain name’’ means a globally unique, hierarchical
reference to an Internet host or service, assigned through centralized
Internet naming authorities, comprising a series of character strings
separated by periods, with the rightmost character string specifying the
top of the hierarchy.
   (c) Except as provided in subdivision (h), any person who commits
any of the following acts is guilty of a public offense:
   (1) Knowingly accesses and without permission alters, damages,
deletes, destroys, or otherwise uses any data, computer, computer
system, or computer network in order to either (A) devise or execute any
scheme or artifice to defraud, deceive, or extort, or (B) wrongfully
control or obtain money, property, or data.
   (2) Knowingly accesses and without permission takes, copies, or
makes use of any data from a computer, computer system, or computer
network, or takes or copies any supporting documentation, whether
existing or residing internal or external to a computer, computer system,
or computer network.
   (3) Knowingly and without permission uses or causes to be used
computer services.
   (4) Knowingly accesses and without permission adds, alters,
damages, deletes, or destroys any data, computer software, or computer
programs which reside or exist internal or external to a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (5) Knowingly and without permission disrupts or causes the
disruption of computer services or denies or causes the denial of
computer services to an authorized user of a computer, computer system,
or computer network.
 4136                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 634 ]
   (6) Knowingly and without permission provides or assists in
providing a means of accessing a computer, computer system, or
computer network in violation of this section.
   (7) Knowingly and without permission accesses or causes to be
accessed any computer, computer system, or computer network.
   (8) Knowingly introduces any computer contaminant into any
computer, computer system, or computer network.
   (9) Knowingly and without permission uses the Internet domain
name of another individual, corporation, or entity in connection with the
sending of one or more electronic mail messages, and thereby damages
or causes damage to a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   (d) (1) Any person who violates any of the provisions of paragraph
(1), (2), (4), or (5) of subdivision (c) is punishable by a fine not exceeding
ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison
for 16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and
imprisonment, or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000),
or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both
that fine and imprisonment.
   (2) Any person who violates paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
   (A) For the first violation that does not result in injury, and where the
value of the computer services used does not exceed four hundred dollars
($400), by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (B) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000) or in an injury, or if the value
of the computer services used exceeds four hundred dollars ($400), or
for any second or subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison for
16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and imprisonment,
or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (3) Any person who violates paragraph (6) or (7) of subdivision (c)
is punishable as follows:
   (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, an infraction
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (B) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
not greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000), or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or
by both that fine and imprisonment.
[Ch. 634 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4137

   (C) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000), by a fine not exceeding ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison for
16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and imprisonment
or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (4) Any person who violates paragraph (8) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
   (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (B) For any violation that results in injury, or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars
($10,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year,
or in the state prison, or by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (5) Any person who violates paragraph (9) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
   (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, an infraction
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars.
   (B) For any violation that results in injury, or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or
by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (e) (1) In addition to any other civil remedy available, the owner or
lessee of the computer, computer system, computer network, computer
program, or data who suffers damage or loss by reason of a violation of
any of the provisions of subdivision (c) may bring a civil action against
the violator for compensatory damages and injunctive relief or other
equitable relief. Compensatory damages shall include any expenditure
reasonably and necessarily incurred by the owner or lessee to verify that
a computer system, computer network, computer program, or data was
or was not altered, damaged, or deleted by the access. For the purposes
of actions authorized by this subdivision, the conduct of an
unemancipated minor shall be imputed to the parent or legal guardian
having control or custody of the minor, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 1714.1 of the Civil Code.
   (2) In any action brought pursuant to this subdivision the court may
award reasonable attorney’s fees.
   (3) A community college, state university, or academic institution
accredited in this state is required to include computer-related crimes as
a specific violation of college or university student conduct policies and
regulations that may subject a student to disciplinary sanctions up to and
 4138                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 634 ]
including dismissal from the academic institution. This paragraph shall
not apply to the University of California unless the Board of Regents
adopts a resolution to that effect.
   (4) In any action brought pursuant to this subdivision for a willful
violation of the provisions of subdivision (c), where it is proved by clear
and convincing evidence that a defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 3294 of the Civil
Code, the court may additionally award punitive or exemplary damages.
   (5) No action may be brought pursuant to this subdivision unless it
is initiated within three years of the date of the act complained of, or the
date of the discovery of the damage, whichever is later.
   (f) This section shall not be construed to preclude the applicability of
any other provision of the criminal law of this state which applies or may
apply to any transaction, nor shall it make illegal any employee labor
relations activities that are within the scope and protection of state or
federal labor laws.
   (g) Any computer, computer system, computer network, or any
software or data, owned by the defendant, that is used during the
commission of any public offense described in subdivision (c) or any
computer, owned by the defendant, which is used as a repository for the
storage of software or data illegally obtained in violation of subdivision
(c) shall be subject to forfeiture, as specified in Section 502.01.
   (h) (1) Subdivision (c) does not apply to punish any acts which are
committed by a person within the scope of his or her lawful employment.
For purposes of this section, a person acts within the scope of his or her
employment when he or she performs acts which are reasonably
necessary to the performance of his or her work assignment.
   (2) Paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) does not apply to penalize any
acts committed by a person acting outside of his or her lawful
employment, provided that the employee’s activities do not cause an
injury, as defined in paragraph (8) of subdivision (b), to the employer or
another, or provided that the value of supplies or computer services, as
defined in paragraph (4) of subdivision (b), which are used does not
exceed an accumulated total of one hundred dollars ($100).
   (i) No activity exempted from prosecution under paragraph (2) of
subdivision (h) which incidentally violates paragraph (2), (4), or (7) of
subdivision (c) shall be prosecuted under those paragraphs.
   (j) For purposes of bringing a civil or a criminal action under this
section, a person who causes, by any means, the access of a computer,
computer system, or computer network in one jurisdiction from another
jurisdiction is deemed to have personally accessed the computer,
computer system, or computer network in each jurisdiction.
[Ch. 635 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4139

   (k) In determining the terms and conditions applicable to a person
convicted of a violation of this section the court shall consider the
following:
   (1) The court shall consider prohibitions on access to and use of
computers.
   (2) Except as otherwise required by law, the court shall consider
alternate sentencing, including community service, if the defendant
shows remorse and recognition of the wrongdoing, and an inclination
not to repeat the offense.
   SEC. 2. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
502 of the Penal Code proposed by both this bill and AB 2727. It shall
only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective
on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section 502 of the
Penal Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after AB 2727, in which case
Section 1 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 635

   An act to amend Section 502 of the Penal Code, relating to computer
crime.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 502 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
  502. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this section to
expand the degree of protection afforded to individuals, businesses, and
governmental agencies from tampering, interference, damage, and
unauthorized access to lawfully created computer data and computer
systems. The Legislature finds and declares that the proliferation of
computer technology has resulted in a concomitant proliferation of
computer crime and other forms of unauthorized access to computers,
computer systems, and computer data.
 4140                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 635 ]
   The Legislature further finds and declares that protection of the
integrity of all types and forms of lawfully created computers, computer
systems, and computer data is vital to the protection of the privacy of
individuals as well as to the well-being of financial institutions, business
concerns, governmental agencies, and others within this state that
lawfully utilize those computers, computer systems, and data.
   (b) For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Access’’ means to gain entry to, instruct, or communicate with
the logical, arithmetical, or memory function resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (2) ‘‘Computer network’’ means any system that provides
communications between one or more computer systems and
input/output devices including, but not limited to, display terminals and
printers connected by telecommunication facilities.
   (3) ‘‘Computer program or software’’ means a set of instructions or
statements, and related data, that when executed in actual or modified
form, cause a computer, computer system, or computer network to
perform specified functions.
   (4) ‘‘Computer services’’ includes, but is not limited to, computer
time, data processing, or storage functions, or other uses of a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (5) ‘‘Computer system’’ means a device or collection of devices,
including support devices and excluding calculators that are not
programmable and capable of being used in conjunction with external
files, one or more of which contain computer programs, electronic
instructions, input data, and output data, that performs functions
including, but not limited to, logic, arithmetic, data storage and retrieval,
communication, and control.
   (6) ‘‘Data’’ means a representation of information, knowledge, facts,
concepts, computer software, computer programs or instructions. Data
may be in any form, in storage media, or as stored in the memory of the
computer or in transit or presented on a display device.
   (7) ‘‘Supporting documentation’’ includes, but is not limited to, all
information, in any form, pertaining to the design, construction,
classification, implementation, use, or modification of a computer,
computer system, computer network, computer program, or computer
software, which information is not generally available to the public and
is necessary for the operation of a computer, computer system, computer
network, computer program, or computer software.
   (8) ‘‘Injury’’ means any alteration, deletion, damage, or destruction
of a computer system, computer network, computer program, or data
caused by the access.
[Ch. 635 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           4141

   (9) ‘‘Victim expenditure’’ means any expenditure reasonably and
necessarily incurred by the owner or lessee to verify that a computer
system, computer network, computer program, or data was or was not
altered, deleted, damaged, or destroyed by the access.
   (10) ‘‘Computer contaminant’’ means any set of computer
instructions that are designed to modify, damage, destroy, record, or
transmit information within a computer, computer system, or computer
network without the intent or permission of the owner of the
information. They include, but are not limited to, a group of computer
instructions commonly called viruses or worms, that are self-replicating
or self-propagating and are designed to contaminate other computer
programs or computer data, consume computer resources, modify,
destroy, record, or transmit data, or in some other fashion usurp the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer
network.
   (11) ‘‘Internet domain name’’ means a globally unique, hierarchical
reference to an Internet host or service, assigned through centralized
Internet naming authorities, comprising a series of character strings
separated by periods, with the rightmost character string specifying the
top of the hierarchy.
   (c) Except as provided in subdivision (h), any person who commits
any of the following acts is guilty of a public offense:
   (1) Knowingly accesses and without permission alters, damages,
deletes, destroys, or otherwise uses any data, computer, computer
system, or computer network in order to either (A) devise or execute any
scheme or artifice to defraud, deceive, or extort, or (B) wrongfully
control or obtain money, property, or data.
   (2) Knowingly accesses and without permission takes, copies, or
makes use of any data from a computer, computer system, or computer
network, or takes or copies any supporting documentation, whether
existing or residing internal or external to a computer, computer system,
or computer network.
   (3) Knowingly and without permission uses or causes to be used
computer services.
   (4) Knowingly accesses and without permission adds, alters,
damages, deletes, or destroys any data, computer software, or computer
programs which reside or exist internal or external to a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (5) Knowingly and without permission disrupts or causes the
disruption of computer services or denies or causes the denial of
computer services to an authorized user of a computer, computer system,
or computer network.
 4142                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 635 ]
  (6) Knowingly and without permission provides or assists in
providing a means of accessing a computer, computer system, or
computer network in violation of this section.
  (7) Knowingly and without permission accesses or causes to be
accessed any computer, computer system, or computer network.
  (8) Knowingly introduces any computer contaminant into any
computer, computer system, or computer network.
  (9) Knowingly and without permission uses the Internet domain
name of another individual, corporation, or entity in connection with the
sending of one or more electronic mail messages, and thereby damages
or causes damage to a computer, computer system, or computer network.
  (d) (1) Any person who violates any of the provisions of paragraph
(1), (2), (4), or (5) of subdivision (c) is punishable by a fine not exceeding
ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison
for 16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and
imprisonment, or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000),
or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both
that fine and imprisonment.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
  (A) For the first violation that does not result in injury, and where the
value of the computer services used does not exceed four hundred dollars
($400), by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
  (B) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000) or in an injury, or if the value
of the computer services used exceeds four hundred dollars ($400), or
for any second or subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison for
16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and imprisonment,
or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
  (3) Any person who violates paragraph (6), (7), or (8) of subdivision
(c) is punishable as follows:
  (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, an infraction
punishable by a fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250).
  (B) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
not greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000), or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or
by both that fine and imprisonment.
[Ch. 635 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4143

   (C) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000), by a fine not exceeding ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison for
16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and imprisonment,
or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (4) Any person who violates paragraph (9) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
   (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, an infraction
punishable by a fine not exceeding two hundred fifty dollars ($250).
   (B) For any violation that results in injury, or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or
by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (e) (1) In addition to any other civil remedy available, the owner or
lessee of the computer, computer system, computer network, computer
program, or data who suffers damage or loss by reason of a violation of
any of the provisions of subdivision (c) may bring a civil action against
the violator for compensatory damages and injunctive relief or other
equitable relief. Compensatory damages shall include any expenditure
reasonably and necessarily incurred by the owner or lessee to verify that
a computer system, computer network, computer program, or data was
or was not altered, damaged, or deleted by the access. For the purposes
of actions authorized by this subdivision, the conduct of an
unemancipated minor shall be imputed to the parent or legal guardian
having control or custody of the minor, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 1714.1 of the Civil Code.
   (2) In any action brought pursuant to this subdivision the court may
award reasonable attorney’s fees.
   (3) A community college, state university, or academic institution
accredited in this state is required to include computer-related crimes as
a specific violation of college or university student conduct policies and
regulations that may subject a student to disciplinary sanctions up to and
including dismissal from the academic institution. This paragraph shall
not apply to the University of California unless the Board of Regents
adopts a resolution to that effect.
   (4) In any action brought pursuant to this subdivision for a willful
violation of the provisions of subdivision (c), where it is proved by clear
and convincing evidence that a defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 3294 of the Civil
Code, the court may additionally award punitive or exemplary damages.
 4144                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 635 ]
   (5) No action may be brought pursuant to this subdivision unless it
is initiated within three years of the date of the act complained of, or the
date of the discovery of the damage, whichever is later.
   (f) This section shall not be construed to preclude the applicability of
any other provision of the criminal law of this state which applies or may
apply to any transaction, nor shall it make illegal any employee labor
relations activities that are within the scope and protection of state or
federal labor laws.
   (g) Any computer, computer system, computer network, or any
software or data, owned by the defendant, that is used during the
commission of any public offense described in subdivision (c) or any
computer, owned by the defendant, which is used as a repository for the
storage of software or data illegally obtained in violation of subdivision
(c) shall be subject to forfeiture, as specified in Section 502.01.
   (h) (1) Subdivision (c) does not apply to punish any acts which are
committed by a person within the scope of his or her lawful employment.
For purposes of this section, a person acts within the scope of his or her
employment when he or she performs acts which are reasonably
necessary to the performance of his or her work assignment.
   (2) Paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) does not apply to penalize any
acts committed by a person acting outside of his or her lawful
employment, provided that the employee’s activities do not cause an
injury, as defined in paragraph (8) of subdivision (b), to the employer or
another, or provided that the value of supplies or computer services, as
defined in paragraph (4) of subdivision (b), which are used does not
exceed an accumulated total of one hundred dollars ($100).
   (i) No activity exempted from prosecution under paragraph (2) of
subdivision (h) which incidentally violates paragraph (2), (4), or (7) of
subdivision (c) shall be prosecuted under those paragraphs.
   (j) For purposes of bringing a civil or a criminal action under this
section, a person who causes, by any means, the access of a computer,
computer system, or computer network in one jurisdiction from another
jurisdiction is deemed to have personally accessed the computer,
computer system, or computer network in each jurisdiction.
   (k) In determining the terms and conditions applicable to a person
convicted of a violation of this section the court shall consider the
following:
   (1) The court shall consider prohibitions on access to and use of
computers.
   (2) Except as otherwise required by law, the court shall consider
alternate sentencing, including community service, if the defendant
shows remorse and recognition of the wrongdoing, and an inclination
not to repeat the offense.
   SEC. 2. Section 502 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
[Ch. 635 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4145

   502. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this section to
expand the degree of protection afforded to individuals, businesses, and
governmental agencies from tampering, interference, damage, and
unauthorized access to lawfully created computer data and computer
systems. The Legislature finds and declares that the proliferation of
computer technology has resulted in a concomitant proliferation of
computer crime and other forms of unauthorized access to computers,
computer systems, and computer data.
   The Legislature further finds and declares that protection of the
integrity of all types and forms of lawfully created computers, computer
systems, and computer data is vital to the protection of the privacy of
individuals as well as to the well-being of financial institutions, business
concerns, governmental agencies, and others within this state that
lawfully utilize those computers, computer systems, and data.
   (b) For the purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Access’’ means to gain entry to, instruct, or communicate with
the logical, arithmetical, or memory function resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (2) ‘‘Computer network’’ means any system that provides
communications between one or more computer systems and
input/output devices including, but not limited to, display terminals and
printers connected by telecommunication facilities.
   (3) ‘‘Computer program or software’’ means a set of instructions or
statements, and related data, that when executed in actual or modified
form, cause a computer, computer system, or computer network to
perform specified functions.
   (4) ‘‘Computer services’’ includes, but is not limited to, computer
time, data processing, or storage functions, or other uses of a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (5) ‘‘Computer system’’ means a device or collection of devices,
including support devices and excluding calculators that are not
programmable and capable of being used in conjunction with external
files, one or more of which contain computer programs, electronic
instructions, input data, and output data, that performs functions
including, but not limited to, logic, arithmetic, data storage and retrieval,
communication, and control.
   (6) ‘‘Data’’ means a representation of information, knowledge, facts,
concepts, computer software, computer programs or instructions. Data
may be in any form, in storage media, or as stored in the memory of the
computer or in transit or presented on a display device.
   (7) ‘‘Supporting documentation’’ includes, but is not limited to, all
information, in any form, pertaining to the design, construction,
classification, implementation, use, or modification of a computer,
 4146                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 635 ]
computer system, computer network, computer program, or computer
software, which information is not generally available to the public and
is necessary for the operation of a computer, computer system, computer
network, computer program, or computer software.
   (8) ‘‘Injury’’ means any alteration, deletion, damage, or destruction
of a computer system, computer network, computer program, or data
caused by the access, or the denial of access to legitimate users of a
computer system, network, or program.
   (9) ‘‘Victim expenditure’’ means any expenditure reasonably and
necessarily incurred by the owner or lessee to verify that a computer
system, computer network, computer program, or data was or was not
altered, deleted, damaged, or destroyed by the access.
   (10) ‘‘Computer contaminant’’ means any set of computer
instructions that are designed to modify, damage, destroy, record, or
transmit information within a computer, computer system, or computer
network without the intent or permission of the owner of the
information. They include, but are not limited to, a group of computer
instructions commonly called viruses or worms, that are self-replicating
or self-propagating and are designed to contaminate other computer
programs or computer data, consume computer resources, modify,
destroy, record, or transmit data, or in some other fashion usurp the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer
network.
   (11) ‘‘Internet domain name’’ means a globally unique, hierarchical
reference to an Internet host or service, assigned through centralized
Internet naming authorities, comprising a series of character strings
separated by periods, with the rightmost character string specifying the
top of the hierarchy.
   (c) Except as provided in subdivision (h), any person who commits
any of the following acts is guilty of a public offense:
   (1) Knowingly accesses and without permission alters, damages,
deletes, destroys, or otherwise uses any data, computer, computer
system, or computer network in order to either (A) devise or execute any
scheme or artifice to defraud, deceive, or extort, or (B) wrongfully
control or obtain money, property, or data.
   (2) Knowingly accesses and without permission takes, copies, or
makes use of any data from a computer, computer system, or computer
network, or takes or copies any supporting documentation, whether
existing or residing internal or external to a computer, computer system,
or computer network.
   (3) Knowingly and without permission uses or causes to be used
computer services.
   (4) Knowingly accesses and without permission adds, alters,
damages, deletes, or destroys any data, computer software, or computer
[Ch. 635 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4147

programs which reside or exist internal or external to a computer,
computer system, or computer network.
   (5) Knowingly and without permission disrupts or causes the
disruption of computer services or denies or causes the denial of
computer services to an authorized user of a computer, computer system,
or computer network.
   (6) Knowingly and without permission provides or assists in
providing a means of accessing a computer, computer system, or
computer network in violation of this section.
   (7) Knowingly and without permission accesses or causes to be
accessed any computer, computer system, or computer network.
   (8) Knowingly introduces any computer contaminant into any
computer, computer system, or computer network.
   (9) Knowingly and without permission uses the Internet domain
name of another individual, corporation, or entity in connection with the
sending of one or more electronic mail messages, and thereby damages
or causes damage to a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   (d) (1) Any person who violates any of the provisions of paragraph
(1), (2), (4), or (5) of subdivision (c) is punishable by a fine not exceeding
ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison
for 16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and
imprisonment, or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000),
or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both
that fine and imprisonment.
   (2) Any person who violates paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
   (A) For the first violation that does not result in injury, and where the
value of the computer services used does not exceed four hundred dollars
($400), by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (B) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000) or in an injury, or if the value
of the computer services used exceeds four hundred dollars ($400), or
for any second or subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison for
16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and imprisonment,
or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (3) Any person who violates paragraph (6) or (7) of subdivision (c)
is punishable as follows:
   (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, an infraction
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000).
 4148                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 635 ]
   (B) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
not greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000), or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or
by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (C) For any violation that results in a victim expenditure in an amount
greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000), by a fine not exceeding ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison for
16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and imprisonment,
or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (4) Any person who violates paragraph (8) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
   (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
   (B) For any violation that results in injury, or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars
($10,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year,
or in the state prison, or by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (5) Any person who violates paragraph (9) of subdivision (c) is
punishable as follows:
   (A) For a first violation that does not result in injury, an infraction
punishable by a fine not one thousand dollars.
   (B) For any violation that results in injury, or for a second or
subsequent violation, by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars
($5,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or
by both that fine and imprisonment.
   (e) (1) In addition to any other civil remedy available, the owner or
lessee of the computer, computer system, computer network, computer
program, or data who suffers damage or loss by reason of a violation of
any of the provisions of subdivision (c) may bring a civil action against
the violator for compensatory damages and injunctive relief or other
equitable relief. Compensatory damages shall include any expenditure
reasonably and necessarily incurred by the owner or lessee to verify that
a computer system, computer network, computer program, or data was
or was not altered, damaged, or deleted by the access. For the purposes
of actions authorized by this subdivision, the conduct of an
unemancipated minor shall be imputed to the parent or legal guardian
having control or custody of the minor, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 1714.1 of the Civil Code.
[Ch. 635 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4149

   (2) In any action brought pursuant to this subdivision the court may
award reasonable attorney’s fees.
   (3) A community college, state university, or academic institution
accredited in this state is required to include computer-related crimes as
a specific violation of college or university student conduct policies and
regulations that may subject a student to disciplinary sanctions up to and
including dismissal from the academic institution. This paragraph shall
not apply to the University of California unless the Board of Regents
adopts a resolution to that effect.
   (4) In any action brought pursuant to this subdivision for a willful
violation of the provisions of subdivision (c), where it is proved by clear
and convincing evidence that a defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice as defined in subdivision (c) of Section 3294 of the Civil
Code, the court may additionally award punitive or exemplary damages.
   (5) No action may be brought pursuant to this subdivision unless it
is initiated within three years of the date of the act complained of, or the
date of the discovery of the damage, whichever is later.
   (f) This section shall not be construed to preclude the applicability of
any other provision of the criminal law of this state which applies or may
apply to any transaction, nor shall it make illegal any employee labor
relations activities that are within the scope and protection of state or
federal labor laws.
   (g) Any computer, computer system, computer network, or any
software or data, owned by the defendant, that is used during the
commission of any public offense described in subdivision (c) or any
computer, owned by the defendant, which is used as a repository for the
storage of software or data illegally obtained in violation of subdivision
(c) shall be subject to forfeiture, as specified in Section 502.01.
   (h) (1) Subdivision (c) does not apply to punish any acts which are
committed by a person within the scope of his or her lawful employment.
For purposes of this section, a person acts within the scope of his or her
employment when he or she performs acts which are reasonably
necessary to the performance of his or her work assignment.
   (2) Paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) does not apply to penalize any
acts committed by a person acting outside of his or her lawful
employment, provided that the employee’s activities do not cause an
injury, as defined in paragraph (8) of subdivision (b), to the employer or
another, or provided that the value of supplies or computer services, as
defined in paragraph (4) of subdivision (b), which are used does not
exceed an accumulated total of one hundred dollars ($100).
   (i) No activity exempted from prosecution under paragraph (2) of
subdivision (h) which incidentally violates paragraph (2), (4), or (7) of
subdivision (c) shall be prosecuted under those paragraphs.
 4150                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 636 ]
   (j) For purposes of bringing a civil or a criminal action under this
section, a person who causes, by any means, the access of a computer,
computer system, or computer network in one jurisdiction from another
jurisdiction is deemed to have personally accessed the computer,
computer system, or computer network in each jurisdiction.
   (k) In determining the terms and conditions applicable to a person
convicted of a violation of this section the court shall consider the
following:
   (1) The court shall consider prohibitions on access to and use of
computers.
   (2) Except as otherwise required by law, the court shall consider
alternate sentencing, including community service, if the defendant
shows remorse and recognition of the wrongdoing, and an inclination
not to repeat the offense.
   SEC. 3. Section 2 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
502 of the Penal Code proposed by both this bill and AB 2232. It shall
only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective
on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section 502 of the
Penal Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after AB 2232, in which case
Section 1 of this bill shall not become operative.



                             CHAPTER 636

  An act to amend Sections 10229, 10232.2, 10232.25, and 10232.5 of
the Business and Professions Code, to amend Sections 1363, 2924,
2924g, and 2943 of the Civil Code, and to amend Sections 17312 and
17320 of the Financial Code, relating to real estate.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10229 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   10229. Any transaction that involves the sale of or offer to sell a
series of notes secured directly by an interest in the same real property,
or the sale of undivided interests in a note secured directly by real
property equivalent to a series transaction, shall comply with all of the
following, except as provided in paragraph (4) of subdivision (i), the
terms ‘‘sale’’ and ‘‘offer to sell,’’ as used in this section, shall have the
same meaning as set forth in Section 25017 of the Corporations Code
and include the acts of negotiating and arranging the transaction:
[Ch. 636 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4151

   (a) A notice in the following form and containing the following
information shall be filed with the commissioner within 30 days after the
first transaction and within 30 days of any material change in the
information required in the notice:

TO: Real Estate Commissioner
    Mortgage Loan Section
    2201 Broadway
    Sacramento, CA 95818

This notice is filed pursuant to Section 10229 of the Business and Professions
Code.

( ) Original Notice                 ( ) Amended Notice

1.   Name of Broker conducting transaction under Section 10229:




2.   Broker license identification number:

3.   List the month the fiscal year ends:

4.   Broker’s telephone number:

5.   Firm name (if different from ‘‘1’’):




6.   Street address (main location):


     # and Street               City         State       ZIP Code

7.   Mailing address (if different from ‘‘6’’):
4152                       STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 636 ]

8.    Servicing Agent: Identify by name, address, and telephone number
      the person or entity who will act as the servicing agent in transactions
      pursuant to Section 10229 (including the undersigned Broker if that is
      the case):




9.    Total number of multilender notes arranged:

10. Total number of interests sold to investors on the
    multilender ’s notes:

11. Inspection of trust account (before answering this question,
     review the provisions of paragraph (3) of subdivision (j) of
     Section 10229).

CHECK ONLY ONE OF THE FOLLOWING:

( ) The undersigned Broker is (or expects to be) required to file reports of
    inspection of its trust account(s) with the Real Estate Commissioner
    pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (j) of Section 10229.

Amount of Multilender Payments Collected Last Fiscal Quarter:

Total Number of Investors Due Payments Last Fiscal Quarter:

( ) The undersigned Broker is NOT (or does NOT expect to be) required
    to file reports of inspection of its trust account(s) with the Real Estate
    Commissioner pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (j) of Section
    10229.

12.    Signature. The contents of this notice are true and correct.


           Date                         Type Name of Broker


                           Signature of Broker or of Designated Officer of
                                          Corporate Broker
[Ch. 636 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4153


                           Type Name of Person(s) Signing This Notice

NOTE: AN AMENDED NOTICE MUST BE FILED BY THE
BROKER WITHIN 30 DAYS OF ANY MATERIAL CHANGE IN
THE INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE SET FORTH HEREIN.

   (b) All advertising employed for transactions under this section shall
(1) show the name of the broker and (2) comply with Section 10235 of
the Business and Professions Code and Sections 260.302 and 2848 of
Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations. Brokers and their agents
are cautioned that a reference to a prospective investor that a transaction
is conducted under this section may be deemed misleading or deceptive
if this representation may reasonably be construed by the investor as an
implication of merit or approval of the transaction.
   (c) The real property directly securing the notes or interests is located
in this state, the note or notes are not by their terms subject to
subordination to any subsequently created deed of trust upon the real
property, and the note or notes are not promotional notes secured by liens
on separate parcels of real property in one subdivision or in contiguous
subdivisions. For purposes of this subdivision, a promotional note
means a promissory note secured by a trust deed, executed on
unimproved real property or executed after construction of an
improvement of the property but before the first purchase of the property
as so improved, or executed as a means of financing the first purchase
of the property as so improved, that is subordinate, or by its terms may
become subordinate, to any other trust deed on the property. However,
the term ‘‘promotional note’’ does not include either of the following:
   (1) A note that was executed in excess of three years prior to being
offered for sale.
   (2) A note secured by a first trust deed on real property in a
subdivision that evidences a bona fide loan made in connection with the
financing of the usual cost of the development in a residential,
commercial, or industrial building or buildings on the property under a
written agreement providing for the disbursement of the loan funds as
costs are incurred or in relation to the progress of the work and providing
for title insurance ensuring the priority of the security as against
mechanic’s and materialmen’s liens or for the final disbursement of at
least 10 percent of the loan funds after the expiration of the period for
the filing of mechanic’s and materialmen’s liens.
   (d) (1) The notes or interests are sold by or through a real estate
broker, as principal or agent. At the time the interests are originally sold
or assigned, neither the broker nor an affiliate of the broker shall have
an interest as owner, lessor, or developer of the property securing the
 4154                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 636 ]
loan, or any contractual right to acquire, lease, or develop the property
securing the loan. This provision does not prohibit a broker from
conducting the following transactions if, in either case, the disclosure
statement furnished by the broker pursuant to subdivision (k) discloses
the interest of the broker or affiliate in the transaction and the
circumstances under which the broker or affiliate acquired the interest:
   (A) A transaction in which the broker or an affiliate of the broker is
acquiring the property pursuant to a foreclosure under, or sale pursuant
to, a deed of trust securing a note for which the broker is the servicing
agent or that the broker sold to the holder or holders.
   (B) A transaction in which the broker or an affiliate of the broker is
reselling from inventory property acquired by the broker pursuant to a
foreclosure under, or sale pursuant to, a deed of trust securing a note for
which the broker is the servicing agent or that the broker sold to the
holder or holders.
   (2) For the purposes of this subdivision, the following definitions
apply:
   (A) ‘‘Broker’’ means a person licensed as a broker under this part.
   (B) ‘‘Affiliate’’ means a person controlled by, controlling, or under
common control with, the broker.
   (e) (1) The notes or interests shall not be sold to more than 10
persons, each of whom meets one or both of the qualifications of income
or net worth set forth below and signs a statement, which shall be
retained by the broker for four years, conforming to the following:

Transaction Identifier:

Name of Purchaser:                                     Date:

Check either one of the following, if true:
( ) My investment in the transaction does not exceed 10% of my net worth,
     exclusive of home, furnishings, and automobiles.

( ) My investment in the transaction does not exceed 10% of my adjusted
     gross income for federal income tax purposes for my last tax year or,
     in the alternative, as estimated for the current year.


                                                 Signature

  (2) The number of offerees shall not be considered for the purposes
of this section.
  (3) A husband and wife and their dependents, and an individual and
his or her dependents, shall be counted as one person.
[Ch. 636 ]                       STATUTES OF 2000                                                    4155

   (4) A retirement plan, trust, business trust, corporation, or other entity
that is wholly owned by an individual and the individual’s spouse or the
individual’s dependents, or any combination thereof, shall not be
counted separately from the individual, but the investments of these
entities shall be aggregated with those of the individual for the purposes
of the statement required by paragraph (1). If the investments of any
entities are required to be aggregated under this subdivision, the adjusted
gross income or net worth of these entities may also be aggregated with
the net worth, income, or both, of the individual.
   (5) The ‘‘institutional investors’’ enumerated in subdivision (i) of
Section 25102 or subdivision (c) of Section 25104 of the Corporations
Code, or in a rule adopted pursuant thereto, shall not be counted.
   (f) The notes or interests of the purchasers shall be identical in their
underlying terms, including the right to direct or require foreclosure,
rights to and rate of interest, and other incidents of being a lender, and
the sale to each purchaser pursuant to this section shall be upon the same
terms, subject to adjustment for the face or principal amount or
percentage interest purchased and for interest earned or accrued. This
subdivision does not preclude different selling prices for interests to the
extent that these differences are reasonably related to changes in the
market value of the loan occurring between the sales of these interests.
The interest of each purchaser shall be recorded.
   (g) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the aggregate principal
amount of the notes or interests sold, together with the unpaid principal
amount of any encumbrances upon the real property senior thereto, shall
not exceed the following percentages of the current market value of the
real property, as determined in writing by the broker or appraiser
pursuant to Section 10232.6, plus the amount for which the payment of
principal and interest in excess of the percentage of current market value
is insured for the benefit of the holders of the notes or interests by an
insurer admitted to do business in this state by the Insurance
Commissioner:

(A)    Single–family residence, owner occupied . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           80%
(B)    Single–family residence, not owner occupied . . . . . . . . . .                               75%
(C)    Commercial and income–producing properties . . . . . . . . .                                  65%
(D)    Single–family residentially zoned lot or parcel which has
       installed offsite improvements including drainage, curbs,
       gutters, sidewalks, paved roads, and utilities as mandated
       by the political subdivision having jurisdiction over the lot
       or parcel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   65%
 4156                             STATUTES OF 2000                                    [Ch. 636 ]

(E)     Land that has been zoned for (and if required, approved for
        subdivision as) commercial or residential development . . .
                                                                                              50%

(F)     Other real property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35%

   (2) The percentage amounts specified in paragraph (1) may be
exceeded when and to the extent that the broker determines that the
encumbrance of the property in excess of these percentages is reasonable
and prudent considering all relevant factors pertaining to the real
property. However, in no event shall the aggregate principal amount of
the notes or interests sold, together with the unpaid principal amount of
any encumbrances upon the property senior thereto, exceed 80 percent
of the current fair market value of improved real property or 50 percent
of the current fair market value of unimproved real property, except in
the case of a single-family zoned lot or parcel as defined in paragraph (1),
which shall not exceed 65 percent of the current fair market value of that
lot or parcel, plus the amount insured as specified in paragraph (1). A
written statement shall be prepared by the broker that sets forth the
material considerations and facts that the broker relies upon for his or her
determination, which shall be retained as a part of the broker’s record of
the transaction. Either a copy of the statement or the information
contained therein shall be included in the disclosures required pursuant
to subdivision (k).
   (3) A copy of the appraisal or the broker’s evaluation shall be
delivered to each purchaser. The broker shall advise purchasers of their
right to receive a copy. For purposes of this paragraph, ‘‘appraisal’’
means a written estimate of value based upon the assembling, analyzing,
and reconciling of facts and value indicators for the real property in
question. A broker shall not purport to make an appraisal unless the
person so employed is qualified on the basis of special training,
preparation, or experience.
   (h) The documentation of the transaction shall require that (1) a
default upon any interest or note is a default upon all interests or notes
and (2) the holders of more than 50 percent of the record beneficial
interests of the notes or interests may govern the actions to be taken on
behalf of all holders in accordance with Section 2941.9 of the Civil Code
in the event of default or foreclosure for matters that require direction or
approval of the holders, including designation of the broker, servicing
agent, or other person acting on their behalf, and the sale, encumbrance,
or lease of real property owned by the holders resulting from foreclosure
or receipt of a deed in lieu of foreclosure. The terms called for by this
subdivision may be included in the deed of trust, in the assignment of
[Ch. 636 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4157

interests, or in any other documentation as is necessary or appropriate
to make them binding on the parties.
   (i) (1) The broker shall not accept any purchase or loan funds or other
consideration from a prospective lender or purchaser, or directly or
indirectly cause the funds or other consideration to be deposited in an
escrow or trust account, except as to a specific loan or note secured by
a deed of trust that the broker owns, is authorized to negotiate, or is
unconditionally obligated to buy.
   (2) All funds received by the broker from the purchasers or lenders
shall be handled in accordance with Section 10145 for disbursement to
the persons thereto entitled upon recordation of the interests of the
purchasers or lenders in the note and deed of trust. No provision of this
section shall be construed as modifying or superseding applicable law
regulating the escrowholder in any transaction or the handling of the
escrow account.
   (3) The books and records of the broker or servicing agent, or both,
shall be maintained in a manner that readily identifies transactions under
this section and the receipt and disbursement of funds in connection with
these transactions.
   (4) If required by paragraph (3) of subdivision (j), the review by the
independent certified public accountant shall include a sample of
transactions, as reflected in the records of the trust account required
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (j), and the bank statements and
supporting documents. These documents shall be reviewed for
compliance with this section with respect to the handling and
distribution of funds. The sample shall be selected at random by the
accountant from all these transactions and shall consist of the following:
(A) three sales made or 5 percent of the sales made pursuant to this
section during the period for which the examination is conducted,
whichever is greater, and (B) 10 payments processed or 2 percent of
payments processed under this section during the period for which the
examination is conducted, whichever is greater. The transaction that
constitutes a ‘‘sale,’’ for purposes of this subdivision, is the series of
transactions by which a series of notes of a maker, or the interests in the
note of a maker, are sold or issued to their various purchasers under this
section, including all receipts and disbursements in that process of funds
received from the purchasers or lenders. The transaction that constitutes
a ‘‘payment,’’ for the purposes of this subdivision, is the receipt of a
payment from the person obligated on the note or from some other
person on behalf of the person so obligated, including the broker or
servicing agent, and the distribution of that payment to the persons
entitled thereto. If a payment involves an advance paid by the broker or
servicing agent as the result of a dishonored check, the inspection shall
identify the source of funds from which the payment was made or, in the
 4158                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 636 ]
alternative, the steps that are reasonably necessary to determine that
there was not a disbursement of trust funds. The accountant shall inspect
for compliance with the following specific provisions of this section:
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subdivision (i) and paragraphs (1) and (2)
of subdivision (j).
   (5) Within 30 days of the close of the period for which the report is
made, or within any additional time as the commissioner may in writing
allow in a particular case, the accountant shall forward to the broker or
servicing agent, as the case may be, and to the commissioner, the report
of the accountant, stating that the inspection was performed in
accordance with this section, listing the sales and the payments
examined, specifying the nature of the deficiencies, if any, noted by the
accountant with respect to each sale or payment, together with any
further information as the accountant may wish to include, such as
corrective steps taken with respect to any deficiency so noted, or stating
that no deficiencies were observed. If the broker meets the threshold
criteria of Section 10232, the report of the accountant shall be submitted
as part of the quarterly reports required under Section 10232.25.
   (j) The notes or interests shall be sold subject to a written agreement
that obligates a licensed real estate broker, or a person exempted from
the licensing requirement for real estate brokers under Chapter 3
(commencing with Section 10130) of Part 1 of Division 4, to act as agent
for the purchasers or lenders to service the note or notes and deed of trust,
including the receipt and transmission of payments and the institution
of foreclosure proceedings in the event of a default. A copy of this
servicing agreement shall be delivered to each purchaser. The broker
shall offer to the lenders or purchasers the services of the broker or one
or more affiliates of the broker, or both, as servicing agent for each
transaction conducted pursuant to this section. The agreement shall
require all of the following:
   (1) (A) That payments received on the note or notes be deposited
immediately to a trust account maintained in accordance with this
section and with the provisions for trust accounts of licensed real estate
brokers contained in Section 10145 and Article 15 (commencing with
Section 2830.1) of Chapter 6 of Title 10 of the California Code of
Regulations.
   (B) That payments deposited pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall not
be commingled with the assets of the servicing agent or used for any
transaction other than the transaction for which the funds are received.
   (2) That payments received on the note or notes shall be transmitted
to the purchasers or lenders pro rata according to their respective
interests within 25 days after receipt thereof by the agent. If the source
for the payment is not the maker of the note, the agent shall inform the
purchasers or lenders of the source for payment. A broker or servicing
[Ch. 636 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4159

agent who transmits to the purchaser or lenders the broker’s or servicing
agent’s own funds to cover payments due from the borrower but unpaid
as a result of a dishonored check may recover the amount of the advances
from the trust fund when the past due payment is received. However, this
section does not authorize the broker, servicing agent, or any other
person to issue, or to engage in any practice constituting, any guarantee
or to engage in the practice of advancing payments on behalf of the
borrower.
   (3) If the broker, directly or through an affiliate, is the servicing agent
for notes or interests sold pursuant to this section upon which the
payments due during any period of three consecutive months in the
aggregate exceed one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars ($125,000)
or the number of persons entitled to the payments exceeds 120, the trust
account or accounts of that broker or affiliate shall be inspected by an
independent certified public accountant at no less than three-month
intervals during the time the volume is maintained. Within 30 days after
the close of the period for which the review is made, the report of the
accountant shall be forwarded as provided in paragraph (5) of
subdivision (i). If the broker is required to file an annual report pursuant
to subdivision (n) or Section 10232.2, the quarterly report pursuant to
this subdivision need not be filed for the last quarter of the year for which
the annual report is made. For the purposes of this subdivision, an
affiliate of a broker is any person controlled by, controlling, or under
common control with the broker.
   (4) Unless the servicing agent will receive notice pursuant to Section
2924b of the Civil Code, the servicing agent shall file a request for notice
of default upon any prior encumbrances and promptly notify the
purchasers or lenders of any default on the prior encumbrances or on the
note or notes subject to the servicing agreement.
   (5) The servicing agent shall promptly forward copies of the
following to each purchaser or lender:
   (A) Any notice of trustee sale filed on behalf of the purchasers or
lenders.
   (B) Any request for reconveyance of the deed of trust received on
behalf of the purchasers or lenders.
   (k) The broker shall disclose in writing to each purchaser or lender the
material facts concerning the transaction on a disclosure form adopted
or approved by the commissioner pursuant to Section 10232.5, subject
to the following:
   (1) The disclosure form shall include a description of the terms upon
which the note and deed of trust are being sold, including the terms of
the undivided interests being offered therein, including the following:
   (A) In the case of the sale of an existing note:
   (i) The aggregate sale price of the note.
 4160                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 636 ]
   (ii) The percent of the premium over or discount from the principal
balance plus accrued but unpaid interest.
   (iii) The effective rate of return to the purchasers if the note is paid
according to its terms.
   (iv) The name and address of the escrowholder for the transaction.
   (v) A description of, and the estimated amount of, each cost payable
by the seller in connection with the sale and a description of, and the
estimated amount of, each cost payable by the purchasers in connection
with the sale.
   (B) In the case of the origination of a note:
   (i) The name and address of the escrowholder for the transaction.
   (ii) The anticipated closing date.
   (iii) A description of, and the estimated amount of, each cost payable
by the borrower in connection with the loan and a description of, and the
estimated amount of, each cost payable by the lenders in connection with
the loan.
   (2) A copy of the written statement or information contained therein,
as required by paragraph (2) of subdivision (g), shall be included in the
disclosure form.
   (3) Any interest of the broker or affiliate in the transaction, as
described in subdivision (d), shall be included with the disclosure form.
   (4) When the particular circumstances of a transaction make
information not specified in the disclosure form material or essential to
keep the information provided in the form from being misleading, and
the other information is known to the broker, the other information shall
also be provided by the broker.
   (l) The broker or servicing agent shall furnish any purchaser of a note
or interest, upon request, with the names and addresses of the purchasers
of the other notes or interests in the loan.
   (m) No agreement in connection with a transaction covered by this
section shall grant to the real estate broker, the servicing agent, or any
affiliate of the broker or agent the option or election to acquire the
interests of the purchasers or lenders or to acquire the real property
securing the interests. This subdivision shall not prohibit the broker or
affiliate from acquiring the interests, with the consent of the purchasers
or lenders whose interests are being purchased, or the property, with the
consent of the purchasers or lenders, if the consent is given at the time
of the acquisition.
   (n) Each broker who conducts transactions under this section and
meets the criteria of paragraph (3) of subdivision (j) shall file with the
commissioner an annual report of a review of its trust account. The report
shall be prepared and filed in accordance with subdivision (a) of Section
10232.2 and the rules and procedures thereunder of the commissioner.
That report shall cover the broker’s transactions under this section and,
[Ch. 636 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4161

if the broker also meets the threshold criteria set forth in Section 10232,
the broker’s transactions subject to that section shall be included as well.
   (o) Each broker conducting transactions pursuant to this section who
meets the criteria of paragraph (3) of subdivision (j) shall file with the
commissioner a report of the transactions that is prepared in accordance
with subdivision (c) of Section 10232.2. If the broker also meets the
threshold criteria of Section 10232, the report shall include the
transactions subject to that section as well. This report shall be
confidential pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 10232.2.
   (p) The jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Corporations under the
Corporate Securities Law of 1968 shall be neither limited nor expanded
by this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed to supersede
or restrict the application of the Corporate Securities Law of 1968. A
transaction under this section shall not be construed to be a transaction
involving the issuance of securities subject to authorization by the Real
Estate Commissioner under subdivision (e) of Section 25100 of the
Corporations Code.
   (q) Nothing in this section shall be construed to change the agency
relationships between the parties where they exist or limit in any manner
the fiduciary duty of brokers to borrowers, lenders, and purchasers of
notes or interests in transactions subject to this section.
   SEC. 2. Section 10232.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   10232.2. A real estate broker who meets the criteria of subdivision
(a) of Section 10232 shall annually file the reports referred to in
subdivisions (a) and (c) with the Department of Real Estate within 90
days after the end of the broker’s fiscal year or within any additional time
as the Real Estate Commissioner may allow for filing for good cause:
   (a) The report of a review by a licensed California independent public
accountant of trust fund financial statements, conducted in accordance
with generally accepted accounting practices, which shall include within
its scope the following information for the fiscal year relative to the
business activities of the broker described in subdivisions (d) and (e) of
Section 10131:
   (1) The receipt and disposition of all funds of others to be applied to
the making of loans and the purchasing of promissory notes or real
property sales contracts.
   (2) The receipt and disposition of all funds of others in connection
with the servicing by the broker of the accounts of owners of promissory
notes and real property sales contracts including installment payments
and loan or contract payoffs by obligors.
   (3) A statement as of the end of the fiscal year which shall include an
itemized trust fund accounting of the broker and confirmation that the
 4162                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 636 ]
trust funds are on deposit in an account or accounts maintained by the
broker in a financial institution.
   (b) A broker who meets the criteria of Section 10232, but who, in
carrying on the activities described in subdivisions (d) and (e) of Section
10131, has not during a fiscal year, accepted for the benefit of a person
to whom the broker is a trustee, any payment or remittance in a form
convertible to cash by the broker, need not comply with the provisions
of subdivision (a). In lieu thereof, the broker shall submit to the
commissioner within 30 days after the end of the broker’s fiscal year or,
within any additional time as the commissioner may allow for a filing
for good cause, a notarized statement under penalty of perjury on a form
provided by the department attesting to the fact that the broker did not
receive any trust funds in cash or convertible to cash during the fiscal
year.
   (c) A report of all of the following aspects of the business conducted
by the broker while engaging in activities described in subdivisions (d)
and (e) of Section 10131 and in Section 10131.1:
   (1) Number and aggregate dollar amount of loan, trust deed sales and
real property sales contract transactions negotiated.
   (2) Number and aggregate dollar amount of promissory notes and
contracts serviced by the broker or an affiliate of the broker.
   (3) Number and aggregate dollar amount of late payment charges,
prepayment penalties and other fees or charges collected and retained by
the broker under servicing agreements with beneficiaries and obligees.
   (4) Default and foreclosure experience in connection with
promissory notes and contracts subject to servicing agreements between
the broker and beneficiaries or obligees.
   (5) Commissions received by the broker for services performed as
agent in negotiating loans and sales of promissory notes and real
property sales contracts.
   (6) Aggregate costs and expenses as referred to in Section 10241 paid
by borrowers to the broker.
   (d) The commissioner shall adopt regulations prescribing the form
and content of the report referred to in subdivision (c) with appropriate
categories to afford a better understanding of the business conducted by
the broker.
   (e) If the broker fails to file either of the reports required under
subdivisions (a) and (c) within the time permitted herein, the
commissioner may cause an examination and report to be made and may
charge the broker one and one-half times the cost of making the
examination and report. In determining the hourly cost incurred by the
commissioner for conducting an examination and preparing the report,
the commissioner may use the estimated average hourly cost for all
department audit staff performing audits of real estate brokers. If a
[Ch. 636 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4163

broker fails to pay the above amount within 60 days of the mailing of a
notice of billing, the commissioner may suspend the broker’s license or
deny renewal of the broker’s license. The suspension or denial shall
remain in effect until the above amount is paid or the broker’s right to
renew a license has expired. The commissioner may maintain an action
for the recovery of the above amount in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (f) The reports referred to in subdivisions (a) and (c) are exempted
from any requirement of public disclosure by paragraph (2) of
subdivision (d) of Section 6254 of the Government Code. The
commissioner shall annually make and file as a public record, a
composite of the annual reports and any comments thereon which are
deemed to be in the public interest.
   SEC. 3. Section 10232.25 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   10232.25. (a) A real estate broker who meets the criteria of
subdivision (a) of Section 10232 shall, within 30 days after the end of
each of the first three fiscal quarters of the broker’s fiscal year, or within
any additional time as the Real Estate Commissioner may allow for good
cause, file with the commissioner a trust funds status report as of the last
day of the fiscal quarter which shall include the following:
   (1) A representation that the form and content of the trust account
records of the broker are in compliance with the regulations of the
commissioner.
   (2) A representation that the broker’s trust fund bank account is
maintained in compliance with the regulations of the commissioner.
   (3) A statement of the broker’s aggregate accountability for trust
funds.
   (4) A report of trust funds in the broker’s custody consisting of the
trust account bank statements as of the bank’s accounting date
immediately preceding the end of the fiscal quarter and a schedule of
withdrawals and deposits adjusting the account to its true balance as of
the end of the fiscal quarter.
   (5) A statement explaining any difference in amount between the
broker’s total accountability under paragraph (3) above and the adjusted
trust account bank balance under paragraph (4) above.
   (b) Each report made pursuant to subdivision (a) shall include the
following:
   (1) The name, address, and position or capacity of the person who
prepared the report.
   (2) A declaration under penalty of perjury by the broker that the
information and representations in the report are true, complete, and
correct to the best of the broker’s knowledge and belief. The declaration
in a report submitted on behalf of a corporate broker shall be signed by
 4164                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 636 ]
a broker-officer through whom the corporation is licensed as a real estate
broker and by the chief executive officer of the corporation if he or she
is not the signing broker-officer.
   (c) If a broker fails to file a report required under subdivision (a)
within the time permitted, the commissioner may cause an examination
and report to be made and may charge the broker one and one-half times
the cost of making the examination and report. In determining the hourly
cost incurred by the commissioner for conducting an examination and
preparing the report, the commissioner may use the estimated average
hourly cost for all department audit staff performing audits of real estate
brokers. If a broker fails to pay the above amount within 60 days of the
mailing of a notice of billing, the commissioner may suspend the
broker’s license or deny renewal of the broker’s license. The suspension
or denial shall remain in effect until the above amount is paid or the
broker’s right to renew a license has expired. The commissioner may
maintain an action for the recovery of the above amount in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (d) A broker who meets the criteria of Section 10232, but who, in
carrying on the activities described in subdivisions (d) and (e) of Section
10131, did not during a fiscal quarter, accept for the benefit of a person
to whom the broker is trustee, any payment or remittance in a form
convertible to cash by the broker, need not comply with the provisions
of subdivision (a). In lieu thereof, the broker shall submit to the
commissioner within 30 days after the end of the fiscal quarter or within
any additional time as the commissioner may allow for good cause, a
statement under penalty of perjury on a form provided by the department
attesting to the fact that the broker did not receive any trust funds in cash
or convertible to cash during the fiscal quarter.
   (e) Any real estate broker who engages in any of the activities
specified in subdivision (d) or (e) of Section 10131, but who is not
required by this section to file trust funds status reports with the
commissioner and who is not exempt therefrom under subdivision (d),
shall complete trust funds status reports in accordance with either (1) the
requirements of subdivisions (a) and (b) applicable to trust funds status
reports filed with the commissioner, or (2) the requirements established
by the lender or note owner, if the lender or note owner does all of the
following: (i) requires monthly reconciliations of trust account balances;
(ii) requires annual, CPA-audited financial statements; and (iii)
maintains a contractual right to audit the trust accounts held by the
broker on behalf of the lender or note owner.
   The broker shall retain all trust funds status reports prepared under this
subdivision on file at the broker’s offices, where they shall be subject to
inspection by representatives of the commissioner upon 24 hours’
notice.
[Ch. 636 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4165

   SEC. 4. Section 10232.5 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   10232.5. (a) If the real estate broker is performing acts described in
subdivision (d) of Section 10131 in negotiating a loan to be secured by
a lien on real property or on a business opportunity, the statement
required to be given to the prospective lender shall include, but shall not
necessarily be limited to, the following information:
   (1) Address or other means of identification of the real property that
is to be the security for the borrower’s obligation.
   (2) Estimated fair market value of the securing property as
determined by an appraisal, a copy of which shall be provided to the
lender. However, a lender may waive the requirement of an independent
appraisal in writing, on a case-by-case basis, in which case, the real estate
broker shall provide the broker’s written estimated fair market value of
the securing property, which shall include the objective data upon which
the broker’s estimate is based.
   (3) Age, size, type of construction and a description of improvements
to the property if contained in the appraisal or as represented to the broker
by the prospective borrower.
   (4) Identity, occupation, employment, income, and credit data about
the prospective borrower or borrowers as represented to the broker by the
prospective borrower or borrowers.
   (5) Terms of the promissory note to be given to the lender.
   (6) Pertinent information concerning all encumbrances which
constitute liens against the securing property and, to the extent of actual
knowledge of the broker, pertinent information about other loans that the
borrower expects or anticipates will result in a lien being recorded
against the property securing the promissory note to be created in favor
of the prospective lender.
   As used in this paragraph, actual knowledge with respect to any
anticipated or expected loan, means knowledge gained by the broker
through arranging that other loan or receipt of written notification of that
other loan. In this regard, the broker shall also provide to the prospective
lender the option to apply to purchase a title insurance policy or an
endorsement to an existing title insurance policy covering the securing
property, and a copy of a written loan application, and a credit report.
   (7) Provisions for servicing of the loan, if any, including disposition
of the late charge and prepayment penalty fees paid by the borrower.
   (8) Detailed information concerning any proposed arrangement
under which the prospective lender along with persons not otherwise
associated with him or her will be joint beneficiaries or obligees.
   (9) If the solicitation is subject to the provisions of Section 10231.2,
a detailed statement of the intended use and disposition of the funds
 4166                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 636 ]
being solicited including an explanation of the nature and extent of the
benefits to be directly or indirectly derived by the broker.
   (b) If the real estate broker is performing acts described in subdivision
(e) of Section 10131 or in Section 10131.1 in negotiating the sale of a
real property sales contract or promissory note secured directly or
collaterally by a lien on real property, the statement required to be given
to the prospective purchaser by Section 10232.4 shall include, but shall
not necessarily be limited to, the following information:
   (1) Address or other means of identification of the real property that
is the security for the trustor’s or vendee’s obligation.
   (2) Estimated fair market value of the real property as determined by
an appraisal, a copy of which shall be provided to the prospective
purchaser. However, a purchaser may waive the requirement of an
independent appraisal in writing, on a case-by-case basis, in which case,
the real estate broker shall provide the broker’s written estimated fair
market value of the securing property, which shall include the objective
data upon which the broker’s estimate is based.
   (3) Age, size, type of construction and a description of improvements
to the real property if known by the broker.
   (4) Information available to the broker relative to the ability of the
trustor or vendee to meet his or her contractual obligations under the note
or contract including the trustor’s or vendee’s payment history under the
note or contract.
   (5) Terms of the contract or note including the principal balance
owing.
   (6) Provisions for servicing of the note or contract, if any, including
disposition of late charge, prepayment penalty or other fees or charges
paid by the trustor or vendee.
   (7) Detailed information concerning any proposed arrangement
under which the prospective purchaser along with persons not otherwise
associated with him or her will be joint beneficiaries or obligees. In this
regard, the broker shall also provide to the prospective purchaser the
option to apply to purchase a title insurance policy or an endorsement to
an existing title insurance policy covering the real property and, if
available from the seller of the note or contract or from the original
lender, a copy of a written loan application, and a credit report.
   (8) A statement as to whether the dealer is acting as a principal or as
an agent in the transaction with the prospective purchaser.
   SEC. 5. Section 1363 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   1363. (a) A common interest development shall be managed by an
association which may be incorporated or unincorporated. The
association may be referred to as a community association.
[Ch. 636 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4167

   (b) An association, whether incorporated or unincorporated, shall
prepare a budget pursuant to Section 1365 and disclose information, if
requested, in accordance with Section 1368.
   (c) Unless the governing documents provide otherwise, and
regardless of whether the association is incorporated or unincorporated,
the association may exercise the powers granted to a nonprofit mutual
benefit corporation, as enumerated in Section 7140 of the Corporations
Code, except that an unincorporated association may not adopt or use a
corporate seal or issue membership certificates in accordance with
Section 7313 of the Corporations Code.
   The association, whether incorporated or unincorporated, may
exercise the powers granted to an association by Section 383 of the Code
of Civil Procedure and the powers granted to the association in this title.
   (d) Meetings of the membership of the association shall be conducted
in accordance with a recognized system of parliamentary procedure or
any parliamentary procedures the association may adopt.
   (e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, notice of meetings of
the members shall specify those matters the board intends to present for
action by the members, but, except as otherwise provided by law, any
proper matter may be presented at the meeting for action.
   (f) Members of the association shall have access to association
records in accordance with Article 3 (commencing with Section 8330)
of Chapter 13 of Part 3 of Division 2 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code.
   (g) If an association adopts or has adopted a policy imposing any
monetary penalty, including any fee, on any association member for a
violation of the governing documents or rules of the association,
including any monetary penalty relating to the activities of a guest or
invitee of a member, the board of directors shall adopt and distribute to
each member, by personal delivery or first-class mail, a schedule of the
monetary penalties that may be assessed for those violations, which shall
be in accordance with authorization for member discipline contained in
the governing documents. The board of directors shall not be required
to distribute any additional schedules of monetary penalties unless there
are changes from the schedule that was adopted and distributed to the
members pursuant to this subdivision.
   (h) When the board of directors is to meet to consider or impose
discipline upon a member, the board shall notify the member in writing,
by either personal delivery or first-class mail, at least 10 days prior to the
meeting. The notification shall contain, at a minimum, the date, time,
and place of the meeting, the nature of the alleged violation for which
a member may be disciplined, and a statement that the member has a
right to attend and may address the board at the meeting. The board of
directors of the association shall meet in executive session if requested
by the member being disciplined.
 4168                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 636 ]
   If the board imposes discipline on a member, the board shall provide
the member a written notification of the disciplinary action, by either
personal delivery or first-class mail, within 15 days following the action.
A disciplinary action shall not be effective against a member unless the
board fulfills the requirements of this subdivision.
   (i) Whenever two or more associations have consolidated any of their
functions under a joint neighborhood association or similar
organization, members of each participating association shall be entitled
to attend all meetings of the joint association other than executive
sessions, (1) shall be given reasonable opportunity for participation in
those meetings and (2) shall be entitled to the same access to the joint
association’s records as they are to the participating association’s
records.
   (j) Nothing in this section shall be construed to create, expand, or
reduce the authority of the board of directors of an association to impose
monetary penalties on an association member for a violation of the
governing documents or rules of the association.
   SEC. 6. Section 2924 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   2924. Every transfer of an interest in property, other than in trust,
made only as a security for the performance of another act, is to be
deemed a mortgage, except when in the case of personal property it is
accompanied by actual change of possession, in which case it is to be
deemed a pledge. Where, by a mortgage created after July 27, 1917, of
any estate in real property, other than an estate at will or for years, less
than two, or in any transfer in trust made after July 27, 1917, of a like
estate to secure the performance of an obligation, a power of sale is
conferred upon the mortgagee, trustee, or any other person, to be
exercised after a breach of the obligation for which that mortgage or
transfer is a security, the power shall not be exercised except where the
mortgage or transfer is made pursuant to an order, judgment, or decree
of a court of record, or to secure the payment of bonds or other evidences
of indebtedness authorized or permitted to be issued by the
Commissioner of Corporations, or is made by a public utility subject to
the provisions of the Public Utilities Act, until (a) the trustee, mortgagee,
or beneficiary, or any of their authorized agents shall first file for record,
in the office of the recorder of each county wherein the mortgaged or trust
property or some part or parcel thereof is situated, a notice of default,
identifying the mortgage or deed of trust by stating the name or names
of the trustor or trustors and giving the book and page, or instrument
number, if applicable, where the same is recorded or a description of the
mortgaged or trust property and containing a statement that a breach of
the obligation for which the mortgage or transfer in trust is security has
occurred, and setting forth the nature of each breach actually known to
the beneficiary and of his or her election to sell or cause to be sold the
[Ch. 636 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4169

property to satisfy that obligation and any other obligation secured by
the deed of trust or mortgage that is in default, and where the default is
curable pursuant to Section 2924c, containing the statement specified in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 2924c; (b) not less than three
months shall thereafter elapse; and (c) after the lapse of the three months
the mortgagee, trustee or other person authorized to take the sale shall
give notice of sale, stating the time and place thereof, in the manner and
for a time not less than that set forth in Section 2924f. In performing acts
required by this article, the trustee shall incur no liability for any good
faith error resulting from reliance on information provided in good faith
by the beneficiary regarding the nature and the amount of the default
under the secured obligation, deed of trust, or mortgage. In performing
the acts required by this article, a trustee shall not be subject to Title 1.6c
(commencing with Section 1788) of Part 4. A recital in the deed executed
pursuant to the power of sale of compliance with all requirements of law
regarding the mailing of copies of notices or the publication of a copy
of the notice of default or the personal delivery of the copy of the notice
of default or the posting of copies of the notice of sale or the publication
of a copy thereof shall constitute prima facie evidence of compliance
with these requirements and conclusive evidence thereof in favor of bona
fide purchasers and encumbrancers for value and without notice. The
mailing, publication, and delivery of notices as required herein, and the
performance of the procedures set forth in this article, shall constitute
privileged communications within Section 47. There is a rebuttable
presumption that the beneficiary actually knew of all unpaid loan
payments on the obligation owed to the beneficiary and secured by the
deed of trust or mortgage subject to the notice of default. However, the
failure to include an actually known default shall not invalidate the
notice of sale and the beneficiary shall not be precluded from asserting
a claim to this omitted default or defaults in a separate notice of default.
   SEC. 7. Section 2924g of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   2924g. (a) All sales of property under the power of sale contained
in any deed of trust or mortgage shall be held in the county where the
property or some part thereof is situated, and shall be made at auction,
to the highest bidder, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on any
business day, Monday through Friday.
   The sale shall commence at the time and location specified in the
notice of sale. Any postponement shall be announced at the time and
location specified in the notice of sale for commencement of the sale or
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).
   If the sale of more than one parcel of real property has been scheduled
for the same time and location by the same trustee, (1) any postponement
of any of the sales shall be announced at the time published in the notice
of sale, (2) the first sale shall commence at the time published in the
 4170                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 636 ]
notice of sale or immediately after the announcement of any
postponement, and (3) each subsequent sale shall take place as soon as
possible after the preceding sale has been completed.
   (b) When the property consists of several known lots or parcels they
shall be sold separately unless the deed of trust or mortgage provides
otherwise. When a portion of the property is claimed by a third person,
who requires it to be sold separately, the portion subject to the claim may
be thus sold. The trustor, if present at the sale, may also, unless the deed
of trust or mortgage otherwise provides, direct the order in which
property shall be sold, when the property consists of several known lots
or parcels which may be sold to advantage separately, and the trustee
shall follow that direction. After sufficient property has been sold to
satisfy the indebtedness no more can be sold.
   If the property under power of sale is in two or more counties the
public auction sale of all of the property under the power of sale may take
place in any one of the counties where the property or a portion thereof
is located.
   (c) (1) There may be a postponement of the sale proceedings at any
time prior to the completion of the sale at the discretion of the trustee,
or upon instruction by the beneficiary to the trustee that the sale
proceedings be postponed.
   There may be a maximum of three postponements of the sale
proceedings pursuant to this subdivision. In the event that the sale
proceedings are postponed more than three times, the scheduling of any
further sale proceedings shall be preceded by the giving of a new notice
of sale in the manner prescribed by Section 2924f.
   (2) The trustee shall postpone the sale upon the order of any court of
competent jurisdiction, or where stayed by operation of law, or by the
mutual agreement, whether oral or in writing, of any trustor and any
beneficiary or any mortgagor and any mortgagee. Any postponement
pursuant to this paragraph shall not be a postponement for purposes of
determining the maximum number of postponements permitted
pursuant to this subdivision nor shall a postponement resulting from the
prohibition upon a sale within seven days from the expiration of an
injunction, restraining order, or stay as provided in subdivision (d) be
deemed a postponement for purposes of this subdivision. In addition,
one postponement by the trustee based upon a reasonable belief that a
petition for bankruptcy has been filed shall not be a postponement for
purposes of determining the maximum number of postponements
permitted pursuant to this subdivision.
   (d) The notice of each postponement and the reason therefor shall be
given by public declaration by the trustee at the time and place last
appointed for sale. A public declaration of postponement shall also set
forth the new date, time, and place of sale and the place of sale shall be
[Ch. 636 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4171

the same place as originally fixed by the trustee for the sale. No other
notice of postponement need be given. However, the sale shall be
conducted no sooner than on the seventh day after the earlier of (1)
dismissal of the action or (2) expiration or termination of the injunction,
restraining order, or stay (which required postponement of the sale),
whether by entry of an order by a court of competent jurisdiction,
operation of law, or otherwise, unless the injunction, restraining order,
or subsequent order expressly directs the conduct of the sale within that
seven-day period. For purposes of this subdivision, the seven-day period
shall not include the day on which the action is dismissed, or the day on
which the injunction, restraining order, or stay expires or is terminated.
If the sale had been scheduled to occur, but this subdivision precludes
its conduct during that seven-day period, a new notice of postponement
shall be given if the sale had been scheduled to occur during that
seven-day period. The trustee shall maintain records of each
postponement and the reason therefor.
   (e) Notwithstanding the time periods established under subdivision
(d), if postponement of a sale is based on a stay granted under Title 11
of the United States Code (Bankruptcy), the sale shall be conducted no
sooner than the expiration of the stay granted under that title.
   SEC. 8. Section 2943 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   2943. (a) As used in this section:
   (1) ‘‘Beneficiary’’ means a mortgagee or beneficiary of a mortgage
or deed of trust, or his or her assignees.
   (2) ‘‘Beneficiary statement’’ means a written statement showing:
   (A) The amount of the unpaid balance of the obligation secured by the
mortgage or deed of trust and the interest rate, together with the total
amounts, if any, of all overdue installments of either principal or interest,
or both.
   (B) The amounts of periodic payments, if any.
   (C) The date on which the obligation is due in whole or in part.
   (D) The date to which real estate taxes and special assessments have
been paid to the extent the information is known to the beneficiary.
   (E) The amount of hazard insurance in effect and the term and
premium of that insurance to the extent the information is known to the
beneficiary.
   (F) The amount in an account, if any, maintained for the accumulation
of funds with which to pay taxes and insurance premiums.
   (G) The nature and, if known, the amount of any additional charges,
costs, or expenses paid or incurred by the beneficiary which have
become a lien on the real property involved.
   (H) Whether the obligation secured by the mortgage or deed of trust
can or may be transferred to a new borrower.
 4172                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 636 ]
   (3) ‘‘Delivery’’ means depositing or causing to be deposited in the
United States mail an envelope with postage prepaid, containing a copy
of the document to be delivered, addressed to the person whose name and
address is set forth in the demand therefor. The document may also be
transmitted by facsimile machine to the person whose name and address
is set forth in the demand therefor.
   (4) ‘‘Entitled person’’ means the trustor or mortgagor of, or his or her
successor in interest in, the mortgaged or trust property or any part
thereof, any beneficiary under a deed of trust, any person having a
subordinate lien or encumbrance of record thereon, the escrowholder
licensed as an agent pursuant to Division 6 (commencing with Section
17000) of the Financial Code, or the party exempt by virtue of Section
17006 of the Financial Code who is acting as the escrowholder.
   (5) ‘‘Payoff demand statement’’ means a written statement, prepared
in response to a written demand made by an entitled person or authorized
agent, setting forth the amounts required as of the date of preparation by
the beneficiary, to fully satisfy all obligations secured by the loan that
is the subject of the payoff demand statement. The written statement
shall include information reasonably necessary to calculate the payoff
amount on a per diem basis for the period of time, not to exceed 30 days,
during which the per diem amount is not changed by the terms of the
note.
   (b) (1) A beneficiary, or his or her authorized agent, shall, within 21
days of the receipt of a written demand by an entitled person or his or her
authorized agent, prepare and deliver to the person demanding it a true,
correct, and complete copy of the note or other evidence of indebtedness
with any modification thereto, and a beneficiary statement.
   (2) A request pursuant to this subdivision may be made by an entitled
person or his or her authorized agent at any time before, or within two
months after, the recording of a notice of default under a mortgage or
deed of trust, or may otherwise be made more than 30 days prior to the
entry of the decree of foreclosure.
   (c) A beneficiary, or his or her authorized agent, shall, on the written
demand of an entitled person, or his or her authorized agent, prepare and
deliver a payoff demand statement to the person demanding it within 21
days of the receipt of the demand. However, if the loan is subject to a
recorded notice of default or a filed complaint commencing a judicial
foreclosure, the beneficiary shall have no obligation to prepare and
deliver this statement as prescribed unless the written demand is
received prior to the first publication of a notice of sale or the notice of
the first date of sale established by a court.
   (d) (1) A beneficiary statement or payoff demand statement may be
relied upon by the entitled person or his or her authorized agent in
accordance with its terms, including with respect to the payoff demand
[Ch. 636 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4173

statement reliance for the purpose of establishing the amount necessary
to pay the obligation in full. If the beneficiary notifies the entitled person
or his or her authorized agent of any amendment to the statement, then
the amended statement may be relied upon by the entitled person or his
or her authorized agent as provided in this subdivision.
   (2) If notification of any amendment to the statement is not given in
writing, then a written amendment to the statement shall be delivered to
the entitled person or his or her authorized agent no later than the next
business day after notification.
   (3) Upon the dates specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) any sums
that were due and for any reason not included in the statement or
amended statement shall continue to be recoverable by the beneficiary
as an unsecured obligation of the obligor pursuant to the terms of the note
and existing provisions of law.
   (A) If the transaction is voluntary, the entitled party or his or her
authorized agent may rely upon the statement or amended statement
upon the earlier of (i) the close of escrow, (ii) transfer of title, or (iii)
recordation of a lien.
   (B) If the loan is subject to a recorded notice of default or a filed
complaint commencing a judicial foreclosure, the entitled party or his
or her authorized agent may rely upon the statement or amended
statement upon the acceptance of the last and highest bid at a trustee’s
sale or a court supervised sale.
   (e) The following provisions apply to a demand for either a
beneficiary statement or a payoff demand statement:
   (1) If an entitled person or his or her authorized agent requests a
statement pursuant to this section and does not specify a beneficiary
statement or a payoff demand statement the beneficiary shall treat the
request as a request for a payoff demand statement.
   (2) If the entitled person or the entitled person’s authorized agent
includes in the written demand a specific request for a copy of the deed
of trust or mortgage, it shall be furnished with the written statement at
no additional charge.
   (3) The beneficiary may, before delivering a statement, require
reasonable proof that the person making the demand is, in fact, an
entitled person or an authorized agent of an entitled person, in which
event the beneficiary shall not be subject to the penalties of this section
until 21 days after receipt of the proof herein provided for. A statement
in writing signed by the entitled person appointing an authorized agent
when delivered personally to the beneficiary or delivered by registered
return receipt mail shall constitute reasonable proof as to the identity of
an agent. Similar delivery of a policy of title insurance, preliminary
report issued by a title company, original or photographic copy of a grant
deed or certified copy of letters testamentary, guardianship, or
 4174                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 636 ]
conservatorship shall constitute reasonable proof as to the identity of a
successor in interest, provided the person demanding a statement is
named as successor in interest in the document.
   (4) If a beneficiary for a period of 21 days after receipt of the written
demand willfully fails to prepare and deliver the statement, he or she is
liable to the entitled person for all damages which he or she may sustain
by reason of the refusal and, whether or not actual damages are sustained,
he or she shall forfeit to the entitled person the sum of three hundred
dollars ($300). Each failure to prepare and deliver the statement,
occurring at a time when, pursuant to this section, the beneficiary is
required to prepare and deliver the statement, creates a separate cause of
action, but a judgment awarding an entitled person a forfeiture, or
damages and forfeiture, for any failure to prepare and deliver a statement
bars recovery of damages and forfeiture for any other failure to prepare
and deliver a statement, with respect to the same obligation, in
compliance with a demand therefor made within six months before or
after the demand as to which the award was made. For the purposes of
this subdivision, ‘‘willfully’’ means an intentional failure to comply
with the requirements of this section without just cause or excuse.
   (5) If the beneficiary has more than one branch, office, or other place
of business, then the demand shall be made to the branch or office
address set forth in the payment billing notice or payment book, and the
statement, unless it specifies otherwise, shall be deemed to apply only
to the unpaid balance of the single obligation named in the request and
secured by the mortgage or deed of trust which is payable at the branch
or office whose address appears on the aforesaid billing notice or
payment book.
   (6) The beneficiary may make a charge not to exceed sixty dollars
($60) for furnishing each required statement. The provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply to mortgages or deeds of trust insured by the
Federal Housing Administrator or guaranteed by the Administrator of
Veterans Affairs.
   (f) The preparation and delivery of a beneficiary statement or a payoff
demand statement pursuant to this section shall not change a date of sale
established pursuant to Section 2924g.
   SEC. 9. Section 17312 of the Financial Code is amended to read:
   17312. (a) Each person licensed pursuant to this division who is
engaged in the business of receiving escrows specified in subdivision (c)
shall participate as a member in Fidelity Corporation in accordance with
this chapter and rules established by the board of directors of Fidelity
Corporation. Fidelity Corporation shall not deny membership to any
escrow agent holding a valid unrevoked license under the Escrow Law
who is required to be a member under this subdivision.
[Ch. 636 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4175

   (b) Upon filing a new application for licensure as required by
subdivision (b) of Section 17213, persons required to be a member of
Fidelity Corporation shall file a copy thereof concurrently with Fidelity
Corporation, but no additional membership fee or deposit shall be
required.
   (c) The required membership in Fidelity Corporation shall be limited
to those licensees who engage, in whole or in part, in the business of
receiving escrows for deposit or delivery in the following types of
transactions:
   (1) Real property escrows, including, but not limited to, the sale,
encumbrance, lease, exchange, or transfer of title, and loans or other
obligations to be secured by a lien upon real property.
   (2) Bulk sale escrows, including, but not limited to, the sale or
transfer of title to a business entity and the transfer of liquor licenses or
other types of business licenses or permits.
   (3) Fund or joint control escrows, including, but not limited to,
transactions specified in Section 17005.1, and contracts specified in
Section 10263 of the Public Contract Code.
   (4) The sale, transfer of title, or refinance escrows for manufactured
homes or mobilehomes.
   (5) Reservation deposits required under Article 2 (commencing with
Section 11010) of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 4 of the Business and
Professions Code or by regulation of the Department of Real Estate to
be held in an escrow account.
   (6) Escrows for sale, transfer, modification, assignment, or
hypothecation of promissory notes secured by deeds of trust.
   (d) Coverage required to be provided by Fidelity Corporation under
this chapter shall be provided to members only for loss of trust
obligations with respect to those types of transactions specified in
subdivision (c). Indemnity coverage for those types of transactions not
specified in subdivision (c) shall be provided by escrow agents in
accordance with Section 17203.1.
   SEC. 10. Section 17320 of the Financial Code is amended to read:
   17320. Fidelity Corporation shall establish and maintain the
following funds for payment of claims and for payment of costs of
administration: the membership fund, the operations fund, and the
fidelity fund.
   (a) An applicant or a licensee shall, at the time an application is filed
for a license, pay to Fidelity Corporation a membership fee of three
thousand dollars ($3,000) for each location for which a license is
applied. If the application is denied, withdrawn, or abandoned, Fidelity
Corporation may retain two hundred dollars ($200) from the
membership fee to cover costs of administration.
 4176                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 636 ]
   (1) The membership fund shall be reserved for payment of claims
which exceed the fidelity fund balance and for payment of extraordinary
operational costs.
   (2) Any member who, on the effective date of this section, has an
account balance which exceeds the three thousand dollars ($3,000)
membership fee times the number of its licensed locations shall be
credited in a special reserve account for the excess amount. This balance
shall be credited against future assessments made pursuant to
subdivision (b) of Section 17321 in an amount not exceeding four
hundred dollars ($400) per licensed location per year. Any member
whose account balance is less than three thousand dollars ($3,000) times
the number of its licensed locations shall, on or before December 1,
1988, pay to Fidelity Corporation an amount sufficient to allow the
member’s account to be maintained at three thousand dollars ($3,000)
times the number of licensed locations. Fidelity Corporation shall
provide each member with an accounting of the amounts being reserved
for the members’ membership account and amounts being held as a
special reserve.
   (3) The membership fee, less any unpaid assessments and related
costs, shall be refunded to the member in accordance with Fidelity
Corporation’s bylaws not less than 30 months and no more than 36
months after the effective date of surrender of a license.
   (4) Any member who does not engage in any escrow transactions
pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 17312 may terminate its
membership in Fidelity Corporation by written notice to Fidelity
Corporation and the Department of Corporations, as provided in the
Fidelity Corporation’s bylaws and rules and regulations. The
membership fee, less any unpaid assessments and related costs, shall be
refunded to the member in accordance with Fidelity Corporation’s
bylaws not less than 30 months and no more than 36 months after the
effective date of the member’s written request to terminate its
membership in Fidelity Corporation. Before a licensee resumes those
escrow transactions, it shall first be required to become a member of
Fidelity Corporation, as provided in this subdivision.
   (b) Fidelity Corporation shall prepare, prior to its fiscal year end, an
estimated annual operational budget projecting the costs of operations
and administration for the succeeding fiscal year, excluding the amount
paid for claims and premiums paid for excess coverage bonding. The
amount of the assessment shall be 150 percent of the budgetary
projection. In succeeding years, the assessment shall be adjusted by
adding the prior year’s deficit or deducting unused surplus from the prior
year.
   (c) Fidelity Corporation shall establish a fidelity fund for the payment
of claims and for the payment of the premium for the fidelity bond or
[Ch. 637 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4177

insurance policy, if any. All claims shall be paid from the fidelity fund,
provided that, to the extent that the fidelity fund balance is not sufficient
to pay claims, the claim shall be paid from the membership fund by
charging each member’s membership account a pro rata share of the
excess.
  (d) All interest earned on the membership fund and the operations
fund shall be credited to the fidelity fund.
  SEC. 11. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 637

  An act to amend Sections 3010, 3050.1, and 3051 of the Vehicle Code,
relating to vehicles.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3010 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   3010. Five members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, for the performance of any duty or the exercise
of any power or authority of the board, except that three members of the
board, who are not new motor vehicle dealers, shall constitute a quorum
for the purposes of Article 4 (commencing with Section 3060) and the
consideration of a petition pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 3050
that involves a dispute between a franchisee and franchisor.
   SEC. 2. Section 3050.1 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   3050.1. (a) In any proceeding, hearing, or in the discharge of any
duties imposed under this chapter, the board, its secretary, or a hearing
officer designated by the board may administer oaths, take depositions,
certify to official acts, and issue subpoenas to compel attendance of
witnesses and the production of books, records, papers, and other
documents in any part of the state.
   (b) For purposes of discovery, the board or its secretary may, if
deemed appropriate and proper under the circumstances, authorize the
 4178                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 638 ]
parties to engage in those discovery procedures as are provided for in
civil actions in Article 3 (commencing with Section 2016) of Chapter 3
of Title 3 of Part 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure, excepting the
provisions of Section 2030 of that code. Discovery shall be completed
no later than 15 days prior to the commencement of the proceeding or
hearing before the board. This subdivision shall apply only to those
proceedings or hearings involving a petition or protest filed pursuant to
subdivision (c) or (d) of Section 3050. The board, its secretary, or a
hearing officer designated by the board may issue subpoenas to compel
attendance at depositions of persons having knowledge of the acts,
omissions or events which are the basis for the proceedings, as well as
the production of books, records, papers and other documents.
   SEC. 3. Section 3051 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   3051. This chapter does not apply to any person licensed as a
transporter under Article 1 (commencing with Section 11700) or as a
salesperson under Article 2 (commencing with Section 11800) of
Chapter 4 of Division 5, or to any licensee who is not a new motor
vehicle dealer, motor vehicle manufacturer, manufacturer branch, new
motor vehicle distributor, distributor branch or representative. This
chapter does not apply to transactions involving ‘‘mobilehomes,’’ as
defined in Section 18008 of the Health and Safety Code, ‘‘recreational
vehicles,’’ as defined in Section 18010 of the Health and Safety Code,
‘‘commercial coaches,’’ as defined in Section 18001.8 of the Health and
Safety Code, or off-highway motor vehicles subject to identification, as
defined in Section 38012, except off-highway motorcycles, as defined
in Section 436, and all-terrain vehicles, as defined in Section 111. Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, this chapter applies to a new motor
vehicle dealer as defined in Section 426, a vehicle manufacturer as
defined in Section 672, a manufacturer branch as defined in Section 389,
a distributor as defined in Section 296, a distributor branch as defined
in Section 297, a representative as defined in Section 512, or an applicant
therefor.



                            CHAPTER 638

 An act to amend Section 33214 of, and to add Section 33217 to, the
Health and Safety Code, relating to redevelopment.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]
[Ch. 639 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4179

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 33214 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   33214. (a) Notwithstanding Section 33120, the territorial
jurisdiction of an agency in the county shall include all of the
unincorporated territory that was included in a project area selected
pursuant to Section 33322 or 34004 even if that territory is subsequently
annexed to a city or included within the boundaries of a new city, unless
territorial jurisdiction over the project area is transferred from a county
to a city pursuant to Section 33215 , 33216, or 33217.
   (b) Notwithstanding Section 33120, the territorial jurisdiction of an
agency in a city shall include all of the territory within the limits of the
city that was included in a project area selected pursuant to Section
33322 or 34004 even if that territory is subsequently annexed to another
city or included within the boundaries of a new city, unless territorial
jurisdiction over the project area is transferred to the other city pursuant
to Section 33215, 33216, or 33217.
   SEC. 2. Section 33217 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   33217. If a portion of a city containing a portion of a redevelopment
project area is incorporated as a new city, and the new city establishes
an agency to be the receiving agency for that portion of the project area,
the creating agency and the receiving agency shall have six months from
the date of the establishment of that receiving agency to enter into an
agreement pursuant to Section 33216. If that agreement is not entered
into within that six-month period, the creating agency shall not thereafter
expend any money pursuant to this part or Part 1.5 (commencing with
Section 34000) within the project area, except to repay existing
indebtedness, until those agencies have entered into that agreement.
That indebtedness shall include outstanding bonded indebtedness,
existing agreements, contracts, leases, and expenditures made to, or on
behalf of, the project area from other resources or borrowings of the
creating agency.



                             CHAPTER 639

  An act to amend Sections 674, 699.510, 699.520, 699.540, 699.545,
700.010, and 700.160 of, and to add Section 680.135 to, the Code of
Civil Procedure, relating to judgments.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]
 4180                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 639 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 674 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   674. (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 4506 of the
Family Code, an abstract of a judgment or decree requiring the payment
of money shall be certified by the clerk of the court where the judgment
or decree was entered and shall contain all of the following:
   (1) The title of the court where the judgment or decree is entered and
cause and number of the action.
   (2) The date of entry of the judgment or decree and of any renewals
of the judgment or decree and where entered in the records of the court.
   (3) The name and last known address of the judgment debtor and the
address at which the summons was either personally served or mailed to
the judgment debtor or the judgment debtor’s attorney of record.
   (4) The name and address of the judgment creditor.
   (5) The amount of the judgment or decree as entered or as last
renewed.
   (6) The social security number and driver’s license number of the
judgment debtor if they are known to the judgment creditor; and, if either
or both of those numbers are not known to the judgment creditor, that fact
shall be indicated on the abstract of judgment.
   (7) Whether a stay of enforcement has been ordered by the court and,
if so, the date the stay ends.
   (8) The date of issuance of the abstract.
   (b) An abstract of judgment, recorded after January 1, 1979, that does
not list the social security number and driver’s license number of the
judgment debtor, or either of them, as required by subdivision (a) or by
Section 4506 of the Family Code, may be amended by the recording of
a document entitled ‘‘Amendment to Abstract of Judgment.’’ The
Amendment to Abstract of Judgment shall contain all of the information
required by this section or by Section 4506 of the Family Code, shall list
both the social security number and driver’s license number if both of
those numbers were known at the date of recordation of the original
abstract of judgment, or one of them, if only one was known, and shall
set forth the date of recording and the book and page location in the
records of the county recorder of the original abstract of judgment.
   A recorded Amendment to Abstract of Judgment shall have priority
as of the date of recordation of the original abstract of judgment, except
as to any purchaser, encumbrancer, or lessee who obtained their interest
after the recordation of the original abstract of judgment but prior to the
recordation of the Amendment to Abstract of Judgment without actual
notice of the original abstract of judgment. The purchaser,
encumbrancer, or lessee without actual notice may assert as a defense
[Ch. 639 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4181

against enforcement of the abstract of judgment the failure to comply
with this section or Section 4506 of the Family Code regarding the
contents of the original abstract of judgment notwithstanding the
subsequent recordation of an Amendment to Abstract of Judgment. With
respect to an abstract of judgment recorded between January 1, 1979, and
July 10, 1985, the defense against enforcement for failure to comply with
this section or Section 4506 of the Family Code may not be asserted by
the holder of another abstract of judgment or involuntary lien, recorded
without actual notice of the prior abstract, unless refusal to allow the
defense would result in prejudice and substantial injury as used in
Section 475. The recordation of an Amendment to Abstract of Judgment
does not extend or otherwise alter the computation of time as provided
in Section 697.310.
   (c) (1) The abstract of judgment shall be certified in the name of the
judgment debtor as listed on the judgment and may also include the
additional name or names by which the judgment debtor is known as set
forth in the affidavit of identity, as defined in Section 680.135, filed by
the judgment creditor with the application for issuance of the abstract of
judgment. Prior to the clerk of court certifying an abstract of judgment
containing any additional name or names by which the judgment debtor
is known that are not listed on the judgment, the court shall approve the
affidavit of identity. If the court determines, without a hearing or a
notice, that the affidavit of identity states sufficient facts upon which the
judgment creditor has identified the additional names of the judgment
debtor, the court shall authorize the certification of the abstract of
judgment with the additional name or names.
   (2) The remedies provided in Section 697.410 apply to a recorded
abstract of a money judgment based upon an affidavit of identity that
appears to create a judgment lien on real property of a person who is not
the judgment debtor.
   SEC. 2. Section 680.135 is added to the Code of Civil Procedure,
to read:
   680.135. ‘‘Affidavit of Identity’’ means an affidavit or declaration
executed by a judgment creditor, under penalty of perjury, that is filed
with the clerk of the court in which the judgment is entered at the time
the judgment creditor files for a writ of execution or an abstract of
judgment. The affidavit of identity shall set forth the case name and
number, the name of the judgment debtor stated in the judgment, the
additional name or names by which the judgment debtor is known, and
the facts upon which the judgment creditor has relied in obtaining the
judgment debtor’s additional name or names. The affidavit of identity
shall not include the name or names of persons, including any
corporations, partnerships, or any legal entities not separately named in
 4182                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 639 ]
the judgment in which the judgment debtor is a partner, shareholder, or
member, other than the judgment debtor.
   SEC. 3. Section 699.510 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   699.510. (a) Subject to subdivision (b), after entry of a money
judgment, a writ of execution shall be issued by the clerk of the court
upon application of the judgment creditor and shall be directed to the
levying officer in the county where the levy is to be made and to any
registered process server. A separate writ shall be issued for each county
where a levy is to be made. Writs may be issued successively until the
money judgment is satisfied, except that a new writ may not be issued
for a county until the expiration of 180 days after the issuance of a prior
writ for that county unless the prior writ is first returned.
   (b) If the judgment creditor seeks a writ of execution to enforce a
judgment made, entered, or enforceable pursuant to the Family Code, in
addition to the requirements of this article, the judgment creditor shall
satisfy the requirements of any applicable provisions of Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 5100) of Part 5 of Division 9 of the Family
Code and Sections 290, 291, 2026, and 3556 of the Family Code.
   (c) (1) The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the
judgment debtor as listed on the judgment and may include the
additional name or names by which the judgment debtor is known as set
forth in the affidavit of identity, as defined in Section 680.135, filed by
the judgment creditor with the application for issuance of the writ of
execution. Prior to the clerk of court issuing a writ of execution
containing any additional name or names by which the judgment debtor
is known that are not listed on the judgment, the court shall approve the
affidavit of identity. If the court determines, without a hearing or a
notice, that the affidavit of identity states sufficient facts upon which the
judgment creditor has identified the additional names of the judgment
debtor, the court shall authorize the issuance of the writ of execution with
the additional name or names.
   (2) In any case where the writ of execution lists any name other than
that listed on the judgment, the person in possession or control of the
levied property, if other than the judgment debtor, shall not pay to the
levying officer the amount or deliver the property being levied upon until
being notified to do so by the levying officer. The levying officer may
not require the person, if other than the judgment debtor, in possession
or control of the levied property to pay the amount or deliver the property
levied upon until the expiration of 15 days after service of notice of levy.
   (3) If a person who is not the judgment debtor has property
erroneously subject to an enforcement of judgment proceeding based
upon an affidavit of identity, the person shall be entitled to the recovery
of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs from the judgment creditor
[Ch. 639 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4183

incurred in releasing the person’s property from a writ of execution, in
addition to any other damages or penalties to which an aggrieved person
may be entitled to by law, including the provisions of Division 4
(commencing with Section 720.010).
   SEC. 3.1. Section 699.510 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   699.510. (a) Subject to subdivision (b), after entry of a money
judgment, a writ of execution shall be issued by the clerk of the court
upon application of the judgment creditor and shall be directed to the
levying officer in the county where the levy is to be made and to any
registered process server. A separate writ shall be issued for each county
where a levy is to be made. Writs may be issued successively until the
money judgment is satisfied, except that a new writ may not be issued
for a county until the expiration of 180 days after the issuance of a prior
writ for that county unless the prior writ is first returned.
   (b) If the judgment creditor seeks a writ of execution to enforce a
judgment made, entered, or enforceable pursuant to the Family Code, in
addition to the requirements of this article, the judgment creditor shall
satisfy the requirements of any applicable provisions of the Family
Code.
   (c) (1) The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the
judgment debtor as listed on the judgment and may include the
additional name or names by which the judgment debtor is known as set
forth in the affidavit of identity, as defined in Section 680.135, filed by
the judgment creditor with the application for issuance of the writ of
execution. Prior to the clerk of court issuing a writ of execution
containing any additional name or names by which the judgment debtor
is known that are not listed on the judgment, the court shall approve the
affidavit of identity. If the court determines, without a hearing or a
notice, that the affidavit of identity states sufficient facts upon which the
judgment creditor has identified the additional names of the judgment
debtor, the court shall authorize the issuance of the writ of execution with
the additional name or names.
   (2) In any case where the writ of execution lists any name other than
that listed on the judgment, the person in possession or control of the
levied property, if other than the judgment debtor, shall not pay to the
levying officer the amount or deliver the property being levied upon until
being notified to do so by the levying officer. The levying officer may
not require the person, if other than the judgment debtor, in possession
or control of the levied property to pay the amount or deliver the property
levied upon until the expiration of 15 days after service of notice of levy.
   (3) If a person who is not the judgment debtor has property
erroneously subject to an enforcement of judgment proceeding based
upon an affidavit of identity, the person shall be entitled to the recovery
 4184                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 639 ]
of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs from the judgment creditor
incurred in releasing the person’s property from a writ of execution, in
addition to any other damages or penalties to which an aggrieved person
may be entitled to by law, including the provisions of Division 4
(commencing with Section 720.010).
   SEC. 4. Section 699.520 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   699.520. The writ of execution shall require the levying officer to
whom it is directed to enforce the money judgment and shall include the
following information:
   (a) The date of issuance of the writ.
   (b) The title of the court where the judgment is entered and the cause
and number of the action.
   (c) The name and address of the judgment creditor and the name and
last known address of the judgment debtor.
   (d) The date of the entry of the judgment and of any subsequent
renewals and where entered in the records of the court.
   (e) The total amount of the money judgment as entered or renewed,
together with costs thereafter added to the judgment pursuant to Section
685.090 and the accrued interest on the judgment from the date of entry
or renewal of the judgment to the date of issuance of the writ, reduced
by any partial satisfactions and by any amounts no longer enforceable.
   (f) The amount required to satisfy the money judgment on the date the
writ is issued.
   (g) The amount of interest accruing daily on the principal amount of
the judgment from the date the writ is issued.
   (h) Whether any person has requested notice of sale under the
judgment and, if so, the name and mailing address of such person.
   (i) The sum of the fees and costs added to the judgment pursuant to
Section 6103.5 or 68511.3 of the Government Code and which is in
addition to the amount owing to the judgment creditor on the judgment.
   (j) Whether the writ of execution includes any additional names of the
judgment debtor pursuant to an affidavit of identity, as defined in Section
680.135.
   SEC. 5. Section 699.540 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   699.540. The notice of levy required by Article 4 (commencing with
Section 700.010) shall inform the person notified of all of the following:
   (a) The capacity in which the person is notified.
   (b) The property that is levied upon.
   (c) The person’s rights under the levy, including the right to claim an
exemption pursuant to Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 703.010)
and the right to make a third-party claim pursuant to Division 4
(commencing with Section 720.010).
[Ch. 639 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4185

   (d) The person’s duties under the levy.
   (e) All names listed in the writ of execution pursuant to an affidavit
of identity, as defined in Section 680.135, if any.
   SEC. 6. Section 699.545 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   699.545. A copy of the original notice of levy which has been served
upon a third party holding the property sought to be levied upon and the
affidavit of identity, as defined in Section 680.135, if any, if served upon
the judgment debtor or any other party, shall suffice as the notice of levy
to that person.
   SEC. 7. Section 700.010 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   700.010. (a) At the time of levy pursuant to this article or promptly
thereafter, the levying officer shall serve a copy of the following on the
judgment debtor:
   (1) The writ of execution.
   (2) A notice of levy.
   (3) If the judgment debtor is a natural person, a copy of the form
listing exemptions prepared by the Judicial Council pursuant to
subdivision (c) of Section 681.030.
   (4) Any affidavit of identity, as defined in Section 680.135, for names
of the debtor listed on the writ of execution.
   (b) Service under this section shall be made personally or by mail.
   SEC. 8. Section 700.160 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   700.160. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), a deposit
account or safe-deposit box standing in the name of a person other than
the judgment debtor, either alone or together with other third persons, is
not subject to levy under Section 700.140 or 700.150 unless the levy is
authorized by court order. The levying officer shall serve a copy of the
court order on the third person at the time the copy of the writ of
execution and the notice of levy are served on the third person.
   (b) A court order is not required as a prerequisite to levy on a deposit
account or safe-deposit box standing in the name of any of the following:
   (1) The judgment debtor, whether alone or together with third
persons.
   (2) The judgment debtor’s spouse, whether alone or together with
other third persons. An affidavit showing that the person in whose name
the account stands is the judgment debtor’s spouse shall be delivered to
the financial institution at the time of levy.
   (3) A fictitious business name if an unexpired fictitious business
name statement filed pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
17900) of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions Code lists
as the persons doing business under the fictitious business name either
 4186                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 639 ]
(A) the judgment debtor or (B) the judgment debtor’s spouse or (C) the
judgment debtor and the judgment debtor’s spouse, but does not list any
other person. A copy of a fictitious business name statement, certified
as provided in Section 17926 of the Business and Professions Code, that
satisfies these requirements shall be delivered to the financial institution
at the time of levy, and if a person other than the defendant is listed in
the statement, an affidavit showing that the other person is the judgment
debtor’s spouse shall also be delivered to the financial institution at the
time of levy.
   (4) The additional name of a judgment debtor listed on the writ of
execution pursuant to an affidavit of identity as provided by Section
680.135, whether alone or together with third persons.
   (c) In any case where a deposit account in the name of a person other
than the judgment debtor, whether alone or together with the judgment
debtor, is levied upon, the financial institution shall not pay to the
levying officer the amount levied upon until being notified to do so by
the levying officer. The levying officer may not require the financial
institution to pay the amount levied upon until the expiration of 15 days
after service of notice of levy on the third person.
   SEC. 9. Section 3.1 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
699.510 of the Code of Civil Procedure proposed by both this bill and
AB 1358. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 699.510 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and (3) this bill is
enacted after AB 1358, in which case Section 3 of this bill shall not
become operative.
   SEC. 10. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution for certain
costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because
in that regard this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a
crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   However, notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
other costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and
school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7
(commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the
Government Code. If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement
does not exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall
be made from the State Mandates Claims Fund.
[Ch. 640 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4187

                             CHAPTER 640

  An act to amend, repeal, and add Section 41841.6 of the Education
Code, relating to education of prisoners, and declaring the urgency
thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 41841.6 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   41841.6. (a) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (b) of
Section 46191, commencing with the 1994–95 fiscal year, and for each
fiscal year thereafter, for purposes of Sections 1909 and 41841.5, the
calculation of the average daily attendance for schools or classes for
adults in correctional facilities is subject to the following condition: A
school district or county board of education shall not claim or report any
increase in average daily attendance in excess of the percentage
authorized by subdivision (c) of Section 52616.17, unless the
Legislature approves the increase for that fiscal year in the annual
Budget Act.
   (b) No state funds shall be allocated to a school district or county
board of education for units of average daily attendance that have not
been approved by the Legislature pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (c) This section shall become inoperative on July 1, 2000, and as of
January 1, 2001, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that becomes
effective on or before January 1, 2001, deletes or extends the dates on
which it becomes inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 2. Section 41841.6 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   41841.6. (a) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (b) of
Section 46191, for the 2000–01 fiscal year for purposes of Sections 1909
and 41841.5, in calculating the average daily attendance for schools or
classes for adults in correctional facilities, a school district or county
board of education may not claim or report any increase in average daily
attendance in excess of the average daily attendance claimed and
authorized pursuant to this article during the previous fiscal year
multiplied by a factor of 1.025 to 1.14, as specified as follows:
   (1) A school district or county office of education that has not
experienced a loss of average daily attendance due to extenuating
circumstances may not claim or report an increase in average daily
attendance in excess of that authorized pursuant to this article during the
previous fiscal year multiplied by 1.025.
 4188                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 640 ]
   (2) A school district that experienced a loss of units of average daily
attendance due to extenuating circumstances may not claim or report an
increase in average daily attendance in excess of that authorized pursuant
to this article during the previous fiscal year multiplied by a factor
equivalent to the number derived by adding 1.025 to the extenuating
circumstances factor, as defined pursuant to paragraph (3).
   (3) For purposes of this section, ‘‘a school district or county office of
education that experienced a loss of average daily attendance due to
extenuating circumstances’’ means a school district or county office of
education that experienced a loss of average daily attendance as a result
of the temporary or permanent closure of jails, a jail, or a unit thereof,
that occurred on or after June 30, 1993, at which the district or office
provided jail education programs that were subject to reimbursement by
the state.
   (4) For purposes of paragraph (2), ‘‘extenuating circumstances
factor’’ means that number derived by dividing the number of units of
average daily attendance lost to circumstances defined in paragraph (3)
divided by the number of units of average daily attendance claimed in
the fiscal year prior to the extenuating circumstances occurring,
provided that the factor does not exceed .115.
   (5) Any school district or county office of education claiming
additional average daily attendance pursuant to the ‘‘extenuating
circumstances factor’’ defined in paragraph (4) shall document the
extenuating circumstances and the data involved in calculating their
extenuating circumstances factor. This subdivision shall apply only to
average daily attendance generated in the 2000–01 fiscal year.
   (b) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (b) of Section 46191,
commencing with the 2001-02 fiscal year, and for each fiscal year
thereafter, for purposes of Sections 1909 and 41841.5, in calculating the
average daily attendance for schools or classes for adults in correctional
facilities, a school district or county board of education may not claim
or report any increase in average daily attendance in excess of the
average daily attendance authorized pursuant to this article during the
previous fiscal year multiplied by 1.025, unless the Legislature approves
a greater increase for that fiscal year in the annual Budget Act.
   (c) No state funds shall be allocated to a school district or county
board of education for units of average daily attendance that have not
been approved by the Legislature pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b).
   (d) This section shall become operative on July 1, 2000.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
[Ch. 641 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4189

   In order to ensure that adults in correctional facilities are able to
receive an education following temporary closures of those facilities, it
is necessary that this act take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 641

  An act to amend Section 12110 of, and to add Section 13351.85 to, the
Vehicle Code, relating to vehicles.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12110 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   12110. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), no towing service
shall provide and no person or public entity shall accept any direct or
indirect commission, gift, or any compensation whatever from a towing
service in consideration of arranging or requesting the services of a tow
truck. As used in this section, ‘‘arranging’’ does not include the activities
of employees or principals of a provider of towing services in responding
to a request for towing services.
   (b) Subdivision (a) does not preclude a public entity otherwise
authorized by law from requiring a fee in connection with the award of
a franchise for towing vehicles on behalf of that public entity. However,
the fee in those cases may not exceed the amount necessary to reimburse
the public entity for its actual and reasonable costs incurred in
connection with the towing program.
   (c) Any towing service or any employee of a towing service that
accepts or agrees to accept any money or anything of value from a repair
shop and any repair shop or any employee of a repair shop that pays or
agrees to pay any money or anything of value as a commission, referral
fee, inducement, or in any manner a consideration, for the delivery or the
arranging of a delivery of a vehicle, not owned by the repair shop or
towing service, for the purpose of storage or repair, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as set forth in subdivision (d). Nothing in this
subdivision prevents a towing service from towing a vehicle to a repair
shop owned by the same company that owns the towing service.
   (d) Any person convicted of a violation of subdivision (a) or (c) shall
be punished as follows:
   (1) Upon first conviction, by a fine of not more than five thousand
dollars ($5,000) or imprisonment in the county jail for not more than six
months, or by both that fine and imprisonment. If the violation of
 4190                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 642 ]
subdivision (a) or (c) is committed by a tow truck driver, the person’s
privilege to operate a motor vehicle shall be suspended by the
department under Section 13351.85. The clerk of the court shall send a
certified abstract of the conviction to the department. If the violation of
either subdivision (a) or (c) is committed by a tow truck driver, the court
may order the impoundment of the tow truck involved for not more than
15 days.
   (2) Upon a conviction of a violation of subdivision (a) or (c) that
occurred within seven years of one or more separate convictions of
violations of subdivision (a) or (c), by a fine of not more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) or imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than one year, or by both that fine and imprisonment. If the
violation of subdivision (a) or (c) is committed by a tow truck driver, the
person’s privilege to operate a motor vehicle shall be suspended by the
department under Section 13351.85. The clerk of the court shall send a
certified abstract of the conviction to the department. If the violation of
either subdivision (a) or (c) is committed by a tow truck owner, the court
may order the impoundment of the tow truck involved for not less than
15 days but not more than 30 days.
   SEC. 2. Section 13351.85 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   13351.85. Upon receipt of a duly certified abstract of any court
showing that a person has been convicted of a violation of Section
12110, the department shall suspend that person’s driving privilege for
four months if the conviction was a first conviction, and for one year, if
the conviction was a second or subsequent conviction of a violation of
that section that occurred within seven years of the current conviction.
   SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 642

  An act to add Section 33319.3 to the Education Code, and to amend
Sections 11113 and 11219 of, and to add Sections 13210 and 13351.8 to,
the Vehicle Code, relating to vehicles.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]
[Ch. 642 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4191

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 33319.3 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
  33319.3. The State Department of Education shall prepare materials
on driver attitude and motivation that focus on the reduction of driving
violations with particular emphasis on aggressive driving behavior and
behavior commonly known as ‘‘road rage’’ and shall make these
materials available to school districts to use in connection with programs
of automobile driving education, at the option of the school district.
  SEC. 2. Section 11113 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
  11113. (a) The director may prescribe rules and regulations for
driving schools regarding the conduct of courses of driver education and
driver training, including curriculum, facilities, and equipment. The
rules and regulations regarding curriculum shall require both of the
following:
  (1) A component relating to the dangers involved in consuming
alcohol or drugs in connection with the operation of a motor vehicle.
  (2) A component examining driver attitude and motivation that
focuses on the reduction of future driving violations, with particular
emphasis on aggressive driving behavior and behavior commonly
known as ‘‘road rage.’’
  (b) The director may also prescribe rules and regulations for the
conduct of driving instructor training courses required by Sections
11102.5 and 11104, including curriculum, facilities, and equipment. The
department shall monitor instruction given by driving schools.
  SEC. 3. Section 11219 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
  11219. The director may prescribe rules and regulations for traffic
violator schools regarding the conduct of courses of education including
curriculum, facilities, and equipment. The curriculum shall include, but
not be limited to, a component examining driver attitude and motivation
that focuses on the reduction of future driving violations, with particular
emphasis on aggressive driving behavior and behavior commonly
known as ‘‘road rage.’’ The director may also prescribe rules and
regulations for the conduct of instructor training courses.
  SEC. 4. Section 13210 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
  13210. In addition to the penalties set forth in subdivision (a) of
Section 245 of the Penal Code, the court may order the suspension of the
driving privilege of any operator of a motor vehicle who commits an
assault as described in subdivision (a) of Section 245 of the Penal Code
on an operator or passenger of another motor vehicle, an operator of a
bicycle, or a pedestrian and the offense occurs on a highway. The
suspension period authorized under this section for an assault commonly
known as ‘‘road rage,’’ shall be six months for a first offense and one year
 4192                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 643 ]
for a second or subsequent offense to commence, at the discretion of the
court, either on the date of the person’s conviction, or upon the person’s
release from confinement or imprisonment. The court may, in lieu of or
in addition to the suspension of the driving privilege, order a person
convicted under this section to complete a court-approved anger
management or ‘‘road rage’’ course, subsequent to the date of the current
violation.
   SEC. 5. Section 13351.8 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   13351.8. Upon receipt of a duly certified abstract of the record of
any court showing that the court has ordered the suspension of a driver’s
license pursuant to Section 13210, on or after January 1, 2001, the
department shall suspend the person’s driving privilege in accordance
with that suspension order commencing either on the date of the person’s
conviction or upon the person’s release from confinement or
imprisonment.



                             CHAPTER 643

   An act to amend Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
relating to sexually violent predators.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   6600. As used in this article, the following terms have the following
meanings:
   (a) (1) ‘‘Sexually violent predator’’ means a person who has been
convicted of a sexually violent offense against two or more victims and
who has a diagnosed mental disorder that makes the person a danger to
the health and safety of others in that it is likely that he or she will engage
in sexually violent criminal behavior.
   (2) For purposes of this subdivision any of the following shall be
considered a conviction for a sexually violent offense:
   (A) A prior or current conviction that resulted in a determinate prison
sentence for an offense described in subdivision (b).
   (B) A conviction for an offense described in subdivision (b) that was
committed prior to July 1, 1977, and that resulted in an indeterminate
prison sentence.
[Ch. 643 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4193

   (C) A prior conviction in another jurisdiction for an offense that
includes all of the elements of an offense described in subdivision (b).
   (D) A conviction for an offense under a predecessor statute that
includes all of the elements of an offense described in subdivision (b).
   (E) A prior conviction for which the inmate received a grant of
probation for an offense described in subdivision (b).
   (F) A prior finding of not guilty by reason of insanity for an offense
described in subdivision (b).
   (G) A conviction resulting in a finding that the person was a mentally
disordered sex offender.
   (3) Conviction of one or more of the crimes enumerated in this section
shall constitute evidence that may support a court or jury determination
that a person is a sexually violent predator, but shall not be the sole basis
for the determination. The existence of any prior convictions may be
shown with documentary evidence. The details underlying the
commission of an offense that led to a prior conviction, including a
predatory relationship with the victim, may be shown by documentary
evidence, including, but not limited to, preliminary hearing transcripts,
trial transcripts, probation and sentencing reports, and evaluations by the
State Department of Mental Health. Jurors shall be admonished that they
may not find a person a sexually violent predator based on prior offenses
absent relevant evidence of a currently diagnosed mental disorder that
makes the person a danger to the health and safety of others in that it is
likely that he or she will engage in sexually violent criminal behavior.
   (4) The provisions of this section shall apply to any person against
whom proceedings were initiated for commitment as a sexually violent
predator on or after January 1, 1996.
   (b) ‘‘Sexually violent offense’’ means the following acts when
committed by force, violence, duress, menace, or fear of immediate and
unlawful bodily injury on the victim or another person, and that are
committed on, before, or after the effective date of this article and result
in a conviction or a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity, as
provided in subdivision (a): a felony violation of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261, paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of
Section 262, Section 264.1, subdivision (a) or (b) of Section 288, or
subdivision (a) of Section 289 of the Penal Code, or sodomy or oral
copulation in violation of Section 286 or 288a of the Penal Code.
   (c) ‘‘Diagnosed mental disorder’’ includes a congenital or acquired
condition affecting the emotional or volitional capacity that predisposes
the person to the commission of criminal sexual acts in a degree
constituting the person a menace to the health and safety of others.
   (d) ‘‘Danger to the health and safety of others’’ does not require proof
of a recent overt act while the offender is in custody.
 4194                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 643 ]
   (e) ‘‘Predatory’’ means an act is directed toward a stranger, a person
of casual acquaintance with whom no substantial relationship exists, or
an individual with whom a relationship has been established or
promoted for the primary purpose of victimization.
   (f) ‘‘Recent overt act’’ means any criminal act that manifests a
likelihood that the actor may engage in sexually violent predatory
criminal behavior.
   (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and for purposes of
this section, no more than one prior juvenile adjudication of a sexually
violent offense may constitute a prior conviction for which the person
received a determinate term if all of the following applies:
   (1) The juvenile was 16 years of age or older at the time he or she
committed the prior offense.
   (2) The prior offense is a sexually violent offense as specified in
subdivision (b). Notwithstanding Section 6600.1, only an offense
described in subdivision (b) shall constitute a sexually violent offense
for purposes of this subdivision.
   (3) The juvenile was adjudged a ward of the juvenile court within the
meaning of Section 602 because of the person’s commission of the
offense giving rise to the juvenile court adjudication.
   (4) The juvenile was committed to the Department of the Youth
Authority for the sexually violent offense.
   (h) A minor adjudged a ward of the court for commission of an
offense that is defined as a sexually violent offense shall be entitled to
specific treatment as a sexual offender. The failure of a minor to receive
that treatment shall not constitute a defense or bar to a determination that
any person is a sexually violent predator within the meaning of this
article.
   SEC. 2. Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   6600. As used in this article, the following terms have the following
meanings:
   (a) (1) ‘‘Sexually violent predator’’ means a person who has been
convicted of a sexually violent offense against two or more victims and
who has a diagnosed mental disorder that makes the person a danger to
the health and safety of others in that it is likely that he or she will engage
in sexually violent criminal behavior.
   (2) For purposes of this subdivision any of the following shall be
considered a conviction for a sexually violent offense:
   (A) A prior or current conviction that resulted in a determinate prison
sentence for an offense described in subdivision (b).
   (B) A conviction for an offense described in subdivision (b) that was
committed prior to July 1, 1977, and that resulted in an indeterminate
prison sentence.
[Ch. 643 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4195

   (C) A prior conviction in another jurisdiction for an offense that
includes all of the elements of an offense described in subdivision (b).
   (D) A conviction for an offense under a predecessor statute that
includes all of the elements of an offense described in subdivision (b).
   (E) A prior conviction for which the inmate received a grant of
probation for an offense described in subdivision (b).
   (F) A prior finding of not guilty by reason of insanity for an offense
described in subdivision (b).
   (G) A conviction resulting in a finding that the person was a mentally
disordered sex offender.
   (3) Conviction of one or more of the crimes enumerated in this section
shall constitute evidence that may support a court or jury determination
that a person is a sexually violent predator, but shall not be the sole basis
for the determination. The existence of any prior convictions may be
shown with documentary evidence. The details underlying the
commission of an offense that led to a prior conviction, including a
predatory relationship with the victim, may be shown by documentary
evidence, including, but not limited to, preliminary hearing transcripts,
trial transcripts, probation and sentencing reports, and evaluations by the
State Department of Mental Health. Jurors shall be admonished that they
may not find a person a sexually violent predator based on prior offenses
absent relevant evidence of a currently diagnosed mental disorder that
makes the person a danger to the health and safety of others in that it is
likely that he or she will engage in sexually violent criminal behavior.
   (4) The provisions of this section shall apply to any person against
whom proceedings were initiated for commitment as a sexually violent
predator on or after January 1, 1996.
   (b) ‘‘Sexually violent offense’’ means the following acts when
committed by force, violence, duress, menace, or fear of immediate and
unlawful bodily injury on the victim or another person, and that are
committed on, before, or after the effective date of this article and result
in a conviction or a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity, as
provided in subdivision (a): a felony violation of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261, paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of
Section 262, Section 264.1, subdivision (a) or (b) of Section 288,
Section 288.5, or subdivision (a) of Section 289 of the Penal Code, or
sodomy or oral copulation in violation of Section 286 or 288a of the
Penal Code.
   (c) ‘‘Diagnosed mental disorder’’ includes a congenital or acquired
condition affecting the emotional or volitional capacity that predisposes
the person to the commission of criminal sexual acts in a degree
constituting the person a menace to the health and safety of others.
   (d) ‘‘Danger to the health and safety of others’’ does not require proof
of a recent overt act while the offender is in custody.
 4196                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 643 ]
   (e) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), ‘‘predatory’’ means an
act is directed toward a stranger, a person of casual acquaintance with
whom no substantial relationship exists, or an individual with whom a
relationship has been established or promoted for the primary purpose
of victimization.
   (2) (A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the Controller determines
that funds have been made available in the annual Budget Act or other
legislation for purposes of the treatment program for sex offenders
contained in Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 2688) of Chapter 4
of Title 1 of Part 3 of the Penal Code, the definition contained in
subparagraph (B) shall apply to this article.
   (B) ‘‘Predatory’’ means an act is directed toward a stranger, a child
under the age of 14 years, a person of casual acquaintance with whom
no substantial relationship exists, or an individual with whom a
relationship has been established or promoted for the primary purpose
of victimization.
   (f) ‘‘Recent overt act’’ means any criminal act that manifests a
likelihood that the actor may engage in sexually violent predatory
criminal behavior.
   (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and for purposes of
this section, no more than one prior juvenile adjudication of a sexually
violent offense may constitute a prior conviction for which the person
received a determinate term if all of the following applies:
   (1) The juvenile was 16 years of age or older at the time he or she
committed the prior offense.
   (2) The prior offense is a sexually violent offense as specified in
subdivision (b). Notwithstanding Section 6600.1, only an offense
described in subdivision (b) shall constitute a sexually violent offense
for purposes of this subdivision.
   (3) The juvenile was adjudged a ward of the juvenile court within the
meaning of Section 602 because of the person’s commission of the
offense giving rise to the juvenile court adjudication.
   (4) The juvenile was committed to the Department of the Youth
Authority for the sexually violent offense.
   (h) A minor adjudged a ward of the court for commission of an
offense that is defined as a sexually violent offense shall be entitled to
specific treatment as a sexual offender. The failure of a minor to receive
that treatment shall not constitute a defense or bar to a determination that
any person is a sexually violent predator within the meaning of this
article.
   SEC. 3. Section 2 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
6600 of the Welfare and Institutions Code proposed by both this bill and
AB 1458. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
[Ch. 644 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4197

Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, and (3) this bill is
enacted after AB 1458, in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not
become operative.



                             CHAPTER 644

  An act to amend Sections 638, 639, 640, 641, 641.2, 643, 644, 645,
and 645.1 of, to add Section 645.2 to, and to repeal and add Section 642
of, the Code of Civil Procedure, relating to referees.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 638 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   638. A referee may be appointed upon the agreement of the parties
filed with the clerk, or judge, or entered in the minutes or in the docket,
or upon the motion of a party to a written contract or lease that provides
that any controversy arising therefrom shall be heard by a referee if the
court finds a reference agreement exists between the parties:
   (a) To hear and determine any or all of the issues in an action or
proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a statement of
decision thereon.
   (b) To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to determine an
action or proceeding.
   (c) In any matter in which a referee is appointed pursuant to this
section, a copy of the order shall be forwarded to the office of the
presiding judge. The Judicial Council shall, by rule, collect information
on the use of these referees. The Judicial Council shall also collect
information on fees paid by the parties for the use of referees to the extent
that information regarding those fees is reported to the court. The
Judicial Council shall report thereon to the Legislature by January 1,
2003. This subdivision shall become inoperative on January 1, 2004.
   SEC. 2. Section 639 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   639. (a) When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the
written motion of any party, or of its own motion, appoint a referee in
the following cases:
   (1) When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a long
account on either side; in which case the referees may be directed to hear
 4198                      STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 644 ]
and decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific question of fact
involved therein.
   (2) When the taking of an account is necessary for the information of
the court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect.
   (3) When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.
   (4) When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special
proceeding.
   (5) When the court in any pending action determines that it is
necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and determine any and
all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action
and to report findings and make a recommendation thereon.
   (b) All appointments of referees pursuant to this section shall be by
written order and shall include the following:
   (1) When the referee is appointed pursuant to paragraph (1), (2), (3),
or (4) of subdivision (a), a statement of the reason the referee is being
appointed.
   (2) When the referee is appointed pursuant to paragraph (5) of
subdivision (a), the exceptional circumstances requiring the reference,
which must be specific to the circumstances of the particular case.
   (3) The subject matter or matters included in the reference.
   (4) The name, business address, and telephone number of the referee.
   (5) The maximum hourly rate the referee may charge and, at the
request of any party, the maximum number of hours for which the referee
may charge. Upon the written application of any party or the referee, the
court may, for good cause shown, modify the maximum number of hours
subject to any findings as set forth in paragraph (6).
   (6) (A) Either a finding that no party has established an economic
inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee’s fee or a finding that one
or more parties has established an economic inability to pay a pro rata
share of the referee’s fees and that another party has agreed voluntarily
to pay that additional share of the referee’s fee. A court shall not appoint
a referee at a cost to the parties if neither of these findings is made.
   (B) In determining whether a party has established an inability to pay
the referee’s fees under subparagraph (A), the court shall consider only
the ability of the party, not the party’s counsel, to pay these fees. If a party
is proceeding in forma pauperis, the party shall be deemed by the court
to have an economic inability to pay the referee’s fees. However, a
determination of economic inability to pay the fees shall not be limited
to parties that proceed in forma pauperis. For those parties who are not
proceeding in forma pauperis, the court, in determining whether a party
has established an inability to pay the fees, shall consider, among other
things, the estimated cost of the referral and the impact of the proposed
fees on the party’s ability to proceed with the litigation.
[Ch. 644 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4199

   (c) In any matter in which a referee is appointed pursuant to paragraph
(5) of subdivision (a), a copy of the order appointing the referee shall be
forwarded to the office of the presiding judge of the court. The Judicial
Council shall, by rule, collect information on the use of these references
and the reference fees charged to litigants, and shall report thereon to the
Legislature by January 1, 2003. This subdivision shall become
inoperative on January 1, 2004.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 639 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   639. (a) When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the
written motion of any party, or of its own motion, appoint a referee in
the following cases:
   (1) When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a
long account on either side; in which case the referees may be directed
to hear and decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific question
of fact involved therein.
   (2) When the taking of an account is necessary for the information
of the court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into
effect.
   (3) When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.
   (4) When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special
proceeding.
   (5) When the court in any pending action determines that it is
necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and determine any and
all discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action
and to report findings and make a recommendation thereon.
   (b) In a discovery matter, a motion to disqualify an appointed referee
pursuant to Section 170.6 shall be made to the court by a party either:
   (A) Within 10 days after notice of the appointment, or if the party has
not yet appeared in the action, a motion shall be made within 10 days
after the appearance, if a discovery referee has been appointed for all
discovery purposes.
   (B) At least five days before the date set for hearing, if the referee
assigned is known at least 10 days before the date set for hearing and the
discovery referee has been assigned only for limited discovery purposes.
   (c) When a referee is appointed pursuant to paragraph (5) of
subdivision (a), the order shall indicate whether the referee is being
appointed for all discovery purposes in the action.
   (d) All appointments of referees pursuant to this section shall be by
written order and shall include the following:
   (1) When the referee is appointed pursuant to paragraph (1), (2), (3),
or (4) of subdivision (a), a statement of the reason the referee is being
appointed.
 4200                      STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 644 ]
   (2) When the referee is appointed pursuant to paragraph (5) of
subdivision (a), the exceptional circumstances requiring the reference,
which must be specific to the circumstances of the particular case.
   (3) The subject matter or matters included in the reference.
   (4) The name, business address, and telephone number of the referee.
   (5) The maximum hourly rate the referee may charge and, at the
request of any party, the maximum number of hours for which the referee
may charge. Upon the written application of any party or the referee, the
court may, for good cause shown, modify the maximum number of hours
subject to any findings as set forth in paragraph (6).
   (6) (A) Either a finding that no party has established an economic
inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee’s fee or a finding that one
or more parties has established an economic inability to pay a pro rata
share of the referee’s fees and that another party has agreed voluntarily
to pay that additional share of the referee’s fee. A court shall not appoint
a referee at a cost to the parties if neither of these findings is made.
   (B) In determining whether a party has established an inability to pay
the referee’s fees under subparagraph (A), the court shall consider only
the ability of the party, not the party’s counsel, to pay these fees. If a party
is proceeding in forma pauperis, the party shall be deemed by the court
to have an economic inability to pay the referee’s fees. However, a
determination of economic inability to pay the fees shall not be limited
to parties that proceed in forma pauperis. For those parties who are not
proceeding in forma pauperis, the court, in determining whether a party
has established an inability to pay the fees, shall consider, among other
things, the estimated cost of the referral and the impact of the proposed
fees on the party’s ability to proceed with the litigation.
   (e) In any matter in which a referee is appointed pursuant to paragraph
(5) of subdivision (a), a copy of the order appointing the referee shall be
forwarded to the office of the presiding judge of the court. The Judicial
Council shall, by rule, collect information on the use of these references
and the reference fees charged to litigants, and shall report thereon to the
Legislature by January 1, 2003. This subdivision shall become
inoperative on January 1, 2004.
   SEC. 3. Section 640 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   640. (a) The court shall appoint as referee or referees the person or
persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties.
   (b) If the parties do not agree on the selection of the referee or referees,
each party shall submit to the court up to three nominees for appointment
as referee and the court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding
three, from among the nominees against whom there is no legal
objection. If no nominations are received from any of the parties, the
court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, against
[Ch. 644 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4201

whom there is no legal objection, or the court may appoint a court
commissioner of the county where the cause is pending as a referee.
   (c) Participation in the referee selection procedure pursuant to this
section does not constitute a waiver of grounds for objection to the
appointment of a referee under Section 641 or 641.2.
   SEC. 4. Section 641 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   641. A party may object to the appointment of any person as referee,
on one or more of the following grounds:
   (a) A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render
a person competent as a juror, except a requirement of residence within
a particular county in the state.
   (b) Consanguinity or affinity, within the third degree, to either party,
or to an officer of a corporation which is a party, or to any judge of the
court in which the appointment shall be made.
   (c) Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, conservator and
conservatee, master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and
agent, to either party; or being a member of the family of either party;
or a partner in business with either party; or security on any bond or
obligation for either party.
   (d) Having served as a juror or been a witness on any trial between the
same parties.
   (e) Interest on the part of the person in the event of the action, or in
the main question involved in the action.
   (f) Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to
the merits of the action.
   (g) The existence of a state of mind in the potential referee evincing
enmity against or bias toward either party.
   SEC. 5. Section 641.2 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   641.2. In any action brought under Article 8 (commencing with
Section 12600) of Chapter 6, Part 2, Division 3, Title 3 of the
Government Code, a party may object to the appointment of any person
as referee on the ground that the person is not technically qualified with
respect to the particular subject matter of the proceeding.
   SEC. 6. Section 642 of the Code of Civil Procedure is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 642 is added to the Code of Civil Procedure, to read:
   642. Objections, if any, to a reference or to the referee or referees
appointed by the court shall be made in writing, and must be heard and
disposed of by the court, not by the referee.
   SEC. 8. Section 643 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   643. (a) Unless otherwise directed by the court, the referees or
commissioner must report their statement of decision in writing to the
 4202                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 644 ]
court within 20 days after the hearing, if any, has been concluded and the
matter has been submitted.
   (b) A referee appointed pursuant to Section 638 shall report as agreed
by the parties and approved by the court.
   (c) A referee appointed pursuant to Section 639 shall file with the
court a report that includes a recommendation on the merits of any
disputed issue, a statement of the total hours spent and the total fees
charged by the referee, and the referee’s recommended allocation of
payment. The referee shall serve the report on all parties. Any party may
file an objection to the referee’s report or recommendations within 10
days after the referee serves and files the report, or within another time
as the court may direct. The objection shall be served on the referee and
all other parties. Responses to the objections shall be filed with the court
and served on the referee and all other parties within 10 days after the
objection is served. The court shall review any objections to the report
and any responses submitted to those objections and shall thereafter
enter appropriate orders. Nothing in this section is intended to deprive
the court of its power to change the terms of the referee’s appointment
or to modify or disregard the referee’s recommendations, and this
overriding power may be exercised at any time, either on the motion of
any party for good cause shown or on the court’s own motion.
   SEC. 9. Section 644 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   644. (a) In the case of a consensual general reference pursuant to
Section 638, the decision of the referee or commissioner upon the whole
issue must stand as the decision of the court, and upon filing of the
statement of decision with the clerk of the court, or with the judge where
there is no clerk, judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner
as if the action had been tried by the court.
   (b) In the case of all other references, the decision of the referee or
commissioner is only advisory. The court may adopt the referee’s
recommendations in whole or in part after independently considering the
referee’s findings and any objections and responses thereto filed with the
court.
   SEC. 10. Section 645 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   645. The decision of the referee appointed pursuant to Section 638
or commissioner may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner as if
made by the court. When the reference is to report the facts, the decision
reported has the effect of a special verdict.
   SEC. 11. Section 645.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   645.1. (a) When a referee is appointed pursuant to Section 638, the
referee’s fees shall be paid as agreed by the parties. If the parties do not
[Ch. 645 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4203

agree on the payment of fees and request the matter to be resolved by the
court, the court may order the parties to pay the referee’s fees as set forth
in subdivision (b).
   (b) When a referee is appointed pursuant to Section 639, at any time
after a determination of ability to pay is made as specified in paragraph
(6) of subdivision (b) of Section 639, the court may order the parties to
pay the fees of referees who are not employees or officers of the court
at the time of appointment, as fixed pursuant to Section 1023, in any
manner determined by the court to be fair and reasonable, including an
apportionment of the fees among the parties. For purposes of this
section, the term ‘‘parties’’ does not include parties’ counsel.
   SEC. 12. Section 645.2 is added to the Code of Civil Procedure, to
read:
   645.2. The Judicial Council shall adopt all rules of court necessary
to implement this chapter.
   SEC. 13. Section 2.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 639 of the Code of Civil Procedure proposed by both this bill and
SB 2153. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 639 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and (3) this bill is enacted
after SB 2153, in which case Section 2 of this bill shall not become
operative.



                             CHAPTER 645

  An act to add Section 682.1 to the Civil Code, relating to community
property.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 682.1 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
   682.1. (a) Community property of a husband and wife, when
expressly declared in the transfer document to be community property
with right of survivorship, and which may be accepted in writing on the
face of the document by a statement signed or initialed by the grantees,
shall, upon the death of one of the spouses, pass to the survivor, without
administration, pursuant to the terms of the instrument, subject to the
same procedures, as property held in joint tenancy. Prior to the death of
either spouse, the right of survivorship may be terminated pursuant to
the same procedures by which a joint tenancy may be severed. Part I
 4204                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 646 ]
(commencing with Section 5000) of Division 5 of the Probate Code and
Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 13540), Chapter 3 (commencing
with Section 13550) and Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 13560)
of Part 2 of Division 8 of the Probate Code apply to this property.
  (b) This section does not apply to a joint account in a financial
institution to which Part 2 (commencing with Section 5100) of Division
5 of the Probate Code applies.
  (c) This section shall become operative on July 1, 2001, and shall
apply to instruments created on or after that date.



                            CHAPTER 646

  An act to amend Sections 75.11, 75.21, 532, 731, 732, 733, 746, 748,
749, 758, and 759 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to
taxation.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 75.11 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   75.11. (a) If the change in ownership occurs or the new construction
is completed on or after January 1 but on or before May 31, then there
shall be two supplemental assessments placed on the supplemental roll.
The first supplemental assessment shall be the difference between the
new base year value and the taxable value on the current roll. In the case
of a change in ownership of the full interest in the real property, the
second supplemental assessment shall be the difference between the new
base year value and the taxable value to be enrolled on the roll being
prepared. If the change in ownership is of only a partial interest in the
real property, the second supplemental assessment shall be the difference
between the sum of the new base year value of the portion transferred
plus the taxable value on the roll being prepared of the remainder of the
property and the taxable value on the roll being prepared of the whole
property. For new construction, the second supplemental assessment
shall be the value change due to the new construction.
   (b) If the change in ownership occurs or the new construction is
completed on or after June 1 but before the succeeding January 1, then
the supplemental assessment placed on the supplemental roll shall be the
difference between the new base year value and the taxable value on the
current roll.
[Ch. 646 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4205

   (c) If there are multiple changes in ownership or multiple
completions of new construction, or both, with respect to the same real
property during the same assessment year, then there shall be a net
supplemental assessment placed on the supplemental roll, in addition to
the assessment pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b). The net supplemental
assessment shall be the most recent new base year value less the sum of
(1) the previous entry or entries placed on the supplemental roll
computed pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b), and (2) the corresponding
taxable value on the current roll or the taxable value to be entered on the
roll being prepared, or both, depending on the date or dates the change
of ownership occurs or new construction is completed as specified in
subdivisions (a) and (b).
   (d) (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2), no
supplemental assessment authorized by this section shall be valid, or
have any force or effect, unless it is placed on the supplemental roll on
or before the applicable date specified in subparagraphs (A), (B), or (C)
as follows:
   (A) The fourth July 1 following the July 1 of the assessment year in
which either a statement reporting the change in ownership was filed
pursuant to Section 480, 480.1, or 480.2, a preliminary change in
ownership report was filed pursuant to Section 480.3, or the new
construction was completed.
   (B) The sixth July 1 following the July 1 of the assessment year in
which either a statement reporting the change in ownership was filed
pursuant to Section 480, 480.1, or 480.2, a preliminary change in
ownership report was filed pursuant to Section 480.3, or the new
construction was completed, if the penalty provided for in Section 504
is added to the assessment.
   (C) The eighth July 1 following the July 1 of assessment year in
which the event giving rise to the supplemental assessment occurred, if
the change in ownership or change in control was unrecorded and a
change in ownership statement, required by Section 480, or a
preliminary change in ownership report, as required by Section 480.3,
was not timely filed.
   (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), there shall be no limitations
period on making a supplemental assessment, if the penalty provided for
in Section 503 is required to be added to the assessment.
   For the purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘assessment year’’ means the
period beginning annually as of 12:01 a.m. on the first day of January
and ending immediately prior to the succeeding first day of January.
   (e) If, before the expiration of the applicable period specified in
subdivision (d) for making a supplemental assessment, the taxpayer and
the assessor agree in writing to extend the period for making a
supplemental assessment, correction, or claim for refund, a
 4206                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 646 ]
supplemental assessment may be made at any time prior to the expiration
of that extended period. The extended period may be further extended
by successive written agreements entered into prior to the expiration of
the most recent extension.
   SEC. 2. Section 75.21 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   75.21. (a) Exemptions shall be applied to the amount of the
supplemental assessment, provided that all of the following are true:
   (1) The property is not receiving any other exemption on either the
current roll or the roll being prepared except as provided for in
subdivision (b).
   (2) The assessee is eligible for the exemption.
   (3) In those instances in which the provisions of this division require
the filing of claims for exemption assessee makes a claim for the
exemption.
   (b) If the property received an exemption on the current roll or the roll
being prepared and the assessee on the supplemental roll is eligible for
an exemption and in those instances in which the provisions of this
division require the filing of claims for exemption, the assessee makes
a claim for an exemption of a greater amount, then the difference in the
amount between the two exemptions shall be applied to the
supplemental assessment.
   (c) (1) If this division requires the filing of claims for exemption, any
person claiming to be eligible for an exemption to be applied against the
amount of the supplemental assessment shall, except as otherwise
provided in subdivision (d) or (e), file a claim or an amendment to a
current claim, in that form as prescribed by the board, on or before the
30th day following the date of notice of the supplemental assessment,
in order to receive a 100 percent exemption.
   (2) With respect to property as to which the college, cemetery, church,
religious, exhibition, veterans’ organization, free public libraries, free
museums, or welfare exemption was available but for which a timely
application for exemption was not filed, the following amounts shall be
canceled or refunded:
   (A) Ninety percent of any tax or penalty or interest thereon, or any
amount of tax or penalty or interest thereon exceeding two hundred fifty
dollars ($250) in total amount, whichever is greater, for each
supplemental assessment, provided that an appropriate application for
exemption is filed on or before the date on which the first installment of
taxes on the supplemental tax bill becomes delinquent, as provided by
Section 75.52.
   (B) Eighty-five percent of any tax or penalty or interest thereon, or
any amount of tax or penalty or interest thereon exceeding two hundred
fifty dollars ($250) in total amount, whichever is greater, for each
[Ch. 646 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4207

supplemental assessment, if an appropriate application for exemption is
filed after the date specified in subparagraph (A).
   (3) For property for which the welfare exemption or veterans’
organization exemption was available, Section 254.5, other than the
specified dates for the filing of affidavits and other acts, applies to the
application of those exemptions against a supplemental assessment.
   (4) For property for which the veterans’, homeowners’, or disabled
veterans’ exemption was available but for which a timely application for
exemption was not filed, that portion of tax attributable to 80 percent of
the amount of exemption available shall be canceled or refunded,
provided that an appropriate application for exemption is filed on or
before the date on which the first installment of taxes on the
supplemental tax bill becomes delinquent as provided by Section 75.52.
   (5) With respect to property as to which any other exemption was
available, but for which a timely application for exemption was not filed,
the following amounts shall be canceled or refunded:
   (A) Ninety percent of any tax or penalty or interest thereon, provided
that an appropriate application for exemption is filed on or before the
date on which the first installment of taxes on the supplemental tax bill
becomes delinquent, as provided by Section 75.52.
   (B) Eight-five percent of any tax or penalty or interest thereon, or any
amount of tax or penalty or interest thereon exceeding two hundred fifty
dollars ($250) in total amount, whichever is greater, for each
supplemental assessment, if an appropriate applciation for exemption is
filed after the date specified in subparagraph (A).
   (6) Other provisions of this division pertaining to the late filing of
claims for exemption do not apply to assessments made pursuant to this
chapter.
   (d) For purposes of this section, any claim for the homeowners’
exemption, veterans’ exemption, or disabled veterans’ exemption
previously filed by the owner of a dwelling, granted and in effect,
constitutes the claim or claims for that exemption required in this
section. In the event that no claim for the homeowners’ exemption,
veterans’ exemption, or disabled veterans’ exemption is in effect, a
claim for any of those exemptions for a single supplemental assessment
for a change in ownership or new construction occurring on or after June
1, up to and including December 31, shall apply to that assessment; a
claim for any of those exemptions for the two supplemental assessments
for a change in ownership or new construction occurring on or after
January 1, up to and including May 31, one for the current fiscal year and
one for the following fiscal year, shall apply to those assessments. In
either case, if granted, the claim shall remain in effect until title to the
property changes, the owner does not occupy the home as his or her
 4208                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 646 ]
principal place of residence on the lien date, or the property is otherwise
ineligible pursuant to Section 205, 205.5, or 218.
   (e) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), both of the following apply:
   (1) No additional exemption claim is required to be filed until the next
succeeding lien date if a supplemental assessment results from the
completion of new construction on property that has previously been
granted exemption on either the current roll or the roll being prepared.
   (2) No additional exemption application is required to be filed until
the next succeeding lien date if a supplemental assessment results from
a change in ownership of property where the purchaser of the property
owns and uses or uses, as the case may be, other property that has been
granted the college, cemetery, church, religious, exhibition, veterans’
organization, free public libraries, free museums, or welfare exemption
on either the current roll or the roll being prepared and the property
purchased is put to the same use. If a timely application for exemption
is not filed on or before the next succeeding lien date, then the provisions
of paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) apply. In all other instances where a
supplemental assessment results from a change in ownership of
property, an application for exemption shall be filed pursuant to
subdivision (c).
   SEC. 3. Section 532 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   532. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), any assessment
made pursuant to either Article 3 (commencing with Section 501) or this
article shall be made within four years after July 1 of the assessment year
in which the property escaped taxation or was underassessed.
   (b) (1) Any assessment to which the penalty provided for in Section
504 is required to be added shall be made within six years after July 1
of the assessment year in which the property escaped taxation or was
underassessed.
   (2) Any assessment resulting from an unrecorded change in
ownership or change in control for which either a change in ownership
statement, as required by Section 480, or a preliminary change in
ownership report, as required by Section 480.3, is not filed with respect
to the event giving rise to the escape assessment or underassessment,
shall be made within eight years after July 1 of the assessment year in
which the property escaped taxation or was underassessed. For purposes
of this paragraph, an ‘‘unrecorded change in ownership or change in
control’’ means a deed or other document evidencing a change in
ownership was not filed with the country recorder’s office at the time the
event took place.
   (3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), in the case where
property has escaped taxation, in whole or in part, or has been
underassessed, following a change in ownership and either the penalty
[Ch. 646 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4209

provided for in Section 503 is required to be added or a change in
ownership statement, as required by Section 480.1 or 480.2 was not filed
with respect to the event giving rise to the escape assessment or
underassessment, an escape assessment shall be made for every year in
which the property escaped taxation or was underassessed.
   (c) For purposes of this section, ‘‘assessment year’’ means the period
defined in Section 118.
   SEC. 4. Section 731 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   731. Each year between the first day of January and the first day of
June, upon valuing the unitary property of an assessee, the board shall
mail to the assessee, at its address as shown in the records of the board,
a notice stating the amount of the assessed value of the assessee’s unitary
property. The notice shall advise the assessee that a petition for
reassessment of the unitary property may be filed not later than July 20
of the same calender year in which the notice is provided at the
headquarters of the board in Sacramento.
   SEC. 5. Section 732 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   732. Each year between the first day of January and the last day of
July, upon valuing the nonunitary property of an assessee, the board shall
mail to the assessee at its address shown in the records of the board a
notice stating the amount of the assessed value of the assessee’s
nonunitary property. The notice shall advise the assessee that a petition
for reassessment of the nonunitary property may be filed not later than
September 20 of the same calender year in which the notice is provided
of the headquarters of the board in Sacramento.
   SEC. 6. Section 733 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   733.
   (a) If a timely petition for reassessment is not filed with the board, an
assessment of unitary or nonunitary property of the assessee shall
become final at the expiration of the period specified for filing a petition
in the notice given in accordance with Section 731 or Section 732.
   (b) The board may extend the period for filing a petition for
reassessment once for a period not to exceed 15 days, provided a written
request for the extension is filed with the board prior to the expiration
of the period for which the extension may be granted.
   SEC. 7. Section 746 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   746. Each year upon or prior to the completion of the assessment roll
prepared by the board, but not later than June 15, the board shall mail
notice to each assessee at its address as shown on the records of the
board, of the allocated assessed values of the assessee’s unitary property
 4210                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 646 ]
that have been or are proposed to be placed on the assessment roll to be
transmitted to county auditors. The notice shall advise the assessee that
a petition for a correction of an allocated assessment may be filed not
later than July 20 of the same calendar year in which the notice is
provided at the headquarters of the board in Sacramento.
   SEC. 8. Section 748 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   748. Upon receipt of a timely petition for correction of an allocated
assessment, the board shall set a time and place within the state for a
hearing on the petition. The board shall mail notice of the time and place
for the hearing to the assessee at its address as shown on the records of
the board not be less than 10 working days prior to the date of the hearing.
   SEC. 9. Section 749 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   749. Section 743 shall be applicable to hearings on petitions for
correction of an allocated assessment and the board shall notify the
petitioner of its decision by mail. The decision shall include written
findings and conclusions of the board if requested at or prior to the
commencement of the hearing. A decision of the board on a petition for
correction of an allocated assessement shall be completed on or before
December 31 of the year in which the relevant hearing was held.
   SEC. 10. Section 758 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   758. If the board roll has been transmitted to the local auditors, the
board may make an assessment of escaped property or a roll correction.
At least 30 days prior to transmitting a statement of assessment of
escaped property or making a roll correction, the board shall notify the
assessee whose property’s full value has increased as a result of an escape
assessment or roll correction of the assessed value of that property as it
shall appear on the corrected roll. The notice shall be mailed to the
assessee at its address shown in the records of the board. The notice shall
advise the assessee of the date by which and the place where a petition
for reassessment may be filed. The date for filing the petition shall not
be less than 50 days from the date of the mailing of the notice of value.
The provisions of Sections 741 to 744, inclusive, shall be applicable to
petitions and hearings pursuant to this section except for the dates
prescribed for decisions of the board.
   SEC. 11. Section 759 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   759. (a) If a timely petition for reassessment is not filed in
accordance with the notice provided by the board pursuant to Section
758, an escape assessment or roll correction shall become final at the
expiration of the period for filing a petition for reassessment specified
by that notice.
[Ch. 647 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4211

  (b) The board may extend the period for filing a petition for
reassessment once for a period not to exceed 15 days, provided a written
request for the extension is filed with the board prior to the expiration
of the period for which the extension may be granted.



                             CHAPTER 647

  An act to amend Sections 51, 75.11, 75.21, 75.31, 227, 408, 532, 534,
674, 731, 732, 733, 746, 748, 749, 758, 759, 1605, 17935, and 19236
of, and to add Section 19052 to, the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating
to taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 51 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   51. (a) For purposes of subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article
XIII A of the California Constitution, for each lien date after the lien date
in which the base year value is determined pursuant to Section 110.1, the
taxable value of real property shall, except as otherwise provided in
subdivision (b) or (c), be the lesser of:
   (1) Its base year value, compounded annually since the base year by
an inflation factor, which shall be determined as follows:
   (A) For any assessment year commencing prior to January 1, 1985,
the inflation factor shall be the percentage change in the cost of living,
as defined in Section 2212.
   (B) For any assessment year commencing after January 1, 1985, and
prior to January 1, 1998, the inflation factor shall be the percentage
change, rounded to the nearest one-thousandth of 1 percent, from
December of the prior fiscal year to December of the current fiscal year
in the California Consumer Price Index for all items, as determined by
the California Department of Industrial Relations.
   (C) For any assessment year commencing on or after January 1, 1998,
the inflation factor shall be the percentage change, rounded to the nearest
one-thousandth of 1 percent, from October of the prior fiscal year to
October of the current fiscal year in the California Consumer Price Index
for all items, as determined by the California Department of Industrial
Relations.
 4212                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 647 ]
   (D) In no event shall the percentage increase for any assessment year
determined pursuant to subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) exceed 2 percent
of the prior year’s value.
   (2) Its full cash value, as defined in Section 110, as of the lien date,
taking into account reductions in value due to damage, destruction,
depreciation, obsolescence, removal of property, or other factors causing
a decline in value.
   (b) If the real property was damaged or destroyed by disaster,
misfortune, or calamity and the board of supervisors of the county in
which the real property is located has not adopted an ordinance pursuant
to Section 170, or any portion of the real property has been removed by
voluntary action by the taxpayer, the taxable value of the property shall
be the sum of the following:
   (1) The lesser of its base year value of land determined under
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) or full cash value of land determined
pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (a).
   (2) The lesser of its base year value of improvements determined
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) or the full cash value of
improvements determined pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (a).
   In applying this subdivision, the base year value of the subject real
property does not include that portion of the previous base year value of
that property that was attributable to any portion of the property that has
been destroyed or removed. The sum determined under this subdivision
shall then become the base year value of the real property until that
property is restored, repaired, or reconstructed or other provisions of law
require establishment of a new base year value.
   (c) If the real property was damaged or destroyed by disaster,
misfortune or calamity and the board of supervisors in the county in
which the real property is located has adopted an ordinance pursuant to
Section 170, the taxable value of the real property shall be its assessed
value as computed pursuant to Section 170.
   (d) For purposes of this section, ‘‘real property’’ means that appraisal
unit that persons in the marketplace commonly buy and sell as a unit, or
that is normally valued separately.
   (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the assessor
to make an annual reappraisal of all assessable property. However, for
each lien date after the first lien date for which the taxable value of
property is reduced pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), the
value of that property shall be annually reappraised at its full cash value
as defined in Section 110 until that value exceeds the value determined
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (a). In no event shall the
assessor condition the implementation of the preceding sentence in any
year upon the filing of an assessment appeal.
[Ch. 647 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4213

   SEC. 1.5. Section 75.11 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   75.11. (a) If the change in ownership occurs or the new construction
is completed on or after January 1 but on or before May 31, then there
shall be two supplemental assessments placed on the supplemental roll.
The first supplemental assessment shall be the difference between the
new base year value and the taxable value on the current roll. In the case
of a change in ownership of the full interest in the real property, the
second supplemental assessment shall be the difference between the new
base year value and the taxable value to be enrolled on the roll being
prepared. If the change in ownership is of only a partial interest in the
real property, the second supplemental assessment shall be the difference
between the sum of the new base year value of the portion transferred
plus the taxable value on the roll being prepared of the remainder of the
property and the taxable value on the roll being prepared of the whole
property. For new construction, the second supplemental assessment
shall be the value change due to the new construction.
   (b) If the change in ownership occurs or the new construction is
completed on or after June 1 but before the succeeding January 1, then
the supplemental assessment placed on the supplemental roll shall be the
difference between the new base year value and the taxable value on the
current roll.
   (c) If there are multiple changes in ownership or multiple
completions of new construction, or both, with respect to the same real
property during the same assessment year, then there shall be a net
supplemental assessment placed on the supplemental roll, in addition to
the assessment pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b). The net supplemental
assessment shall be the most recent new base year value less the sum of
(1) the previous entry or entries placed on the supplemental roll
computed pursuant to subdivision (a) or (b), and (2) the corresponding
taxable value on the current roll or the taxable value to be entered on the
roll being prepared, or both, depending on the date or dates the change
of ownership occurs or new construction is completed as specified in
subdivisions (a) and (b).
   (d) No supplemental assessment authorized by this section shall be
valid, or have any force or effect, unless it is placed on the supplemental
roll on or before the applicable date specified in paragraph (1), (2), or (3),
as follows:
   (1) The fourth July 1 following the July 1 of the assessment year in
which either a statement reporting the change in ownership was filed
pursuant to Section 480, 480.1, or 480.2, a preliminary change in
ownership report was filed pursuant to Section 480.3, or the new
construction was completed.
 4214                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 647 ]
   (2) The sixth July 1 following the July 1 of the assessment year in
which either a statement reporting the change in ownership was filed
pursuant to Section 480, 480.1, or 480.2, a preliminary change in
ownership report was filed pursuant to Section 480.3, or the new
construction was completed, if the penalty provided for in Section 504
is added to the assessment.
   (3) The eighth July 1 following the July 1 of the assessment year in
which the event giving rise to the supplemental assessment occurred, if
the change in ownership or change in control was unrecorded and a
change in ownership statement required by Section 480 or preliminary
change in ownership report, as required by Section 480.3, was not timely
filed.
   (4) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), there shall be no
limitations period on making a supplemental assessment, if the penalty
provided for in Section 503 is added to the assessment.
   For the purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘assessment year’’ means the
period beginning annually as of 12:01 a.m. on the first day of January
and ending immediately prior to the succeeding first day of January.
   (e) If, before the expiration of the applicable period specified in
subdivision (d) for making a supplemental assessment, the taxpayer and
the assessor agree in writing to extend the period for making a
supplemental assessment, correction, or claim for refund, a
supplemental assessment may be made at any time prior to the expiration
of that extended period. The extended period may be further extended
by successive written agreements entered into prior to the expiration of
the most recent extension.
   SEC. 2. Section 75.21 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   75.21. (a) Exemptions shall be applied to the amount of the
supplemental assessment, provided that the property is not receiving any
other exemption on either the current roll or the roll being prepared
except as provided for in subdivision (b), that the assessee is eligible for
the exemption, and that in those instances in which the provisions of this
division require the filing of claims for exemption, the assessee makes
a claim for the exemption.
   (b) If the property received an exemption on the current roll or the roll
being prepared and the assessee on the supplemental roll is eligible for
an exemption and in those instances in which the provisions of this
division require the filing of claims for exemption, the assessee makes
a claim for an exemption of a greater amount, then the difference in the
amount between the two exemptions shall be applied to the
supplemental assessment.
   (c) In those instances in which the provisions of this division require
the filing of claims for exemption, except as provided in subdivision (d),
[Ch. 647 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4215

(e), or (f), any person claiming to be eligible for an exemption to be
applied against the amount of the supplemental assessment shall file a
claim or an amendment to a current claim, in that form as prescribed by
the board, on or before the 30th day following the date of notice of the
supplemental assessment, in order to receive a 100-percent exemption.
   (1) With respect to property as to which the college, cemetery, church,
religious, exhibition, veterans’ organization, free public libraries, free
museums, or welfare exemption was available, but for which a timely
application for exemption was not filed, the following amounts shall be
canceled or refunded:
   (A) Ninety percent of any tax or penalty or interest thereon, or any
amount of tax or penalty or interest thereon exceeding two hundred fifty
dollars ($250) in total amount, whichever is greater, for each
supplemental assessment, provided that an appropriate application for
exemption is filed on or before the date on which the first installment of
taxes on the supplemental tax bill becomes delinquent, as provided by
Section 75.52.
   (B) Eighty-five percent of any tax or penalty or interest thereon, or
any amount of tax or penalty or interest thereon exceeding two hundred
fifty dollars ($250) in total amount, whichever is greater, for each
supplemental assessment, if an appropriate application for exemption is
thereafter filed.
   (2) With respect to property as to which the welfare exemption or
veterans’ organization exemption was available, all provisions of
Section 254.5, other than the specified dates for the filing of affidavits
and other acts, are applicable to this section.
   (3) With respect to property as to which the veterans’, homeowners’,
or disabled veterans’ exemption was available, but for which a timely
application for exemption was not filed, that portion of tax attributable
to 80 percent of the amount of exemption available shall be canceled or
refunded, provided that an appropriate application for exemption is filed
on or before the date on which the first installment of taxes on the
supplemental tax bill becomes delinquent, as provided by Section 75.52.
   (4) With respect to property as to which any other exemption was
available, but for which a timely application for exemption was not filed,
the following amounts shall be canceled or refunded:
   (A) Ninety percent of any tax or penalty or interest thereon, provided
that an appropriate application for exemption is filed on or before the
date on which the first installment of taxes on the supplemental tax bill
becomes delinquent, as provided by Section 75.52.
   (B) Eighty-five percent of any tax or penalty or interest thereon, or
any amount of tax or penalty or interest thereon exceeding two hundred
fifty dollars ($250) in total amount, whichever is greater, for each
 4216                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 647 ]
supplemental assessment, if an appropriate application for exemption is
thereafter filed.
   Other provisions of this division pertaining to the late filing of claims
for exemption do not apply to assessments made pursuant to this chapter.
   (d) For purposes of this section, any claim for the homeowners’
exemption, veterans’ exemption, or disabled veterans’ exemption
previously filed by the owner of a dwelling, granted and in effect,
constitutes the claim or claims for that exemption required in this
section. In the event that no claim for the homeowners’ exemption,
veterans’ exemption, or disabled veterans’ exemption is in effect, a
claim for any of those exemptions for a single supplemental assessment
for a change in ownership or new construction occurring on or after June
1, up to and including December 31, shall apply to that assessment; a
claim for any of those exemptions for the two supplemental assessments
for a change in ownership or new construction occurring on or after
January 1, up to and including May 31, one for the current fiscal year and
one for the following fiscal year, shall apply to those assessments. In
either case, if granted, the claim shall remain in effect until title to the
property changes, the owner does not occupy the home as his or her
principal place of residence on the lien date, or the property is otherwise
ineligible pursuant to Section 205, 205.5, or 218.
   (e) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), no additional exemption claim
shall be required to be filed until the next succeeding lien date in the case
in which a supplemental assessment results from the completion of new
construction on property that has previously been granted exemption on
either the current roll or the roll being prepared.
   (f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), no additional exemption
claim shall be required to be filed until the next succeeding lien date in
the instance where a supplemental assessment results from a change in
ownership of property where the purchaser of the property owns and uses
or uses, as the case may be, other property that has been granted the
college, cemetery, church, religious, exhibition, veterans’ organization,
free public libraries, free museums, or welfare exemption on either the
current roll or the roll being prepared and the property purchased is put
to the same use. If a timely application for exemption is not filed on the
next succeeding lien date, then the provisions of paragraph (1) of
subdivision (c) shall apply.
   (2) In all other instances where a supplemental assessment results
from a change in ownership of property, an application for exemption
shall be filed pursuant to the provisions of subdivision (c).
   SEC. 3. Section 75.31 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
[Ch. 647 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4217

  75.31. (a) Whenever the assessor has determined a new base year
value as provided in Section 75.10, the assessor shall send a notice to the
assessee showing the following:
  (1) The new base year value of the property that has changed
ownership, or the new base year value of the completed new construction
that shall be added to the existing taxable value of the remainder of the
property.
  (2) The taxable value appearing on the current roll, and if the change
in ownership or completion of new construction occurred between
January 1 and May 31, the taxable value on the roll being prepared.
  (3) The date of the change in ownership or completion of new
construction.
  (4) The amount of the supplemental assessments.
  (5) The exempt amount, if any, on the current roll or the roll being
prepared.
  (6) The date the notice was mailed.
  (7) A statement that the supplemental assessment was determined in
accordance with Article XIII A of the California Constitution that
generally requires reappraisal of property whenever a change in
ownership occurs or property is newly constructed.
  (8) Any other information which the board may prescribe.
  (b) In addition to the information specified in subdivision (a), the
notice shall inform the assessee of the procedure for filing a claim for
exemption that is to be filed within 30 days of the date of the notice.
  (c) (1) The notice shall advise the assessee of the right to an informal
review and the right to appeal the supplemental assessment, and, unless
subject to paragraph (2) or (3), that the appeal shall be filed within 60
days of the date of mailing printed on the notice or the postmark date
therefor, whichever is later. For the purposes of equalization
proceedings, the supplemental assessment shall be considered an
assessment made outside of the regular assessment period as provided
in Section 1605.
  (2) For counties in which the board of supervisors has adopted the
provisions of subdivision (c) of Section 1605, the notice shall advise the
assessee of the right to appeal the supplemental assessment, and that the
appeal shall, except as provided in paragraph (3), be filed within 60 days
of the date of mailing printed on the tax bill or the postmark date therefor,
whichever is later. For the purposes of equalization proceedings, the
supplemental assessment shall be considered an assessment made
outside of the regular assessment period as provided in Section 1605.
  (3) (A) If the taxpayer does not receive a notice in accordance with
this section at least 15 days prior to the deadline to file the application
described in Section 1603, the affected party or his or her agent may file
an application within 60 days of the date of mailing printed on the tax
 4218                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 647 ]
bill or the postmark thereof, whichever is later, along with an affidavit
declaring under penalty of perjury that the notice was not timely
received.
   (B) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subdivision, an
application for reduction in a supplemental assessment may be filed
within 12 months following the month in which the assessee is notified
of that assessment, if the affected party or his or her agent and the
assessor stipulate that there is an error in assessment as the result of the
exercise of the assessor’s judgment in determining the full cash value of
the property and a written stipulation as to the full cash value and the
assessed value is filed in accordance with Section 1607.
   (d) The notice shall advise the assessee of both of the following:
   (1) The requirements, procedures, and deadlines with respect to an
application for the reduction of a base year value pursuant to Section 80,
or the reduction of an assessment pursuant to Section 1603.
   (2) The criteria under Section 51 for the determination of taxable
value, and the requirement of Section 1602 that the custodial officer of
the local roll make the roll, or a copy thereof, available for inspection by
all interested parties during regular office hours.
   (e) The notice shall advise the assessee that if the supplemental
assessment is a negative amount the auditor shall make a refund of a
portion of taxes paid on assessments made on the current roll, or the roll
being prepared, or both.
   (f) The notice shall be furnished by the assessor to the assessee by
regular United States mail directed to the assessee at the assessee’s latest
address known to the assessor.
   (g) The notice given by the assessor under this section shall be on a
form prescribed by the State Board of Equalization.
   SEC. 4. Section 227 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   227. A documented vessel, as defined in Section 130, shall be
assessed at 4 percent of its full cash value only if the vessel is engaged
or employed exclusively in any of the following:
   (a) In the taking and possession of fish or other living resource of the
sea for commercial purposes.
   (b) In instruction or research studies as an oceanographic research
vessel.
   (c) In carrying or transporting seven or more people for hire for
commercial passenger fishing purposes and holds a current certificate of
inspection issued by the United States Coast Guard. A vessel shall not
be deemed to be engaged or employed in activities other than the
carrying or transporting of seven or more persons for hire for commercial
passenger fishing purposes by reason of that vessel being used
occasionally for dive, tour, or whale watching purposes. For purposes of
[Ch. 647 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4219

this subdivision, ‘‘occasionally’’ means 15 percent or less of the total
operating time logged for the immediately preceding assessment year.
   SEC. 4.6. Section 408 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   408. (a) Except as otherwise provided in subdivisions (b), (c), (d),
and (e) any information and records in the assessor’s office that are not
required by law to be kept or prepared by the assessor, and homeowners’
exemption claims, are not public documents and shall not be open to
public inspection. Property receiving the homeowners’ exemption shall
be clearly identified on the assessment roll. The assessor shall maintain
records which shall be open to public inspection to identify those
claimants who have been granted the homeowners’ exemption.
   (b) The assessor may provide any appraisal data in his or her
possession to the assessor of any county.
   The assessor shall disclose information, furnish abstracts, or permit
access to all records in his or her office to law enforcement agencies, the
county grand jury, the board of supervisors or their duly authorized
agents, employees or representatives when conducting an investigation
of the assessor’s office pursuant to Section 25303 of the Government
Code, the Controller, employees of the Controller for property tax
postponement purposes, probate referees, employees of the Franchise
Tax Board for tax administration purposes only, staff appraisers of the
Department of Financial Institutions, the Department of Transportation,
the Department of General Services, the State Board of Equalization, the
State Lands Commission, the State Department of Social Services, the
Department of Water Resources, and other duly authorized legislative or
administrative bodies of the state pursuant to their authorization to
examine the records. Whenever the assessor discloses information,
furnishes abstracts, or permits access to records in his or her office to
staff appraisers of the Department of Financial Institutions, the
Department of Transportation, the Department of General Services, the
State Lands Commission, or the Department of Water Resources
pursuant to this section, the department shall reimburse the assessor for
any costs incurred as a result thereof.
   (c) Upon the request of the tax collector, the assessor shall disclose
and provide to the tax collector information used in the preparation of
that portion of the unsecured roll for which the taxes thereon are
delinquent. The tax collector shall certify to the assessor that he or she
needs the information requested for the enforcement of the tax lien in
collecting those delinquent taxes. Information requested by the tax
collector may include social security numbers, and the assessor shall
recover from the tax collector his or her actual and reasonable costs for
providing the information. The tax collector shall add the costs described
 4220                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 647 ]
in the preceding sentence to the assessee’s delinquent tax lien and collect
those costs subject to subdivision (e) of Section 2922.
   (d) The assessor shall, upon the request of an assessee or his or her
designated representative, permit the assessee or representative to
inspect or copy any market data in the assessor’s possession. For
purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘market data’’ means any information in
the assessor’s possession, whether or not required to be prepared or kept
by him or her, relating to the sale of any property comparable to the
property of the assessee, if the assessor bases his or her assessment of the
assessee’s property, in whole or in part, on that comparable sale or sales.
The assessor shall provide the names of the seller and buyer of each
property on which the comparison is based, the location of that property,
the date of the sale, and the consideration paid for the property, whether
paid in money or otherwise. However, for purposes of providing market
data, the assessor shall not display any document relating to the business
affairs or property of another.
   (e) (1) With respect to information, documents, and records, other
than market data as defined in subdivision (d), the assessor shall, upon
request of an assessee of property, or his or her designated representative,
permit the assessee or representative to inspect or copy all information,
documents, and records, including auditors’ narrations and workpapers,
whether or not required to be kept or prepared by the assessor, relating
to the appraisal and the assessment of the assessee’s property, and any
penalties and interest thereon.
   (2) After enrolling an assessment, the assessor shall respond to a
written request for information supporting the assessment, including,
but not limited to, any appraisal and other data requested by the assessee.
   (3) Except as provided in Section 408.1, an assessee, or his or her
designated representative, shall not be permitted to inspect or copy
information and records that also relate to the property or business affairs
of another, unless that disclosure is ordered by a competent court in a
proceeding initiated by a taxpayer seeking to challenge the legality of the
assessment of his or her property.
   (f) (1) Permission for the inspection or copying requested pursuant
to subdivision (d) or (e) shall be granted as soon as reasonably possible
to the assessee or his or her designated representative.
   (2) If the assessee, or his or her designated representative, requests the
assessor to make copies of any of the requested records, the assessee
shall reimburse the assessor for the reasonable costs incurred in
reproducing and providing the copies.
   (3) If the assessor fails to permit the inspection or copying of
materials or information as requested pursuant to subdivision (d) or (e)
and the assessor introduces any requested materials or information at any
assessment appeals board hearing, the assessee or his or her
[Ch. 647 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4221

representative may request and shall be granted a continuance for a
reasonable period of time. The continuance shall extend the two-year
period specified in subdivision (c) of Section 1604 for a period of time
equal to the period of continuance.
    SEC. 4.7. Section 532 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
    532. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), any assessment
made pursuant to either Article 3 (commencing with Section 501) or this
article shall be made within four years after July 1 of the assessment year
in which the property escaped taxation or was underassessed.
    (b) (1) Any assessment to which the penalty provided for in Section
504 must be added shall be made within six years after July 1 of the
assessment year in which the property escaped taxation or was
underassessed.
    (2) Any assessment resulting from an unrecorded change in
ownership or change in control for which either a change in ownership
statement, as required by Section 480 or a preliminary change in
ownership report, as required by Section 480.3, is not filed with respect
to the event giving rise to the escape assessment or underassessment
shall be made within eight years after July 1 of the assessment year in
which the property escaped taxation or was underassessed. For purposes
of this paragraph, an ‘‘unrecorded change in ownership or change in
control’’ means a deed or other document evidencing a change in
ownership that was not filed with the county recorder’s office at the time
the event took place.
    (3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), in the case where
property has escaped taxation, in whole or in part, or has been
underassessed, following a change in ownership and either the penalty
provided for in Section 503 must be added or a change in ownership
statement, as required by Section 480.1 or 480.2 was not filed with
respect to the event giving rise to the escape assessment or
underassessment, an escape assessment shall be made for each year in
which the property escaped taxation or was underassessed.
    (c) For purposes of this section, ‘‘assessment year’’ means the period
defined in Section 118.
    SEC. 5. Section 534 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
    534. (a) Assessments made pursuant to Article 3 (commencing
with Section 501) or this article shall be treated like, and taxed at the
same rate applicable to, property regularly assessed on the roll on which
it is entered, unless the assessment relates to a prior year and then the tax
rate of the prior year shall be applied, except that the tax rate for years
prior to the 1981–82 fiscal year shall be divided by four.
 4222                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 647 ]
   (b) No assessment described in subdivision (a) shall be effective for
any purpose, including its review, equalization and adjustment by the
Board of Equalization, until the assessee has been notified thereof
personally or by United States mail at his or her address as contained in
the official records of the county assessor. For purposes of Section 532,
the assessment shall be deemed made on the date on which it is entered
on the roll pursuant to Section 533, if the assessee is notified of the
assessment within 60 days after the statute of limitations or the placing
of the escape assessment on the assessment roll. Otherwise the
assessment shall be deemed made only on the date the assessee is so
notified.
   (c) The notice given by the assessor pursuant to this section shall
include all of the following:
   (1) The date the notice was mailed.
   (2) Information regarding the assessee’s right to an informal review
and the right to appeal the assessment, and except in a case in which
paragraph (3) applies, that the appeal shall be filed within 60 days of the
date of mailing printed on the notice or the postmarked date therefor,
whichever is later. For the purposes of equalization proceedings, the
supplemental assessment shall be considered an assessment made
outside of the regular assessment period as provided in Section 1605.
   (3) For counties in which the board of supervisors has adopted a
resolution in accordance with subdivision (c) of Section 1605, the notice
shall advise the assessee of the right to appeal the assessment, and that
the appeal shall be filed within 60 days of the date of mailing printed on
the tax bill or the postmark therefor, whichever is later. For the purposes
of equalization proceedings, the supplemental assessment shall be
considered an assessment made outside of the regular assessment period
as provided in Section 1605.
   (4) A description of the requirements, procedures, and deadlines with
respect to an application for the reduction of an assessment pursuant to
Section 1605.
   (d) (1) The notice given by the assessor under this section shall be on
a form prescribed by the board.
   (2) Giving of the notice required by Section 531.8 shall not satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   SEC. 5.5. Section 674 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   674. (a) All contracts for the performance of appraisal work for
assessors by any person who is not an employee of the state, any county,
or any city shall be entered into only after at least two competitive bids
and shall be entered into either on a fixed fee basis or on the basis of an
hourly rate with a maximum dollar amount.
[Ch. 647 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4223

   (b) In addition to any provision in the Real Estate Appraisers’
Licensing and Certification Law (Part 3 (commencing with Section
11300) of Division 4 of the Business and Professions Code), a contractor
shall maintain the confidentiality of assessee information and records as
provided in Sections 408, 451, and 481 that is obtained in performance
of the contract.
   (1) A request for information and records from an assessee shall be
made by the assessor. The assessor may authorize a contractor to request
additional information or records, if needed. However, a contractor shall
not request that information or records without the written authorization
of the assessor.
   (2) A contractor shall not provide appraisal data in his or her
possession to the assessor or a contractor of another county who is not
a party to the contract. An assessor may provide that data to the assessor
of another county as provided in subdivision (b) of Section 408.
   (c) A contractor may not retain information contained in, or derived
from, an assessee’s confidential information and records after the
conclusion, termination, or nonrenewal of the contract. Within 90 days
of the conclusion, termination, or nonrenewal of the contract, the
contractor shall:
   (1) Purge and return to the assessor any assessee records, whether
originals, copies, or electronically stored, provided by the assessor or
otherwise obtained from the assessee.
   (2) Provide a written declaration to the assessor that the contractor has
complied with this subdivision.
   (d) All contracts entered into pursuant to subdivision (a) shall include
a provision incorporating the requirements of subdivisions (b) and (c).
This provision of the contract shall use language that is prescribed by the
State Board of Equalization.
   (e) For purposes of this section, a ‘‘contractor’’ means any person
who is not an employee of the state, any county, or any city who performs
appraisal work pursuant to a contract with an assessor.
   SEC. 6. Section 731 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   731. Each year between the first day of January and the first day of
June, upon valuing the unitary property of an assessee, the board shall
mail to the assessee, at its address as shown in the records of the board,
a notice stating the amount of the assessed value of the assessee’s unitary
property. The notice shall advise the assessee that a petition for
reassessment of the unitary property may be filed, not later than July 20
of the year of the notice, at the headquarters of the board in Sacramento.
   SEC. 7. Section 732 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
 4224                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 647 ]
   732. Each year between the first day of January and the last day of
July, upon valuing the nonunitary property of an assessee, the board shall
mail to the assessee at its address shown in the records of the board a
notice stating the amount of the assessed value of the assessee’s
nonunitary property. The notice shall advise the assessee that a petition
for reassessment of the nonunitary property may be filed, not later than
September 20 of the year of the notice, at the headquarters of the board
in Sacramento.
   SEC. 8. Section 733 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   733. (a) If a timely petition for reassessment is not filed with the
board, an assessment of unitary or nonunitary property of the assessee
shall become final at the expiration of the period specified for filing a
petition in the notice given in accordance with Section 731 or Section
732.
   (b) The board may extend the period for filing a petition for
reassessment once for a period not to exceed 15 days, provided a written
request for the extension is filed with the board prior to the expiration
of the period for which the extension may be granted.
   SEC. 9. Section 746 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   746. Each year, upon or prior to the completion of the assessment
roll prepared by the board, but not later than June 15, the board shall mail
notice to each assessee at its address as shown on the records of the
board, of the allocated assessed values of the assessee’s unitary property
that have been or are proposed to be placed on the assessment roll to be
transmitted to county auditors. The notice shall advise the assessee that
a petition for a correction of an allocated assessment may be filed, not
later than July 20 of the year of the notice, at the headquarters of the board
in Sacramento.
   SEC. 10. Section 748 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   748. Upon receipt of a timely petition for correction of an allocated
assessment, the board shall set a time and place within the state for
hearing on the petition. Notice thereof shall be mailed to the assessee at
its address as shown on the records of the board not less than 10 working
days in advance of the date of the hearing.
   SEC. 11. Section 749 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   749. Section 743 shall be applicable to hearings on petitions for
correction of an allocated assessment and the board shall notify the
petitioner of its decision by mail. The decision shall include written
findings and conclusions of the board if requested at or prior to the
commencement of the hearing. Decisions of the board on petitions for
[Ch. 647 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4225

correction of an unallocated assessment shall be completed on or before
December 31.
   SEC. 12. Section 758 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   758. If the board roll has been transmitted to the local auditors, the
board may make an assessment of escaped property or a roll correction.
At least 30 days prior to transmitting a statement of assessment of
escaped property or making a roll correction, the board shall notify the
assessee whose property’s full value has increased as a result of an escape
assessment or roll correction of the assessed value of that property as it
shall appear on the corrected roll. The notice shall be mailed to the
assessee at its address shown in the records of the board. The notice shall
advise the assessee of the date by which and the place where a petition
for reassessment may be filed. The date for filing the petition shall not
be less than 50 days from the date of the mailing of the notice of value.
The provisions of Sections 741 to 744, inclusive, shall be applicable to
petitions and hearings pursuant to this section except for the dates
prescribed for decisions of the board.
   SEC. 13. Section 759 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   759. (a) If a timely petition for reassessment is not filed in
accordance with the notice provided by the board pursuant to Section
758, an escape assessment or roll correction shall become final at the
expiration of the period for filing a petition for reassessment specified
by that notice.
   (b) The board may extend the period for filing a petition for
reassessment once for a period not to exceed 15 days, provided a written
request for the extension is filed with the board prior to the expiration
of the period for which the extension may be granted.
   SEC. 14. Section 1605 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   1605. (a) An assessment made outside of the regular assessment
period is not effective for any purpose, including its review, equalization
and adjustment by the county board, until the assessee has been notified
thereof personally or by United States mail at the assessee’s address as
contained in the official records of the county assessor. For purposes of
this subdivision, for counties in which the board of supervisors has
adopted the provisions of subdivision (c) and counties of the first class,
receipt by the assessee of a tax bill based on that assessment shall suffice
as the notice.
   (b) Upon application for reduction pursuant to subdivision (a) of
Section 1603, the assessment shall be subject to review, equalization and
adjustment by the county board. In the case of an assessment made
pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 501) or Article 4
 4226                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 647 ]
(commencing with Section 531) of Chapter 3 of Part 2, the application
shall be filed with the clerk no later than 60 days after the date of mailing
printed on the notice of assessment, or the postmark therefor, whichever
is later. For counties in which the board of supervisors has adopted a
resolution in accordance with subdivision (c), and counties of the first
class, an application subject to the preceding sentence shall be filed
within 60 days of the date of mailing printed on the tax bill or the
postmark therefor, whichever is later. If the taxpayer does not receive the
notice of assessment described in Section 534 at least 15 calendar days
prior to the deadline to file the application described in Section 1603, the
party affected, or his or her agent, may file the application within 60 days
of the date of mailing printed on the tax bill or the postmark therefor,
whichever is later, along with an affidavit declaring under penalty of
perjury that the notice was not timely received.
   (c) The board of supervisors of any county may by resolution require
that the application for reduction pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section
1603 be filed with the clerk no later than 60 days after the date of mailing
printed on the tax bill or the postmark therefor, whichever is later.
   (d) In counties where assessment appeals boards have not been
created and are not in existence, at any regular meeting, the board of
supervisors, on the request of the assessor or any taxpayer, shall sit as the
county board to equalize any assessments made by the assessor outside
the regular assessment period for those assessments. Notwithstanding
any other provision of law to the contrary, in any county in which
assessment appeals boards have been created and are in existence, the
time for equalization of assessments made outside the regular
assessment period for those assessments, including assessments made
pursuant to Sections 501, 503, 504, 531, and 531.5, shall be prescribed
by rules adopted by the board of supervisors.
   (e) If an audit of the books and records of any profession, trade, or
business pursuant to Section 469 discloses property subject to an
escaped assessment for any year, then the original assessment of all
property of the assessee at the location of the profession, trade, or
business for that year shall be subject to review, equalization and
adjustment by the county board of equalization or assessment appeals
board pursuant to this chapter, except in those instances when that
property had previously been equalized for the year in question by the
county board of equalization or assessment appeals board. The
application shall be filed with the clerk no later than 60 days after the date
on which the assessee was notified. Receipt by the assessee of a tax bill
based upon that assessment shall suffice as that notice.
   (f) For purposes of subdivision (a), ‘‘regular assessment period’’
means January 1 to and including July 1 of the calendar year in which
[Ch. 647 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4227

the assessment, other than escape assessments, should have been
enrolled if it had been timely made.
   SEC. 15. Section 17935 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   17935. (a) For each taxable year beginning on or after January 1,
1997, every limited partnership doing business in this state (as defined
by Section 23101) and required to file a return under Section 18633 shall
pay annually to this state a tax for the privilege of doing business in this
state in an amount equal to the applicable amount specified in Section
23153.
   (b) (1) In addition to any limited partnership that is doing business
in this state and therefore is subject to the tax imposed by subdivision
(a), for each taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 1997, every
limited partnership that has executed, acknowledged, and filed a
certificate of limited partnership with the Secretary of State pursuant to
Section 15621 of the Corporations Code, and every foreign limited
partnership that has registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to
Section 15692 of the Corporations Code, shall pay annually the tax
prescribed in subdivision (a). The tax shall be paid for each taxable year,
or part thereof, until a certificate of cancellation is filed on behalf of the
limited partnership with the office of the Secretary of State pursuant to
Section 15623 or 15696 of the Corporations Code.
   (2) If a taxpayer files a return with the Franchise Tax Board that is
designated its final return, that board shall notify the taxpayer that the
minimum tax is due annually until a certificate of cancellation is filed
with the Secretary of State pursuant to Section 15623 or 15696 of the
Corporations Code.
   (c) The tax imposed under this section shall be due and payable on the
date the return is required to be filed under former Section 18432 or
18633.
   (d) For purposes of this section, ‘‘limited partnership’’ means any
partnership formed by two or more persons under the laws of this state
or any other jurisdiction and having one or more general partners and one
or more limited partners.
   (e) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), any limited partnership that
ceased doing business prior to January 1, 1997, filed a final return with
the Franchise Tax Board for a taxable year ending before January 1,
1997, and filed a certificate of dissolution with the Secretary of State
pursuant to Section 15623 of the Corporations Code prior to January 1,
1997, shall not be subject to the tax imposed by subdivision (b) of this
section for any period following the date the certificate of dissolution
was filed with the Secretary of State, but only if the limited partnership
files a certificate of cancellation with the Secretary of State pursuant to
Section 15623 of the Corporations Code. In the case where a notice of
 4228                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 647 ]
proposed deficiency assessment of tax or a notice of tax due (whichever
is applicable) is mailed after January 1, 2001, the first sentence of this
subdivision shall not apply unless the certificate of cancellation is filed
with the Secretary of State not later than 60 days after the date of the
mailing of the notice.
   SEC. 16. Section 19052 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code,
to read:
   19052. Notwithstanding any other provision of this part to the
contrary, denial of credits or refunds claimed on or after January 1, 2001,
in accordance with Section 17052.6 may be made pursuant to Section
19051, except that in these cases claimants shall have the right of protest
and appeal provided by this part.
   SEC. 17. Section 19236 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   19236. For purposes of issuing a warrant pursuant to this article:
   (a) (1) No levy may be issued on any property or right to property to
be sold in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure until a thorough
investigation of the status of the property has been completed by the
Franchise Tax Board.
   (2) For purposes of paragraph (1), an investigation of the status of any
property shall include all of the following:
   (A) A verification of the taxpayer’s liability.
   (B) The completion of an analysis to determine whether the expense
of the sale process to the state exceeds the liability for which the levy
would be issued.
   (C) The determination that the equity in the property is sufficient to
yield net proceeds from the sale of the property to apply to the liability.
   (D) A thorough consideration of alternative collection methods.
   (b) If the amount of the levy does not exceed five thousand dollars
($5,000), no levy may be issued on either of the following:
   (1) Any real property used as a residence by the taxpayer.
   (2) Any real property of the taxpayer (other than real property which
is rented) used by any other individual as a residence.
   (c) Notwithstanding the investigation required under subdivision (a):
   (1) The principal residence of the taxpayer may not be sold except in
accordance with Article 4 (commencing with Section 704.710) of
Chapter 4 of Division 2 of Title 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which
requires a court order for sale.
   (2) Tangible personal property or real property (other than real
property which is rented or a principal residence) used in the trade or
business of an individual taxpayer may not be levied unless:
   (A) The levy is approved in writing by the assistant executive officer
for collection (or delegate), or
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4229

   (B) The Franchise Tax Board finds that collection of tax is in
jeopardy. The officer, or delegate, may not approve a levy under
subparagraph (A) unless the officer determines that the taxpayer’s other
assets subject to collection are insufficient to pay the amount due,
together with expenses of the proceedings.
   (d) This section shall be operative for any warrant issued on or after
the effective date of the act adding this section.
   SEC. 18. The amendments to Section 17935 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code made by Section 15 of this act are consistent with the
amendments made by Section 54 of Chapter 987 of the Statutes of 1999,
and are declaratory of existing law.
   SEC. 19. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution for certain
costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because
in that regard this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a
crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   However, notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
other costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and
school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7
(commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the
Government Code. If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement
does not exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall
be made from the State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 648

   An act to amend Sections 290 and 290.4 of the Penal Code, relating
to sex offender registration.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 290 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
  290. (a) (1) (A) Every person described in paragraph (2), for the
rest of his or her life while residing in, or, if he or she has no residence,
while located within California, or while attending school or working in
California, as described in subparagraph (G), shall be required to register
 4230                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
with the chief of police of the city in which he or she is residing, or if he
or she has no residence, is located, or the sheriff of the county if he or
she is residing, or if he or she has no residence, is located, in an
unincorporated area or city that has no police department, and,
additionally, with the chief of police of a campus of the University of
California, the California State University, or community college if he
or she is residing, or if he or she has no residence, is located upon the
campus or in any of its facilities, within five working days of coming
into, or changing his or her residence or location within, any city, county,
or city and county, or campus in which he or she temporarily resides, or,
if he or she has no residence, is located.
   (B) If the person who is registering has more than one residence
address or location at which he or she regularly resides or is located, he
or she shall register in accordance with subparagraph (A) in each of the
jurisdictions in which he or she regularly resides or is located. If all of
the addresses or locations are within the same jurisdiction, the person
shall provide the registering authority with all of the addresses or
locations where he or she regularly resides or is located.
   (C) If the person who is registering has no residence address, he or she
shall update his or her registration no less than once every 90 days in
addition to the requirement in subparagraph (A), on a form as may be
required by the Department of Justice, with the entity or entities
described in subparagraph (A) in whose jurisdiction he or she is located
at the time he or she is updating the registration.
   (D) Beginning on his or her first birthday following registration or
change of address, the person shall be required to register annually,
within five working days of his or her birthday, to update his or her
registration with the entities described in subparagraph (A), including
verifying his or her name and address, or temporary location, and place
of employment including the name and address of the employer, on a
form as may be required by the Department of Justice.
   (E) In addition, every person who has ever been adjudicated a
sexually violent predator, as defined in Section 6600 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, shall, after his or her release from custody, verify his
or her address no less than once every 90 days and place of employment,
including the name and address of the employer, in a manner established
by the Department of Justice.
   (F) No entity shall require a person to pay a fee to register or update
his or her registration pursuant to this section. The registering agency
shall submit registrations, including annual updates or changes of
address, directly into the Department of Justice Violent Crime
Information Network (VCIN).
   (G) Persons required to register in their state of residence who are
out-of-state residents employed in California on a full-time or part-time
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4231

basis, with or without compensation, for more than 14 days, or for an
aggregate period exceeding 30 days in a calendar year, shall register in
accordance with subparagraph (A). Persons described in paragraph (2)
who are out-of-state residents enrolled in any educational institution in
California, as defined in Section 22129 of the Education Code, on a
full-time or part-time basis, shall register in accordance with
subparagraph (A). The place where the out-of-state resident is located,
for purposes of registration, shall be the place where the person is
employed or attending school. The out-of-state resident subject to this
subparagraph shall, in addition to the information required pursuant to
subdivision (e), provide the registering authority with the name of his or
her place of employment or the name of the school attended in
California, and his or her address or location in his or her state of
residence. The registration requirement for persons subject to this
subparagraph shall become operative on November 25, 2000.
   (2) The following persons shall be required to register pursuant to
paragraph (1):
   (A) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or is hereafter
convicted in any court in this state or in any federal or military court of
a violation of Section 207 or 209 committed with intent to violate
Section 261, 286, 288, 288a, or 289, Section 220, except assault to
commit mayhem, Section 243.4, paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261, or paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of
Section 262 involving the use of force or violence for which the person
is sentenced to the state prison, Section 264.1, 266, 266c, subdivision (b)
of Section 266h, subdivision (b) of Section 266i, 266j, 267, 269, 285,
286, 288, 288a, 288.5, or 289, subdivision (b), (c), or (d) of Section
311.2, Section 311.3, 311.4, 311.10, 311.11, or 647.6, former Section
647a, subdivision (c) of Section 653f, subdivision 1 or 2 of Section 314,
any offense involving lewd or lascivious conduct under Section 272, or
any felony violation of Section 288.2; or any person who since that date
has been or is hereafter convicted of the attempt to commit any of the
above-mentioned offenses.
   (B) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or hereafter is
released, discharged, or paroled from a penal institution where he or she
was confined because of the commission or attempted commission of
one of the offenses described in subparagraph (A).
   (C) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or hereafter is
determined to be a mentally disordered sex offender under Article 1
(commencing with Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6
of the Welfare and Institutions Code or any person who has been found
guilty in the guilt phase of a trial for an offense for which registration is
required by this section but who has been found not guilty by reason of
insanity in the sanity phase of the trial.
 4232                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
   (D) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been, or is hereafter
convicted in any other court, including any state, federal, or military
court, of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state,
would have been punishable as one or more of the offenses described in
subparagraph (A) or any person ordered by any other court, including
any state, federal, or military court, to register as a sex offender for any
offense, if the court found at the time of conviction or sentencing that the
person committed the offense as a result of sexual compulsion or for
purposes of sexual gratification.
   (E) Any person ordered by any court to register pursuant to this
section for any offense not included specifically in this section if the
court finds at the time of conviction or sentencing that the person
committed the offense as a result of sexual compulsion or for purposes
of sexual gratification. The court shall state on the record the reasons for
its findings and the reasons for requiring registration.
   (F) (i) Notwithstanding any other subdivision, a person who was
convicted before January 1, 1976, under subdivision (a) of Section 286,
or Section 288a, shall not be required to register pursuant to this section
for that conviction if the conviction was for conduct between consenting
adults that was decriminalized by Chapter 71 of the Statutes of 1975 or
Chapter 1139 of the Statutes of 1976. The Department of Justice shall
remove that person from the Sex Offender Registry, and the person is
discharged from his or her duty to register pursuant to the following
procedure:
   (I) The person submits to the Department of Justice official
documentary evidence, including court records or police reports, which
demonstrate that the person’s conviction pursuant to either of those
sections was for conduct between consenting adults that was
decriminalized; or
   (II) The person submits to the department a declaration stating that
the person’s conviction pursuant to either of those sections was for
consensual conduct between adults that has been decriminalized. The
declaration shall be confidential and not a public record, and shall
include the person’s name, address, telephone number, date of birth, and
a summary of the circumstances leading to the conviction, including the
date of the conviction and county of the occurrence.
   (III) The department shall determine whether the person’s conviction
was for conduct between consensual adults that has been decriminalized.
If the conviction was for consensual conduct between adults that has
been decriminalized, and the person has no other offenses for which he
or she is required to register pursuant to this section, the department
shall, within 60 days of receipt of those documents, notify the person that
he or she is relieved of the duty to register, and shall notify the local law
enforcement agency with which the person is registered that he or she has
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4233

been relieved of the duty to register. The local law enforcement agency
shall remove the person’s registration from its files within 30 days of
receipt of notification. If the documentary or other evidence submitted
is insufficient to establish the person’s claim, the department shall,
within 60 days of receipt of those documents, notify the person that his
or her claim cannot be established, and that the person shall continue to
register pursuant to this section. The department shall provide, upon the
person’s request, any information relied upon by the department in
making its determination that the person shall continue to register
pursuant to this section. Any person whose claim has been denied by the
department pursuant to this clause may petition the court to appeal the
department’s denial of the person’s claim.
   (ii) On or before July 1, 1998, the department shall make a report to
the Legislature concerning the status of persons who may come under
the provisions of this subparagraph, including the number of persons
who were convicted before January 1, 1976, under subdivision (a) of
Section 286 or Section 288a and are required to register under this
section, the average age of these persons, the number of these persons
who have any subsequent convictions for a registerable sex offense, and
the number of these persons who have sought successfully or
unsuccessfully to be relieved of their duty to register under this section.
   (b) (1) Any person who is released, discharged, or paroled from a
jail, state or federal prison, school, road camp, or other institution where
he or she was confined because of the commission or attempted
commission of one of the offenses specified in subdivision (a) or is
released from a state hospital to which he or she was committed as a
mentally disordered sex offender under Article 1 (commencing with
Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, shall, prior to discharge, parole, or release, be
informed of his or her duty to register under this section by the official
in charge of the place of confinement or hospital, and the official shall
require the person to read and sign any form that may be required by the
Department of Justice, stating that the duty of the person to register under
this section has been explained to the person. The official in charge of
the place of confinement or hospital shall obtain the address where the
person expects to reside upon his or her discharge, parole, or release and
shall report the address to the Department of Justice.
   (2) The official in charge of the place of confinement or hospital shall
give one copy of the form to the person and shall send one copy to the
Department of Justice and one copy to the appropriate law enforcement
agency or agencies having jurisdiction over the place the person expects
to reside upon discharge, parole, or release. If the conviction that makes
the person subject to this section is a felony conviction, the official in
charge shall, not later than 45 days prior to the scheduled release of the
 4234                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 648 ]
person, send one copy to the appropriate law enforcement agency or
agencies having local jurisdiction where the person expects to reside
upon discharge, parole, or release; one copy to the prosecuting agency
that prosecuted the person; and one copy to the Department of Justice.
The official in charge of the place of confinement or hospital shall retain
one copy.
   (c) (1) Any person who is convicted in this state of the commission
or attempted commission of any of the offenses specified in subdivision
(a) and who is released on probation shall, prior to release or discharge,
be informed of the duty to register under this section by the probation
department, and a probation officer shall require the person to read and
sign any form that may be required by the Department of Justice, stating
that the duty of the person to register under this section has been
explained to him or her. The probation officer shall obtain the address
where the person expects to reside upon release or discharge and shall
report within three days the address to the Department of Justice. The
probation officer shall give one copy of the form to the person, send one
copy to the Department of Justice, and forward one copy to the
appropriate law enforcement agency or agencies having local
jurisdiction where the person expects to reside upon his or her discharge,
parole, or release.
   (2) Any person who is convicted in this state of the commission or
attempted commission of any of the offenses specified in subdivision (a)
and who is granted conditional release without supervised probation, or
discharged upon payment of a fine, shall, prior to release or discharge,
be informed of the duty to register under this section in open court by the
court in which the person has been convicted, and the court shall require
the person to read and sign any form that may be required by the
Department of Justice, stating that the duty of the person to register under
this section has been explained to him or her. If the court finds that it is
in the interest of the efficiency of the court, the court may assign the
bailiff to require the person to read and sign forms under this section. The
court shall obtain the address where the person expects to reside upon
release or discharge and shall report within three days the address to the
Department of Justice. The court shall give one copy of the form to the
person, send one copy to the Department of Justice, and forward one
copy to the appropriate law enforcement agency or agencies having local
jurisdiction where the person expects to reside upon his or her discharge,
parole, or release.
   (d) (1) Any person who, on or after January 1, 1986, is discharged or
paroled from the Department of the Youth Authority to the custody of
which he or she was committed after having been adjudicated a ward of
the juvenile court pursuant to Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code because of the commission or attempted commission of any
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4235

offense described in paragraph (3) shall be subject to registration under
the procedures of this section.
   (2) Any person who is discharged or paroled from a facility in another
state that is equivalent to the Department of the Youth Authority, to the
custody of which he or she was committed because of an offense which,
if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as
one or more of the offenses described in paragraph (3), shall be subject
to registration under the procedures of this section.
   (3) Any person described in this subdivision who committed an
offense in violation of any of the following provisions shall be required
to register pursuant to this section:
   (A) Assault with intent to commit rape, sodomy, oral copulation, or
any violation of Section 264.1, 288, or 289 under Section 220.
   (B) Any offense defined in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261, Section 264.1, 266c, or 267, paragraph
(1) of subdivision (b) of, or subdivision (c) or (d) of, Section 286, Section
288 or 288.5, paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of, or subdivision (c) or
(d) of, Section 288a, subdivision (a) of Section 289, or Section 647.6.
   (C) A violation of Section 207 or 209 committed with the intent to
violate Section 261, 286, 288, 288a, or 289.
   (4) Prior to discharge or parole from the Department of the Youth
Authority, any person who is subject to registration under this
subdivision shall be informed of the duty to register under the procedures
set forth in this section. Department of the Youth Authority officials shall
transmit the required forms and information to the Department of
Justice.
   (5) All records specifically relating to the registration in the custody
of the Department of Justice, law enforcement agencies, and other
agencies or public officials shall be destroyed when the person who is
required to register has his or her records sealed under the procedures set
forth in Section 781 of the Welfare and Institutions Code. This
subdivision shall not be construed as requiring the destruction of other
criminal offender or juvenile records relating to the case that are
maintained by the Department of Justice, law enforcement agencies, the
juvenile court, or other agencies and public officials unless ordered by
a court under Section 781 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (e) (1) On or after January 1, 1998, upon incarceration, placement,
or commitment, or prior to release on probation, any person who is
required to register under this section shall preregister. The
preregistering official shall be the admitting officer at the place of
incarceration, placement, or commitment, or the probation officer if the
person is to be released on probation. The preregistration shall consist
of both of the following:
 4236                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
   (A) A preregistration statement in writing, signed by the person,
giving information that shall be required by the Department of Justice.
   (B) The fingerprints and photograph of the person.
   (C) Any person who is preregistered pursuant to this subdivision is
required to be preregistered only once.
   (2) A person described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) shall
register, or reregister if the person has previously registered, upon
release from incarceration, placement, or commitment, pursuant to
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a). The registration shall consist of all of
the following:
   (A) A statement in writing signed by the person, giving information
as shall be required by the Department of Justice and giving the name
and address of the person’s employer, and the address of the person’s
place of employment if that is different from the employer’s main
address.
   (B) The fingerprints and photograph of the person.
   (C) The license plate number of any vehicle owned by, regularly
driven by, or registered in the name of the person.
   (D) Notice to the person that, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph (4), he or she may have a duty to register in any other state
where he or she may relocate.
   (E) Copies of adequate proof of residence, which shall be limited to
a California driver’s license, California identification card, recent rent
or utility receipt, printed personalized checks or other recent banking
documents showing that person’s name and address, or any other
information that the registering official believes is reliable. If the person
has no residence and no reasonable expectation of obtaining a residence
in the foreseeable future, the person shall so advise the registering
official and shall sign a statement provided by the registering official
stating that fact. Upon presentation of proof of residence to the
registering official or a signed statement that the person has no residence,
the person shall be allowed to register. If the person claims that he or she
has a residence but does not have any proof of residence, he or she shall
be allowed to register but shall furnish proof of residence within 30 days
of the day he or she is allowed to register.
   (3) Within three days thereafter, the preregistering official or the
registering law enforcement agency or agencies shall forward the
statement, fingerprints, photograph, and vehicle license plate number, if
any, to the Department of Justice.
   (f) (1) If any person who is required to register pursuant to this
section changes his or her residence address or location, whether within
the jurisdiction in which he or she is currently registered or to a new
jurisdiction inside or outside the state, the person shall inform, in writing
within five working days, the law enforcement agency or agencies with
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4237

which he or she last registered of the new address or location. The law
enforcement agency or agencies shall, within three days after receipt of
this information, forward a copy of the change of address or location
information to the Department of Justice. The Department of Justice
shall forward appropriate registration data to the law enforcement
agency or agencies having local jurisdiction of the new place of
residence or location.
  (2) If the person’s new address is in a Department of the Youth
Authority facility or a state prison or state mental institution, an official
of the place of incarceration, placement, or commitment shall, within 90
days of receipt of the person, forward the registrant’s change of address
information to the Department of Justice. The agency need not provide
a physical address for the registrant but shall indicate that he or she is
serving a period of incarceration or commitment in a facility under the
agency’s jurisdiction. This paragraph shall apply to persons received in
a Department of the Youth Authority facility or a state prison or state
mental institution on or after January 1, 1999. The Department of Justice
shall forward the change of address information to the agency with
which the person last registered.
  (3) If any person who is required to register pursuant to this section
changes his or her name, the person shall inform, in person, the law
enforcement agency or agencies with which he or she is currently
registered within five working days. The law enforcement agency or
agencies shall forward a copy of this information to the Department of
Justice within three days of its receipt.
  (g) (1) Any person who is required to register under this section
based on a misdemeanor conviction or juvenile adjudication who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding
one year.
  (2) Except as provided in paragraphs (5) and (7), any person who is
required to register under this section based on a felony conviction or
juvenile adjudication who willfully violates any requirement of this
section or who has a prior conviction or juvenile adjudication for the
offense of failing to register under this section and who subsequently and
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a felony and
shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or
two or three years.
  If probation is granted or if the imposition or execution of sentence is
suspended, it shall be a condition of the probation or suspension that the
person serve at least 90 days in a county jail. The penalty described in
this paragraph shall apply whether or not the person has been released
on parole or has been discharged from parole.
 4238                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 648 ]
   (3) Any person determined to be a mentally disordered sex offender
or who has been found guilty in the guilt phase of trial for an offense for
which registration is required under this section, but who has been found
not guilty by reason of insanity in the sanity phase of the trial, or who
has had a petition sustained in a juvenile adjudication for an offense for
which registration is required under this section pursuant to subdivision
(d), but who has been found not guilty by reason of insanity, who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail not
exceeding one year. For any second or subsequent willful violation of
any requirement of this section, the person is guilty of a felony and shall
be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or two
or three years.
   (4) If, after discharge from parole, the person is convicted of a felony
or suffers a juvenile adjudication as specified in this subdivision, he or
she shall be required to complete parole of at least one year, in addition
to any other punishment imposed under this subdivision. A person
convicted of a felony as specified in this subdivision may be granted
probation only in the unusual case where the interests of justice would
best be served. When probation is granted under this paragraph, the court
shall specify on the record and shall enter into the minutes the
circumstances indicating that the interests of justice would best be
served by the disposition.
   (5) Any person who has ever been adjudicated a sexually violent
predator, as defined in Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, and who fails to verify his or her registration every 90 days as
required pursuant to subparagraph (E) of paragraph (1) of subdivision
(a), shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison, or in a county
jail not exceeding one year.
   (6) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (5), and in addition to
any other penalty imposed under this subdivision, any person who is
required pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of subdivision
(a) to update his or her registration every 90 days and willfully fails to
update his or her registration is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months.
Any subsequent violation of this requirement that persons described in
subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) shall update their
registration every 90 days is also a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months.
   (7) Any person who fails to provide proof of residence as required by
subparagraph (E) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (e), regardless of the
offense upon which the duty to register is based, is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding
six months.
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4239

   (8) Any person who is required to register under this section who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a continuing
offense.
   (h) Whenever any person is released on parole or probation and is
required to register under this section but fails to do so within the time
prescribed, the parole authority, the Youthful Offender Parole Board, or
the court, as the case may be, shall order the parole or probation of the
person revoked. For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘parole authority’’ has
the same meaning as described in Section 3000.
   (i) Except as provided in subdivisions (m) and (n) and Section 290.4,
the statements, photographs, and fingerprints required by this section
shall not be open to inspection by the public or by any person other than
a regularly employed peace officer or other law enforcement officer.
   (j) In any case in which a person who would be required to register
pursuant to this section for a felony conviction is to be temporarily sent
outside the institution where he or she is confined on any assignment
within a city or county including firefighting, disaster control, or of
whatever nature the assignment may be, the local law enforcement
agency having jurisdiction over the place or places where the assignment
shall occur shall be notified within a reasonable time prior to removal
from the institution. This subdivision shall not apply to any person who
is temporarily released under guard from the institution where he or she
is confined.
   (k) As used in this section, ‘‘mentally disordered sex offender’’
includes any person who has been determined to be a sexual psychopath
or a mentally disordered sex offender under any provision which, on or
before January 1, 1976, was contained in Division 6 (commencing with
Section 6000) of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (l) (1) Every person who, prior to January 1, 1997, is required to
register under this section, shall be notified whenever he or she next
reregisters of the reduction of the registration period from 14 to five
working days. This notice shall be provided in writing by the registering
agency or agencies. Failure to receive this notification shall be a defense
against the penalties prescribed by subdivision (g) if the person did
register within 14 days.
   (2) Every person who, as a sexually violent predator, as defined in
Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is required to verify
his or her registration every 90 days, shall be notified wherever he or she
next registers of his or her increased registration obligations. This notice
shall be provided in writing by the registering agency or agencies.
Failure to receive this notice shall be a defense against the penalties
prescribed by paragraph (5) of subdivision (g).
   (m) (1) When a peace officer reasonably suspects, based on
information that has come to his or her attention through information
 4240                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 648 ]
provided by any peace officer or member of the public, that a child or
other person may be at risk from a sex offender convicted of a crime
listed in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 290.4, a law
enforcement agency may, notwithstanding any other provision of law,
provide any of the information specified in paragraph (4) of this
subdivision about that registered sex offender that the agency deems
relevant and necessary to protect the public, to the following persons,
agencies, or organizations the offender is likely to encounter, including,
but not limited to, the following:
   (A) Public and private educational institutions, day care
establishments, and establishments and organizations that primarily
serve individuals likely to be victimized by the offender.
   (B) Other community members at risk.
   (2) The law enforcement agency may authorize persons and entities
who receive the information pursuant to paragraph (1) to disclose
information to additional persons only if the agency does the following:
   (A) Determines that all conditions set forth in paragraph (1) have
been satisfied regarding disclosure to the additional persons.
   (B) Identifies the appropriate scope of further disclosure.
   (3) Persons notified pursuant to paragraph (1) may disclose the
information provided by the law enforcement agency in the manner and
to the extent authorized by the law enforcement agency.
   (4) The information that may be disclosed pursuant to this section
includes the following:
   (A) The offender’s full name.
   (B) The offender’s known aliases.
   (C) The offender’s gender.
   (D) The offender’s race.
   (E) The offender’s physical description.
   (F) The offender’s photograph.
   (G) The offender’s date of birth.
   (H) Crimes resulting in registration under this section.
   (I) The offender’s address, which must be verified prior to
publication.
   (J) Description and license plate number of offender’s vehicles or
vehicles the offender is known to drive.
   (K) Type of victim targeted by the offender.
   (L) Relevant parole or probation conditions, such as one prohibiting
contact with children.
   (M) Dates of crimes resulting in classification under this section.
   (N) Date of release from confinement.
   However, information disclosed pursuant to this subdivision shall not
include information that would identify the victim.
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4241

   (5) If a law enforcement agency discloses information pursuant to
this subdivision, it shall include, with the disclosure, a statement that the
purpose of the release of the information is to allow members of the
public to protect themselves and their children from sex offenders.
   (6) For purposes of this section, ‘‘likely to encounter’’ means both of
the following:
   (A) That the agencies, organizations, or other community members
are in a location or in close proximity to a location where the offender
lives or is employed, or that the offender visits or is likely to visit on a
regular basis.
   (B) The types of interaction that ordinarily occur at that location and
other circumstances indicate that contact with the offender is reasonably
probable.
   (7) For purposes of this section, ‘‘reasonably suspects’’ means that it
is objectively reasonable for a peace officer to entertain a suspicion,
based upon facts that could cause a reasonable person in a like position,
drawing when appropriate on his or her training and experience, to
suspect that a child or other person is at risk.
   (8) For purposes of this section, ‘‘at risk’’ means a person is or may
be exposed to a risk of becoming a victim of a sex offense committed by
the offender.
   (9) A law enforcement agency may continue to disclose information
on an offender under this subdivision for as long as the offender is
included in Section 290.4.
   (n) In addition to the procedures set forth elsewhere in this section,
a designated law enforcement entity may advise the public of the
presence of high-risk sex offenders in its community pursuant to this
subdivision.
   (1) For purposes of this subdivision:
   (A) A high-risk sex offender is a person who has been convicted of
an offense specified in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 290.4,
and also meets one of the following criteria:
   (i) Has been convicted of three or more violent sex offenses, at least
two of which were brought and tried separately.
   (ii) Has been convicted of two violent sex offenses and one or more
violent nonsex offenses, at least two of which were brought and tried
separately.
   (iii) Has been convicted of one violent sex offense and two or more
violent nonsex offenses, at least two of which were brought and tried
separately.
   (iv) Has been convicted of either two violent sex offenses or one
violent sex offense and one violent nonsex offense, at least two of which
were brought and tried separately, and has been arrested on separate
 4242                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 648 ]
occasions for three or more violent sex offenses, violent nonsex offenses,
or associated offenses.
   (v) Has been adjudicated a sexually violent predator pursuant to
Article 4 (commencing with Section 6600) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
Division 6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (B) A violent sex offense means any offense defined in Section 220,
except attempt to commit mayhem, or Section 261, 264.1, 286, 288,
288a, 288.5, 289, or 647.6, or infliction of great bodily injury during the
commission of a sex offense, as provided in Section 12022.8.
   (C) A violent nonsex offense means any offense defined in Section
187, subdivision (a) of Section 192, or Section 203, 206, 207, or 236,
provided that the offense is a felony, subdivision (a) of Section 273a,
Section 273d or 451, or attempted murder, as defined in Sections 187 and
664.
   (D) An associated offense means any offense defined in Section
243.4, provided that the offense is a felony, Section 311.1, 311.2, 311.3,
311.4, 311.5, 311.6, 311.7, or 314, Section 459, provided the offense is
of the first degree, Section 597 or 646.9, subdivision (d), (h), or (i) of
Section 647, Section 653m, or infliction of great bodily injury during the
commission of a felony, as defined in Section 12022.7.
   (E) For purposes of subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, an arrest or
conviction for the statutory predecessor of any of the enumerated
offenses, or an arrest or conviction in any other jurisdiction for any
offense that, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as one or more of the offenses described in those
subparagraphs, is to be considered in determining whether an offender
is a high-risk sex offender.
   (F) For purposes of subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, an arrest as
a juvenile or an adjudication as a ward of the juvenile court within the
meaning of Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code for any of
the offenses described in those subparagraphs is to be considered in
determining whether an offender is a high-risk sex offender.
   (G) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) to (D), inclusive, an offender
shall not be considered to be a high-risk sex offender if either of the
following apply:
   (i) The offender’s most recent conviction or arrest for an offense
described in subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, occurred more than
five years prior to the high-risk assessment by the Department of Justice,
excluding periods of confinement.
   (ii) The offender notifies the Department of Justice, on a form
approved by the department and available at any sheriff’s office, that he
or she has not been convicted in the preceding 15 years, excluding
periods of confinement, of an offense for which registration is required
under paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), and the department is able, upon
[Ch. 648 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4243

exercise of reasonable diligence, to verify the information provided in
paragraph (2).
   (H) ‘‘Confinement’’ means confinement in a jail, prison, school, road
camp, or other penal institution, confinement in a state hospital to which
the offender was committed as a mentally disordered sex offender under
Article 1 (commencing with Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
Division 6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or confinement in a
facility designated by the Director of Mental Health to which the
offender was committed as a sexually violent predator under Article 4
(commencing with Section 6600) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6
of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (I) ‘‘Designated law enforcement entity’’ means any of the following:
municipal police department; sheriff’s department; district attorney’s
office; county probation department; Department of Justice; Department
of Corrections; Department of the Youth Authority; Department of the
California Highway Patrol; or the police department of any campus of
the University of California, California State University, or community
college.
  (2) The Department of Justice shall continually search the records
provided to it pursuant to subdivision (b) and identify, on the basis of
those records, high-risk sex offenders. Four times each year, the
department shall provide to each chief of police and sheriff in the state,
and to any other designated law enforcement entity upon request, the
following information regarding each identified high-risk sex offender:
full name; known aliases; gender; race; physical description;
photograph; date of birth; and crimes resulting in classification under
this section.
   (3) The Department of Justice and any designated law enforcement
entity to which notice has been given pursuant to paragraph (2) may
cause to be made public, by whatever means the agency deems necessary
to ensure the public safety, based upon information available to the
agency concerning a specific person, including, but not limited to, the
information described in paragraph (2); the offender’s address, which
shall be verified prior to publication; description and license plate
number of the offender’s vehicles or vehicles the offender is known to
drive; type of victim targeted by the offender; relevant parole or
probation conditions, such as one prohibiting contact with children;
dates of crimes resulting in classification under this section; and date of
release from confinement; but excluding information that would identify
the victim.
   (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person described
in paragraph (2) of subdivision (p) who receives information from a
designated law enforcement entity pursuant to paragraph (3) may
 4244                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
disclose that information in the manner and to the extent authorized by
the law enforcement entity.
   (5) The law enforcement agency may authorize persons and entities
who receive the information pursuant to paragraph (3) to disclose
information to additional persons only if the agency does the following:
   (A) Determines that all conditions set forth in this subdivision have
been satisfied regarding disclosure to the additional persons.
   (B) Identifies the appropriate scope of further disclosure.
   (o) Agencies disseminating information to the public pursuant to
Section 290.4 shall maintain records of those persons requesting to view
the CD-ROM or other electronic media for a minimum of five years.
Agencies disseminating information to the public pursuant to
subdivision (n) shall maintain records of the means and dates of
dissemination for a minimum of five years.
   (p) (1) Any law enforcement agency and employees of any law
enforcement agency shall be immune from liability for good faith
conduct under this section. For the purposes of this section, ‘‘law
enforcement agency’’ means the Attorney General of California, every
district attorney, the Department of Corrections, the Department of the
Youth Authority, and every state or local agency expressly authorized by
statute to investigate or prosecute law violators.
   (2) Any public or private educational institution, day care facility, or
any child care custodian described in Section 11165.7, or any employee
of a public or private educational institution or day care facility which
in good faith disseminates information as authorized pursuant to
paragraph (3) of subdivision (m) or paragraph (4) of subdivision (n) that
is provided by a law enforcement agency or an employee of a law
enforcement agency shall be immune from civil liability.
   (q) (1) Any person who uses information disclosed pursuant to this
section to commit a felony shall be punished, in addition and
consecutive to any other punishment, by a five-year term of
imprisonment in the state prison.
   (2) Any person who uses information disclosed pursuant to this
section to commit a misdemeanor shall be subject to, in addition to any
other penalty or fine imposed, a fine of not less than five hundred dollars
($500) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (r) The registration and public notification provisions of this section
are applicable to every person described in this section, without regard
to when his or her crimes were committed or his or her duty to register
pursuant to this section arose, and to every offense described in this
section, regardless of when it was committed.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 290 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   290. (a) (1) (A) Every person described in paragraph (2), for the
rest of his or her life while residing in, or, if he or she has no residence,
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4245

while located within California, or while attending school or working in
California, as described in subparagraph (G), shall be required to register
with the chief of police of the city in which he or she is residing, or if he
or she has no residence, is located, or the sheriff of the county if he or
she is residing, or if he or she has no residence, is located, in an
unincorporated area or city that has no police department, and,
additionally, with the chief of police of a campus of the University of
California, the California State University, or community college if he
or she is residing, or if he or she has no residence, is located upon the
campus or in any of its facilities, within five working days of coming
into, or changing his or her residence or location within, any city, county,
or city and county, or campus in which he or she temporarily resides, or,
if he or she has no residence, is located.
   (B) If the person who is registering has more than one residence
address or location at which he or she regularly resides or is located, he
or she shall register in accordance with subparagraph (A) in each of the
jurisdictions in which he or she regularly resides or is located. If all of
the addresses or locations are within the same jurisdiction, the person
shall provide the registering authority with all of the addresses or
locations where he or she regularly resides or is located.
   (C) If the person who is registering has no residence address, he or she
shall update his or her registration no less than once every 90 days in
addition to the requirement in subparagraph (A), on a form as may be
required by the Department of Justice, with the entity or entities
described in subparagraph (A) in whose jurisdiction he or she is located
at the time he or she is updating the registration.
   (D) Beginning on his or her first birthday following registration or
change of address, the person shall be required to register annually,
within five working days of his or her birthday, to update his or her
registration with the entities described in subparagraph (A), including,
verifying his or her name and address, or temporary location, and place
of employment including the name and address of the employer, on a
form as may be required by the Department of Justice.
   (E) In addition, every person who has ever been adjudicated a
sexually violent predator, as defined in Section 6600 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, shall, after his or her release from custody, verify his
or her address no less than once every 90 days and place of employment,
including the name and address of the employer, in a manner established
by the Department of Justice.
   (F) No entity shall require a person to pay a fee to register or update
his or her registration pursuant to this section. The registering agency
shall submit registrations, including annual updates or changes of
address, directly into the Department of Justice Violent Crime
Information Network (VCIN).
 4246                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
   (G) Persons required to register in their state of residence who are
out-of-state residents employed in California on a full-time or part-time
basis, with or without compensation, for more than 14 days, or for an
aggregate period exceeding 30 days in a calendar year, shall register in
accordance with subparagraph (A). Persons described in paragraph (2)
who are out-of-state residents enrolled in any educational institution in
California, as defined in Section 22129 of the Education Code, on a
full-time or part-time basis, shall register in accordance with
subparagraph (A). The place where the out-of-state resident is located,
for purposes of registration, shall be the place where the person is
employed or attending school. The out-of-state resident subject to this
subparagraph shall, in addition to the information required pursuant to
subdivision (e), provide the registering authority with the name of his or
her place of employment or the name of the school attended in
California, and his or her address or location in his or her state of
residence. The registration requirement for persons subject to this
subparagraph shall become operative on November 25, 2000.
   (2) The following persons shall be required to register pursuant to
paragraph (1):
   (A) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or is hereafter
convicted in any court in this state or in any federal or military court of
a violation of Section 207 or 209 committed with intent to violate
Section 261, 286, 288, 288a, or 289, Section 220, except assault to
commit mayhem, Section 243.4, paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261, or paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of
Section 262 involving the use of force or violence for which the person
is sentenced to the state prison, Section 264.1, 266, 266c, subdivision (b)
of Section 266h, subdivision (b) of Section 266i, 266j, 267, 269, 285,
286, 288, 288a, 288.5, or 289, subdivision (b), (c), or (d) of Section
311.2, Section 311.3, 311.4, 311.10, 311.11, or 647.6, former Section
647a, subdivision (c) of Section 653f, subdivision 1 or 2 of Section 314,
any offense involving lewd or lascivious conduct under Section 272, or
any felony violation of Section 288.2; or any person who since that date
has been or is hereafter convicted of the attempt to commit any of the
above-mentioned offenses.
   (B) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or hereafter is
released, discharged, or paroled from a penal institution where he or she
was confined because of the commission or attempted commission of
one of the offenses described in subparagraph (A).
   (C) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or hereafter is
determined to be a mentally disordered sex offender under Article 1
(commencing with Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6
of the Welfare and Institutions Code or any person who has been found
guilty in the guilt phase of a trial for an offense for which registration is
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4247

required by this section but who has been found not guilty by reason of
insanity in the sanity phase of the trial.
   (D) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been, or is hereafter
convicted in any other court, including any state, federal, or military
court, of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state,
would have been punishable as one or more of the offenses described in
subparagraph (A) or any person ordered by any other court, including
any state, federal, or military court, to register as a sex offender for any
offense, if the court found at the time of conviction or sentencing that the
person committed the offense as a result of sexual compulsion or for
purposes of sexual gratification.
   (E) Any person ordered by any court to register pursuant to this
section for any offense not included specifically in this section if the
court finds at the time of conviction or sentencing that the person
committed the offense as a result of sexual compulsion or for purposes
of sexual gratification. The court shall state on the record the reasons for
its findings and the reasons for requiring registration.
   (F) (i) Notwithstanding any other subdivision, a person who was
convicted before January 1, 1976, under subdivision (a) of Section 286,
or Section 288a, shall not be required to register pursuant to this section
for that conviction if the conviction was for conduct between consenting
adults that was decriminalized by Chapter 71 of the Statutes of 1975 or
Chapter 1139 of the Statutes of 1976. The Department of Justice shall
remove that person from the Sex Offender Registry, and the person is
discharged from his or her duty to register pursuant to the following
procedure:
   (I) The person submits to the Department of Justice official
documentary evidence, including court records or police reports, which
demonstrate that the person’s conviction pursuant to either of those
sections was for conduct between consenting adults that was
decriminalized; or
   (II) The person submits to the department a declaration stating that
the person’s conviction pursuant to either of those sections was for
consensual conduct between adults that has been decriminalized. The
declaration shall be confidential and not a public record, and shall
include the person’s name, address, telephone number, date of birth, and
a summary of the circumstances leading to the conviction, including the
date of the conviction and county of the occurrence.
   (III) The department shall determine whether the person’s conviction
was for conduct between consensual adults that has been decriminalized.
If the conviction was for consensual conduct between adults that has
been decriminalized, and the person has no other offenses for which he
or she is required to register pursuant to this section, the department
shall, within 60 days of receipt of those documents, notify the person that
 4248                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
he or she is relieved of the duty to register, and shall notify the local law
enforcement agency with which the person is registered that he or she has
been relieved of the duty to register. The local law enforcement agency
shall remove the person’s registration from its files within 30 days of
receipt of notification. If the documentary or other evidence submitted
is insufficient to establish the person’s claim, the department shall,
within 60 days of receipt of those documents, notify the person that his
or her claim cannot be established, and that the person shall continue to
register pursuant to this section. The department shall provide, upon the
person’s request, any information relied upon by the department in
making its determination that the person shall continue to register
pursuant to this section. Any person whose claim has been denied by the
department pursuant to this clause may petition the court to appeal the
department’s denial of the person’s claim.
   (ii) On or before July 1, 1998, the department shall make a report to
the Legislature concerning the status of persons who may come under
the provisions of this subparagraph, including the number of persons
who were convicted before January 1, 1976, under subdivision (a) of
Section 286 or Section 288a and are required to register under this
section, the average age of these persons, the number of these persons
who have any subsequent convictions for a registerable sex offense, and
the number of these persons who have sought successfully or
unsuccessfully to be relieved of their duty to register under this section.
   (b) (1) Any person who is released, discharged, or paroled from a
jail, state or federal prison, school, road camp, or other institution where
he or she was confined because of the commission or attempted
commission of one of the offenses specified in subdivision (a) or is
released from a state hospital to which he or she was committed as a
mentally disordered sex offender under Article 1 (commencing with
Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, shall, prior to discharge, parole, or release, be
informed of his or her duty to register under this section by the official
in charge of the place of confinement or hospital, and the official shall
require the person to read and sign any form that may be required by the
Department of Justice, stating that the duty of the person to register under
this section has been explained to the person. The official in charge of
the place of confinement or hospital shall obtain the address where the
person expects to reside upon his or her discharge, parole, or release and
shall report the address to the Department of Justice. The official shall
at the same time forward a current photograph of the person to the
Department of Justice.
   (2) The official in charge of the place of confinement or hospital shall
give one copy of the form to the person and shall send one copy to the
Department of Justice and one copy to the appropriate law enforcement
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4249

agency or agencies having jurisdiction over the place the person expects
to reside upon discharge, parole, or release. If the conviction that makes
the person subject to this section is a felony conviction, the official in
charge shall, not later than 45 days prior to the scheduled release of the
person, send one copy to the appropriate law enforcement agency or
agencies having local jurisdiction where the person expects to reside
upon discharge, parole, or release; one copy to the prosecuting agency
that prosecuted the person; and one copy to the Department of Justice.
The official in charge of the place of confinement or hospital shall retain
one copy.
   (c) (1) Any person who is convicted in this state of the commission
or attempted commission of any of the offenses specified in subdivision
(a) and who is released on probation, shall, prior to release or discharge,
be informed of the duty to register under this section by the probation
department, and a probation officer shall require the person to read and
sign any form that may be required by the Department of Justice, stating
that the duty of the person to register under this section has been
explained to him or her. The probation officer shall obtain the address
where the person expects to reside upon release or discharge and shall
report within three days the address to the Department of Justice. The
probation officer shall give one copy of the form to the person, send one
copy to the Department of Justice, and forward one copy to the
appropriate law enforcement agency or agencies having local
jurisdiction where the person expects to reside upon his or her discharge,
parole, or release.
   (2) Any person who is convicted in this state of the commission or
attempted commission of any of the offenses specified in subdivision (a)
and who is granted conditional release without supervised probation, or
discharged upon payment of a fine, shall, prior to release or discharge,
be informed of the duty to register under this section in open court by the
court in which the person has been convicted, and the court shall require
the person to read and sign any form that may be required by the
Department of Justice, stating that the duty of the person to register under
this section has been explained to him or her. If the court finds that it is
in the interest of the efficiency of the court, the court may assign the
bailiff to require the person to read and sign forms under this section. The
court shall obtain the address where the person expects to reside upon
release or discharge and shall report within three days the address to the
Department of Justice. The court shall give one copy of the form to the
person, send one copy to the Department of Justice, and forward one
copy to the appropriate law enforcement agency or agencies having local
jurisdiction where the person expects to reside upon his or her discharge,
parole, or release.
 4250                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
   (d) (1) Any person who, on or after January 1, 1986, is discharged or
paroled from the Department of the Youth Authority to the custody of
which he or she was committed after having been adjudicated a ward of
the juvenile court pursuant to Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code because of the commission or attempted commission of any
offense described in paragraph (3) shall be subject to registration under
the procedures of this section.
   (2) Any person who is discharged or paroled from a facility in another
state that is equivalent to the Department of the Youth Authority, to the
custody of which he or she was committed because of an offense which,
if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as
one or more of the offenses described in paragraph (3), shall be subject
to registration under the procedures of this section.
   (3) Any person described in this subdivision who committed an
offense in violation of any of the following provisions shall be required
to register pursuant to this section:
   (A) Assault with intent to commit rape, sodomy, oral copulation, or
any violation of Section 264.1, 288, or 289 under Section 220.
   (B) Any offense defined in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261, Section 264.1, 266c, or 267, paragraph
(1) of subdivision (b) of, or subdivision (c) or (d) of, Section 286, Section
288 or 288.5, paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of, or subdivision (c) or
(d) of, Section 288a, subdivision (a) of Section 289, or Section 647.6.
   (C) A violation of Section 207 or 209 committed with the intent to
violate Section 261, 286, 288, 288a, or 289.
   (4) Prior to discharge or parole from the Department of the Youth
Authority, any person who is subject to registration under this
subdivision shall be informed of the duty to register under the procedures
set forth in this section. Department of the Youth Authority officials shall
transmit the required forms and information to the Department of
Justice.
   (5) All records specifically relating to the registration in the custody
of the Department of Justice, law enforcement agencies, and other
agencies or public officials shall be destroyed when the person who is
required to register has his or her records sealed under the procedures set
forth in Section 781 of the Welfare and Institutions Code. This
subdivision shall not be construed as requiring the destruction of other
criminal offender or juvenile records relating to the case that are
maintained by the Department of Justice, law enforcement agencies, the
juvenile court, or other agencies and public officials unless ordered by
a court under Section 781 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (e) (1) On or after January 1, 1998, upon incarceration, placement,
or commitment, or prior to release on probation, any person who is
required to register under this section shall preregister. The
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4251

preregistering official shall be the admitting officer at the place of
incarceration, placement, or commitment, or the probation officer if the
person is to be released on probation. The preregistration shall consist
of both of the following:
   (A) A preregistration statement in writing, signed by the person,
giving information that shall be required by the Department of Justice.
   (B) The fingerprints and a current photograph of the person.
   (C) Any person who is preregistered pursuant to this subdivision is
required to be preregistered only once.
   (2) A person described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) shall
register, or reregister if the person has previously registered, upon
release from incarceration, placement, or commitment, pursuant to
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a). The registration shall consist of all of
the following:
   (A) A statement in writing signed by the person, giving information
as shall be required by the Department of Justice and giving the name
and address of the person’s employer, and the address of the person’s
place of employment if that is different from the employer’s main
address.
   (B) The fingerprints and a current photograph of the person.
   (C) The license plate number of any vehicle owned by, regularly
driven by, or registered in the name of the person.
   (D) Notice to the person that, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph (4), he or she may have a duty to register in any other state
where he or she may relocate.
   (E) Copies of adequate proof of residence, which shall be limited to
a California driver’s license, California identification card, recent rent
or utility receipt, printed personalized checks or other recent banking
documents showing that person’s name and address, or any other
information that the registering official believes is reliable. If the person
has no residence and no reasonable expectation of obtaining a residence
in the foreseeable future, the person shall so advise the registering
official and shall sign a statement provided by the registering official
stating that fact. Upon presentation of proof of residence to the
registering official or a signed statement that the person has no residence,
the person shall be allowed to register. If the person claims that he or she
has a residence but does not have any proof of residence, he or she shall
be allowed to register but shall furnish proof of residence within 30 days
of the day he or she is allowed to register.
   (3) Within three days thereafter, the preregistering official or the
registering law enforcement agency or agencies shall forward the
statement, fingerprints, photograph, and vehicle license plate number, if
any, to the Department of Justice.
 4252                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
  (f) (1) If any person who is required to register pursuant to this
section changes his or her residence address or location, whether within
the jurisdiction in which he or she is currently registered or to a new
jurisdiction inside or outside the state, the person shall inform, in writing
within five working days, the law enforcement agency or agencies with
which he or she last registered of the new address or location. The law
enforcement agency or agencies shall, within three days after receipt of
this information, forward a copy of the change of address or location
information to the Department of Justice. The Department of Justice
shall forward appropriate registration data to the law enforcement
agency or agencies having local jurisdiction of the new place of
residence or location.
  (2) If the person’s new address is in a Department of the Youth
Authority facility or a state prison or state mental institution, an official
of the place of incarceration, placement, or commitment shall, within 90
days of receipt of the person, forward the registrant’s change of address
information to the Department of Justice. The agency need not provide
a physical address for the registrant but shall indicate that he or she is
serving a period of incarceration or commitment in a facility under the
agency’s jurisdiction. This paragraph shall apply to persons received in
a Department of the Youth Authority facility or a state prison or state
mental institution on or after January 1, 1999. The Department of Justice
shall forward the change of address information to the agency with
which the person last registered.
  (3) If any person who is required to register pursuant to this section
changes his or her name, the person shall inform, in person, the law
enforcement agency or agencies with which he or she is currently
registered within five working days. The law enforcement agency or
agencies shall forward a copy of this information to the Department of
Justice within three days of its receipt.
  (g) (1) Any person who is required to register under this section
based on a misdemeanor conviction or juvenile adjudication who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding
one year.
  (2) Except as provided in paragraphs (5) and (7), any person who is
required to register under this section based on a felony conviction or
juvenile adjudication who willfully violates any requirement of this
section or who has a prior conviction or juvenile adjudication for the
offense of failing to register under this section and who subsequently and
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a felony and
shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or
two or three years.
[Ch. 648 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4253

   If probation is granted or if the imposition or execution of sentence is
suspended, it shall be a condition of the probation or suspension that the
person serve at least 90 days in a county jail. The penalty described in
this paragraph shall apply whether or not the person has been released
on parole or has been discharged from parole.
   (3) Any person determined to be a mentally disordered sex offender
or who has been found guilty in the guilt phase of trial for an offense for
which registration is required under this section, but who has been found
not guilty by reason of insanity in the sanity phase of the trial, or who
has had a petition sustained in a juvenile adjudication for an offense for
which registration is required under this section pursuant to subdivision
(d), but who has been found not guilty by reason of insanity, who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail not
exceeding one year. For any second or subsequent willful violation of
any requirement of this section, the person is guilty of a felony and shall
be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or two
or three years.
   (4) If, after discharge from parole, the person is convicted of a felony
or suffers a juvenile adjudication as specified in this subdivision, he or
she shall be required to complete parole of at least one year, in addition
to any other punishment imposed under this subdivision. A person
convicted of a felony as specified in this subdivision may be granted
probation only in the unusual case where the interests of justice would
best be served. When probation is granted under this paragraph, the court
shall specify on the record and shall enter into the minutes the
circumstances indicating that the interests of justice would best be
served by the disposition.
   (5) Any person who has ever been adjudicated a sexually violent
predator, as defined in Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, and who fails to verify his or her registration every 90 days as
required pursuant to subparagraph (E) of paragraph (1) of subdivision
(a), shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison, or in a county
jail not exceeding one year.
   (6) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (5), and in addition to
any other penalty imposed under this subdivision, any person who is
required pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of subdivision
(a) to update his or her registration every 90 days and willfully fails to
update his or her registration is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months.
Any subsequent violation of this requirement that persons described in
subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) shall update their
registration every 90 days is also a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months.
 4254                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 648 ]
   (7) Any person who fails to provide proof of residence as required by
subparagraph (E) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (e), regardless of the
offense upon which the duty to register is based, is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding
six months.
   (8) Any person who is required to register under this section who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a continuing
offense.
   (h) Whenever any person is released on parole or probation and is
required to register under this section but fails to do so within the time
prescribed, the parole authority, the Youthful Offender Parole Board, or
the court, as the case may be, shall order the parole or probation of the
person revoked. For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘parole authority’’ has
the same meaning as described in Section 3000.
   (i) Except as provided in subdivisions (m) and (n) and Section 290.4,
the statements, photographs, and fingerprints required by this section
shall not be open to inspection by the public or by any person other than
a regularly employed peace officer or other law enforcement officer.
   (j) In any case in which a person who would be required to register
pursuant to this section for a felony conviction is to be temporarily sent
outside the institution where he or she is confined on any assignment
within a city or county including firefighting, disaster control, or of
whatever nature the assignment may be, the local law enforcement
agency having jurisdiction over the place or places where the assignment
shall occur shall be notified within a reasonable time prior to removal
from the institution. This subdivision shall not apply to any person who
is temporarily released under guard from the institution where he or she
is confined.
   (k) As used in this section, ‘‘mentally disordered sex offender’’
includes any person who has been determined to be a sexual psychopath
or a mentally disordered sex offender under any provision which, on or
before January 1, 1976, was contained in Division 6 (commencing with
Section 6000) of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (l) (1) Every person who, prior to January 1, 1997, is required to
register under this section, shall be notified whenever he or she next
reregisters of the reduction of the registration period from 14 to five
working days. This notice shall be provided in writing by the registering
agency or agencies. Failure to receive this notification shall be a defense
against the penalties prescribed by subdivision (g) if the person did
register within 14 days.
   (2) Every person who, as a sexually violent predator, as defined in
Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is required to verify
his or her registration every 90 days, shall be notified wherever he or she
next registers of his or her increased registration obligations. This notice
[Ch. 648 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4255

shall be provided in writing by the registering agency or agencies.
Failure to receive this notice shall be a defense against the penalties
prescribed by paragraph (5) of subdivision (g).
   (m) (1) When a peace officer reasonably suspects, based on
information that has come to his or her attention through information
provided by any peace officer or member of the public, that a child or
other person may be at risk from a sex offender convicted of a crime
listed in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 290.4, a law
enforcement agency may, notwithstanding any other provision of law,
provide any of the information specified in paragraph (4) of this
subdivision about that registered sex offender that the agency deems
relevant and necessary to protect the public, to the following persons,
agencies, or organizations the offender is likely to encounter, including,
but not limited to, the following:
   (A) Public and private educational institutions, day care
establishments, and establishments and organizations that primarily
serve individuals likely to be victimized by the offender.
   (B) Other community members at risk.
   (2) The law enforcement agency may authorize persons and entities
who receive the information pursuant to paragraph (1) to disclose
information to additional persons only if the agency does the following:
   (A) Determines that all conditions set forth in paragraph (1) have
been satisfied regarding disclosure to the additional persons.
   (B) Identifies the appropriate scope of further disclosure.
   (3) Persons notified pursuant to paragraph (1) may disclose the
information provided by the law enforcement agency in the manner and
to the extent authorized by the law enforcement agency.
   (4) The information that may be disclosed pursuant to this section
includes the following:
   (A) The offender’s full name.
   (B) The offender’s known aliases.
   (C) The offender’s gender.
   (D) The offender’s race.
   (E) The offender’s physical description.
   (F) The offender’s photograph.
   (G) The offender’s date of birth.
   (H) Crimes resulting in registration under this section.
   (I) The offender’s address, which must be verified prior to
publication.
   (J) Description and license plate number of offender’s vehicles or
vehicles the offender is known to drive.
   (K) Type of victim targeted by the offender.
   (L) Relevant parole or probation conditions, such as one prohibiting
contact with children.
 4256                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
   (M) Dates of crimes resulting in classification under this section.
   (N) Date of release from confinement.
   However, information disclosed pursuant to this subdivision shall not
include information that would identify the victim.
   (5) If a law enforcement agency discloses information pursuant to
this subdivision, it shall include, with the disclosure, a statement that the
purpose of the release of the information is to allow members of the
public to protect themselves and their children from sex offenders.
   (6) For purposes of this section, ‘‘likely to encounter’’ means both of
the following:
   (A) That the agencies, organizations, or other community members
are in a location or in close proximity to a location where the offender
lives or is employed, or that the offender visits or is likely to visit on a
regular basis.
   (B) The types of interaction that ordinarily occur at that location and
other circumstances indicate that contact with the offender is reasonably
probable.
   (7) For purposes of this section, ‘‘reasonably suspects’’ means that it
is objectively reasonable for a peace officer to entertain a suspicion,
based upon facts that could cause a reasonable person in a like position,
drawing when appropriate on his or her training and experience, to
suspect that a child or other person is at risk.
   (8) For purposes of this section, ‘‘at risk’’ means a person is or may
be exposed to a risk of becoming a victim of a sex offense committed by
the offender.
   (9) A law enforcement agency may continue to disclose information
on an offender under this subdivision for as long as the offender is
included in Section 290.4.
   (n) In addition to the procedures set forth elsewhere in this section,
a designated law enforcement entity may advise the public of the
presence of high-risk sex offenders in its community pursuant to this
subdivision.
   (1) For purposes of this subdivision:
   (A) A high-risk sex offender is a person who has been convicted of
an offense specified in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 290.4,
and also meets one of the following criteria:
   (i) Has been convicted of three or more violent sex offenses, at least
two of which were brought and tried separately.
   (ii) Has been convicted of two violent sex offenses and one or more
violent nonsex offenses, at least two of which were brought and tried
separately.
   (iii) Has been convicted of one violent sex offense and two or more
violent nonsex offenses, at least two of which were brought and tried
separately.
[Ch. 648 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4257

   (iv) Has been convicted of either two violent sex offenses or one
violent sex offense and one violent nonsex offense, at least two of which
were brought and tried separately, and has been arrested on separate
occasions for three or more violent sex offenses, violent nonsex offenses,
or associated offenses.
   (v) Has been adjudicated a sexually violent predator pursuant to
Article 4 (commencing with Section 6600) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
Division 6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (B) A violent sex offense means any offense defined in Section 220,
except attempt to commit mayhem, or Section 261, 264.1, 286, 288,
288a, 288.5, 289, or 647.6, or infliction of great bodily injury during the
commission of a sex offense, as provided in Section 12022.8.
   (C) A violent nonsex offense means any offense defined in Section
187, subdivision (a) of Section 192, or Section 203, 206, 207, or 236,
provided that the offense is a felony, subdivision (a) of Section 273a,
Section 273d or 451, or attempted murder, as defined in Sections 187 and
664.
   (D) An associated offense means any offense defined in Section
243.4, provided that the offense is a felony, Section 311.1, 311.2, 311.3,
311.4, 311.5, 311.6, 311.7, or 314, Section 459, provided the offense is
of the first degree, Section 597 or 646.9, subdivision (d), (h), or (i) of
Section 647, Section 653m, or infliction of great bodily injury during the
commission of a felony, as defined in Section 12022.7.
   (E) For purposes of subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, an arrest or
conviction for the statutory predecessor of any of the enumerated
offenses, or an arrest or conviction in any other jurisdiction for any
offense that, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as one or more of the offenses described in those
subparagraphs, is to be considered in determining whether an offender
is a high-risk sex offender.
   (F) For purposes of subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, an arrest as
a juvenile or an adjudication as a ward of the juvenile court within the
meaning of Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code for any of
the offenses described in those subparagraphs is to be considered in
determining whether an offender is a high-risk sex offender.
   (G) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) to (D), inclusive, an offender
shall not be considered to be a high-risk sex offender if either of the
following apply:
   (i) The offender’s most recent conviction or arrest for an offense
described in subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, occurred more than
five years prior to the high-risk assessment by the Department of Justice,
excluding periods of confinement.
   (ii) The offender notifies the Department of Justice, on a form
approved by the department and available at any sheriff’s office, that he
 4258                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 648 ]
or she has not been convicted in the preceding 15 years, excluding
periods of confinement, of an offense for which registration is required
under paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), and the department is able, upon
exercise of reasonable diligence, to verify the information provided in
paragraph (2).
   (H) ‘‘Confinement’’ means confinement in a jail, prison, school, road
camp, or other penal institution, confinement in a state hospital to which
the offender was committed as a mentally disordered sex offender under
Article 1 (commencing with Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
Division 6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or confinement in a
facility designated by the Director of Mental Health to which the
offender was committed as a sexually violent predator under Article 4
(commencing with Section 6600) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6
of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (I) ‘‘Designated law enforcement entity’’ means any of the following:
municipal police department; sheriff’s department; district attorney’s
office; county probation department; Department of Justice; Department
of Corrections; Department of the Youth Authority; Department of the
California Highway Patrol; or the police department of any campus of
the University of California, California State University, or community
college.
   (2) The Department of Justice shall continually search the records
provided to it pursuant to subdivision (b) and identify, on the basis of
those records, high-risk sex offenders. Four times each year, the
department shall provide to each chief of police and sheriff in the state,
and to any other designated law enforcement entity upon request, the
following information regarding each identified high-risk sex offender:
full name; known aliases; gender; race; physical description;
photograph; date of birth; and crimes resulting in classification under
this section.
   (3) The Department of Justice and any designated law enforcement
entity to which notice has been given pursuant to paragraph (2) may
cause to be made public, by whatever means the agency deems necessary
to ensure the public safety, based upon information available to the
agency concerning a specific person, including, but not limited to, the
information described in paragraph (2); the offender’s address, which
shall be verified prior to publication; description and license plate
number of the offender’s vehicles or vehicles the offender is known to
drive; type of victim targeted by the offender; relevant parole or
probation conditions, such as one prohibiting contact with children;
dates of crimes resulting in classification under this section; and date of
release from confinement; but excluding information that would identify
the victim.
[Ch. 648 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4259

   (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person described
in paragraph (2) of subdivision (p) who receives information from a
designated law enforcement entity pursuant to paragraph (3) may
disclose that information in the manner and to the extent authorized by
the law enforcement entity.
   (5) The law enforcement agency may authorize persons and entities
who receive the information pursuant to paragraph (3) to disclose
information to additional persons only if the agency does the following:
   (A) Determines that all conditions set forth in this subdivision have
been satisfied regarding disclosure to the additional persons.
   (B) Identifies the appropriate scope of further disclosure.
   (o) Agencies disseminating information to the public pursuant to
Section 290.4 shall maintain records of those persons requesting to view
the CD-ROM or other electronic media for a minimum of five years.
Agencies disseminating information to the public pursuant to
subdivision (n) shall maintain records of the means and dates of
dissemination for a minimum of five years.
   (p) (1) Any law enforcement agency and employees of any law
enforcement agency shall be immune from liability for good faith
conduct under this section. For the purposes of this section, ‘‘law
enforcement agency’’ means the Attorney General of California, every
district attorney, the Department of Corrections, the Department of the
Youth Authority, and every state or local agency expressly authorized by
statute to investigate or prosecute law violators.
   (2) Any public or private educational institution, day care facility, or
any child care custodian described in Section 11165.7, or any employee
of a public or private educational institution or day care facility which
in good faith disseminates information as authorized pursuant to
paragraph (3) of subdivision (m) or paragraph (4) of subdivision (n) that
is provided by a law enforcement agency or an employee of a law
enforcement agency shall be immune from civil liability.
   (q) (1) Any person who uses information disclosed pursuant to this
section to commit a felony shall be punished, in addition and
consecutive to any other punishment, by a five-year term of
imprisonment in the state prison.
   (2) Any person who uses information disclosed pursuant to this
section to commit a misdemeanor shall be subject to, in addition to any
other penalty or fine imposed, a fine of not less than five hundred dollars
($500) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (r) The registration and public notification provisions of this section
are applicable to every person described in this section, without regard
to when his or her crimes were committed or his or her duty to register
pursuant to this section arose, and to every offense described in this
section, regardless of when it was committed.
 4260                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
   SEC. 2. Section 290.4 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   290.4. (a) (1) The Department of Justice shall continually compile
information as described in paragraph (2) regarding any person required
to register under Section 290 for a conviction of Section 207 or 209
committed with the intent to violate Section 261, 286, 288, 288a, or 289;
Section 220, except assault to commit mayhem; Section 243.4, provided
that the offense is a felony; paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261; Section 264.1; Section 266, provided that
the offense is a felony; Section 266c, provided that the offense is a
felony; Section 266j; Section 267; Section 269; paragraph (1) of
subdivision (b) of Section 286, provided that the offense is a felony;
paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), subdivision (c), (d), (f), (g), (i), (j), or
(k) of Section 286; Section 288; paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of
Section 288a, provided that the offense is a felony; paragraph (2) of
subdivision (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (i), (j), or (k) of Section 288a; Section
288.5; subdivision (a), (b), (d), (e), (f), (g), or (h) of Section 289,
provided that the offense is a felony; subdivision (i) or (j) of Section 289;
Section 647.6; or the attempted commission of any of these offenses; or
the statutory predecessor of any of these offenses or any offense which,
if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as
one or more of the offenses described in this section. This requirement
shall not be applied to a person whose duty to register has been
terminated pursuant to paragraph (5) of subdivision (d) of Section 290,
or to a person who has been relieved of his or her duty to register under
Section 290.5.
   (2) The information shall be categorized by community of residence
and ZIP Code. The information shall include the names and known
aliases of the person, photograph, a physical description, gender, race,
date of birth, the criminal history, and the address, including ZIP Code,
in which the person resides, and any other information that the
Department of Justice deems relevant, not including information that
would identify the victim.
   (3) The department shall operate a ‘‘900’’ telephone number that
members of the public may call and inquire whether a named individual
is listed among those described in this subdivision. The caller shall
furnish his or her first name, middle initial, and last name. The
department shall ascertain whether a named person reasonably appears
to be a person so listed and provide the caller with the information
described in paragraph (2), except the department shall not disclose the
name or address of a listed person’s employer, or the street address or
criminal history of a person listed, except to disclose the ZIP Code area
in which the person resides and to describe the specific crimes for which
the registrant was required to register. The department shall decide
whether the named person reasonably appears to be a person listed,
[Ch. 648 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4261

based upon information from the caller providing information that shall
include (A) an exact street address, including apartment number, social
security number, California driver’s license or identification number, or
birth date along with additional information that may include any of the
following: name, hair color, eye color, height, weight, distinctive
markings, ethnicity; or (B) any combination of at least six of the above
listed characteristics if an exact birth date or address is not available. If
three of the characteristics provided include ethnicity, hair color, and eye
color, a seventh identifying characteristic shall be provided. Any
information identifying the victim by name, birth date, address, or
relation to the registrant shall be excluded by the department.
   (4) (A) On or before July 1, 1997, the department shall provide a
CD-ROM or other electronic medium containing the information
described in paragraph (2), except the name or address of a listed
person’s employer, or the listed person’s street address and criminal
history other than the specific crimes for which the person was required
to register, for all persons described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a),
and shall update and distribute the CD-ROM or other electronic medium
on a monthly basis to the sheriff’s department in each county, municipal
police departments of cities with a population of more than 200,000, and
each law enforcement agency listed in subparagraph (I) of paragraph (1)
of subdivision (n) of Section 290. These law enforcement agencies may
obtain additional copies by purchasing a yearly subscription to the
CD-ROM or other electronic medium from the Department of Justice for
a yearly subscription fee. The Department of Justice, the sheriff’s
departments, and the municipal police departments of cities with a
population of more than 200,000 shall make, and the other law
enforcement agencies may make, the CD-ROM or other electronic
medium available for viewing by the public in accordance with the
following: The agency may require that a person applying to view the
CD-ROM or other electronic medium express an articulable purpose in
order to have access thereto. The applicant shall provide identification
in the form of a California driver’s license or California identification
card, showing the applicant to be at least 18 years of age, and shall sign
a statement, on a form provided by the Department of Justice, stating that
the applicant is not a registered sex offender, that he or she understands
the purpose of the release of information is to allow members of the
public to protect themselves and their children from sex offenders, and
he or she understands it is unlawful to use information obtained from the
CD-ROM or other electronic medium to commit a crime against any
registrant or to engage in illegal discrimination or harassment of any
registrant. The signed statement shall be maintained in a file in the
designated law enforcement agency’s office. A person under 18 years of
age may accompany an applicant who is that person’s parent or legal
 4262                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 648 ]
guardian for the purpose of viewing the CD-ROM or other electronic
medium.
   (B) The records of persons requesting to view the CD-ROM or other
electronic medium are confidential, except that a copy of the
applications requesting to view the CD-ROM or other electronic
medium may be disclosed to law enforcement agencies for law
enforcement purposes.
   (C) Any information identifying the victim by name, birth date,
address, or relationship to the registrant shall be excluded from the
CD-ROM or other electronic medium.
   (5) (A) The income from the operation of the ‘‘900’’ telephone
number shall be deposited in the Sexual Predator Public Information
Account, which is hereby established within the Department of Justice
for the purpose of the implementation of this section by the Department
of Justice, including all actual and reasonable costs related to
establishing and maintaining the information described in subdivision
(a) and the CD-ROM or other electronic medium described in this
subdivision.
   (B) The moneys in the Sexual Predator Public Information Account
shall consist of income from the operation of the ‘‘900’’ telephone
number program authorized by this section, proceeds of the loan made
pursuant to Section 6 of the act adding this section, and any other funds
made available to the account by the Legislature. Moneys in the account
shall be available to the Department of Justice upon appropriation by the
Legislature for the purpose specified in subparagraph (A).
   (C) When the ‘‘900’’ telephone number is called, a preamble shall be
played before charges begin to accrue. The preamble shall run at least the
length of time required by federal law and shall provide the following
information:
   (i) Notice that the caller’s telephone number will be recorded.
   (ii) The charges for use of the ‘‘900’’ telephone number.
   (iii) Notice that the caller is required to identify himself or herself to
the operator.
   (iv) Notice that the caller is required to be 18 years of age or older.
   (v) A warning that it is illegal to use information obtained through the
‘‘900’’ telephone number to commit a crime against any registrant or to
engage in illegal discrimination or harassment against any registrant.
   (vi) Notice that the caller is required to have the birth date, California
driver’s license or identification number, social security number,
address, or other identifying information regarding the person about
whom information is sought in order to achieve a positive identification
of that person.
   (vii) A statement that the number is not a crime hotline and that any
suspected criminal activity should be reported to local authorities.
[Ch. 648 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4263

   (viii) A statement that the caller should have a reasonable suspicion
that a person is at risk.
   (D) The Department of Justice shall expend no more than six hundred
thousand dollars ($600,000) per year from any moneys appropriated by
the Legislature from the account.
   (b) (1) Any person who uses information disclosed pursuant to this
section to commit a felony shall be punished, in addition and
consecutive to, any other punishment, by a five-year term of
imprisonment in the state prison.
   (2) Any person who, without authorization, uses information
disclosed pursuant to this section to commit a misdemeanor shall be
subject to, in addition to any other penalty or fine imposed, a fine of not
less than five hundred dollars ($500) and not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000).
   (c) The record of the compilation of offender information on each
CD-ROM or other electronic medium distributed pursuant to this
section shall be used only for law enforcement purposes and the public
safety purposes specified in this section and Section 290. This record
shall not be distributed or removed from the custody of the law
enforcement agency that is authorized to retain it. Information obtained
from this record shall be disclosed to a member of the public only as
provided in this section or Section 290, or any other statute expressly
authorizing it.
   Any person who copies, distributes, discloses, or receives this record
or information from it, except as authorized by law, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not to exceed
six months or by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or
by both that imprisonment and fine. This subdivision shall not apply to
a law enforcement officer who makes a copy as part of his or her official
duties in the course of a criminal investigation, court case, or as
otherwise authorized by subdivision (n) of Section 290. This
subdivision shall not prohibit copying information by handwriting.
   Notwithstanding Section 6254.5 of the Government Code, disclosure
of information pursuant to this section is not a waiver of exemptions
under Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 6250) of Title 1 of
Division 7 of the Government Code and does not affect other statutory
restrictions on disclosure in other situations.
   (d) Unauthorized removal or destruction of the CD-ROM or other
electronic medium from the offices of any law enforcement agency is a
misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not to exceed
one year, or by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by
both that imprisonment and fine.
   (e) (1) A person is authorized to use information disclosed pursuant
to this section only to protect a person at risk.
 4264                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 648 ]
   This section shall not affect authorized access to, or use of,
information pursuant to, among other provisions, Sections 11105 and
11105.3 of this code, Section 226.55 of the Civil Code, Sections 777.5
and 14409.2 of the Financial Code, Sections 1522.01 and 1596.871 of
the Health and Safety Code, and Section 432.7 of the Labor Code.
   (2) Except as authorized under paragraph (1) or any other provision
of law, use of any information, for purposes relating to any of the
following, and that is disclosed pursuant to this section, is prohibited:
   (A) Health insurance.
   (B) Insurance.
   (C) Loans.
   (D) Credit.
   (E) Employment.
   (F) Education, scholarships, or fellowships.
   (G) Housing or accommodations.
   (H) Benefits, privileges, or services provided by any business
establishment.
   (3) (A) Any use of information disclosed pursuant to this section for
purposes other than those provided by paragraph (1) of subdivision (e)
or in violation of paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) shall make the user
liable for the actual damages, and any amount that may be determined
by a jury or a court sitting without a jury, not exceeding three times the
amount of actual damage, and not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250), and attorney’s fees, exemplary damages, or a civil penalty not
exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).
   (B) Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that any person or
group of persons is engaged in a pattern or practice of misuse of the
‘‘900’’ telephone number in violation of paragraph (2) of subdivision (e),
the Attorney General, any district attorney, or city attorney, or any person
aggrieved by the misuse of that number is authorized to bring a civil
action in the appropriate court requesting preventive relief, including an
application for a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order,
or other order against the person or group of persons responsible for the
pattern or practice of misuse. The foregoing remedies shall be
independent of any other remedies or procedures that may be available
to an aggrieved party under other provisions of law, including Part 2
(commencing with Section 43) of Division 1 of the Civil Code.
   (f) This section shall not be deemed to authorize the publication,
distribution, or disclosure of the address of any person about whom
information can be published, distributed, or disclosed pursuant to this
section.
   (g) Community notification shall be governed by subdivisions (m)
and (n) of Section 290.
[Ch. 648 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4265

   (h) The Department of Justice shall submit to the Legislature an
annual report on the operation of the ‘‘900’’ telephone number required
by paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) on July 1, 1996, July 1, 1997, and
July 1, 1998. The annual report shall include all of the following:
   (1) Number of calls received.
   (2) Amount of income earned per year through operation of the
‘‘900’’ telephone number.
   (3) A detailed outline of the amount of money expended and the
manner in which it was expended for purposes of this section.
   (4) Number of calls that resulted in an affirmative response and the
number of calls that resulted in a negative response with regard to
whether a named individual was listed pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (5) Number of persons listed pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (6) A summary of the success of the ‘‘900’’ telephone number
program based upon selected factors.
   (i) Any law enforcement agency and employees of any law
enforcement agency shall be immune from liability for good faith
conduct under this section. For the purposes of this section, ‘‘law
enforcement agency’’ means the Attorney General of California, every
district attorney, the Department of Corrections, the Department of the
Youth Authority, and every state or local agency expressly authorized by
statute to investigate or prosecute law violators.
   (j) On or before July 1, 2000, the Department of Justice shall make
a report to the Legislature concerning the changes to the operation of the
‘‘900’’ telephone number program made by the amendments to this
section by Chapter 908 of the Statutes of 1996. The report shall include
all of the following:
   (1) Number of calls received by county.
   (2) Number of calls that resulted in an affirmative response and the
number of calls that resulted in a negative response with regard to
whether a named individual was listed pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (3) Number of persons listed pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (4) Statistical information concerning prosecutions of persons for
misuse of the ‘‘900’’ telephone number program, including the
outcomes of those prosecutions.
   (5) A summary of the success of the ‘‘900’’ telephone number based
upon selected factors.
   (k) The registration and public notification provisions of this section
are applicable to every person described in these sections, without regard
to when his or her crimes were committed or his or her duty to register
pursuant to this section arose, and to every offense described in these
sections, regardless of when it was committed.
   (l) No later than December 31, 1998, the Department of Justice shall
prepare an informational pamphlet that shall be mailed to any member
 4266                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 648 ]
of the public who makes an inquiry using the ‘‘900’’ telephone number
required by this section and who provides an address. The pamphlet shall
provide basic information concerning appropriate steps parents,
guardians, and other responsible adults can take to ensure a child is safe
from a suspected child molester, including, but not limited to, how to
identify suspicious activity by an adult, common facts and myths about
child molesters, and how to obtain additional help and information. A
notice to callers to the ‘‘900’’ telephone number that they will receive the
pamphlet, if an address is provided, shall be included in the preamble
required by this section.
   (m) On or before July 1, 2001, and every year thereafter, the
Department of Justice shall make a report to the Legislature concerning
the operation of this section.
   (n) This section shall remain operative only until January 1, 2004, and
as of that date is repealed unless a later enacted statute, which becomes
effective on or before that date, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 3. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
290 of the Penal Code proposed by both this bill and SB 446. It shall only
become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on
or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section 290 of the Penal
Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 446, in which case Section 1
of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution for certain
costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because
in that regard this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a
crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   However, notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
other costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and
school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7
(commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the
Government Code. If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement
does not exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall
be made from the State Mandates Claims Fund.
[Ch. 649 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4267

                             CHAPTER 649

  An act to amend Section 290 of the Penal Code, relating to registered
sex offenders.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature that photographs
available to the public of persons required to register as convicted sex
offenders pursuant to Section 290 of the Penal Code be current.
   SEC. 2. Section 290 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   290. (a) (1) (A) Every person described in paragraph (2), for the
rest of his or her life while residing in, or, if he or she has no residence,
while located within California, or while attending school or working in
California, as described in subparagraph (G), shall be required to register
with the chief of police of the city in which he or she is residing, or if he
or she has no residence, is located, or the sheriff of the county if he or
she is residing, or if he or she has no residence, is located, in an
unincorporated area or city that has no police department, and,
additionally, with the chief of police of a campus of the University of
California, the California State University, or community college if he
or she is residing, or if he or she has no residence, is located upon the
campus or in any of its facilities, within five working days of coming
into, or changing his or her residence or location within, any city, county,
or city and county, or campus in which he or she temporarily resides, or,
if he or she has no residence, is located.
   (B) If the person who is registering has more than one residence
address or location at which he or she regularly resides or is located, he
or she shall register in accordance with subparagraph (A) in each of the
jurisdictions in which he or she regularly resides or is located. If all of
the addresses or locations are within the same jurisdiction, the person
shall provide the registering authority with all of the addresses or
locations where he or she regularly resides or is located.
   (C) If the person who is registering has no residence address, he or she
shall update his or her registration no less than once every 90 days in
addition to the requirement in subparagraph (A), on a form as may be
required by the Department of Justice, with the entity or entities
described in subparagraph (A) in whose jurisdiction he or she is located
at the time he or she is updating the registration.
   (D) Beginning on his or her first birthday following registration or
change of address, the person shall be required to register annually,
within five working days of his or her birthday, to update his or her
 4268                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 649 ]
registration with the entities described in subparagraph (A), including,
verifying his or her name and address, or temporary location, and place
of employment including the name and address of the employer, on a
form as may be required by the Department of Justice.
   (E) In addition, every person who has ever been adjudicated a
sexually violent predator, as defined in Section 6600 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, shall, after his or her release from custody, verify his
or her address no less than once every 90 days and place of employment,
including the name and address of the employer, in a manner established
by the Department of Justice.
   (F) No entity shall require a person to pay a fee to register or update
his or her registration pursuant to this section. The registering agency
shall submit registrations, including annual updates or changes of
address, directly into the Department of Justice Violent Crime
Information Network (VCIN).
   (G) Persons required to register in their state of residence who are
out-of-state residents employed in California on a full-time or part-time
basis, with or without compensation, for more than 14 days, or for an
aggregate period exceeding 30 days in a calendar year, shall register in
accordance with subparagraph (A). Persons described in paragraph (2)
who are out-of-state residents enrolled in any educational institution in
California, as defined in Section 22129 of the Education Code, on a
full-time or part-time basis, shall register in accordance with
subparagraph (A). The place where the out-of-state resident is located,
for purposes of registration, shall be the place where the person is
employed or attending school. The out-of-state resident subject to this
subparagraph shall, in addition to the information required pursuant to
subdivision (e), provide the registering authority with the name of his or
her place of employment or the name of the school attended in
California, and his or her address or location in his or her state of
residence. The registration requirement for persons subject to this
subparagraph shall become operative on November 25, 2000.
   (2) The following persons shall be required to register pursuant to
paragraph (1):
   (A) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or is hereafter
convicted in any court in this state or in any federal or military court of
a violation of Section 207 or 209 committed with intent to violate
Section 261, 286, 288, 288a, or 289, Section 220, except assault to
commit mayhem, Section 243.4, paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261, or paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of
Section 262 involving the use of force or violence for which the person
is sentenced to the state prison, Section 264.1, 266, 266c, subdivision (b)
of Section 266h, subdivision (b) of Section 266i, 266j, 267, 269, 285,
286, 288, 288a, 288.5, or 289, subdivision (b), (c), or (d) of Section
[Ch. 649 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4269

311.2, Section 311.3, 311.4, 311.10, 311.11, or 647.6, former Section
647a, subdivision (c) of Section 653f, subdivision 1 or 2 of Section 314,
any offense involving lewd or lascivious conduct under Section 272, or
any felony violation of Section 288.2; or any person who since that date
has been or is hereafter convicted of the attempt to commit any of the
above-mentioned offenses.
   (B) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or hereafter is
released, discharged, or paroled from a penal institution where he or she
was confined because of the commission or attempted commission of
one of the offenses described in subparagraph (A).
   (C) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or hereafter is
determined to be a mentally disordered sex offender under Article 1
(commencing with Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6
of the Welfare and Institutions Code or any person who has been found
guilty in the guilt phase of a trial for an offense for which registration is
required by this section but who has been found not guilty by reason of
insanity in the sanity phase of the trial.
   (D) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been, or is hereafter
convicted in any other court, including any state, federal, or military
court, of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state,
would have been punishable as one or more of the offenses described in
subparagraph (A) or any person ordered by any other court, including
any state, federal, or military court, to register as a sex offender for any
offense, if the court found at the time of conviction or sentencing that the
person committed the offense as a result of sexual compulsion or for
purposes of sexual gratification.
   (E) Any person ordered by any court to register pursuant to this
section for any offense not included specifically in this section if the
court finds at the time of conviction or sentencing that the person
committed the offense as a result of sexual compulsion or for purposes
of sexual gratification. The court shall state on the record the reasons for
its findings and the reasons for requiring registration.
   (F) (i) Notwithstanding any other subdivision, a person who was
convicted before January 1, 1976, under subdivision (a) of Section 286,
or Section 288a, shall not be required to register pursuant to this section
for that conviction if the conviction was for conduct between consenting
adults that was decriminalized by Chapter 71 of the Statutes of 1975 or
Chapter 1139 of the Statutes of 1976. The Department of Justice shall
remove that person from the Sex Offender Registry, and the person is
discharged from his or her duty to register pursuant to the following
procedure:
   (I) The person submits to the Department of Justice official
documentary evidence, including court records or police reports, which
demonstrate that the person’s conviction pursuant to either of those
 4270                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 649 ]
sections was for conduct between consenting adults that was
decriminalized; or
   (II) The person submits to the department a declaration stating that
the person’s conviction pursuant to either of those sections was for
consensual conduct between adults that has been decriminalized. The
declaration shall be confidential and not a public record, and shall
include the person’s name, address, telephone number, date of birth, and
a summary of the circumstances leading to the conviction, including the
date of the conviction and county of the occurrence.
   (III) The department shall determine whether the person’s conviction
was for conduct between consensual adults that has been decriminalized.
If the conviction was for consensual conduct between adults that has
been decriminalized, and the person has no other offenses for which he
or she is required to register pursuant to this section, the department
shall, within 60 days of receipt of those documents, notify the person that
he or she is relieved of the duty to register, and shall notify the local law
enforcement agency with which the person is registered that he or she has
been relieved of the duty to register. The local law enforcement agency
shall remove the person’s registration from its files within 30 days of
receipt of notification. If the documentary or other evidence submitted
is insufficient to establish the person’s claim, the department shall,
within 60 days of receipt of those documents, notify the person that his
or her claim cannot be established, and that the person shall continue to
register pursuant to this section. The department shall provide, upon the
person’s request, any information relied upon by the department in
making its determination that the person shall continue to register
pursuant to this section. Any person whose claim has been denied by the
department pursuant to this clause may petition the court to appeal the
department’s denial of the person’s claim.
   (ii) On or before July 1, 1998, the department shall make a report to
the Legislature concerning the status of persons who may come under
the provisions of this subparagraph, including the number of persons
who were convicted before January 1, 1976, under subdivision (a) of
Section 286 or Section 288a and are required to register under this
section, the average age of these persons, the number of these persons
who have any subsequent convictions for a registerable sex offense, and
the number of these persons who have sought successfully or
unsuccessfully to be relieved of their duty to register under this section.
   (b) (1) Any person who is released, discharged, or paroled from a
jail, state or federal prison, school, road camp, or other institution where
he or she was confined because of the commission or attempted
commission of one of the offenses specified in subdivision (a) or is
released from a state hospital to which he or she was committed as a
mentally disordered sex offender under Article 1 (commencing with
[Ch. 649 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4271

Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, shall, prior to discharge, parole, or release, be
informed of his or her duty to register under this section by the official
in charge of the place of confinement or hospital, and the official shall
require the person to read and sign any form that may be required by the
Department of Justice, stating that the duty of the person to register under
this section has been explained to the person. The official in charge of
the place of confinement or hospital shall obtain the address where the
person expects to reside upon his or her discharge, parole, or release and
shall report the address to the Department of Justice. The official shall
at the same time forward a current photograph of the person to the
Department of Justice.
   (2) The official in charge of the place of confinement or hospital shall
give one copy of the form to the person and shall send one copy to the
Department of Justice and one copy to the appropriate law enforcement
agency or agencies having jurisdiction over the place the person expects
to reside upon discharge, parole, or release. If the conviction that makes
the person subject to this section is a felony conviction, the official in
charge shall, not later than 45 days prior to the scheduled release of the
person, send one copy to the appropriate law enforcement agency or
agencies having local jurisdiction where the person expects to reside
upon discharge, parole, or release; one copy to the prosecuting agency
that prosecuted the person; and one copy to the Department of Justice.
The official in charge of the place of confinement or hospital shall retain
one copy.
   (c) (1) Any person who is convicted in this state of the commission
or attempted commission of any of the offenses specified in subdivision
(a) and who is released on probation shall, prior to release or discharge,
be informed of the duty to register under this section by the probation
department, and a probation officer shall require the person to read and
sign any form that may be required by the Department of Justice, stating
that the duty of the person to register under this section has been
explained to him or her. The probation officer shall obtain the address
where the person expects to reside upon release or discharge and shall
report within three days the address to the Department of Justice. The
probation officer shall give one copy of the form to the person, send one
copy to the Department of Justice, and forward one copy to the
appropriate law enforcement agency or agencies having local
jurisdiction where the person expects to reside upon his or her discharge,
parole, or release.
   (2) Any person who is convicted in this state of the commission or
attempted commission of any of the offenses specified in subdivision (a)
and who is granted conditional release without supervised probation, or
discharged upon payment of a fine, shall, prior to release or discharge,
 4272                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 649 ]
be informed of the duty to register under this section in open court by the
court in which the person has been convicted, and the court shall require
the person to read and sign any form that may be required by the
Department of Justice, stating that the duty of the person to register under
this section has been explained to him or her. If the court finds that it is
in the interest of the efficiency of the court, the court may assign the
bailiff to require the person to read and sign forms under this section. The
court shall obtain the address where the person expects to reside upon
release or discharge and shall report within three days the address to the
Department of Justice. The court shall give one copy of the form to the
person, send one copy to the Department of Justice, and forward one
copy to the appropriate law enforcement agency or agencies having local
jurisdiction where the person expects to reside upon his or her discharge,
parole, or release.
   (d) (1) Any person who, on or after January 1, 1986, is discharged or
paroled from the Department of the Youth Authority to the custody of
which he or she was committed after having been adjudicated a ward of
the juvenile court pursuant to Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code because of the commission or attempted commission of any
offense described in paragraph (3) shall be subject to registration under
the procedures of this section.
   (2) Any person who is discharged or paroled from a facility in another
state that is equivalent to the Department of the Youth Authority, to the
custody of which he or she was committed because of an offense which,
if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as
one or more of the offenses described in paragraph (3), shall be subject
to registration under the procedures of this section.
   (3) Any person described in this subdivision who committed an
offense in violation of any of the following provisions shall be required
to register pursuant to this section:
   (A) Assault with intent to commit rape, sodomy, oral copulation, or
any violation of Section 264.1, 288, or 289 under Section 220.
   (B) Any offense defined in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261, Section 264.1, 266c, or 267, paragraph
(1) of subdivision (b) of, or subdivision (c) or (d) of, Section 286, Section
288 or 288.5, paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of, or subdivision (c) or
(d) of, Section 288a, subdivision (a) of Section 289, or Section 647.6.
   (C) A violation of Section 207 or 209 committed with the intent to
violate Section 261, 286, 288, 288a, or 289.
   (4) Prior to discharge or parole from the Department of the Youth
Authority, any person who is subject to registration under this
subdivision shall be informed of the duty to register under the procedures
set forth in this section. Department of the Youth Authority officials shall
[Ch. 649 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4273

transmit the required forms and information to the Department of
Justice.
   (5) All records specifically relating to the registration in the custody
of the Department of Justice, law enforcement agencies, and other
agencies or public officials shall be destroyed when the person who is
required to register has his or her records sealed under the procedures set
forth in Section 781 of the Welfare and Institutions Code. This
subdivision shall not be construed as requiring the destruction of other
criminal offender or juvenile records relating to the case that are
maintained by the Department of Justice, law enforcement agencies, the
juvenile court, or other agencies and public officials unless ordered by
a court under Section 781 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (e) (1) On or after January 1, 1998, upon incarceration, placement,
or commitment, or prior to release on probation, any person who is
required to register under this section shall preregister. The
preregistering official shall be the admitting officer at the place of
incarceration, placement, or commitment, or the probation officer if the
person is to be released on probation. The preregistration shall consist
of both of the following:
   (A) A preregistration statement in writing, signed by the person,
giving information that shall be required by the Department of Justice.
   (B) The fingerprints and a current photograph of the person.
   (C) Any person who is preregistered pursuant to this subdivision is
required to be preregistered only once.
   (2) A person described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) shall
register, or reregister if the person has previously registered, upon
release from incarceration, placement, or commitment, pursuant to
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a). The registration shall consist of all of
the following:
   (A) A statement in writing signed by the person, giving information
as shall be required by the Department of Justice and giving the name
and address of the person’s employer, and the address of the person’s
place of employment if that is different from the employer’s main
address.
   (B) The fingerprints and a current photograph of the person.
   (C) The license plate number of any vehicle owned by, regularly
driven by, or registered in the name of the person.
   (D) Notice to the person that, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph (4), he or she may have a duty to register in any other state
where he or she may relocate.
   (E) Copies of adequate proof of residence, which shall be limited to
a California driver’s license, California identification card, recent rent
or utility receipt, printed personalized checks or other recent banking
documents showing that person’s name and address, or any other
 4274                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 649 ]
information that the registering official believes is reliable. If the person
has no residence and no reasonable expectation of obtaining a residence
in the foreseeable future, the person shall so advise the registering
official and shall sign a statement provided by the registering official
stating that fact. Upon presentation of proof of residence to the
registering official or a signed statement that the person has no residence,
the person shall be allowed to register. If the person claims that he or she
has a residence but does not have any proof of residence, he or she shall
be allowed to register but shall furnish proof of residence within 30 days
of the day he or she is allowed to register.
   (3) Within three days thereafter, the preregistering official or the
registering law enforcement agency or agencies shall forward the
statement, fingerprints, photograph, and vehicle license plate number, if
any, to the Department of Justice.
   (f) (1) If any person who is required to register pursuant to this
section changes his or her residence address or location, whether within
the jurisdiction in which he or she is currently registered or to a new
jurisdiction inside or outside the state, the person shall inform, in writing
within five working days, the law enforcement agency or agencies with
which he or she last registered of the new address or location. The law
enforcement agency or agencies shall, within three days after receipt of
this information, forward a copy of the change of address or location
information to the Department of Justice. The Department of Justice
shall forward appropriate registration data to the law enforcement
agency or agencies having local jurisdiction of the new place of
residence or location.
   (2) If the person’s new address is in a Department of the Youth
Authority facility or a state prison or state mental institution, an official
of the place of incarceration, placement, or commitment shall, within 90
days of receipt of the person, forward the registrant’s change of address
information to the Department of Justice. The agency need not provide
a physical address for the registrant but shall indicate that he or she is
serving a period of incarceration or commitment in a facility under the
agency’s jurisdiction. This paragraph shall apply to persons received in
a Department of the Youth Authority facility or a state prison or state
mental institution on or after January 1, 1999. The Department of Justice
shall forward the change of address information to the agency with
which the person last registered.
   (3) If any person who is required to register pursuant to this section
changes his or her name, the person shall inform, in person, the law
enforcement agency or agencies with which he or she is currently
registered within five working days. The law enforcement agency or
agencies shall forward a copy of this information to the Department of
Justice within three days of its receipt.
[Ch. 649 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4275

   (g) (1) Any person who is required to register under this section
based on a misdemeanor conviction or juvenile adjudication who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding
one year.
   (2) Except as provided in paragraphs (5) and (7), any person who is
required to register under this section based on a felony conviction or
juvenile adjudication who willfully violates any requirement of this
section or who has a prior conviction or juvenile adjudication for the
offense of failing to register under this section and who subsequently and
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a felony and
shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or
two or three years.
   If probation is granted or if the imposition or execution of sentence is
suspended, it shall be a condition of the probation or suspension that the
person serve at least 90 days in a county jail. The penalty described in
this paragraph shall apply whether or not the person has been released
on parole or has been discharged from parole.
   (3) Any person determined to be a mentally disordered sex offender
or who has been found guilty in the guilt phase of trial for an offense for
which registration is required under this section, but who has been found
not guilty by reason of insanity in the sanity phase of the trial, or who
has had a petition sustained in a juvenile adjudication for an offense for
which registration is required under this section pursuant to subdivision
(d), but who has been found not guilty by reason of insanity, who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail not
exceeding one year. For any second or subsequent willful violation of
any requirement of this section, the person is guilty of a felony and shall
be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or two
or three years.
   (4) If, after discharge from parole, the person is convicted of a felony
or suffers a juvenile adjudication as specified in this subdivision, he or
she shall be required to complete parole of at least one year, in addition
to any other punishment imposed under this subdivision. A person
convicted of a felony as specified in this subdivision may be granted
probation only in the unusual case where the interests of justice would
best be served. When probation is granted under this paragraph, the court
shall specify on the record and shall enter into the minutes the
circumstances indicating that the interests of justice would best be
served by the disposition.
   (5) Any person who has ever been adjudicated a sexually violent
predator, as defined in Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, and who fails to verify his or her registration every 90 days as
 4276                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 649 ]
required pursuant to subparagraph (E) of paragraph (1) of subdivision
(a), shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison, or in a county
jail not exceeding one year.
   (6) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (5), and in addition to
any other penalty imposed under this subdivision, any person who is
required pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of subdivision
(a) to update his or her registration every 90 days and willfully fails to
update his or her registration is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months.
Any subsequent violation of this requirement that persons described in
subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) shall update their
registration every 90 days is also a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months.
   (7) Any person who fails to provide proof of residence as required by
subparagraph (E) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (e), regardless of the
offense upon which the duty to register is based, is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding
six months.
   (8) Any person who is required to register under this section who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a continuing
offense.
   (h) Whenever any person is released on parole or probation and is
required to register under this section but fails to do so within the time
prescribed, the parole authority, the Youthful Offender Parole Board, or
the court, as the case may be, shall order the parole or probation of the
person revoked. For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘parole authority’’ has
the same meaning as described in Section 3000.
   (i) Except as provided in subdivisions (m) and (n) and Section 290.4,
the statements, photographs, and fingerprints required by this section
shall not be open to inspection by the public or by any person other than
a regularly employed peace officer or other law enforcement officer.
   (j) In any case in which a person who would be required to register
pursuant to this section for a felony conviction is to be temporarily sent
outside the institution where he or she is confined on any assignment
within a city or county including firefighting, disaster control, or of
whatever nature the assignment may be, the local law enforcement
agency having jurisdiction over the place or places where the assignment
shall occur shall be notified within a reasonable time prior to removal
from the institution. This subdivision shall not apply to any person who
is temporarily released under guard from the institution where he or she
is confined.
   (k) As used in this section, ‘‘mentally disordered sex offender’’
includes any person who has been determined to be a sexual psychopath
or a mentally disordered sex offender under any provision which, on or
[Ch. 649 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4277

before January 1, 1976, was contained in Division 6 (commencing with
Section 6000) of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (l) (1) Every person who, prior to January 1, 1997, is required to
register under this section, shall be notified whenever he or she next
reregisters of the reduction of the registration period from 14 to five
working days. This notice shall be provided in writing by the registering
agency or agencies. Failure to receive this notification shall be a defense
against the penalties prescribed by subdivision (g) if the person did
register within 14 days.
   (2) Every person who, as a sexually violent predator, as defined in
Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is required to verify
his or her registration every 90 days, shall be notified wherever he or she
next registers of his or her increased registration obligations. This notice
shall be provided in writing by the registering agency or agencies.
Failure to receive this notice shall be a defense against the penalties
prescribed by paragraph (5) of subdivision (g).
   (m) (1) When a peace officer reasonably suspects, based on
information that has come to his or her attention through information
provided by any peace officer or member of the public, that a child or
other person may be at risk from a sex offender convicted of a crime
listed in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 290.4, a law
enforcement agency may, notwithstanding any other provision of law,
provide any of the information specified in paragraph (4) of this
subdivision about that registered sex offender that the agency deems
relevant and necessary to protect the public, to the following persons,
agencies, or organizations the offender is likely to encounter, including,
but not limited to, the following:
   (A) Public and private educational institutions, day care
establishments, and establishments and organizations that primarily
serve individuals likely to be victimized by the offender.
   (B) Other community members at risk.
   (2) The law enforcement agency may authorize persons and entities
who receive the information pursuant to paragraph (1) to disclose
information to additional persons only if the agency does the following:
   (A) Determines that all conditions set forth in paragraph (1) have
been satisfied regarding disclosure to the additional persons.
   (B) Identifies the appropriate scope of further disclosure.
   (3) Persons notified pursuant to paragraph (1) may disclose the
information provided by the law enforcement agency in the manner and
to the extent authorized by the law enforcement agency.
   (4) The information that may be disclosed pursuant to this section
includes the following:
   (A) The offender’s full name.
   (B) The offender’s known aliases.
 4278                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 649 ]
   (C) The offender’s gender.
   (D) The offender’s race.
   (E) The offender’s physical description.
   (F) The offender’s photograph.
   (G) The offender’s date of birth.
   (H) Crimes resulting in registration under this section.
   (I) The offender’s address, which must be verified prior to
publication.
   (J) Description and license plate number of offender’s vehicles or
vehicles the offender is known to drive.
   (K) Type of victim targeted by the offender.
   (L) Relevant parole or probation conditions, such as one prohibiting
contact with children.
   (M) Dates of crimes resulting in classification under this section.
   (N) Date of release from confinement.
   However, information disclosed pursuant to this subdivision shall not
include information that would identify the victim.
   (5) If a law enforcement agency discloses information pursuant to
this subdivision, it shall include, with the disclosure, a statement that the
purpose of the release of the information is to allow members of the
public to protect themselves and their children from sex offenders.
   (6) For purposes of this section, ‘‘likely to encounter’’ means both of
the following:
   (A) That the agencies, organizations, or other community members
are in a location or in close proximity to a location where the offender
lives or is employed, or that the offender visits or is likely to visit on a
regular basis.
   (B) The types of interaction that ordinarily occur at that location and
other circumstances indicate that contact with the offender is reasonably
probable.
   (7) For purposes of this section, ‘‘reasonably suspects’’ means that it
is objectively reasonable for a peace officer to entertain a suspicion,
based upon facts that could cause a reasonable person in a like position,
drawing when appropriate on his or her training and experience, to
suspect that a child or other person is at risk.
   (8) For purposes of this section, ‘‘at risk’’ means a person is or may
be exposed to a risk of becoming a victim of a sex offense committed by
the offender.
   (9) A law enforcement agency may continue to disclose information
on an offender under this subdivision for as long as the offender is
included in Section 290.4.
   (n) In addition to the procedures set forth elsewhere in this section,
a designated law enforcement entity may advise the public of the
[Ch. 649 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4279

presence of high-risk sex offenders in its community pursuant to this
subdivision.
   (1) For purposes of this subdivision:
   (A) A high-risk sex offender is a person who has been convicted of
an offense specified in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 290.4,
and also meets one of the following criteria:
   (i) Has been convicted of three or more violent sex offenses, at least
two of which were brought and tried separately.
   (ii) Has been convicted of two violent sex offenses and one or more
violent nonsex offenses, at least two of which were brought and tried
separately.
   (iii) Has been convicted of one violent sex offense and two or more
violent nonsex offenses, at least two of which were brought and tried
separately.
   (iv) Has been convicted of either two violent sex offenses or one
violent sex offense and one violent nonsex offense, at least two of which
were brought and tried separately, and has been arrested on separate
occasions for three or more violent sex offenses, violent nonsex offenses,
or associated offenses.
   (v) Has been adjudicated a sexually violent predator pursuant to
Article 4 (commencing with Section 6600) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
Division 6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (B) A violent sex offense means any offense defined in Section 220,
except attempt to commit mayhem, or Section 261, 264.1, 286, 288,
288a, 288.5, 289, or 647.6, or infliction of great bodily injury during the
commission of a sex offense, as provided in Section 12022.8.
   (C) A violent nonsex offense means any offense defined in Section
187, subdivision (a) of Section 192, or Section 203, 206, 207, or 236,
provided that the offense is a felony, subdivision (a) of Section 273a,
Section 273d or 451, or attempted murder, as defined in Sections 187 and
664.
   (D) An associated offense means any offense defined in Section
243.4, provided that the offense is a felony, Section 311.1, 311.2, 311.3,
311.4, 311.5, 311.6, 311.7, or 314, Section 459, provided the offense is
of the first degree, Section 597 or 646.9, subdivision (d), (h), or (i) of
Section 647, Section 653m, or infliction of great bodily injury during the
commission of a felony, as defined in Section 12022.7.
   (E) For purposes of subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, an arrest or
conviction for the statutory predecessor of any of the enumerated
offenses, or an arrest or conviction in any other jurisdiction for any
offense that, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as one or more of the offenses described in those
subparagraphs, is to be considered in determining whether an offender
is a high-risk sex offender.
 4280                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 649 ]
   (F) For purposes of subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, an arrest as
a juvenile or an adjudication as a ward of the juvenile court within the
meaning of Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code for any of
the offenses described in those subparagraphs is to be considered in
determining whether an offender is a high-risk sex offender.
   (G) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) to (D), inclusive, an offender
shall not be considered to be a high-risk sex offender if either of the
following apply:
   (i) The offender’s most recent conviction or arrest for an offense
described in subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, occurred more than
five years prior to the high-risk assessment by the Department of Justice,
excluding periods of confinement.
   (ii) The offender notifies the Department of Justice, on a form
approved by the department and available at any sheriff’s office, that he
or she has not been convicted in the preceding 15 years, excluding
periods of confinement, of an offense for which registration is required
under paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), and the department is able, upon
exercise of reasonable diligence, to verify the information provided in
paragraph (2).
   (H) ‘‘Confinement’’ means confinement in a jail, prison, school, road
camp, or other penal institution, confinement in a state hospital to which
the offender was committed as a mentally disordered sex offender under
Article 1 (commencing with Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
Division 6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or confinement in a
facility designated by the Director of Mental Health to which the
offender was committed as a sexually violent predator under Article 4
(commencing with Section 6600) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6
of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (I) ‘‘Designated law enforcement entity’’ means any of the following:
municipal police department; sheriff’s department; district attorney’s
office; county probation department; Department of Justice; Department
of Corrections; Department of the Youth Authority; Department of the
California Highway Patrol; or the police department of any campus of
the University of California, California State University, or community
college.
   (2) The Department of Justice shall continually search the records
provided to it pursuant to subdivision (b) and identify, on the basis of
those records, high-risk sex offenders. Four times each year, the
department shall provide to each chief of police and sheriff in the state,
and to any other designated law enforcement entity upon request, the
following information regarding each identified high-risk sex offender:
full name; known aliases; gender; race; physical description;
photograph; date of birth; and crimes resulting in classification under
this section.
[Ch. 649 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4281

   (3) The Department of Justice and any designated law enforcement
entity to which notice has been given pursuant to paragraph (2) may
cause to be made public, by whatever means the agency deems necessary
to ensure the public safety, based upon information available to the
agency concerning a specific person, including, but not limited to, the
information described in paragraph (2); the offender’s address, which
shall be verified prior to publication; description and license plate
number of the offender’s vehicles or vehicles the offender is known to
drive; type of victim targeted by the offender; relevant parole or
probation conditions, such as one prohibiting contact with children;
dates of crimes resulting in classification under this section; and date of
release from confinement; but excluding information that would identify
the victim.
   (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person described
in paragraph (2) of subdivision (p) who receives information from a
designated law enforcement entity pursuant to paragraph (3) of
subdivision (n) may disclose that information in the manner and to the
extent authorized by the law enforcement entity.
   (o) Agencies disseminating information to the public pursuant to
Section 290.4 shall maintain records of those persons requesting to view
the CD-ROM or other electronic media for a minimum of five years.
Agencies disseminating information to the public pursuant to
subdivision (n) shall maintain records of the means and dates of
dissemination for a minimum of five years.
   (p) (1) Any law enforcement agency and employees of any law
enforcement agency shall be immune from liability for good faith
conduct under this section. For the purposes of this section, ‘‘law
enforcement agency’’ means the Attorney General of California, every
district attorney, and every state or local agency expressly authorized by
statute to investigate or prosecute law violators.
   (2) Any public or private educational institution, day care facility, or
any child care custodian described in Section 11165.7, or any employee
of a public or private educational institution or day care facility which
in good faith disseminates information as authorized pursuant to
paragraph (3) of subdivision (m) or paragraph (4) of subdivision (n) that
is provided by a law enforcement agency or an employee of a law
enforcement agency shall be immune from civil liability.
   (q) (1) Any person who uses information disclosed pursuant to this
section to commit a felony shall be punished, in addition and
consecutive to any other punishment, by a five-year term of
imprisonment in the state prison.
   (2) Any person who uses information disclosed pursuant to this
section to commit a misdemeanor shall be subject to, in addition to any
 4282                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 649 ]
other penalty or fine imposed, a fine of not less than five hundred dollars
($500) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (r) The registration and public notification provisions of this section
are applicable to every person described in this section, without regard
to when his or her crimes were committed or his or her duty to register
pursuant to this section arose, and to every offense described in this
section, regardless of when it was committed.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 290 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   290. (a) (1) (A) Every person described in paragraph (2), for the
rest of his or her life while residing in, or, if he or she has no residence,
while located within California, or while attending school or working in
California, as described in subparagraph (G), shall be required to register
with the chief of police of the city in which he or she is residing, or if he
or she has no residence, is located, or the sheriff of the county if he or
she is residing, or if he or she has no residence, is located, in an
unincorporated area or city that has no police department, and,
additionally, with the chief of police of a campus of the University of
California, the California State University, or community college if he
or she is residing, or if he or she has no residence, is located upon the
campus or in any of its facilities, within five working days of coming
into, or changing his or her residence or location within, any city, county,
or city and county, or campus in which he or she temporarily resides, or,
if he or she has no residence, is located.
   (B) If the person who is registering has more than one residence
address or location at which he or she regularly resides or is located, he
or she shall register in accordance with subparagraph (A) in each of the
jurisdictions in which he or she regularly resides or is located. If all of
the addresses or locations are within the same jurisdiction, the person
shall provide the registering authority with all of the addresses or
locations where he or she regularly resides or is located.
   (C) If the person who is registering has no residence address, he or
she shall update his or her registration no less than once every 90 days
in addition to the requirement in subparagraph (A), on a form as may be
required by the Department of Justice, with the entity or entities
described in subparagraph (A) in whose jurisdiction he or she is located
at the time he or she is updating the registration.
   (D) Beginning on his or her first birthday following registration or
change of address, the person shall be required to register annually,
within five working days of his or her birthday, to update his or her
registration with the entities described in subparagraph (A), including,
verifying his or her name and address, or temporary location, and place
of employment including the name and address of the employer, on a
form as may be required by the Department of Justice.
[Ch. 649 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4283

   (E) In addition, every person who has ever been adjudicated a
sexually violent predator, as defined in Section 6600 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, shall, after his or her release from custody, verify his
or her address no less than once every 90 days and place of employment,
including the name and address of the employer, in a manner established
by the Department of Justice.
   (F) No entity shall require a person to pay a fee to register or update
his or her registration pursuant to this section. The registering agency
shall submit registrations, including annual updates or changes of
address, directly into the Department of Justice Violent Crime
Information Network (VCIN).
   (G) Persons required to register in their state of residence who are
out-of-state residents employed in California on a full-time or part-time
basis, with or without compensation, for more than 14 days, or for an
aggregate period exceeding 30 days in a calendar year, shall register in
accordance with subparagraph (A). Persons described in paragraph (2)
who are out-of-state residents enrolled in any educational institution in
California, as defined in Section 22129 of the Education Code, on a
full-time or part-time basis, shall register in accordance with
subparagraph (A). The place where the out-of-state resident is located,
for purposes of registration, shall be the place where the person is
employed or attending school. The out-of-state resident subject to this
subparagraph shall, in addition to the information required pursuant to
subdivision (e), provide the registering authority with the name of his or
her place of employment or the name of the school attended in
California, and his or her address or location in his or her state of
residence. The registration requirement for persons subject to this
subparagraph shall become operative on November 25, 2000.
   (2) The following persons shall be required to register pursuant to
paragraph (1):
   (A) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or is hereafter
convicted in any court in this state or in any federal or military court of
a violation of Section 207 or 209 committed with intent to violate
Section 261, 286, 288, 288a, or 289, Section 220, except assault to
commit mayhem, Section 243.4, paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261, or paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of
Section 262 involving the use of force or violence for which the person
is sentenced to the state prison, Section 264.1, 266, 266c, subdivision (b)
of Section 266h, subdivision (b) of Section 266i, 266j, 267, 269, 285,
286, 288, 288a, 288.5, or 289, subdivision (b), (c), or (d) of Section
311.2, Section 311.3, 311.4, 311.10, 311.11, or 647.6, former Section
647a, subdivision (c) of Section 653f, subdivision 1 or 2 of Section 314,
any offense involving lewd or lascivious conduct under Section 272, or
any felony violation of Section 288.2; or any person who since that date
 4284                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 649 ]
has been or is hereafter convicted of the attempt to commit any of the
above-mentioned offenses.
   (B) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or hereafter is
released, discharged, or paroled from a penal institution where he or she
was confined because of the commission or attempted commission of
one of the offenses described in subparagraph (A).
   (C) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been or hereafter is
determined to be a mentally disordered sex offender under Article 1
(commencing with Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6
of the Welfare and Institutions Code or any person who has been found
guilty in the guilt phase of a trial for an offense for which registration is
required by this section but who has been found not guilty by reason of
insanity in the sanity phase of the trial.
   (D) Any person who, since July 1, 1944, has been, or is hereafter
convicted in any other court, including any state, federal, or military
court, of any offense which, if committed or attempted in this state,
would have been punishable as one or more of the offenses described in
subparagraph (A) or any person ordered by any other court, including
any state, federal, or military court, to register as a sex offender for any
offense, if the court found at the time of conviction or sentencing that the
person committed the offense as a result of sexual compulsion or for
purposes of sexual gratification.
   (E) Any person ordered by any court to register pursuant to this
section for any offense not included specifically in this section if the
court finds at the time of conviction or sentencing that the person
committed the offense as a result of sexual compulsion or for purposes
of sexual gratification. The court shall state on the record the reasons for
its findings and the reasons for requiring registration.
   (F) (i) Notwithstanding any other subdivision, a person who was
convicted before January 1, 1976, under subdivision (a) of Section 286,
or Section 288a, shall not be required to register pursuant to this section
for that conviction if the conviction was for conduct between consenting
adults that was decriminalized by Chapter 71 of the Statutes of 1975 or
Chapter 1139 of the Statutes of 1976. The Department of Justice shall
remove that person from the Sex Offender Registry, and the person is
discharged from his or her duty to register pursuant to the following
procedure:
   (I) The person submits to the Department of Justice official
documentary evidence, including court records or police reports, which
demonstrate that the person’s conviction pursuant to either of those
sections was for conduct between consenting adults that was
decriminalized; or
   (II) The person submits to the department a declaration stating that
the person’s conviction pursuant to either of those sections was for
[Ch. 649 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4285

consensual conduct between adults that has been decriminalized. The
declaration shall be confidential and not a public record, and shall
include the person’s name, address, telephone number, date of birth, and
a summary of the circumstances leading to the conviction, including the
date of the conviction and county of the occurrence.
   (III) The department shall determine whether the person’s conviction
was for conduct between consensual adults that has been decriminalized.
If the conviction was for consensual conduct between adults that has
been decriminalized, and the person has no other offenses for which he
or she is required to register pursuant to this section, the department
shall, within 60 days of receipt of those documents, notify the person that
he or she is relieved of the duty to register, and shall notify the local law
enforcement agency with which the person is registered that he or she has
been relieved of the duty to register. The local law enforcement agency
shall remove the person’s registration from its files within 30 days of
receipt of notification. If the documentary or other evidence submitted
is insufficient to establish the person’s claim, the department shall,
within 60 days of receipt of those documents, notify the person that his
or her claim cannot be established, and that the person shall continue to
register pursuant to this section. The department shall provide, upon the
person’s request, any information relied upon by the department in
making its determination that the person shall continue to register
pursuant to this section. Any person whose claim has been denied by the
department pursuant to this clause may petition the court to appeal the
department’s denial of the person’s claim.
   (ii) On or before July 1, 1998, the department shall make a report to
the Legislature concerning the status of persons who may come under
the provisions of this subparagraph, including the number of persons
who were convicted before January 1, 1976, under subdivision (a) of
Section 286 or Section 288a and are required to register under this
section, the average age of these persons, the number of these persons
who have any subsequent convictions for a registerable sex offense, and
the number of these persons who have sought successfully or
unsuccessfully to be relieved of their duty to register under this section.
   (b) (1) Any person who is released, discharged, or paroled from a
jail, state or federal prison, school, road camp, or other institution where
he or she was confined because of the commission or attempted
commission of one of the offenses specified in subdivision (a) or is
released from a state hospital to which he or she was committed as a
mentally disordered sex offender under Article 1 (commencing with
Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, shall, prior to discharge, parole, or release, be
informed of his or her duty to register under this section by the official
in charge of the place of confinement or hospital, and the official shall
 4286                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 649 ]
require the person to read and sign any form that may be required by the
Department of Justice, stating that the duty of the person to register under
this section has been explained to the person. The official in charge of
the place of confinement or hospital shall obtain the address where the
person expects to reside upon his or her discharge, parole, or release and
shall report the address to the Department of Justice. The official shall
at the same time forward a current photograph of the person to the
Department of Justice.
   (2) The official in charge of the place of confinement or hospital shall
give one copy of the form to the person and shall send one copy to the
Department of Justice and one copy to the appropriate law enforcement
agency or agencies having jurisdiction over the place the person expects
to reside upon discharge, parole, or release. If the conviction that makes
the person subject to this section is a felony conviction, the official in
charge shall, not later than 45 days prior to the scheduled release of the
person, send one copy to the appropriate law enforcement agency or
agencies having local jurisdiction where the person expects to reside
upon discharge, parole, or release; one copy to the prosecuting agency
that prosecuted the person; and one copy to the Department of Justice.
The official in charge of the place of confinement or hospital shall retain
one copy.
   (c) (1) Any person who is convicted in this state of the commission
or attempted commission of any of the offenses specified in subdivision
(a) and who is released on probation, shall, prior to release or discharge,
be informed of the duty to register under this section by the probation
department, and a probation officer shall require the person to read and
sign any form that may be required by the Department of Justice, stating
that the duty of the person to register under this section has been
explained to him or her. The probation officer shall obtain the address
where the person expects to reside upon release or discharge and shall
report within three days the address to the Department of Justice. The
probation officer shall give one copy of the form to the person, send one
copy to the Department of Justice, and forward one copy to the
appropriate law enforcement agency or agencies having local
jurisdiction where the person expects to reside upon his or her discharge,
parole, or release.
   (2) Any person who is convicted in this state of the commission or
attempted commission of any of the offenses specified in subdivision (a)
and who is granted conditional release without supervised probation, or
discharged upon payment of a fine, shall, prior to release or discharge,
be informed of the duty to register under this section in open court by the
court in which the person has been convicted, and the court shall require
the person to read and sign any form that may be required by the
Department of Justice, stating that the duty of the person to register under
[Ch. 649 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4287

this section has been explained to him or her. If the court finds that it is
in the interest of the efficiency of the court, the court may assign the
bailiff to require the person to read and sign forms under this section. The
court shall obtain the address where the person expects to reside upon
release or discharge and shall report within three days the address to the
Department of Justice. The court shall give one copy of the form to the
person, send one copy to the Department of Justice, and forward one
copy to the appropriate law enforcement agency or agencies having local
jurisdiction where the person expects to reside upon his or her discharge,
parole, or release.
   (d) (1) Any person who, on or after January 1, 1986, is discharged or
paroled from the Department of the Youth Authority to the custody of
which he or she was committed after having been adjudicated a ward of
the juvenile court pursuant to Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code because of the commission or attempted commission of any
offense described in paragraph (3) shall be subject to registration under
the procedures of this section.
   (2) Any person who is discharged or paroled from a facility in another
state that is equivalent to the Department of the Youth Authority, to the
custody of which he or she was committed because of an offense which,
if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punishable as
one or more of the offenses described in paragraph (3), shall be subject
to registration under the procedures of this section.
   (3) Any person described in this subdivision who committed an
offense in violation of any of the following provisions shall be required
to register pursuant to this section:
   (A) Assault with intent to commit rape, sodomy, oral copulation, or
any violation of Section 264.1, 288, or 289 under Section 220.
   (B) Any offense defined in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 261, Section 264.1, 266c, or 267, paragraph
(1) of subdivision (b) of, or subdivision (c) or (d) of, Section 286, Section
288 or 288.5, paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of, or subdivision (c) or
(d) of, Section 288a, subdivision (a) of Section 289, or Section 647.6.
   (C) A violation of Section 207 or 209 committed with the intent to
violate Section 261, 286, 288, 288a, or 289.
   (4) Prior to discharge or parole from the Department of the Youth
Authority, any person who is subject to registration under this
subdivision shall be informed of the duty to register under the procedures
set forth in this section. Department of the Youth Authority officials shall
transmit the required forms and information to the Department of
Justice.
   (5) All records specifically relating to the registration in the custody
of the Department of Justice, law enforcement agencies, and other
agencies or public officials shall be destroyed when the person who is
 4288                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 649 ]
required to register has his or her records sealed under the procedures set
forth in Section 781 of the Welfare and Institutions Code. This
subdivision shall not be construed as requiring the destruction of other
criminal offender or juvenile records relating to the case that are
maintained by the Department of Justice, law enforcement agencies, the
juvenile court, or other agencies and public officials unless ordered by
a court under Section 781 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (e) (1) On or after January 1, 1998, upon incarceration, placement,
or commitment, or prior to release on probation, any person who is
required to register under this section shall preregister. The
preregistering official shall be the admitting officer at the place of
incarceration, placement, or commitment, or the probation officer if the
person is to be released on probation. The preregistration shall consist
of both of the following:
   (A) A preregistration statement in writing, signed by the person,
giving information that shall be required by the Department of Justice.
   (B) The fingerprints and a current photograph of the person.
   (C) Any person who is preregistered pursuant to this subdivision is
required to be preregistered only once.
   (2) A person described in paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) shall
register, or reregister if the person has previously registered, upon
release from incarceration, placement, or commitment, pursuant to
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a). The registration shall consist of all of
the following:
   (A) A statement in writing signed by the person, giving information
as shall be required by the Department of Justice and giving the name
and address of the person’s employer, and the address of the person’s
place of employment if that is different from the employer’s main
address.
   (B) The fingerprints and a current photograph of the person.
   (C) The license plate number of any vehicle owned by, regularly
driven by, or registered in the name of the person.
   (D) Notice to the person that, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph (4), he or she may have a duty to register in any other state
where he or she may relocate.
   (E) Copies of adequate proof of residence, which shall be limited to
a California driver’s license, California identification card, recent rent
or utility receipt, printed personalized checks or other recent banking
documents showing that person’s name and address, or any other
information that the registering official believes is reliable. If the person
has no residence and no reasonable expectation of obtaining a residence
in the foreseeable future, the person shall so advise the registering
official and shall sign a statement provided by the registering official
stating that fact. Upon presentation of proof of residence to the
[Ch. 649 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4289

registering official or a signed statement that the person has no residence,
the person shall be allowed to register. If the person claims that he or she
has a residence but does not have any proof of residence, he or she shall
be allowed to register but shall furnish proof of residence within 30 days
of the day he or she is allowed to register.
   (3) Within three days thereafter, the preregistering official or the
registering law enforcement agency or agencies shall forward the
statement, fingerprints, photograph, and vehicle license plate number, if
any, to the Department of Justice.
   (f) (1) If any person who is required to register pursuant to this
section changes his or her residence address or location, whether within
the jurisdiction in which he or she is currently registered or to a new
jurisdiction inside or outside the state, the person shall inform, in writing
within five working days, the law enforcement agency or agencies with
which he or she last registered of the new address or location. The law
enforcement agency or agencies shall, within three days after receipt of
this information, forward a copy of the change of address or location
information to the Department of Justice. The Department of Justice
shall forward appropriate registration data to the law enforcement
agency or agencies having local jurisdiction of the new place of
residence or location.
   (2) If the person’s new address is in a Department of the Youth
Authority facility or a state prison or state mental institution, an official
of the place of incarceration, placement, or commitment shall, within 90
days of receipt of the person, forward the registrant’s change of address
information to the Department of Justice. The agency need not provide
a physical address for the registrant but shall indicate that he or she is
serving a period of incarceration or commitment in a facility under the
agency’s jurisdiction. This paragraph shall apply to persons received in
a Department of the Youth Authority facility or a state prison or state
mental institution on or after January 1, 1999. The Department of Justice
shall forward the change of address information to the agency with
which the person last registered.
   (3) If any person who is required to register pursuant to this section
changes his or her name, the person shall inform, in person, the law
enforcement agency or agencies with which he or she is currently
registered within five working days. The law enforcement agency or
agencies shall forward a copy of this information to the Department of
Justice within three days of its receipt.
   (g) (1) Any person who is required to register under this section
based on a misdemeanor conviction or juvenile adjudication who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding
one year.
 4290                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 649 ]
   (2) Except as provided in paragraphs (5) and (7), any person who is
required to register under this section based on a felony conviction or
juvenile adjudication who willfully violates any requirement of this
section or who has a prior conviction or juvenile adjudication for the
offense of failing to register under this section and who subsequently and
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a felony and
shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or
two or three years.
   If probation is granted or if the imposition or execution of sentence is
suspended, it shall be a condition of the probation or suspension that the
person serve at least 90 days in a county jail. The penalty described in
this paragraph shall apply whether or not the person has been released
on parole or has been discharged from parole.
   (3) Any person determined to be a mentally disordered sex offender
or who has been found guilty in the guilt phase of trial for an offense for
which registration is required under this section, but who has been found
not guilty by reason of insanity in the sanity phase of the trial, or who
has had a petition sustained in a juvenile adjudication for an offense for
which registration is required under this section pursuant to subdivision
(d), but who has been found not guilty by reason of insanity, who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail not
exceeding one year. For any second or subsequent willful violation of
any requirement of this section, the person is guilty of a felony and shall
be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or two
or three years.
   (4) If, after discharge from parole, the person is convicted of a felony
or suffers a juvenile adjudication as specified in this subdivision, he or
she shall be required to complete parole of at least one year, in addition
to any other punishment imposed under this subdivision. A person
convicted of a felony as specified in this subdivision may be granted
probation only in the unusual case where the interests of justice would
best be served. When probation is granted under this paragraph, the court
shall specify on the record and shall enter into the minutes the
circumstances indicating that the interests of justice would best be
served by the disposition.
   (5) Any person who has ever been adjudicated a sexually violent
predator, as defined in Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, and who fails to verify his or her registration every 90 days as
required pursuant to subparagraph (E) of paragraph (1) of subdivision
(a), shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison, or in a county
jail not exceeding one year.
   (6) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (5), and in addition to
any other penalty imposed under this subdivision, any person who is
[Ch. 649 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4291

required pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of subdivision
(a) to update his or her registration every 90 days and willfully fails to
update his or her registration is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months.
Any subsequent violation of this requirement that persons described in
subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) shall update their
registration every 90 days is also a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months.
   (7) Any person who fails to provide proof of residence as required by
subparagraph (E) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (e), regardless of the
offense upon which the duty to register is based, is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding
six months.
   (8) Any person who is required to register under this section who
willfully violates any requirement of this section is guilty of a continuing
offense.
   (h) Whenever any person is released on parole or probation and is
required to register under this section but fails to do so within the time
prescribed, the parole authority, the Youthful Offender Parole Board, or
the court, as the case may be, shall order the parole or probation of the
person revoked. For purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘parole authority’’ has
the same meaning as described in Section 3000.
   (i) Except as provided in subdivisions (m) and (n) and Section 290.4,
the statements, photographs, and fingerprints required by this section
shall not be open to inspection by the public or by any person other than
a regularly employed peace officer or other law enforcement officer.
   (j) In any case in which a person who would be required to register
pursuant to this section for a felony conviction is to be temporarily sent
outside the institution where he or she is confined on any assignment
within a city or county including firefighting, disaster control, or of
whatever nature the assignment may be, the local law enforcement
agency having jurisdiction over the place or places where the assignment
shall occur shall be notified within a reasonable time prior to removal
from the institution. This subdivision shall not apply to any person who
is temporarily released under guard from the institution where he or she
is confined.
   (k) As used in this section, ‘‘mentally disordered sex offender’’
includes any person who has been determined to be a sexual psychopath
or a mentally disordered sex offender under any provision which, on or
before January 1, 1976, was contained in Division 6 (commencing with
Section 6000) of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (l) (1) Every person who, prior to January 1, 1997, is required to
register under this section, shall be notified whenever he or she next
reregisters of the reduction of the registration period from 14 to five
 4292                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 649 ]
working days. This notice shall be provided in writing by the registering
agency or agencies. Failure to receive this notification shall be a defense
against the penalties prescribed by subdivision (g) if the person did
register within 14 days.
   (2) Every person who, as a sexually violent predator, as defined in
Section 6600 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, is required to verify
his or her registration every 90 days, shall be notified wherever he or she
next registers of his or her increased registration obligations. This notice
shall be provided in writing by the registering agency or agencies.
Failure to receive this notice shall be a defense against the penalties
prescribed by paragraph (5) of subdivision (g).
   (m) (1) When a peace officer reasonably suspects, based on
information that has come to his or her attention through information
provided by any peace officer or member of the public, that a child or
other person may be at risk from a sex offender convicted of a crime
listed in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 290.4, a law
enforcement agency may, notwithstanding any other provision of law,
provide any of the information specified in paragraph (4) of this
subdivision about that registered sex offender that the agency deems
relevant and necessary to protect the public, to the following persons,
agencies, or organizations the offender is likely to encounter, including,
but not limited to, the following:
   (A) Public and private educational institutions, day care
establishments, and establishments and organizations that primarily
serve individuals likely to be victimized by the offender.
   (B) Other community members at risk.
   (2) The law enforcement agency may authorize persons and entities
who receive the information pursuant to paragraph (1) to disclose
information to additional persons only if the agency does the following:
   (A) Determines that all conditions set forth in paragraph (1) have
been satisfied regarding disclosure to the additional persons.
   (B) Identifies the appropriate scope of further disclosure.
   (3) Persons notified pursuant to paragraph (1) may disclose the
information provided by the law enforcement agency in the manner and
to the extent authorized by the law enforcement agency.
   (4) The information that may be disclosed pursuant to this section
includes the following:
   (A) The offender’s full name.
   (B) The offender’s known aliases.
   (C) The offender’s gender.
   (D) The offender’s race.
   (E) The offender’s physical description.
   (F) The offender’s photograph.
   (G) The offender’s date of birth.
[Ch. 649 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4293

   (H) Crimes resulting in registration under this section.
   (I) The offender’s address, which must be verified prior to
publication.
   (J) Description and license plate number of offender’s vehicles or
vehicles the offender is known to drive.
   (K) Type of victim targeted by the offender.
   (L) Relevant parole or probation conditions, such as one prohibiting
contact with children.
   (M) Dates of crimes resulting in classification under this section.
   (N) Date of release from confinement.
   However, information disclosed pursuant to this subdivision shall not
include information that would identify the victim.
   (5) If a law enforcement agency discloses information pursuant to
this subdivision, it shall include, with the disclosure, a statement that the
purpose of the release of the information is to allow members of the
public to protect themselves and their children from sex offenders.
   (6) For purposes of this section, ‘‘likely to encounter’’ means both of
the following:
   (A) That the agencies, organizations, or other community members
are in a location or in close proximity to a location where the offender
lives or is employed, or that the offender visits or is likely to visit on a
regular basis.
   (B) The types of interaction that ordinarily occur at that location and
other circumstances indicate that contact with the offender is reasonably
probable.
   (7) For purposes of this section, ‘‘reasonably suspects’’ means that it
is objectively reasonable for a peace officer to entertain a suspicion,
based upon facts that could cause a reasonable person in a like position,
drawing when appropriate on his or her training and experience, to
suspect that a child or other person is at risk.
   (8) For purposes of this section, ‘‘at risk’’ means a person is or may
be exposed to a risk of becoming a victim of a sex offense committed by
the offender.
   (9) A law enforcement agency may continue to disclose information
on an offender under this subdivision for as long as the offender is
included in Section 290.4.
   (n) In addition to the procedures set forth elsewhere in this section,
a designated law enforcement entity may advise the public of the
presence of high-risk sex offenders in its community pursuant to this
subdivision.
   (1) For purposes of this subdivision:
   (A) A high-risk sex offender is a person who has been convicted of
an offense specified in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 290.4,
and also meets one of the following criteria:
 4294                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 649 ]
   (i) Has been convicted of three or more violent sex offenses, at least
two of which were brought and tried separately.
   (ii) Has been convicted of two violent sex offenses and one or more
violent nonsex offenses, at least two of which were brought and tried
separately.
   (iii) Has been convicted of one violent sex offense and two or more
violent nonsex offenses, at least two of which were brought and tried
separately.
   (iv) Has been convicted of either two violent sex offenses or one
violent sex offense and one violent nonsex offense, at least two of which
were brought and tried separately, and has been arrested on separate
occasions for three or more violent sex offenses, violent nonsex offenses,
or associated offenses.
   (v) Has been adjudicated a sexually violent predator pursuant to
Article 4 (commencing with Section 6600) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
Division 6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (B) A violent sex offense means any offense defined in Section 220,
except attempt to commit mayhem, or Section 261, 264.1, 286, 288,
288a, 288.5, 289, or 647.6, or infliction of great bodily injury during the
commission of a sex offense, as provided in Section 12022.8.
   (C) A violent nonsex offense means any offense defined in Section
187, subdivision (a) of Section 192, or Section 203, 206, 207, or 236,
provided that the offense is a felony, subdivision (a) of Section 273a,
Section 273d or 451, or attempted murder, as defined in Sections 187 and
664.
   (D) An associated offense means any offense defined in Section
243.4, provided that the offense is a felony, Section 311.1, 311.2, 311.3,
311.4, 311.5, 311.6, 311.7, or 314, Section 459, provided the offense is
of the first degree, Section 597 or 646.9, subdivision (d), (h), or (i) of
Section 647, Section 653m, or infliction of great bodily injury during the
commission of a felony, as defined in Section 12022.7.
   (E) For purposes of subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, an arrest or
conviction for the statutory predecessor of any of the enumerated
offenses, or an arrest or conviction in any other jurisdiction for any
offense that, if committed or attempted in this state, would have been
punishable as one or more of the offenses described in those
subparagraphs, is to be considered in determining whether an offender
is a high-risk sex offender.
   (F) For purposes of subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, an arrest as
a juvenile or an adjudication as a ward of the juvenile court within the
meaning of Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code for any of
the offenses described in those subparagraphs is to be considered in
determining whether an offender is a high-risk sex offender.
[Ch. 649 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4295

   (G) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) to (D), inclusive, an offender
shall not be considered to be a high-risk sex offender if either of the
following apply:
   (i) The offender’s most recent conviction or arrest for an offense
described in subparagraphs (B) to (D), inclusive, occurred more than
five years prior to the high-risk assessment by the Department of Justice,
excluding periods of confinement.
   (ii) The offender notifies the Department of Justice, on a form
approved by the department and available at any sheriff’s office, that he
or she has not been convicted in the preceding 15 years, excluding
periods of confinement, of an offense for which registration is required
under paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), and the department is able, upon
exercise of reasonable diligence, to verify the information provided in
paragraph (2).
   (H) ‘‘Confinement’’ means confinement in a jail, prison, school, road
camp, or other penal institution, confinement in a state hospital to which
the offender was committed as a mentally disordered sex offender under
Article 1 (commencing with Section 6300) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
Division 6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or confinement in a
facility designated by the Director of Mental Health to which the
offender was committed as a sexually violent predator under Article 4
(commencing with Section 6600) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 6
of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
   (I) ‘‘Designated law enforcement entity’’ means any of the following:
municipal police department; sheriff’s department; district attorney’s
office; county probation department; Department of Justice; Department
of Corrections; Department of the Youth Authority; Department of the
California Highway Patrol; or the police department of any campus of
the University of California, California State University, or community
college.
   (2) The Department of Justice shall continually search the records
provided to it pursuant to subdivision (b) and identify, on the basis of
those records, high-risk sex offenders. Four times each year, the
department shall provide to each chief of police and sheriff in the state,
and to any other designated law enforcement entity upon request, the
following information regarding each identified high-risk sex offender:
full name; known aliases; gender; race; physical description;
photograph; date of birth; and crimes resulting in classification under
this section.
   (3) The Department of Justice and any designated law enforcement
entity to which notice has been given pursuant to paragraph (2) may
cause to be made public, by whatever means the agency deems necessary
to ensure the public safety, based upon information available to the
agency concerning a specific person, including, but not limited to, the
 4296                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 649 ]
information described in paragraph (2); the offender’s address, which
shall be verified prior to publication; description and license plate
number of the offender’s vehicles or vehicles the offender is known to
drive; type of victim targeted by the offender; relevant parole or
probation conditions, such as one prohibiting contact with children;
dates of crimes resulting in classification under this section; and date of
release from confinement; but excluding information that would identify
the victim.
   (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person described
in paragraph (2) of subdivision (p) who receives information from a
designated law enforcement entity pursuant to paragraph (3) may
disclose that information in the manner and to the extent authorized by
the law enforcement entity.
   (5) The law enforcement agency may authorize persons and entities
who receive the information pursuant to paragraph (3) to disclose
information to additional persons only if the agency does the following:
   (A) Determines that all conditions set forth in this subdivision have
been satisfied regarding disclosure to the additional persons.
   (B) Identifies the appropriate scope of further disclosure.
   (o) Agencies disseminating information to the public pursuant to
Section 290.4 shall maintain records of those persons requesting to view
the CD-ROM or other electronic media for a minimum of five years.
Agencies disseminating information to the public pursuant to
subdivision (n) shall maintain records of the means and dates of
dissemination for a minimum of five years.
   (p) (1) Any law enforcement agency and employees of any law
enforcement agency shall be immune from liability for good faith
conduct under this section. For the purposes of this section, ‘‘law
enforcement agency’’ means the Attorney General of California, every
district attorney, the Department of Corrections, the Department of the
Youth Authority, and every state or local agency expressly authorized by
statute to investigate or prosecute law violators.
   (2) Any public or private educational institution, day care facility, or
any child care custodian described in Section 11165.7, or any employee
of a public or private educational institution or day care facility which
in good faith disseminates information as authorized pursuant to
paragraph (3) of subdivision (m) or paragraph (4) of subdivision (n) that
is provided by a law enforcement agency or an employee of a law
enforcement agency shall be immune from civil liability.
   (q) (1) Any person who uses information disclosed pursuant to this
section to commit a felony shall be punished, in addition and
consecutive to any other punishment, by a five-year term of
imprisonment in the state prison.
[Ch. 650 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4297

   (2) Any person who uses information disclosed pursuant to this
section to commit a misdemeanor shall be subject to, in addition to any
other penalty or fine imposed, a fine of not less than five hundred dollars
($500) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
   (r) The registration and public notification provisions of this section
are applicable to every person described in this section, without regard
to when his or her crimes were committed or his or her duty to register
pursuant to this section arose, and to every offense described in this
section, regardless of when it was committed.
   SEC. 3. Section 2.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
290 of the Penal Code proposed by both this bill and AB 1340. It shall
only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective
on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section 290 of the
Penal Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after AB 1340, in which case
Section 2 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 4. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 650

  An act to add Section 14060.6 to the Corporations Code, relating to
small business development.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 14060.6 is added to the Corporations Code, to
read:
  14060.6. (a) The Legislature finds and declares that the Small
Business Loan Guarantee Program has enabled participating small
businesses that do not qualify for conventional business loans or Small
Business Administration loans to secure funds to expand their
businesses. These small businesses would not have been able to expand
their businesses in the absence of the program. The program has also
provided valuable technical assistance to small businesses to ensure
 4298                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 651 ]
growth and stability. The study commissioned by Section 14069.6, as
added by Chapter 919 of the Statutes of 1997, documented the return on
investment of the program and the need for its services. The value of the
program has also been recognized by the Governor through proposals
contained in the May revision to the Budget Act of 2000 for the 2000–01
fiscal year.
   (b) Notwithstanding Section 14060.5, the Trade and Commerce
Agency shall establish new small business financial development
corporations pursuant to the procedures otherwise established by this
chapter in the following areas:
   (1) San Jose.
   (2) Santa Ana.
   (3) San Fernando Valley.
   (4) Ontario.
   (c) Each of the small business financial development corporations,
upon the recommendation of the board and at least once each year, shall
make a presentation and overview of the corporation’s business
operations to the board.



                             CHAPTER 651

  An act to add Section 5070 to the Vehicle Code, relating to cancer.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 5070 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   5070. (a) The department shall design and make available for
issuance pursuant to this article special breast cancer treatment license
plates as described in this section. The special breast cancer treatment
license plate shall bear a graphic design depicting the same logo as the
United States postal stamp with the words ‘‘Fund the Fight. Find a Cure’’
over the sketch of a woman and the breast cancer awareness pink ribbon
symbol. Any person described in Section 5101 may, upon payment of
the additional fees set forth in subdivision (b), apply for and be issued
a set of special breast cancer treatment license plates. Notwithstanding
subdivision (a) of Section 5060, the special breast cancer treatment
license plates may be issued as breast cancer license plates, as defined
in Section 5103.
   (b) In addition to the regular fees for an original registration, renewal
of registration, transfer, or substitution of the license plates, the
[Ch. 652 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4299

following additional fees shall be paid for the issuance, renewal,
retention, transfer, or replacement of the special interest license plates
authorized pursuant to this section:
   (1) For the original issuance of the plates, fifty dollars ($50).
   (2) For a renewal of registration of the plates, or the retention of the
plates if renewal is not required, forty dollars ($40).
   (3) For transfer of the plates to another vehicle, fifteen dollars ($15).
   (4) For each substitute replacement plate, thirty-five dollars ($35).
   (5) In addition, for the issuance of an environmental license plate, as
defined in Section 5103, the additional fees prescribed in Sections 5106
and 5108, which shall be deposited in the Environmental License Plate
Fund.
   (c) Except as provided in paragraph (5) of subdivision (b), all fees
collected under this section shall, after deduction of the department’s
costs in administering this section, be deposited in the Breast Cancer
Treatment Account, which is hereby created in the Breast Cancer Fund,
as that fund is established in Section 30461.6 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code. The funds in the account shall be used by the State
Department of Health Services, upon appropriation by the Legislature,
to award grants to fund breast cancer treatment for uninsured or
underinsured persons who are at, or below, the 200-percent federal
poverty level, as that level is determined by the United States
Department of Health and Human Services.



                             CHAPTER 652

  An act to amend Section 4801 of the Penal Code, relating to
imprisonment.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 4801 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   4801. (a) The Board of Prison Terms may report to the Governor,
from time to time, the names of any and all persons imprisoned in any
state prison who, in its judgment, ought to have a commutation of
sentence or be pardoned and set at liberty on account of good conduct,
or unusual term of sentence, or any other cause, including evidence of
battered woman syndrome. For purposes of this section, ‘‘evidence of
battered woman syndrome’’ may include evidence of the effects of
physical, emotional, or mental abuse upon the beliefs, perceptions, or
 4300                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 653 ]
behavior of victims of domestic violence where it appears the criminal
behavior was the result of that victimization.
  (b) The Board of Prison Terms, in reviewing a prisoner’s suitability
for parole pursuant to Section 3041.5, shall consider any information or
evidence that, at the time of the commission of the crime, the prisoner
had suffered from battered woman syndrome, but was convicted of the
offense prior to the enactment of Section 1107 of the Evidence Code by
Chapter 812 of the Statutes of 1991. The board shall state on the record
the information or evidence that it considered pursuant to this
subdivision, and the reasons for the parole decision. The board shall
annually report to the Legislature and the Governor on the cases the
board considered pursuant to this subdivision during the previous year,
including the board’s decision and the findings of its investigations of
these cases.



                            CHAPTER 653

  An act to amend Section 14006 of the Penal Code, relating to gangs.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14006 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   14006. The CLEAR project shall remain operative until January 1,
2004, and as of that date, this title is repealed, unless a later enacted
statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends that
date. Implementation of this project is contingent upon a Budget Act
appropriation.



                            CHAPTER 654

  An act to amend Section 13848.6 of, and to repeal Section 13848.7 of,
the Penal Code, relating to crime.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 13848.6 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
[Ch. 654 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4301

   13848.6. (a) The High Technology Crime Advisory Committee is
hereby established for the purpose of formulating a comprehensive
written strategy for addressing high technology crime throughout the
state and to advise the Office of Criminal Justice Planning on the
appropriate disbursement of funds to regional task forces.
   (b) This strategy shall be designed to be implemented through
regional task forces. In formulating that strategy, the committee shall
identify various priorities for law enforcement attention, including the
following goals:
   (1) To apprehend and prosecute criminal organizations, networks,
and groups of individuals engaged in the following activities:
   (A) Theft of computer components and other high technology
products.
   (B) Violations of Penal Code Sections 211, 350, 351a, 459, 496,
537e, 593d, and 593e.
   (C) Theft of telecommunications services and other violations of
Penal Code Sections 502.7 and 502.8.
   (D) Counterfeiting of negotiable instruments and other valuable
items through the use of computer technology.
   (E) Creation and distribution of counterfeit software and other digital
information, including the use of counterfeit trademarks to misrepresent
the origin of that software or digital information.
   (2) To apprehend and prosecute individuals and groups engaged in
the unlawful access, destruction, or unauthorized entry into and use of
private, corporate, or government computers and networks, including
wireless and wireline communications networks and law enforcement
dispatch systems, and the theft, interception, manipulation, destruction,
and unauthorized disclosure of data stored within those computers.
   (3) To apprehend and prosecute individuals and groups engaged in
the theft of trade secrets.
   (4) To investigate and prosecute high technology crime cases
requiring coordination and cooperation between regional task forces and
local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies.
   (c) The Executive Director of the Office of Criminal Justice Planning
shall appoint the following members to the committee:
   (1) A designee of the California District Attorneys Association.
   (2) A designee of the California State Sheriffs Association.
   (3) A designee of the California Police Chiefs Association.
   (4) A designee of the Attorney General.
   (5) A designee of the California Highway Patrol.
   (6) A designee of the High Tech Criminal Investigators Association.
   (7) A designee of the Office of Criminal Justice Planning.
   (8) A designee of the American Electronic Association to represent
California computer system manufacturers.
 4302                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 654 ]
   (9) A designee of the American Electronic Association to represent
California computer software producers.
   (10) A designee of the California Cellular Carriers Association.
   (11) A designee of the California Internet Industry Alliance.
   (12) A designee of the Semiconductor Equipment and Materials
International.
   (13) A designee of the California Cable Television Association.
   (14) A designee of the Motion Picture Association of America.
   (15) A designee of either the California Telephone Association or the
California Association of Long Distance Companies. This position shall
rotate every other year between designees of the two associations.
   (16) A designee of the Science and Technology Agency, if Senate Bill
1136 is enacted, and, as enacted, creates the Science and Technology
Agency, otherwise, a designee of the Department of Information
Technology.
   (d) The Executive Director of the Office of Criminal Justice Planning
shall designate the Chair of the High Technology Crime Advisory
Committee from the appointed members.
   (e) The advisory committee shall not be required to meet more than
12 times per year. The advisory committee may create subcommittees
of its own membership, and each subcommittee shall meet as often as
the subcommittee members find necessary. It is the intent of the
Legislature that all advisory committee members shall actively
participate in all advisory committee deliberations required by this
chapter.
   Any member who, without advance notice to the executive director
and without designating an alternative representative, misses three
scheduled meetings in any calendar year for any reason other than severe
temporary illness or injury (as determined by the Executive Director of
the Office of Criminal Justice Planning) shall automatically be removed
from the advisory committee. If a member wishes to send an alternative
representative in his or her place, advance written notification of this
substitution shall be presented to the executive director. This notification
shall be required for each meeting the appointed member elects not to
attend.
   Members of the advisory committee shall receive no compensation for
their services, but shall be reimbursed for travel and per diem expenses
incurred as a result of attending meetings sponsored by the Office of
Criminal Justice Planning under this chapter.
   (f) The executive director, in consultation with the High Technology
Crime Advisory Committee, shall develop specific guidelines and
administrative procedures for the selection of projects to be funded by
the High Technology Theft Apprehension and Prosecution Program,
which guidelines shall include the following selection criteria:
[Ch. 654 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4303

   (1) Each regional task force that seeks funds shall submit a written
application to the committee setting forth in detail the proposed use of
the funds.
   (2) In order to qualify for the receipt of funds, each proposed regional
task force submitting an application shall provide written evidence that
the agency meets either of the following conditions:
   (A) The regional task force devoted to the investigation and
prosecution of high technology-related crimes is comprised of local law
enforcement and prosecutors, and has been in existence for at least one
year prior to the application date.
   (B) At least one member of the task force has at least three years of
experience in investigating or prosecuting cases of suspected high
technology crime.
   (3) In order to qualify for funds, a regional task force shall be
comprised of local law enforcement and prosecutors from at least two
counties. At the time of funding, the proposed task force shall also have
at least one investigator assigned to it from a state law enforcement
agency. Each task force shall be directed by a local steering committee
composed of representatives of participating agencies and members of
the local high technology industry.
   (4) Additional criteria that shall be considered by the advisory
committee in awarding grant funds shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
   (A) The number of high technology crime cases filed in the prior year.
   (B) The number of high technology crime cases investigated in the
prior year.
   (C) The number of victims involved in the cases filed.
   (D) The total aggregate monetary loss suffered by the victims,
including individuals, associations, institutions, or corporations, as a
result of the high technology crime cases filed, and those under active
investigation by that task force.
   (5) Each regional task force that has been awarded funds authorized
under the High Technology Theft Apprehension and Prosecution
Program during the previous grant-funding cycle, upon reapplication for
funds to the committee in each successive year, shall be required to
submit a detailed accounting of funds received and expended in the prior
year in addition to any information required by this section. The
accounting shall include all of the following information:
   (A) The amount of funds received and expended.
   (B) The use to which those funds were put, including payment of
salaries and expenses, purchase of equipment and supplies, and other
expenditures by type.
   (C) The number of filed complaints, investigations, arrests, and
convictions that resulted from the expenditure of the funds.
 4304                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 655 ]
   (g) The committee shall annually review the effectiveness of the
regional task forces created in deterring, investigating, and prosecuting
high technology crimes and provide its findings in a report to the
Legislature and the Governor. This report shall be based on information
provided by the regional task forces in an annual report to the committee
which shall detail the following:
   (1) Facts based upon, but not limited to, the following:
   (A) The number of high technology crime cases filed in the prior year.
   (B) The number of high technology crime cases investigated in the
prior year.
   (C) The number of victims involved in the cases filed.
   (D) The number of convictions obtained in the prior year.
   (E) The total aggregate monetary loss suffered by the victims,
including individuals, associations, institutions, corporations, and other
relevant public entities, according to the number of cases filed,
investigations, prosecutions, and convictions obtained.
   (2) An accounting of funds received and expended in the prior year,
which shall include all of the following:
   (A) The amount of funds received and expended.
   (B) The uses to which those funds were put, including payment of
salaries and expenses, purchase of supplies, and other expenditures of
funds.
   (C) Any other relevant information requested.
   SEC. 2. Section 13848.7 of the Penal Code is repealed.



                            CHAPTER 655

  An act to amend Section 99400.7 of the Public Utilities Code, relating
to public utilities.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 99400.7 of the Public Utilities Code is
amended to read:
   99400.7. Notwithstanding Sections 99232, 99268.3, and 99405,
cities within the County of San Diego may file a claim under this article
with the transportation planning agency to provide commuter ferry
service on San Diego Bay for the purpose of serving peak period
commute trips for pedestrians and bicycles. The commuter ferry service
may be located anywhere on San Diego Bay, but shall be consistent with
[Ch. 656 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4305

the regional transportation plan, shall serve employment centers and
high volume activity centers, and may be provided by contract with
operators, private entities operating under a franchise or license, or
nonprofit corporations organized pursuant to Division 2 (commencing
with Section 5000) of Title 1 of the Corporations Code.



                             CHAPTER 656

  An act to amend Sections 14556.5, 14556.26, 14556.40, 14556.50,
and 14556.52 of, to add Section 14556.29 to, and to repeal Section
14556.40 of, the Government Code, to amend Section 7104 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, to amend Sections 2182 and 2182.1 of the
Streets and Highways Code, and to repeal Section 21 of Chapter 91 of
the Statutes of 2000, relating to transportation, making an appropriation
therefor, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14556.5 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   14556.5. The Traffic Congestion Relief Fund is hereby created in
the State Treasury. The fund shall include deposits of funds provided in
the annual Budget Act, provided from the Transportation Investment
Fund established under Section 7104 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
or provided under any other statute. Notwithstanding Section 13340, the
money in the fund is hereby continuously appropriated to the
department, without regard to fiscal years, as follows:
   (a) For allocation by the department, as directed by the commission
pursuant to Section 14556.20, to the department and other regional and
local transportation entities for the projects listed in Article 5
(commencing with Section 14556.40).
   (b) For allocation by the Controller, the sum of four hundred million
dollars ($400,000,000), for allocation during the 2000–01 fiscal year to
cities, counties, and cities and counties pursuant to Section 2182 of the
Streets and Highways Code.
   (c) For allocation by the commission to the funding exchange
program authorized by Section 182.8 of the Streets and Highways Code.
   SEC. 2. Section 14556.26 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
 4306                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 656 ]
   14556.26. A regional or local agency receiving an allocation from
this program shall certify, by resolution of its governing board, before
final execution of the cooperative agreement, that it will sustain its level
of expenditures for transportation purposes at a level that is consistent
with the average of its annual expenditures during the 1997–98,
1998–99, and 1999–2000 fiscal years, including funds reserved for
transportation purposes, during the fiscal years that the allocation
provided under this chapter is available for use. The certification is
subject to audit by the state.
   SEC. 3. Section 14556.29 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   14556.29. The Controller shall develop a system that provides
access to funds allocated by the commission under this article from the
Traffic Congestion Relief Fund by electronic transfer of funds.
   SEC. 4. Section 14556.40 of the Government Code, as added by
Section 1 of Chapter 92 of the Statutes of 2000, is repealed.
   SEC. 5. Section 14556.40 of the Government Code, as added by
Section 6 of Chapter 91 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
   14556.40. (a) The following projects are eligible for grants from
the fund for the purposes and amounts specified:
   (1) BART to San Jose; extend BART from Fremont to Downtown
San Jose in Santa Clara and Alameda Counties. Seven hundred
twenty-five million dollars ($725,000,000). The lead applicant is the
Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority.
   (2) Fremont-South Bay Commuter Rail; acquire rail line and start
commuter rail service between Fremont and San Jose in Santa Clara and
Alameda Counties. Thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000). The lead
applicant is the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority.
   (3) Route 101; widen freeway from four to eight lanes south of San
Jose, Bernal Road to Burnett Avenue in Santa Clara County.
Twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority.
   (4) Route 680; add northbound HOV lane over Sunol Grade, Milpitas
to Route 84 in Santa Clara and Alameda Counties. Sixty million dollars
($60,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Alameda
County Congestion Management Agency.
   (5) Route 101; add northbound lane to freeway through San Jose,
Route 87 to Trimble Road in Santa Clara County. Five million dollars
($5,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Santa Clara
Valley Transportation Authority.
   (6) Route 262; major investment study for cross connector freeway,
Route 680 to Route 880 near Warm Springs in Santa Clara County. One
million dollars ($1,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the
Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority.
[Ch. 656 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           4307

   (7) CalTrain; expand service to Gilroy; improve parking, stations,
and platforms along UPRR line in Santa Clara County. Fifty-five million
dollars ($55,000,000). The lead applicant is Santa Clara Valley
Transportation Authority.
   (8) Route 880; reconstruct Coleman Avenue Interchange near San
Jose Airport in Santa Clara County. Five million dollars ($5,000,000).
The lead applicant is the department or the Santa Clara Valley
Transportation Authority.
   (9) Capitol Corridor; improve intercity rail line between Oakland and
San Jose, and at Jack London Square and Emeryville stations in
Alameda and Santa Clara Counties. Twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Capitol
Corridor Joint Powers Authority.
   (10) Regional Express Bus; acquire low-emission buses for new
express service on HOV lanes regionwide. In nine counties. Forty
million dollars ($40,000,000). The lead applicant is the Metropolitan
Transportation Commission.
   (11) San Francisco Bay Southern Crossing; complete feasibility and
financial studies for new San Francisco Bay crossing (new bridge,
HOV/transit bridge, terminal connection, or second BART tube) in
Alameda and San Francisco or San Mateo Counties. Five million dollars
($5,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Metropolitan
Transportation Commission.
   (12) Bay Area Transit Connectivity; complete studies of, and fund
related improvements for, the I-580 Livermore Corridor; the Hercules
Rail Station and related improvements, West Contra Costa County and
Route 4 Corridors in Alameda and Contra Costa Counties. Seventeen
million dollars ($17,000,000). Of the amount specified, seven million
dollars ($7,000,000) shall be made available for the Route 4 Corridor
study and improvements, seven million dollars ($7,000,000) shall be
made available for the I-580 Corridor study and improvements, and
three million dollars ($3,000,000) shall be made available for the
Hercules Rail Station study and improvements. The lead applicant for
the Hercules Rail Station and related improvements in west Contra
Costa County is the Contra Costa County Transportation Authority. The
lead applicants, for the I-580 Livermore Study and improvements are the
Alameda County Congestion Management Authority and the San
Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District. The lead applicants for the
Route 4 Corridor study and improvements are the Contra Costa County
Transportation Authority and the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit
District.
   (13) CalTrain Peninsula Corridor; acquire rolling stock, add passing
tracks, and construct pedestrian access structure at stations between San
Francisco and San Jose in San Francisco, San Mateo, and Santa Clara
 4308                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 656 ]
Counties. One hundred twenty-seven million dollars ($127,000,000).
The lead applicant is the Peninsula Joint Powers Board.
   (14) CalTrain; extension to Salinas in Monterey County. Twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000). The lead applicant is the Transportation
Agency for Monterey County.
   (15) Route 24; Caldecott Tunnel; add fourth bore tunnel with
additional lanes in Alameda and Contra Costa Counties. Twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the
Metropolitan Transportation Commission.
   (16) Route 4; construct one or more phases of improvements to widen
freeway to eight lanes from Railroad through Loveridge Road, including
two high-occupancy vehicle lanes, and to six or more lanes from east of
Loveridge Road through Hillcrest. Thirty-nine million dollars
($39,000,000). The lead applicant is the Contra Costa Transportation
Authority.
   (17) Route 101; add reversible HOV lane through San Rafael, Sir
Francis Drake Boulevard to North San Pedro Road in Marin County.
Fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Marin Congestion Management Agency.
   (18) Route 101; widen eight miles of freeway to six lanes, Novato to
Petaluma (Novato Narrows) in Marin and Sonoma Counties.
Twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Sonoma County Transportation Authority.
   (19) Bay Area Water Transit Authority; establish a regional water
transit system beginning with Treasure Island in the City and County of
San Francisco. Two million dollars ($2,000,000). The lead applicant is
the Bay Area Water Transit Authority.
   (20) San Francisco Muni Third Street Light Rail; extend Third Street
line to Chinatown (tunnel) in the City and County of San Francisco. One
hundred forty million dollars ($140,000,000). The lead applicant is the
San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency.
   (21) San Francisco Muni Ocean Avenue Light Rail; reconstruct
Ocean Avenue light rail line to Route 1 near California State University,
San Francisco, in the City and County of San Francisco. Seven million
dollars ($7,000,000). The lead applicant is the San Francisco Municipal
Transportation Agency.
   (22) Route 101; environmental study for reconstruction of Doyle
Drive, from Lombard St./Richardson Avenue to Route 1 Interchange in
City and County of San Francisco. Fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the San Francisco
County Transportation Authority.
   (23) CalTrain Peninsula Corridor; complete grade separations at
Poplar Avenue in (San Mateo), 25th Avenue or vicinity (San Mateo), and
Linden Avenue (South San Francisco) in San Mateo County. Fifteen
[Ch. 656 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           4309

million dollars ($15,000,000). The lead applicant is the San Mateo
County Transportation Authority.
   (24) Vallejo Baylink Ferry; acquire low-emission ferryboats to
expand Baylink Vallejo-San Francisco service in Solano County. Five
million dollars ($5,000,000). The lead applicant is the City of Vallejo.
   (25) I-80/I-680/Route 12 Interchange in Fairfield in Solano County;
12 interchange complex in seven stages (Stage 1). Thirteen million
dollars ($13,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the
Solano Transportation Authority.
   (26) ACE Commuter Rail; add siding on UPRR line in Livermore
Valley in Alameda County. One million dollars ($1,000,000). The lead
applicant is the Alameda County Congestion Management Authority.
   (27) Vasco Road Safety and Transit Enhancement Project in Alameda
and Contra Costa Counties. Eleven million dollars ($11,000,000). The
lead applicant is Alameda County Congestion Management Authority.
   (28) Parking Structure at Transit Village at Richmond BART Station
in Contra Costa County. Five million dollars ($5,000,000). The lead
applicant is the City of Richmond.
   (29) AC Transit; buy two fuel cell buses and fueling facility for
demonstration project in Alameda and Contra Costa Counties. Eight
million dollars ($8,000,000). The lead applicant is the Alameda Contra
Costa Transit District.
   (30) Implementation of commuter rail passenger service from
Cloverdale south to San Rafael and Larkspur in Marin and Sonoma
Counties. Thirty-seven million dollars ($37,000,000). The lead
applicant is the Sonoma-Marin Area Transit Authority.
   (31) Route 580; construct eastbound and westbound HOV lanes from
Tassajara Road/Santa Rita Road to Vasco Road in Alameda County.
Twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Alameda County Congestion Management Authority.
   (32) North Coast Railroad; repair and upgrade track to meet Class II
(freight) standards in Napa, Sonoma, Marin, Mendocino and Humboldt
Counties. Sixty million dollars ($60,000,000). The lead applicant is the
North Coast Rail Authority. Except for the amounts specified in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) and subdivision (b) of Section
14456.50, no part of the specified amount may be made available to the
authority until it has made a full accounting to the commission
demonstrating that the expenditure of funds provided to the authority in
the Budget Act of 2000 (Chapter 52 of the Statutes of 2000) was
consistent with the limitations placed on those funds in that Budget Act.
   (33) Bus Transit; acquire low-emission buses for Los Angeles
County MTA bus transit service. One hundred fifty million dollars
($150,000,000). The lead applicant is the Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
 4310                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 656 ]
   (34) Blue Line to Los Angeles; new rail line Pasadena to Los Angeles
in Los Angeles County. Forty million dollars ($40,000,000). The lead
applicant is the Pasadena Metro Blue Line Construction Authority.
   (35) Pacific Surfliner; triple track intercity rail line within Los
Angeles County and add run-through-tracks through Los Angeles Union
Station in Los Angeles County. One hundred million dollars
($100,000,000). The lead applicant is the department.
   (36) Los Angeles Eastside Transit Extension; build new light rail line
in East Los Angeles, from Union Station to Atlantic via 1st Street to
Lorena in Los Angeles County. Two hundred thirty-six million dollars
($236,000,000). The lead applicant is the Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
   (37) Los Angeles Mid-City Transit Improvements; build Bus Rapid
Transit system or Light Rail Transit in Mid-City/Westside/Exposition
Corridors in Los Angeles County. Two hundred fifty-six million dollars
($256,000,000). The lead applicant is the Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
   (38) Los Angeles-San Fernando Valley Transit Extension; (A) build
an East-West Bus Rapid Transit system in the Burbank-Chandler
corridor, from North Hollywood to Warner Center. One hundred
forty-five million dollars ($145,000,000). (B) Build a North-South
corridor bus transit project that interfaces with the foregoing East-West
Burbank-Chandler Corridor project and with the Ventura Boulevard
Rapid Bus project. One hundred million dollars ($100,000,000). The
lead applicant for both extension projects is the Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
   (39) Route 405; add northbound HOV lane over Sepulveda Pass,
Route 10 to Route 101 in Los Angeles County. Ninety million dollars
($90,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
   (40) Route 10; add HOV lanes on San Bernardino Freeway over
Kellogg Hill, near Pomona, Route 605 to Route 57 in Los Angeles
County. Ninety million dollars ($90,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority.
   (41) Route 5; add HOV lanes on Golden State Freeway through San
Fernando Valley, Route 170 (Hollywood Freeway) to Route 14
(Antelope Valley Freeway) in Los Angeles County. Fifty million dollars
($50,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
   (42) Route 5; widen Santa Ana Freeway to 10 lanes (two HOV + two
mixed flow), Orange County line to Route 710, with related major
arterial improvements, in Los Angeles County. One hundred twenty-five
[Ch. 656 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           4311

million dollars ($125,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or
the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
   (43) Route 5; improve Carmenita Road Interchange in Norwalk in
Los Angeles County. Seventy-one million dollars ($71,000,000). The
lead applicant is the department or the Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority.
   (44) Route 47 (Terminal Island Freeway); construct interchange at
Ocean Boulevard Overpass in the City of Long Beach in Los Angeles
County. Eighteen million four hundred thousand dollars ($18,400,000).
The lead applicant is the Port of Long Beach.
   (45) Route 710; complete Gateway Corridor study, Los
Angeles/Long Beach ports to Route 5 in Los Angeles County. Two
million dollars ($2,000,000). The lead applicant is the department.
   (46) Route 1; reconstruct intersection at Route 107 in Torrance in Los
Angeles County. Two million dollars ($2,000,000). The lead applicant
is the department or the Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority.
   (47) Route 101; California Street off-ramp in Ventura County. Fifteen
million dollars ($15,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or
the City of San Buenaventura.
   (48) Route 101; corridor analysis and PSR to improve corridor from
Route 170 (North Hollywood Freeway) to Route 23 in Thousand Oaks
(Ventura County) in Los Angeles and Ventura Counties. Three million
dollars ($3,000,000). The lead applicant is the department.
   (49) Hollywood Intermodal Transportation Center; intermodal
facility at Highland Avenue and Hawthorn Avenue in the City of Los
Angeles. Ten million dollars ($10,000,000). The lead applicant is the
City of Los Angeles.
   (50) Route 71; complete three miles of six-lane freeway through
Pomona, from Route 10 to Route 60 in Los Angeles County. Thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or
the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
   (51) Route 101/405; add auxiliary lane and widen ramp through
freeway interchange in Sherman Oaks in Los Angeles County.
Twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority.
   (52) Route 405; add HOV and auxiliary lanes for 1 mile in West Los
Angeles, from Waterford Avenue to Route 10 in Los Angeles County.
Twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority.
   (53) Automated Signal Corridors (ATSAC); improve 479 automated
signals in Victory/Ventura Corridor, and add 76 new automated signals
 4312                    STATUTES OF 2000                   [Ch. 656 ]
in Sepulveda Boulevard and Route 118 Corridors in Los Angeles
County. Sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000). The lead applicant is the
City of Los Angeles.
  (54) Alameda Corridor East; build grade separations on Burlington
Northern-Santa Fe and Union Pacific Railroad lines, downtown Los
Angeles to Los Angeles County line in Los Angeles County. One
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000). The lead applicant is the
San Gabriel Valley Council of Governments.
  (55) Alameda Corridor East; build grade separations on Burlington
Northern-Santa Fe and Union Pacific Railroad lines, with rail-to-rail
separation at Colton through San Bernardino County. Ninety-five
million dollars ($95,000,000). The lead applicant is the San Bernardino
Associated Governments.
  (56) Metrolink; track and signal improvements on Metrolink; San
Bernardino line in San Bernardino County. Fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000). The lead applicant is the Southern California Regional
Rail Authority.
  (57) Route 215; add HOV lanes through downtown San Bernardino,
Route 10 to Route 30 in San Bernardino County. Twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the San
Bernardino County Transportation Commission.
  (58) Route 10; widen freeway to eight lanes through Redlands, Route
30 to Ford Street in San Bernardino County. Ten million dollars
($10,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the San
Bernardino County Transportation Commission.
  (59) Route 10; Live Oak Canyon Interchange, including, but not
limited to, the 14th Street Bridge over Wilson Creek, in the City of
Yucaipa in San Bernardino County. Eleven million dollars
($11,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the San
Bernardino County Transportation Commission.
  (60) Route 15; southbound truck climbing lane at two locations in
San Bernardino County. Ten million dollars ($10,000,000). The lead
applicant is the department or the San Bernardino County Transportation
Commission.
  (61) Route 10; reconstruct Apache Trail Interchange east of Banning
in Riverside County. Thirty million dollars ($30,000,000). The lead
applicant is the department or the Riverside County Transportation
Commission.
  (62) Route 91; add HOV lanes through downtown Riverside, Mary
Street to Route 60/215 junction in Riverside County. Forty million
dollars ($40,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the
Riverside County Transportation Commission.
  (63) Route 60; add seven miles of HOV lanes west of Riverside,
Route 15 to Valley Way in Riverside County. Twenty-five million
[Ch. 656 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           4313

dollars ($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the
Riverside County Transportation Commission.
   (64) Route 91; improve the Green River Interchange and add
auxiliary lane and connector ramp east of the Green River Interchange
to northbound Route 71 in Riverside County. Five million dollars
($5,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Riverside
County Transportation Commission.
   (70) Route 22; add HOV lanes on Garden Grove Freeway, Route
I-405 to Route 55 in Orange County. Two hundred six million five
hundred thousand dollars ($206,500,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Orange County Transportation Authority.
   (73) Alameda Corridor East; (Orangethorpe Corridor) build grade
separations on Burlington Northern-Santa Fe line, Los Angeles County
line through Santa Ana Canyon in Orange County. Twenty-eight million
dollars ($28,000,000). The lead applicant is the Orange County
Transportation Authority.
   (74) Pacific Surfliner; double track intercity rail line within San
Diego County, add maintenance yard in San Diego County. Forty-seven
million dollars ($47,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or
North Coast Transit District.
   (75) San Diego Transit Buses; acquire about 85 low-emission buses
for San Diego transit service in San Diego County. Thirty million dollars
($30,000,000). The lead applicant is the San Diego Metropolitan Transit
Development Board.
   (76) Coaster Commuter Rail; acquire one new train set to expand
commuter rail in San Diego County. Fourteen million dollars
($14,000,000). The lead applicant is North County Transit District.
   (77) Route 94; complete environmental studies to add capacity to
Route 94 corridor, downtown San Diego to Route 125 in Lemon Grove
in San Diego County. Twenty million dollars ($20,000,000). The lead
applicant is the department or San Diego Association of Governments.
   (78) East Village access; improve access to light rail from new
in-town East Village development in San Diego County. Fifteen million
dollars ($15,000,000). The lead applicant is the San Diego Metropolitan
Transit Development Board.
   (79) North County Light Rail; build new 20-mile light rail line from
Oceanside to Escondido in San Diego County. Eighty million dollars
($80,000,000). The lead applicant is North County Transit District.
   (80) Mid-Coast Light Rail; extend Old Town light rail line 6 miles to
Balboa Avenue in San Diego County. Ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
The lead applicant is the San Diego Metropolitan Transit Development
Board.
   (81) San Diego Ferry; acquire low-emission high-speed ferryboat for
new off-coast service between San Diego and Oceanside in San Diego
 4314                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 656 ]
County. Five million dollars ($5,000,000). The lead applicant is the Port
of San Diego.
   (82) Routes 5/805; reconstruct and widen freeway interchange,
Genesee Avenue to Del Mar Heights Road in San Diego County.
Twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the San Diego Association of Governments.
   (83) Route 15; add high-tech managed lane on I-15 freeway north of
San Diego (Stage 1) from Route 163 to Route 78 in San Diego County.
Seventy million dollars ($70,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the San Diego Association of Governments.
   (84) Route 52; build four miles of new six-lane freeway to Santee,
Mission Gorge to Route 67 in San Diego County. Forty-five million
dollars ($45,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the San
Diego Association of Governments.
   (85) Route 56; construct approximately five miles of new freeway
alignment between I-5 and I-15 from Carmel Valley to Rancho
Penasquitos in the City of San Diego in San Diego County. Twenty-five
million dollars ($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or
the San Diego Association of Governments.
   (86) Route 905; build new six-lane freeway on Otay Mesa, Route 805
to Mexico Port of Entry in San Diego County. Twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the San
Diego Association of Governments.
   (87) Routes 94/125; build two new freeway connector ramps at Route
94/125 in Lemon Grove in San Diego County. Sixty million dollars
($60,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the San Diego
Association of Governments.
   (88) Route 5; realign freeway at Virginia Avenue, approaching San
Ysidro Port of Entry to Mexico in San Diego County. Ten million dollars
($10,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the San Diego
Association of Governments.
   (89) Route 99; improve Shaw Avenue Interchange in northern Fresno
in Fresno County. Five million dollars ($5,000,000). The lead applicant
is the department or the Council of Fresno County Governments.
   (90) Route 99; widen freeway to six lanes, Kingsburg to Selma in
Fresno County. Twenty million dollars ($20,000,000). The lead
applicant is the department or the Council of Fresno County
Governments.
   (91) Route 180; build new expressway east of Clovis, Clovis Avenue
to Temperance Avenue in Fresno County. Twenty million dollars
($20,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Council of
Fresno County Governments.
[Ch. 656 ]             STATUTES OF 2000                           4315

   (92) San Joaquin Corridor; improve track and signals along San
Joaquin intercity rail line near Hanford in Kings County. Ten million
dollars ($10,000,000). The lead applicant is the department.
   (93) Route 180; complete environmental studies to extend Route 180
westward from Mendota to I-5 in Fresno County. Seven million dollars
($7,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Council of
Fresno County Governments.
   (94) Route 43; widen to four-lane expressway from Kings County
line to Route 99 in Selma in Fresno County. Five million dollars
($5,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Council of
Fresno County Governments.
   (95) Route 41; add auxiliary lane/operational improvements and
improve ramps at Friant Road Interchange in Fresno in Fresno County.
Ten million dollars ($10,000,000). The lead applicant is the department
or the Council of Fresno County Governments.
   (96) Friant Road; widen to four lanes from Copper Avenue to Road
206 in Fresno County. Ten million dollars ($10,000,000). The lead
applicant is the County of Fresno.
   (97) Operational improvements on Shaw Avenue, Chestnut Avenue,
Willow Avenue, and Barstow Avenue near California State University
at Fresno in Fresno County. Ten million dollars ($10,000,000). The lead
applicant is the California State University at Fresno. Of the amount
authorized under this paragraph, the sum of two million dollars
($2,000,000) shall be transferred to the California State University at
Fresno for the purposes of funding preliminary plans, working drawings,
or both of those, and related program management costs for the Fresno
Events Center.
   (98) Peach Avenue; widen to four-lane arterial and add pedestrian
overcrossings for three schools in Fresno County. Ten million dollars
($10,000,000). The lead applicant is the City of Fresno.
   (99) San Joaquin Corridor; improve track and signals along San
Joaquin intercity rail line in seven counties. Fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000). The lead applicant is the department.
   (100) San Joaquin Valley Emergency Clean Air Attainment Program;
incentives for the reduction of emissions from heavy-duty diesel engines
operating within the eight-county San Joaquin Valley region.
Twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the San
Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District.
   (101) Santa Cruz Metropolitan Transit District bus fleet; acquisition
of low-emission buses. Three million dollars ($3,000,000). The lead
applicant is the Santa Cruz Metropolitan Transit District.
   (102) Route 101 access; State Street smart corridor Advanced Traffic
Corridor System (ATSC) technology in Santa Barbara County. One
 4316                    STATUTES OF 2000                   [Ch. 656 ]
million three hundred thousand dollars ($1,300,000). The lead applicant
is the City of Santa Barbara.
   (103) Route 99; improve interchange at Seventh Standard Road,
north of Bakersfield in Kern County. Eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
The lead applicant is the department or Kern Council of Governments.
   (104) Route 99; build seven miles of new six-lane freeway south of
Merced, Buchanan Hollow Road to Healey Road in Merced County.
Five million dollars ($5,000,000). The lead applicant is the department
or the Merced County Association of Governments.
   (105) Route 99; build two miles of new six-lane freeway, Madera
County line to Buchanan Hollow Road in Merced County. Five million
dollars ($5,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Merced
County Association of Governments.
   (106) Campus Parkway; build new arterial in Merced County from
Route 99 to Bellevue Road. Twenty-three million dollars ($23,000,000).
The lead applicant is the County of Merced.
   (107) Route 205; widen freeway to six lanes, Tracy to I-5 in San
Joaquin County. Twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000). The lead
applicant is the department or the San Joaquin Council of Governments.
   (108) Route 5; add northbound lane to freeway through Mossdale
‘‘Y’’, Route 205 to Route 120 in San Joaquin County. Seven million
dollars ($7,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the San
Joaquin Council of Governments.
   (109) Route 132; build four miles of new four-lane expressway in
Modesto from Dakota Avenue to Route 99 and improve Route 99
Interchange in Stanislaus County. Twelve million dollars
($12,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Stanislaus
Council of Governments.
   (110) Route 132; build 3.5 miles of new four-lane expressway from
Route 33 to the San Joaquin county line in Stanislaus and San Joaquin
Counties. Two million dollars ($2,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Stanislaus Council of Governments.
   (111) Route 198; build 10 miles of new four-lane expressway from
Route 99 to Hanford in Kings and Tulare Counties. Fourteen million
dollars ($14,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Kings
County Association of Governments.
   (112) Jersey Avenue; widen from 17th Street to 18th Street in Kings
County. One million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000). The
lead applicant is Kings County.
   (113) Route 46; widen to four lanes for 33 miles from Route 5 to San
Luis Obispo County line in Kern County. Thirty million dollars
($30,000,000). The lead applicant is the department or the Kern Council
of Governments.
[Ch. 656 ]             STATUTES OF 2000                           4317

   (114) Route 65; add four passing lanes, intersection improvement,
and conduct environmental studies for ultimate widening to four lanes
from Route 99 in Bakersfield to Tulare County line in Kern County.
Twelve million dollars ($12,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Kern Council of Governments.
   (115) South Line Light Rail; extend South Line three miles towards
Elk Grove, from Meadowview Road to Calvine Road in Sacramento
County. Seventy million dollars ($70,000,000). The lead applicant is the
Sacramento Regional Transit District.
   (116) Route 80 Light Rail Corridor; double-track Route 80 light rail
line for express service in Sacramento County. Twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000). The lead applicant is the Sacramento Regional
Transit District.
   (117) Folsom Light Rail; extend light rail tracks from 7th Street and
K Street to the Amtrak Depot in downtown Sacramento, and extend
Folsom light rail from Mather Field Station to downtown Folsom. Add
a new vehicle storage and maintenance facility in the area between the
Sunrise Boulevard and Hazel Avenue Stations in Sacramento County.
Twenty million dollars ($20,000,000). The lead applicant is the
Sacramento Regional Transit District.
   (118) Sacramento Emergency Clean Air/Transportation Plan
(SECAT); incentive for the reduction of emissions from heavy-duty
diesel engines operating within the Sacramento region. Fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000). The lead applicant is the Sacramento Area
Council of Governments.
   (119) Convert Sacramento Regional Transit bus fleet to low emission
and provide Yolo bus service by the Yolo County Transportation
District; acquire approximately 50 replacement low-emission buses for
service in Sacramento and Yolo Counties. Nineteen million dollars
($19,000,000). The lead applicants are the Sacramento Regional Transit
District, the Sacramento Area Council of Governments, and the Yolo
Bus Authority.
   (121) Metropolitan Bakersfield System Study; to reduce congestion
in the City of Bakersfield. Three hundred fifty thousand dollars
($350,000). The lead applicant is the Kern County Council of
Governments.
   (122) Route 65; widening project from 7th Standard Road to Route
190 in Porterville. Three million five hundred thousand dollars
($3,500,000). The lead applicant is the County of Tulare.
   (123) Oceanside Transit Center; parking structure. One million five
hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000). The lead applicant is the City of
Oceanside.
 4318                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 656 ]
   (126) Route 50/Watt Avenue Interchange; widening of overcrossing
and modifications to interchange. Seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
The lead applicant is the County of Sacramento.
   (127) Route 85/Route 87; interchange completion; addition of two
direct connectors for southbound Route 85 to northbound Route 87 and
southbound Route 87 to northbound Route 85. Three million five
hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000). The lead applicant is the City of
San Jose.
   (128) Airport Road; reconstruction and intersection improvement
project. Three million dollars ($3,000,000). The lead applicant is the
County of Shasta.
   (129) Route 62; traffic and pedestrian safety and utility
undergrounding project in right-of-way of Route 62. Three million two
hundred thousand dollars ($3,200,000). The lead applicant is the Town
of Yucca Valley.
   (133) Feasibility studies for grade separation projects for Union
Pacific Railroad at Elk Grove Boulevard and Bond Road. One hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($150,000). The lead applicant is the City of Elk
Grove.
   (134) Route 50/Sunrise Boulevard; interchange modifications. Three
million dollars ($3,000,000). The lead applicant is the County of
Sacramento.
   (135) Route 99/Sheldon Road; interchange project; reconstruction
and expansion. Three million dollars ($3,000,000). The lead applicant
is the County of Sacramento.
   (138) Cross Valley Rail; upgrade track from Visalia to Huron. Four
million dollars ($4,000,000). The lead applicant is the Cross Valley Rail
Corridor Joint Powers Authority.
   (139) Balboa Park BART Station; phase I expansion. Six million
dollars ($6,000,000). The lead applicant is the San Francisco Bay Area
Rapid Transit District.
   (140) City of Goshen; overpass for Route 99. One million five
hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000). The lead applicant is the
department.
   (141) Union City; pedestrian bridge over Union Pacific rail lines.
Two million dollars ($2,000,000). The lead applicant is the City of
Union City.
   (142) West Hollywood; repair, maintenance, and mitigation of Santa
Monica Boulevard. Two million dollars ($2,000,000). The lead
applicant is the City of West Hollywood.
   (144) Seismic retrofit of the national landmark Golden Gate Bridge.
Five million dollars ($5,000,000). The lead applicant is the Golden Gate
Bridge, Highway and Transportation District.
[Ch. 656 ]             STATUTES OF 2000                           4319

   (145) Construction of a new siding in Sun Valley between Sheldon
Street and Sunland Boulevard. Six million five hundred thousand
dollars ($6,500,000). The lead applicant is the Southern California
Regional Rail Authority.
   (146) Construction of Palm Drive Interchange. Ten million dollars
($10,000,000). The lead applicant is the Coachella Valley Association
of Governments.
   (148) Route 98; widening of 8 miles between Route 111 and Route
7 from 2 lanes to 4 lanes. Ten million dollars ($10,000,000). The lead
applicant is the department.
   (149) Purchase of low-emission buses for express service on Route
17. Three million seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($3,750,000).
The lead applicant is the Santa Cruz Metropolitan Transit District.
   (150) Renovation or rehabilitation of Santa Cruz Metro Center. One
million dollars ($1,000,000). The lead applicant is the Santa Cruz
Metropolitan Transit District.
   (151) Purchase of 5 alternative fuel buses for the Pasadena Area
Rapid Transit System. One million one hundred thousand dollars
($1,100,000). The lead applicant is the Pasadena Area Rapid Transit
System.
   (152) Pasadena Blue Line transit-oriented mixed-use development.
One million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000). The lead
applicant is the City of South Pasadena.
   (153) Pasadena Blue Line utility relocation. Five hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($550,000). The lead applicant is the City of South
Pasadena.
   (154) Route 134/I-5 Interchange study. One hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000). The lead applicant is the department.
   (156) Seismic retrofit and core segment improvements for the Bay
Area Rapid Transit system. Twenty million dollars ($20,000,000). The
lead applicant is the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District.
   (157) Route 12; Congestion relief improvements from Route 29 to
I-80 through Jamison Canyon. Seven million dollars ($7,000,000). The
lead applicant is the department.
   (158) Remodel the intersection of Olympic Boulevard, Mateo Street,
and Porter Street and install a new traffic signal. Two million dollars
($2,000,000). The lead applicant is the City of Los Angeles.
   (159) Route 101; redesign and construction of Steele Lane
Interchange. Six million dollars ($6,000,000). The lead applicant is the
department or the Sonoma County Transportation Authority.
   (b) As used in this section ‘‘route’’ is a state highway route as
identified in Article 3 (commencing with Section 300) of Chapter 2 of
Division 1 of the Streets and Highways Code.
 4320                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 656 ]
   SEC. 6. Section 14556.50 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   14556.50. The grant authorized under paragraph (32) of subdivision
(a) of Section 14556.40 shall be allocated as follows:
   (a) (1) Two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) to defray the
administrative costs of the North Coast Railroad Authority, allocated
directly to the authority as directed by the commission at its first
scheduled meeting immediately upon enactment of the Budget Act of
2000.
   (2) Two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) to defray the
administrative costs of the authority, allocated directly to the authority
as directed by the commission within six months from the date of
enactment of the Budget Act of 2000.
   (3) Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) to defray the
administrative costs of the authority, allocated to the authority as
directed by the commission, within one year from the date of enactment
of the Budget Act of 2000, if the commission determines that additional
funding is needed by the authority as directed by the commission at its
first scheduled meeting for administrative costs.
   (b) Six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) to fund completion of
the authority’s rail line from Lombard to Willits, allocated directly to the
authority immediately upon enactment of the Budget Act of 2000.
   (c) One million dollars ($1,000,000) to fund completion of the
authority’s rail line from Willits to Arcata, allocated to the authority as
directed by the commission, within six months from the date of
enactment of the Budget Act of 2000.
   (d) Five million dollars ($5,000,000) to fund the upgrade of the
authority’s rail line to Class II or III status, allocated to the authority as
directed by the commission.
   (e) Four million one hundred thousand dollars ($4,100,000) for
environmental remediation projects, allocated to the authority as
directed by the commission, within six months from the date of
enactment of the Budget Act of 2000.
   (f) Ten million dollars ($10,000,000) for the authority’s debt
reduction, allocated to the authority as directed by the commission,
within six months from the date of enactment of the Budget Act of 2000.
   (g) One million eight hundred thousand dollars ($1,800,000) for use
by the authority as local match funds, allocated to the authority as
directed by the commission.
   (h) Five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000) to fund
repayment of the authority’s federal loan obligations, allocated to the
authority as directed by the commission.
[Ch. 656 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4321

   (i) Thirty-one million dollars ($31,000,000) for long-term
stabilization projects, allocated to the authority as directed by the
commission.
   SEC. 7. Section 14556.52 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   14556.52. (a) Before grants from the fund may be allocated to any
of the three Alameda Corridor East Projects identified in paragraphs
(54), (55), and (73) of subdivision (a) of Section 14556.40, a report shall
be completed and submitted to the commission within one year of the
operative date of this section. The report shall be prepared by a team
consisting of the lead applicants for those projects and the Riverside
County Transportation Commission. The report shall address regional
mobility needs as well as regional, state, and national economic impacts
of the corridor. The team shall also evaluate and assess the technical
merits, determine the phasing and delivery schedule, and identify a
financing strategy for the proposed corridor improvements. Based on the
good faith participation of the stakeholders, the commission shall
allocate some or all of the available funds to one or more of the lead
applicants for specific projects within the corridor that meet the
requirements under this chapter.
   (b) Funds may be allocated from the fund to produce the report
required under this section.
   SEC. 8. Section 7104 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is amended
to read:
   7104. (a) The Transportation Investment Fund (hereafter the fund)
is hereby created in the State Treasury. Notwithstanding Section 13340
of the Government Code, the money in the fund is continuously
appropriated without regard to fiscal years for disbursement in the
manner and for the purposes set forth in this section.
   (b) All of the following shall occur on a quarterly basis:
   (1) The State Board of Equalization, in consultation with the
Department of Finance, shall estimate the amount that is transferred to
the General Fund under subdivision (b) of Section 7102 that is
attributable to revenue collected for the sale, storage, use, or other
consumption in this state of motor vehicle fuel, as defined in Section
7304.
   (2) The State Board of Equalization shall inform the Controller, in
writing, of the amount estimated under paragraph (1).
   (3) The Controller shall transfer the amount estimated under
paragraph (1) from the General Fund to the fund.
   (c) For each quarter during the period commencing on July 1, 2001,
and ending on June 30, 2006, the Controller shall make all of the
following transfers and apportionments from the funds identified for
transfer under paragraph (2) of subdivision (b) in the following order:
 4322                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 656 ]
   (1) To the Traffic Congestion Relief Fund created in the State
Treasury by Section 14556.5 of the Government Code, the sum of one
hundred sixty-nine million five hundred thousand dollars
($169,500,000), for a total transfer of three billion three hundred ninety
million dollars ($3,390,000,000).
   (2) To the Public Transportation Account, a trust fund in the State
Transportation Fund, 20 percent of the amount remaining after the
transfer required under paragraph (1). Funds transferred under this
paragraph shall be appropriated by the Legislature as follows:
   (A) To the Department of Transportation, 50 percent for purposes of
subdivision (a) or (b) of Section 99315 of the Public Utilities Code.
   (B) To the Controller, 25 percent for allocation pursuant to Section
99314 of the Public Utilities Code. Funds allocated under this
subparagraph shall be subject to all of the provisions governing funds
allocated under Section 99314 of the Public Utilities Code.
   (C) To the Controller, 25 percent for allocation pursuant to Section
99313 of the Public Utilities Code. Funds allocated under this
subparagraph shall be subject to all of the provisions governing funds
allocated under Section 99313 of the Public Utilities Code.
   (3) To the Department of Transportation for expenditure for
programming for transportation capital improvement projects subject to
all of the provisions governing the State Transportation Improvement
Program, 40 percent of the amount remaining after the transfer required
under paragraph (1).
   (4) To the Controller for apportionment to the counties, including a
city and county, 20 percent of the amount remaining after the transfer
required under paragraph (1), in accordance with the following
formulas:
   (A) Seventy-five percent of the funds payable under this paragraph
shall be apportioned among the counties in the proportion that the
number of fee-paid and exempt vehicles that are registered in the county
bears to the number of fee-paid and exempt vehicles registered in the
state.
   (B) Twenty-five percent of the funds payable under this paragraph
shall be apportioned among the counties in the proportion that the
number of miles of maintained county roads in each county bears to the
total number of miles of maintained county roads in the state. For the
purposes of apportioning funds under this subparagraph, any roads
within the boundaries of a city and county that are not state highways
shall be deemed to be county roads.
   (5) To the Controller for apportionment to cities, including a city and
county, 20 percent of the amount remaining after the transfer required
under paragraph (1). Funds transferred under this paragraph shall be
[Ch. 656 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4323

apportioned among the cities in the proportion that the total population
of the city bears to the total population of all the cities in the state.
   (d) Funds received under paragraphs (4) and (5) of subdivision (c)
shall be deposited as follows in order to avoid the commingling of those
funds with other local funds:
   (1) In the case of a city, into the city account that is designated for the
receipt of state funds allocated for transportation purposes.
   (2) In the case of a county, into the county road fund.
   (3) In the case of a city and county, into a local account that is
designated for the receipt of state funds allocated for transportation
purposes.
   (e) Funds allocated to a city, county, or city and county under this
section shall be used only for street and highway maintenance,
rehabilitation, reconstruction, and storm damage repair. For purposes of
this section, the following terms have the following meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Maintenance’’ means either or both of the following:
   (A) Patching.
   (B) Overlay and sealing.
   (2) ‘‘Reconstruction’’ includes any overlay, sealing, or widening of
the roadway, if the widening is necessary to bring the roadway width to
the desirable minimum width consistent with the geometric design
criteria of the department for 3R (reconstruction, resurfacing, and
rehabilitation) projects that are not on a freeway, but does not include
widening for the purpose of increasing the traffic capacity of a street or
highway.
   (3) ‘‘Storm damage repair’’ is repair or reconstruction of local streets
and highways and related drainage improvements that have been
damaged due to winter storms and flooding, and construction of
drainage improvements to mitigate future roadway flooding and damage
problems, in those jurisdictions that have been declared disaster areas by
the President of the United States, where the costs of those repairs are
ineligible for emergency funding with Federal Emergency Relief (ER)
funds or Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA)
funds.
   (f) (1) Cities and counties shall maintain their existing commitment
of local funds for street and highway maintenance, rehabilitation,
reconstruction, and storm damage repair in order to remain eligible for
the allocation of funds pursuant to paragraph (4) or (5) of subdivision (c).
   (2) In order to receive any allocation pursuant to paragraph (4) or (5)
of subdivision (c), the city or county shall annually expend from its
general fund for street, road, and highway purposes an amount not less
than the annual average of its expenditures from its general fund during
the 1996–97, 1997–98, and 1998–99 fiscal years, as reported to the
Controller pursuant to Section 2151 of the Streets and Highways Code.
 4324                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 656 ]
For purposes of this paragraph, in calculating a city’s or county’s annual
general fund expenditures and its average general fund expenditures for
the 1996–97, 1997–98, and 1998–99 fiscal years, any unrestricted funds
that the city or county may expend at its discretion, including vehicle
in-lieu tax revenues and revenues from fines and forfeitures, expended
for street and highway purposes shall be considered expenditures from
the general fund. One-time allocations that have been expended for street
and highway purposes, but which may not be available on an ongoing
basis, including revenue provided under the Teeter Plan Bond Law of
1994 (Chapter 6.6 (commencing with Section 54773) of Part 1 of
Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code, may not be considered
when calculating a city’s or county’s annual general fund expenditures.
   (3) For any city incorporated after July 1, 1996, the Controller shall
calculate an annual average of expenditure for the period between July
1, 1996, and December 31, 2000, that the city was incorporated.
   (4) For purposes of paragraph (2), the Controller may request fiscal
data from cities and counties in addition to data provided pursuant to
Section 2151, for the 1996–97, 1997–98, and 1998–99 fiscal years. Each
city and county shall furnish the data to the Controller not later than 120
days after receiving the request. The Controller may withhold payment
to cities and counties that do not comply with the request for information
or that provide incomplete data.
   (5) The Controller may perform audits to ensure compliance with
paragraph (2) when deemed necessary. Any city or county that has not
complied with paragraph (2) shall reimburse the state for the funds it
received during that fiscal year. Any funds withheld or returned as a
result of a failure to comply with paragraph (2) shall be reallocated to the
other counties and cities whose expenditures are in compliance.
   (6) If a city or county fails to comply with the requirements of
paragraph (2) in a particular fiscal year, the city or county may expend
during that fiscal year and the following fiscal year a total amount that
is not less than the total amount required to be expended for those fiscal
years for purposes of complying with paragraph (2).
   (7) The allocation made under paragraph (4) or (5) of subdivision (c)
shall be expended not later than the end of the fiscal year following the
fiscal year in which the allocation was made, and any funds not expended
within that period shall be returned to the Controller and shall be
reallocated to the other cities and counties pursuant to the allocation
formulas set forth in paragraph (4) or (5) of subdivision (c).
   (g) The Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
shall give first priority for using its share of the funds made available
under subparagraphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) to
providing the levels of bus service mandated under the consent decree
entered into by the authority on October 29, 1996, in the case of
[Ch. 656 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4325

Labor/Community Strategy Center, et al. v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
   (h) For the purpose of allocating funds under this section to counties,
cities, and a city and county, the Controller shall use the most recent
population estimates prepared by the Demographic Research Unit of the
Department of Finance. For a city that incorporated after January 1,
1998, that does not appear on the most recent population estimates
prepared by the Demographic Research Unit, the Controller shall use the
population determined for that city under Section 11005.3 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.
   (i) This section shall become inoperative on the date that all
encumbrances incurred for the projects funded under paragraph (3) of
subdivision (c) have been liquidated or on June 30, 2006, whichever date
is later, and as of the January 1 immediately following that date is
repealed.
   SEC. 9. Section 2182 of the Streets and Highways Code is amended
to read:
   2182. (a) The funds appropriated from the Traffic Congestion
Relief Fund pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 14556.5 of the
Government Code shall be allocated by the Controller to cities and
counties for street and road maintenance, rehabilitation, and
reconstruction. Four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000) shall be
allocated to the counties, including a city and county, and cities,
including a city and county, as follows:
   (1) Fifty percent to the counties, including a city and county, in
accordance with the following formulas:
   (A) Seventy-five percent of the funds payable under this paragraph
shall be apportioned among the counties in the proportion that the
number of fee-paid and exempt vehicles that are registered in the county
bears to the number of fee-paid and exempt vehicles registered in the
state.
   (B) Twenty-five percent of the funds payable under this paragraph
shall be apportioned among the counties in the proportion that the
number of miles of maintained county roads in each county bears to the
total number of miles of maintained county roads in the state. For the
purposes of apportioning funds under this subparagraph, any roads
within the boundaries of a city and county that are not state highways
shall be deemed to be county roads.
   (2) Fifty percent to cities, including a city and county, apportioned
among the cities in the proportion that the total population of the city
bears to the total population of all the cities in the state.
   (b) Funds received under this section shall be deposited as follows in
order to avoid the commingling of those funds with other local funds:
 4326                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 656 ]
   (1) In the case of a city, into the city account that is designated for the
receipt of state funds allocated for transportation purposes.
   (2) In the case of a county, into the county road fund.
   (3) In the case of a city and county, into a local account that is
designated for the receipt of state funds allocated for transportation
purposes.
   (c) Funds apportioned to a city or county under this section shall be
used only for street and highway pavement maintenance, rehabilitation,
and reconstruction of necessary associated facilities such as drainage and
traffic control devices. Rehabilitation or reconstruction may include
widening necessary to bring the roadway width to the desirable
minimum pavement width consistent with accepted design standards for
local streets and roads, but does not include widening or increasing the
traffic capacity of a street or road.
   (d) For the purpose of allocating funds under this section to cities,
counties, and a city and county, the Controller shall use the most recent
population estimates prepared by the Demographic Research Unit of the
Department of Finance. For a city that incorporated after January 1,
1998, that does not appear on the most recent population estimates
prepared by the Demographic Research Unit, the Controller shall use the
population determined for that city under Section 11005.3 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.
   SEC. 10. Section 2182.1 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   2182.1. (a) The Legislature finds and declares that it intends cities
and counties to use the funds made available under subdivision (b) of
Section 14556.5 of the Government Code to supplement existing local
revenues being used for maintenance and rehabilitation of local streets
and roads. Cities and counties shall maintain their existing commitment
of local funds for maintenance and rehabilitation of local streets and
roads in order to remain eligible for allocation and expenditure of the
additional four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000) made available
by Section 21 of the act that added this section.
   (b) In order to receive any allocation pursuant to Section 2182, the
city or county shall annually expend from its general fund for street,
road, and highway purposes an amount not less than the annual average
of its expenditures from its general fund during the 1996–97, 1997–98,
and 1998–99 fiscal years, as reported to the Controller pursuant to
Section 2151. For purposes of this subdivision, in calculating a city’s or
county’s annual general fund expenditures and its average general fund
expenditures for the 1996–97, 1997–98, and 1998–99 fiscal years, any
unrestricted funds that the city or county may expend at its discretion,
including vehicle in-lieu tax revenues and revenues from fines and
forfeitures, expended for street and highway purposes shall be
[Ch. 656 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4327

considered expenditures from the general fund. One-time allocations
that have been expended for street and highway purposes, but which may
not be available on an ongoing basis, including revenue provided under
the Teeter Plan Bond Law of 1994 (Chapter 6.6 (commencing with
Section 54773) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government
Code, may not be considered when calculating a city’s or county’s
annual general fund expenditures.
   (c) For any city incorporated after July 1, 1996, the Controller shall
calculate an annual average of expenditure for the period between July
1, 1996, and December 31, 2000, that the city was incorporated.
   (d) For purposes of subdivision (b), the Controller may request fiscal
data from cities and counties in addition to data provided pursuant to
Section 2151, for the 1996–97, 1997–98, and 1998–99 fiscal years. Each
city and county shall furnish the data to the Controller not later than 120
days after receiving the request. The Controller may withhold payment
to cities and counties that do not comply with the request for information
or that provide incomplete data.
   (e) The Controller may perform audits to ensure compliance with
subdivision (b) when deemed necessary. Any city or county that has not
complied with subdivision (b) shall reimburse the state for the funds it
received during that fiscal year. Any funds withheld or returned as a
result of a failure to comply with subdivision (b) shall be reallocated to
the other counties and cities whose expenditures are in compliance.
   (f) If a city or county fails to comply with the requirements of
subdivision (b) in a particular fiscal year, the city or county may expend
during that fiscal year and the following fiscal year a total amount that
is not less than the total amount required to be expended for those fiscal
years for purposes of complying with subdivision (b).
   (g) The allocation made under Section 2182 shall be expended not
later than the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the
allocation was made, and any funds not expended within that period
shall be returned to the Controller and shall be reallocated to the other
cities and counties pursuant to the allocation formulas set forth in
Section 2182.
   SEC. 11. Section 21 of Chapter 91 of the Statutes of 2000 is
repealed.
   SEC. 12. The following amounts are hereby appropriated for the
following purposes:
   (a) The sum of one million nine hundred thousand dollars
($1,900,000) from the Public Transportation Account in the State
Transportation Fund to the Capitol Corridors Joint Powers Authority for
the purpose of expanding intercity rail service in the Capitol Corridor.
   (b) (1) The sum of twelve million dollars ($12,000,000) from the
Public Transportation Account in the State Transportation Fund to the
 4328                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 657 ]
Bay Area Water Transit Authority to fund the environmental impact
reports and design functions specified in Chapter 1011 of the Statutes of
1999.
   (2) Of the amount specified in paragraph (1), six million dollars
($6,000,000) shall be available no sooner than 30 days after the Bay Area
Water Transit Authority submits a work plan to the appropriate
legislative fiscal committees and the Joint Legislative Budget
Committee. The work plan shall specify the intended work elements to
be accomplished in the budget year, when the work will be initiated and
is projected to be completed, and the cost associated with each item of
work.
   SEC. 13. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   This act helps to create a significant program designed to reduce traffic
congestion, which will improve the health and safety of the public. In
order for the program enhanced by this act to be implemented as soon
as possible, it is necessary that this take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 657

  An act to amend Section 647.6 of the Penal Code, relating to children.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 647.6 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   647.6. (a) Every person who annoys or molests any child under the
age of 18 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000), by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by
both the fine and imprisonment.
   (b) Every person who violates this section after having entered,
without consent, an inhabited dwelling house, or trailer coach as defined
in Section 635 of the Vehicle Code, or the inhabited portion of any other
building, shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison, or in a
county jail not exceeding one year.
   (c) (1) Every person who violates this section shall be punished upon
the second and each subsequent conviction by imprisonment in the state
prison.
[Ch. 658 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4329

   (2) Every person who violates this section after a previous felony
conviction under Section 261, 264.1, 269, 285, 286, 288a, 288.5, or 289,
any of which involved a minor under the age of 16 years, or a previous
felony conviction under this section, a conviction under Section 288, or
a felony conviction under Section 311.4 involving a minor under the age
of 14 years shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for two,
four, or six years.
   (d) (1) In any case in which a person is convicted of violating this
section and probation is granted, the court shall require counseling as a
condition of probation, unless the court makes a written statement in the
court record, that counseling would be inappropriate or ineffective.
   (2) In any case in which a person is convicted of violating this section,
and as a condition of probation, the court prohibits the defendant from
having contact with the victim, the court order prohibiting contact shall
not be modified except upon the request of the victim and a finding by
the court that the modification is in the best interest of the victim. As
used in this paragraph, ‘‘contact with the victim’’ includes all physical
contact, being in the presence of the victim, communication by any
means, any communication by a third party acting on behalf of the
defendant, and any gifts.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 658

  An act to add Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 11180) to Chapter
2 of Title 1 of Part 4 of the Penal Code, relating to the Interstate Compact
for the Supervision of Adult Offenders.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 11180) is added
to Chapter 2 of Title 1 of Part 4 of the Penal Code, to read:
 4330                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 658 ]
   Article 3.5.   Interstate Compact for Adult Offender Supervision

   11180. The Interstate Compact for Adult Offender Supervision as
contained herein is hereby enacted into law and entered into on behalf
of the state with any and all other states legally joining therein in a form
substantially as follows:
   Preamble
   Whereas: The interstate compact for the supervision of Parolees and
Probationers was established in 1937. It is the earliest corrections
‘‘compact’’ established among the states and has not been amended since
its adoption over 62 years ago.
   Whereas: This compact is the only vehicle for the controlled
movement of adult parolees and probationers across state lines and it
currently has jurisdiction over more than a quarter of a million offenders.
   Whereas: The complexities of the compact have become more
difficult to administer, and many jurisdictions have expanded
supervision expectations to include currently unregulated practices such
as victim input, victim notification requirements, and sex offender
registration.
   Whereas: After hearings, national surveys, and a detailed study by
a task force appointed by the National Institute of Corrections, the
overwhelming recommendation has been to amend the document to
bring about an effective management capacity that addresses public
safety concerns and offender accountability.
   Whereas: Upon the adoption of this Interstate Compact for Adult
Offender Supervision, it is the intention of the Legislature to repeal the
previous Interstate Compact for the Supervision of Parolees and
Probationers on the effective date of this Compact.
   Be it enacted by the General Assembly (Legislature) of the state of
California.
   Short title: This Act may be cited as The Interstate Compact for
Adult Offender Supervision.

                           Article I.   Purpose

   The compacting states to this Interstate Compact recognize that each
state is responsible for the supervision of adult offenders in the
community who are authorized pursuant to the Bylaws and Rules of this
compact to travel across state lines both to and from each compacting
state in such a manner as to track the location of offenders, transfer
supervision authority in an orderly and efficient manner, and when
necessary return offenders to the originating jurisdictions. The
compacting states also recognize that Congress, by enacting the Crime
Control Act, 4 U.S.C. Section 112 (1965), has authorized and
[Ch. 658 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4331

encouraged compacts for cooperative efforts and mutual assistance in
the prevention of crime. It is the purpose of this compact and the
Interstate Commission created hereunder, through means of joint and
cooperative action among the compacting states: to provide the
framework for the promotion of public safety and protect the rights of
victims through the control and regulation of the interstate movement of
offenders in the community; to provide for the effective tracking,
supervision, and rehabilitation of these offenders by the sending and
receiving states; and to equitably distribute the costs, benefits, and
obligations of the compact among the compacting states. In addition,
this compact will: create an Interstate Commission which will establish
uniform procedures to manage the movement between states of adults
placed under community supervision and released to the community
under the jurisdiction of courts, paroling authorities, corrections or other
criminal justice agencies which will promulgate rules to achieve the
purpose of this compact; ensure an opportunity for input and timely
notice to victims and to jurisdictions where defined offenders are
authorized to travel or to relocate across state lines; establish a system
of uniform data collection, access to information on active cases by
authorized criminal justice officials, and regular reporting of Compact
activities to heads of state councils, state executive, judicial, and
legislative branches and criminal justice administrators; monitor
compliance with rules governing interstate movement of offenders and
initiate interventions to address and correct non-compliance; and
coordinate training and education regarding regulations of interstate
movement of offenders for officials involved in such activity. The
compacting states recognize that there is no ‘‘right’’ of any offender to
live in another state and that duly accredited officers of a sending state
may at all times enter a receiving state and there apprehend and retake
any offender under supervision subject to the provisions of this compact
and Bylaws and Rules promulgated hereunder. It is the policy of the
compacting states that the activities conducted by the Interstate
Commission created herein are the formation of public policies and are
therefore public business.

                         Article II.   Definitions

  As used in this compact, unless the context clearly requires a different
construction:
  ‘‘Adult’’ means both individuals legally classified as adults and
juveniles treated as adults by court order, statute, or operation of law.
  ‘‘By-laws’’ mean those by-laws established by the Interstate
Commission for its governance, or for directing or controlling the
Interstate Commission’s actions or conduct.
 4332                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 658 ]
   ‘‘Compact Administrator’’ means the individual in each compacting
state appointed pursuant to the terms of this compact responsible for the
administration and management of the state’s supervision and transfer
of offenders subject to the terms of this compact, the rules adopted by
the Interstate Commission and policies adopted by the State Council
under this compact.
   ‘‘Compacting state’’ means any state which has enacted the enabling
legislation for this compact.
   ‘‘Commissioner’’ means the voting representative of each
compacting state appointed pursuant to Article III of this compact.
   ‘‘Interstate Commission’’ means the Interstate Commission for Adult
Offender Supervision established by this compact.
   ‘‘Member’’ means the commissioner of a compacting state or
designee, who shall be a person officially connected with the
commissioner.
   ‘‘Non Compacting state’’ means any state which has not enacted the
enabling legislation for this compact.
   ‘‘Offender’’ means an adult placed under, or subject to, supervision as
the result of the commission of a criminal offense and released to the
community under the jurisdiction of courts, paroling authorities,
corrections, or other criminal justice agencies.
   ‘‘Person’’ means any individual, corporation, business enterprise, or
other legal entity, either public or private.
   ‘‘Rules’’ means acts of the Interstate Commission, duly promulgated
pursuant to Article VIII of this compact, substantially affecting
interested parties in addition to the Interstate Commission, which shall
have the force and effect of law in the compacting states.
   ‘‘State’’ means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia,
and any other territorial possessions of the United States.
   ‘‘State Council’’ means the resident members of the State Council for
Interstate Adult Offender Supervision created by each state under Article
III of this compact.

               Article III.   The Compact Commission

  The compacting states hereby create the ‘‘Interstate Commission for
Adult Offender Supervision.’’
  The Interstate Commission shall be a body corporate and joint agency
of the compacting states.
  The Interstate Commission shall have all the responsibilities, powers,
and duties set forth herein, including the power to sue and be sued, and
such additional powers as may be conferred upon it by subsequent action
of the respective legislatures of the compacting states in accordance with
the terms of this compact.
[Ch. 658 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           4333

   The Interstate Commission shall consist of Commissioners selected
and appointed by resident members of the State Council for Interstate
Adult Offender Supervision for each state. In addition to the
Commissioners who are the voting representatives of each state, the
Interstate Commission shall include individuals who are not
commissioners but who are members of interested organizations; such
non-commissioner members must include a member of the national
organizations of governors, legislators, state chief justices, attorneys
general and crime victims. All non-commissioner members of the
Interstate Commission shall be ex-officio (nonvoting) members. The
Interstate Commission may provide in its by-laws for such additional,
ex-officio, non-voting members as it deems necessary. Each compacting
state represented at any meeting of the Interstate Commission is entitled
to one vote. A majority of the compacting states shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business, unless a larger quorum is
required by the by-laws of the Interstate Commission. The Interstate
Commission shall meet at least once each calendar year. The chairperson
may call additional meetings and, upon the request of 27 or more
compacting states, shall call additional meetings. Public notice shall be
given of all meetings and meetings shall be open to the public.
   The Interstate Commission shall establish an Executive Committee
which shall include commission officers, members and others as shall
be determined by the By-laws. The Executive Committee shall have the
power to act on behalf of the Interstate Commission during periods when
the Interstate Commission is not in session, with the exception of
rulemaking and/or amendment to the Compact. The Executive
Committee oversees the day-to-day activities managed by the Executive
Director and Interstate Commission staff; administers enforcement and
compliance with the provisions of the compact, its by-laws and as
directed by the Interstate Commission and performs other duties as
directed by the Commission or set forth in the By-laws.

                    Article IV.   The State Council

  Each member state shall create a State Council for Interstate Adult
Offender Supervision which shall be responsible for the appointment of
the commissioner who shall serve on the Interstate Commission from
that state. Each state council shall appoint as its commissioner the
Compact Administrator from that state to serve on the Interstate
Commission in such capacity under or pursuant to applicable law of the
member state. While each member state may determine the membership
of its own state council, its membership must include at least one
representative from the legislative, judicial, and executive branches of
government, victims groups and compact administrators. Each
 4334                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 658 ]
compacting state retains the right to determine the qualifications of the
Compact Administrator who shall be appointed by the state council or
by the Governor in consultation with the Legislature and the Judiciary.
In addition to appointment of its commissioner to the National Interstate
Commission, each state council shall exercise oversight and advocacy
concerning its participation in Interstate Commission activities and
other duties as may be determined by each member state, including, but
not limited to, development of policy concerning operations and
procedures of the compact within that state.

     Article V.   Powers and Duties of the Interstate Commission

   The Interstate Commission shall have the following powers:
   To adopt a seal and suitable by-laws governing the management and
operation of the Interstate Commission.
   To promulgate rules which shall have the force and effect of statutory
law and shall be binding in the compacting states to the extent and in the
manner provided in this compact.
   To oversee, supervise and coordinate the interstate movement of
offenders subject to the terms of this compact and any by-laws adopted
and rules promulgated by the compact commission.
   To enforce compliance with compact provisions, Interstate
Commission rules, and by-laws, using all necessary and proper means,
including, but not limited to, the use of judicial process.
   To establish and maintain offices.
   To purchase and maintain insurance and bonds.
   To borrow, accept, or contract for services of personnel, including, but
not limited to, members and their staffs.
   To establish and appoint committees and hire staff which it deems
necessary for the carrying out of its functions including, but not limited
to, an executive committee as required by Article III which shall have
the power to act on behalf of the Interstate Commission in carrying out
its powers and duties hereunder.
   To elect or appoint such officers, attorneys, employees, agents, or
consultants, and to fix their compensation, define their duties and
determine their qualifications; and to establish the Interstate
Commission’s personnel policies and programs relating to, among other
things, conflicts of interest, rates of compensation, and qualifications of
personnel.
   To accept any and all donations and grants of money, equipment,
supplies, materials, and services, and to receive, utilize, and dispose of
same.
   To lease, purchase, accept contributions or donations of, or otherwise
to own, hold, improve or use any property, real, personal, or mixed.
[Ch. 658 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4335

   To sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, lease, exchange, abandon, or
otherwise dispose of any property, real, personal or mixed.
   To establish a budget and make expenditures and levy dues as
provided in Article X of this compact.
   To sue and be sued.
   To provide for dispute resolution among Compacting States.
   To perform such functions as may be necessary or appropriate to
achieve the purposes of this compact.
   To report annually to the legislatures, governors, judiciary, and state
councils of the compacting states concerning the activities of the
Interstate Commission during the preceding year. Such reports shall also
include any recommendations that may have been adopted by the
Interstate Commission.
   To coordinate education, training and public awareness regarding the
interstate movement of offenders for officials involved in such activity.
   To establish uniform standards for the reporting, collecting, and
exchanging of data.

      Article VI.   Organization and Operation of the Interstate
                            Commission

   Section A. By-laws
   The Interstate Commission shall, by a majority of the Members,
within twelve months of the first Interstate Commission meeting, adopt
By-laws to govern its conduct as may be necessary or appropriate to
carry out the purposes of the Compact, including, but not limited to:
   Establishing the fiscal year of the Interstate Commission.
   Establishing an executive committee and such other committees as
may be necessary.
   Providing reasonable standards and procedures:
   (i) For the establishment of committees.
   (ii) Governing any general or specific delegation of any authority or
function of the Interstate Commission; providing reasonable procedures
for calling and conducting meetings of the Interstate Commission, and
ensuring reasonable notice of each such meeting; establishing the titles
and responsibilities of the officers of the Interstate Commission;
providing reasonable standards and procedures for the establishment of
the personnel policies and programs of the Interstate Commission.
Notwithstanding any civil service or other similar laws of any
Compacting State, the By-laws shall exclusively govern the personnel
policies and programs of the Interstate Commission; and providing a
mechanism for winding up the operations of the Interstate Commission
and the equitable return of any surplus funds that may exist upon the
termination of the Compact after the payment and/or reserving of all of
 4336                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 658 ]
its debts and obligations; providing transition rules for ‘‘start up’’
administration of the compact; establishing standards and procedures for
compliance and technical assistance in carrying out the compact.
   Section B. Officers and Staff
   The Interstate Commission shall, by a majority of the Members, elect
from among its Members a chairperson and a vice chairperson, each of
whom shall have such authorities and duties as may be specified in the
By-laws. The chairperson, or in his or her absence or disability, the vice
chairperson, shall preside at all meetings of the Interstate Commission.
The Officers so elected shall serve without compensation or
remuneration from the Interstate Commission; provided that, subject to
the availability of budgeted funds, the officers shall be reimbursed for
any actual and necessary costs and expenses incurred by them in the
performance of their duties and responsibilities as officers of the
Interstate Commission.
   The Interstate Commission shall, through its executive committee,
appoint or retain an executive director for such period, upon such terms
and conditions and for such compensation as the Interstate Commission
may deem appropriate. The executive director shall serve as secretary to
the Interstate Commission, and hire and supervise such other staff as
may be authorized by the Interstate Commission, but shall not be a
member.
   Section C. Corporate Records of the Interstate Commission
   The Interstate Commission shall maintain its corporate books and
records in accordance with the By-laws.
   Section D. Qualified Immunity, Defense and Indemnification
   The Members, officers, executive director and employees of the
Interstate Commission shall be immune from suit and liability, either
personally or in their official capacity, for any claim for damage to or loss
of property or personal injury or other civil liability caused or arising out
of any actual or alleged act, error or omission that occurred within the
scope of Interstate Commission employment, duties or responsibilities;
provided, that nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to protect any
such person from suit and/or liability for any damage, loss, injury or
liability caused by the intentional or willful and wanton misconduct of
any such person. The Interstate Commission shall defend the
Commissioner of a Compacting State, or his or her representatives or
employees, or the Interstate Commission’s representatives or
employees, in any civil action seeking to impose liability, arising out of
any actual or alleged act, error or omission that occurred within the scope
of Interstate Commission employment, duties or responsibilities, or that
the defendant had a reasonable basis for believing occurred within the
scope of Interstate Commission employment, duties or responsibilities;
[Ch. 658 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4337

provided, that the actual or alleged act, error or omission did not result
from intentional wrongdoing on the part of such person.
   The Interstate Commission shall indemnify and hold the
Commissioner of a Compacting State, the appointed designee or
employees, or the Interstate Commission’s representatives or
employees, harmless in the amount of any settlement or judgement
obtained against such persons arising out of any actual or alleged act,
error or omission that occurred within the scope of Interstate
Commission employment, duties or responsibilities, or that such
persons had a reasonable basis for believing occurred within the scope
of Interstate Commission employment, duties or responsibilities,
provided, that the actual or alleged act, error or omission did not result
from gross negligence or intentional wrongdoing on the part of such
person.

         Article VII.   Activities of the Interstate Commission

   The Interstate Commission shall meet and take such actions as are
consistent with the provisions of this Compact.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Compact and unless a greater
percentage is required by the By-laws, in order to constitute an act of the
Interstate Commission, such act shall have been taken at a meeting of the
Interstate Commission and shall have received an affirmative vote of a
majority of the members present.
   Each Member of the Interstate Commission shall have the right and
power to cast a vote to which that Compacting State is entitled and to
participate in the business and affairs of the Interstate Commission. A
Member shall vote in person on behalf of the state and shall not delegate
a vote to another member state. However, a State Council shall appoint
another authorized representative, in the absence of the commissioner
from that state, to cast a vote on behalf of the member state at a specified
meeting. The By-laws may provide for Members’ participation in
meetings by telephone or other means of telecommunication or
electronic communication. Any voting conducted by telephone, or other
means of telecommunication or electronic communication shall be
subject to the same quorum requirements of meetings where members
are present in person.
   The Interstate Commission shall meet at least once during each
calendar year. The chairperson of the Interstate Commission may call
additional meetings at any time and, upon the request of a majority of
the Members, shall call additional meetings.
   The Interstate Commission’s By-laws shall establish conditions and
procedures under which the Interstate Commission shall make its
information and official records available to the public for inspection or
 4338                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 658 ]
copying. The Interstate Commission may exempt from disclosure any
information or official records to the extent they would adversely affect
personal privacy rights or proprietary interests. In promulgating such
Rules, the Interstate Commission may make available to law
enforcement agencies records and information otherwise exempt from
disclosure, and may enter into agreements with law enforcement
agencies to receive or exchange information or records subject to
nondisclosure and confidentiality provisions.
   Public notice shall be given of all meetings and all meetings shall be
open to the public, except as set forth in the Rules or as otherwise
provided in the Compact. The Interstate Commission shall promulgate
Rules consistent with the principles contained in the ‘‘Government in
Sunshine Act,’’ 5 U.S.C. Section 552(b), as may be amended. The
Interstate Commission and any of its committees may close a meeting
to the public where it determines by two-thirds vote that an open meeting
would be likely to:
   Relate solely to the Interstate Commission’s internal personnel
practices and procedures.
   Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute.
   Disclose trade secrets or commercial or financial information which
is privileged or confidential.
   Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any
person.
   Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would
constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
   Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement
purposes.
   Disclose information contained in or related to examination, operating
or condition reports prepared by, or on behalf of or for the use of, the
Interstate Commission with respect to a regulated entity for the purpose
of regulation or supervision of such entity.
   Disclose information, the premature disclosure of which would
significantly endanger the life of a person or the stability of a regulated
entity.
   Specifically relate to the Interstate Commission’s issuance of a
subpoena, or its participation in a civil action or proceeding.
   For every meeting closed pursuant to this provision, the Interstate
Commission’s chief legal officer shall publicly certify that, in his or her
opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public, and shall reference
each relevant exemptive provision. The Interstate Commission shall
keep minutes which shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed
in any meeting and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any
actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of each
of the views expressed on any item and the record of any rollcall vote
[Ch. 658 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4339

(reflected in the vote of each Member on the question). All documents
considered in connection with any action shall be identified in such
minutes. The Interstate Commission shall collect standardized data
concerning the interstate movement of offenders as directed through its
By-laws and Rules which shall specify the data to be collected, the
means of collection and data exchange and reporting requirements.

 Article VIII.   Rulemaking Functions of the Interstate Commission

   The Interstate Commission shall promulgate Rules in order to
effectively and efficiently achieve the purposes of the Compact
including transition rules governing administration of the compact
during the period in which it is being considered and enacted by the
states.
   Rulemaking shall occur pursuant to the criteria set forth in this Article
and the By-laws and Rules adopted pursuant thereto. Such rulemaking
shall substantially conform to the principles of the federal
Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C.S. section 551 et seq., and the
Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C.S. app. 2, section 1 et seq.,
as may be amended (hereinafter ‘‘APA’’). All Rules and amendments
shall become binding as of the date specified in each Rule or amendment.
   If a majority of the legislatures of the Compacting States rejects a
Rule, by enactment of a statute or resolution in the same manner used
to adopt the compact, then such Rule shall have no further force and
effect in any Compacting State.
   When promulgating a Rule, the Interstate Commission shall:
   Publish the proposed Rule stating with particularity the text of the
Rule which is proposed and the reason for the proposed Rule.
   Allow persons to submit written data, facts, opinions and arguments,
which information shall be publicly available.
   Provide an opportunity for an informal hearing.
   Promulgate a final Rule and its effective date, if appropriate, based on
the rulemaking record.
   Not later than sixty days after a Rule is promulgated, any interested
person may file a petition in the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia or in the Federal District Court where the Interstate
Commission’s principal office is located for judicial review of such
Rule. If the court finds that the Interstate Commission’s action is not
supported by substantial evidence, (as defined in the APA), in the
rulemaking record, the court shall hold the Rule unlawful and set it aside.
Subjects to be addressed within 12 months after the first meeting must
at a minimum include:
   Notice to victims and opportunity to be heard.
   Offender registration and compliance.
 4340                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 658 ]
   Violations/returns.
   Transfer procedures and forms.
   Eligibility for transfer.
   Collection of restitution and fees from offenders.
   Data collection and reporting.
   The level of supervision to be provided by the receiving state.
   Transition rules governing the operation of the compact and the
Interstate Commission during all or part of the period between the
effective date of the compact and the date on which the last eligible state
adopts the compact.
   Mediation, arbitration and dispute resolution.
   The existing rules governing the operation of the previous compact
superceded by this Act shall be null and void twelve (12) months after
the first meeting of the Interstate Commission created hereunder.
   Upon determination by the Interstate Commission that an emergency
exists, it may promulgate an emergency rule which shall become
effective immediately upon adoption, provided that the usual
rulemaking procedures provided hereunder shall be retroactively
applied to said rule as soon as reasonably possible, in no event later than
90 days after the effective date of the rule.

Article IX.   Oversight, Enforcement, and Dispute Resolution by the
                       Interstate Commission

   Section A. Oversight
   The Interstate Commission shall oversee the interstate movement of
adult offenders in the compacting states and shall monitor such activities
being administered in Non-compacting States which may significantly
affect Compacting States.
   The courts and executive agencies in each Compacting State shall
enforce this Compact and shall take all actions necessary and appropriate
to effectuate the Compact’s purposes and intent. In any judicial or
administrative proceeding in a Compacting State pertaining to the
subject matter of this Compact which may affect the powers,
responsibilities or actions of the Interstate Commission, the Interstate
Commission shall be entitled to receive all service of process in any such
proceeding, and shall have standing to intervene in the proceeding for
all purposes.
   Section B. Dispute Resolution
   The Compacting States shall report to the Interstate Commission on
issues or activities of concern to them, and cooperate with and support
the Interstate Commission in the discharge of its duties and
responsibilities.
[Ch. 658 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4341

  The Interstate Commission shall attempt to resolve any disputes or
other issues which are subject to the Compact and which may arise
among Compacting States and Non-compacting States.
  The Interstate Commission shall enact a By-law or promulgate a Rule
providing for both mediation and binding dispute resolution for disputes
among the Compacting States.
  Section C. Enforcement
  The Interstate Commission, in the reasonable exercise of its
discretion, shall enforce the provisions of this compact using any or all
means set forth in Article XII, Section B, of this compact.

                          Article X.    Finance

   The Interstate Commission shall pay or provide for the payment of the
reasonable expenses of its establishment, organization and ongoing
activities.
   The Interstate Commission shall levy on and collect an annual
assessment from each Compacting State to cover the cost of the internal
operations and activities of the Interstate Commission and its staff which
must be in a total amount sufficient to cover the Interstate Commission’s
annual budget as approved each year. The aggregate annual assessment
amount shall be allocated based upon a formula to be determined by the
Interstate Commission, taking into consideration the population of the
state and the volume of interstate movement of offenders in each
Compacting State and shall promulgate a Rule binding upon all
Compacting States which governs said assessment.
   The Interstate Commission shall not incur any obligations of any kind
prior to securing the funds adequate to meet the same; nor shall the
Interstate Commission pledge the credit of any of the compacting states,
except by and with the authority of the compacting state. The Interstate
Commission shall keep accurate accounts of all receipts and
disbursements. The receipts and disbursements of the Interstate
Commission shall be subject to the audit and accounting procedures
established under its By-laws. However, all receipts and disbursements
of funds handled by the Interstate Commission shall be audited yearly
by a certified or licensed public accountant and the report of the audit
shall be included in and become part of the annual report of the Interstate
Commission.

  Article XI.    Compacting States, Effective Date and Amendment

  Any state, as defined in Article II of this compact, is eligible to become
a Compacting State. The Compact shall become effective and binding
upon legislative enactment of the Compact into law by no less than 35
 4342                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 658 ]
of the States. The initial effective date shall be the later of July 1, 2001,
or upon enactment into law by the 35th jurisdiction. Thereafter, it shall
become effective and binding, as to any other Compacting State, upon
enactment of the Compact into law by that State. The governors of
Non-member states or their designees will be invited to participate in
Interstate Commission activities on a non-voting basis prior to adoption
of the compact by all states and territories of the United States.
  Amendments to the Compact may be proposed by the Interstate
Commission for enactment by the Compacting States. No amendment
shall become effective and binding upon the Interstate Commission and
the Compacting States unless and until it is enacted into law by
unanimous consent of the Compacting States.

     Article XII.    Withdrawl, Default, Termination, and Judicial
                             Enforcement

   Section A. Withdrawal
   Once effective, the Compact shall continue in force and remain
binding upon each and every Compacting State; provided, that a
Compacting State may withdraw from the Compact (‘‘Withdrawing
State’’) by enacting a statute specifically repealing the statute which
enacted the Compact into law.
   The effective date of withdrawal is the effective date of the repeal. The
Withdrawing State shall immediately notify the Chairperson of the
Interstate Commission in writing upon the introduction of legislation
repealing this Compact in the Withdrawing State. The Interstate
Commission shall notify the other Compacting States of the
Withdrawing State’s intent to withdraw within sixty days of its receipt
thereof. The Withdrawing State is responsible for all assessments,
obligations and liabilities incurred through the effective date of
withdrawal, including any obligations, the performance of which extend
beyond the effective date of withdrawal.
   Reinstatement following withdrawal of any Compacting State shall
occur upon the Withdrawing State reenacting the Compact or upon such
later date as determined by the Interstate Commission.
   Section B. Default
   If the Interstate Commission determines that any Compacting State
has at any time defaulted (‘‘Defaulting State’’) in the performance of any
of its obligations or responsibilities under this Compact, the By-laws or
any duly promulgated Rules the Interstate Commission may impose any
or all of the following penalties: Fines, fees and costs in such amounts
as are deemed to be reasonable as fixed by the Interstate Commission.
Remedial training and technical assistance as directed by the Interstate
Commission; suspension and termination of membership in the
[Ch. 658 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4343

compact. Suspension shall be imposed only after all other reasonable
means of securing compliance under the By-laws and Rules have been
exhausted. Immediate notice of suspension shall be given by the
Interstate Commission to the Governor, the Chief Justice or Chief
Judicial Officer of the state, the majority and minority leaders of the
defaulting state’s legislature, and the State Council.
   The grounds for default include, but are not limited to, failure of a
Compacting State to perform such obligations or responsibilities
imposed upon it by this compact, Interstate Commission By-laws, or
duly promulgated Rules. The Interstate Commission shall immediately
notify the Defaulting State in writing of the penalty imposed by the
Interstate Commission on the Defaulting State pending a cure of the
default. The Interstate Commission shall stipulate the conditions and the
time period within which the Defaulting State must cure its default. If
the Defaulting State fails to cure the default within the time period
specified by the Interstate Commission, in addition to any other
penalties imposed herein, the Defaulting State may be terminated from
the Compact upon an affirmative vote of a majority of the Compacting
States and all rights, privileges and benefits conferred by this Compact
shall be terminated from the effective date of suspension. Within sixty
days of the effective date of termination of a Defaulting State, the
Interstate Commission shall notify the Governor, the Chief Justice or
Chief Judicial Officer and the Majority and Minority Leaders of the
Defaulting State’s legislature and the state council of such termination.
   The Defaulting State is responsible for all assessments, obligations
and liabilities incurred through the effective date of termination
including any obligations, the performance of which extends beyond the
effective date of termination.
   The Interstate Commission shall not bear any costs relating to the
Defaulting State unless otherwise mutually agreed upon between the
Interstate Commission and the Defaulting State. Reinstatement
following termination of any Compacting State requires both a
reenactment of the Compact by the Defaulting State and the approval of
the Interstate Commission pursuant to the Rules.
   Section C. Judicial Enforcement
   The Interstate Commission may, by majority vote of the Members,
initiate legal action in the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia or, at the discretion of the Interstate Commission, in the
Federal District where the Interstate Commission has its offices to
enforce compliance with the provisions of the Compact, its duly
promulgated Rules and By-laws, against any Compacting State in
default. In the event judicial enforcement is necessary the prevailing
party shall be awarded all costs of such litigation including reasonable
attorneys fees.
 4344                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 658 ]
  Section D. Dissolution of Compact
  The Compact dissolves effective upon the date of the withdrawal or
default of the Compacting State which reduces membership in the
Compact to one Compacting State.
  Upon the dissolution of this Compact, the Compact becomes null and
void and shall be of no further force or effect, and the business and affairs
of the Interstate Commission shall be wound up and any surplus funds
shall be distributed in accordance with the By-laws.

             Article XIII.    Severability and Construction

   The provisions of this Compact shall be severable, and if any phrase,
clause, sentence or provision is deemed unenforceable, the remaining
provisions of the Compact shall be enforceable.
   The provisions of this Compact shall be liberally constructed to
effectuate its purposes.

      Article XIV.    Binding Effect of Compact and Other Laws

   Section A. Other Laws
   Nothing herein prevents the enforcement of any other law of a
Compacting State that is not inconsistent with this Compact.
   All Compacting States’ laws conflicting with this Compact are
superseded to the extent of the conflict.
   Section B. Binding Effect of the Compact
   All lawful actions of the Interstate Commission, including all Rules
and By-laws promulgated by the Interstate Commission, are binding
upon the Compacting States.
   All agreements between the Interstate Commission and the
Compacting States are binding in accordance with their terms.
   Upon the request of a party to a conflict over meaning or interpretation
of Interstate Commission actions, and upon a majority vote of the
Compacting States, the Interstate Commission may issue advisory
opinions regarding such meaning or interpretation.
   In the event any provision of this Compact exceeds the constitutional
limits imposed on the legislature of any Compacting State, the
obligations, duties, powers or jurisdiction sought to be conferred by such
provision upon the Interstate Commission shall be ineffective and such
obligations, duties, powers or jurisdiction shall remain in the
Compacting State and shall be exercised by the agency thereof to which
such obligations, duties, powers or jurisdiction are delegated by law in
effect at the time this Compact becomes effective.
   11181. (a) There is hereby established the California Council for
Interstate Adult Offender Supervision. The council shall be responsible
[Ch. 659 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4345

for the appointment of the Commissioner who shall represent California
and serve on the Interstate Commission for Adult Offender Supervision.
The Commissioner shall also be the Compact Administrator for the State
of California for purposes of the Interstate Compact for Adult Offender
Supervision. The Commissioner/Compact Administrator shall be
appointed for a term of two years.
  (b) The council shall determine the qualifications of the Compact
Administrator, and shall exercise oversight and advocacy concerning its
participation in Interstate Commission activities, and other duties as
may be determined by the Legislature or Governor, including but not
limited to, development of policy concerning operations and procedures
of the compact within the state.
  (c) There shall be seven members of the council. The Governor shall
appoint four members, one of whom shall represent victims rights
groups, and one of whom shall represent local compact administrators.
One member each shall be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules
and the Speaker of the Assembly. The Judicial Council shall appoint one
superior court judge as a member.
  (d) Each member of the council shall serve for a term of two years.
Council members shall not be compensated, except for reasonable per
diem expenses related to their work for council purposes.



                             CHAPTER 659

  An act to add Sections 1077, 1078, and 1755.4 to the Welfare and
Institutions Code, relating to the Department of the Youth Authority.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1077 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
   1077. (a) Any psychologist employed by or who contracts with the
Department of the Youth Authority to provide services to wards under
the jurisdiction of the department shall be licensed to practice in this
state.
   (b) Any psychologist employed by the department on July 1, 1999,
shall be exempt from the requirements of subdivision (a), as long as he
or she continues employment with the department in the same class.
 4346                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 660 ]
   (c) The requirements of subdivision (a) may be waived in order for
a person to gain qualifying expertise for licensure as a psychologist in
this state in accordance with Section 1277 of the Health and Safety Code.
   SEC. 2. Section 1078 is added to the Welfare and Institutions Code,
to read:
   1078. To the extent that funding is available, the department, in
consultation with the State Department of Mental Health, shall develop
training in the treatment of children and adolescents for mental health
disorders and shall provide training to all appropriate mental health
professionals.
   SEC. 3. Section 17554 is added to the Welfare and Institutions
Code, to read:
   1755.4. The Department of the Youth Authority, in consultation
with the State Department of Mental Health shall establish, by
regulations adopted at the earliest possible date, but no later than
December 31, 2001, standards and guidelines for the administration of
psychotropic medications to any person under the jurisdiction of the
Department of the Youth Authority, in a manner that protects the health
and short- and long-term well-being of those persons. The standards and
guidelines adopted pursuant to this section shall be consistent with the
due process requirements set forth in Section 2600 of the Penal Code.



                            CHAPTER 660

   An act to add Article 23 (commencing with Section 2500) to Chapter
5 of Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code, relating to healing
arts.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
  (a) California is experiencing and witnessing the emergence amongst
thousands if not millions of its people a fascination with and
commitment to the philosophies and methodologies of alternative ways
of health and healing, commonly known as holistic health, integrative
medicine, humanistic medicine, or complementary health.
  (b) California is also witnessing the emergence of more and more
providers who are committed to these alternative modalities of health
and healing, while there has been far too little effort expended to
[Ch. 660 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4347

understand and appreciate both the alleged benefits and the alleged
damages attendant to those practices.
   (c) In order to assure the people of California the dual goals of the
most beneficial balance of access to these new modalities and the
protection of their health and well-being, a wide-open study should be
undertaken of these emerging modalities in order to seek to ascertain
whether and how the state should best reconceptualize and redesign its
structures of governance of health care provider practice in order to
guarantee these dual goals.
   SEC. 2. The Legislature hereby intends to commission a
comprehensive review by the Medical Board of California and the
Osteopathic Medical Board of California into the emergence of the
phenomenon of holistic health, together with an assessment of whether
and how the boards should redesign their systems of operation so as to
meet the goals expressed in subdivision (c) of Section 1.
   SEC. 3. Article 23 (commencing with Section 2500) is added to
Chapter 5 of Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code, to read:

           Article 23.   Alternative Practices and Treatments

   2500. The boards acknowledge the significant interest of physicians
and patients alike in integrating preventative approaches and
holistic-based alternatives into the practice of medicine, including, but
not limited to, biopsychosocial techniques, nutrition, and the use of
natural supplements to enhance health and wellness. The boards shall
establish specific policies in this regard and shall review statutes and
recommend modifications of law, when appropriate, in order to assure
California consumers that the quality of medicine practiced in this state
is the most advanced and innovative it can be both in terms of preserving
the health of, as well as providing effective diagnosis and treatment of
illness for, the residents of this state.
   2501. In fulfilling their responsibilities under this article, the boards
shall , on or before July 1, 2002, establish disciplinary policies and
procedures to reflect emerging and innovative medical practices for
licensed physicians and surgeons. The boards shall solicit the
participation of interested parties in the development and preparation of
these policies and procedures and shall consult technical advisors as
necessary to fulfill the purposes of this article. In preparing these policies
and procedures, the boards shall consult with professional medical
associations and review the need for any changes in the boards’ services,
procedures, and activities. The boards shall also assess the need for:
   (a) Specific standards for informed consent, if any, in order for
patients to be able to understand the risks and benefits associated with
the range of treatment options available.
 4348                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 661 ]
   (b) Standards for investigations to assure competent review in cases
involving the practice of any type of alternative medicine, including, but
not limited to, the skills and training of investigators.
   SEC. 4. The University of California is requested to review the state
of knowledge and emerging research regarding alternative and
complementary health, focusing on cancer treatments and therapies, for
the purposes of assisting the Governor and the Legislature in preparing
relevant information, analyses, and recommendations to assure that
California consumers diagnosed with cancer have the best range of
treatment and therapeutic choices.



                            CHAPTER 661

   An act to add Section 33333.7 to the Health and Safety Code, relating
to redevelopment.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this
act to enable the Redevelopment Agency of the City and County of San
Francisco to redress the demolition of a substantial number of residential
dwelling units affordable to very low, low-, and moderate-income
households during the agency’s earlier urban renewal efforts. San
Francisco’s housing situation is unique, in that median rents and sales
prices are among the highest in the state even though it has consistently
exceeded the housing production goals of the Community
Redevelopment Law and has used local funds beyond the Low and
Moderate Income Housing Fund to assist affordable housing
development. San Francisco’s early redevelopment activities, including
the removal of previously existing dwelling units serving a lower
income population, have compounded the effects of the private market
that have led to the city’s current affordable housing crisis.
  (b) The Legislature finds and declares that prior to the enactment of
the replacement housing obligations in Section 33413 of the Health and
Safety Code (Chapter 970, Statutes of 1975), agencies destroyed or
removed dwelling units housing persons and families of low or moderate
income without replacing those units. In particular, some of San
Francisco’s existing redevelopment project areas have fewer housing
units affordable to low- and moderate-income households than were in
existence prior to the initiation of urban renewal activities. Four of San
[Ch. 661 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4349

Francisco’s project areas adopted prior to 1970 experienced a combined
net loss of approximately 7,000 units of housing affordable to low- and
moderate-income households since the initiation of redevelopment
activities. The Redevelopment Agency of the City and County of San
Francisco, due to its unique housing situation and net loss of affordable
housing units in these project areas, wishes, to the greatest extent
feasible, to replace these lost units according to the formulas set forth in
Section 33413 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (c) The Legislature further finds and declares that allowing the
Redevelopment Agency of the City and County of San Francisco to
replace units destroyed or removed prior to the enactment of the
replacement housing obligations in 1975 is consistent with a
fundamental purpose of the Community Redevelopment Law identified
in subdivision (a) of Section 33334.6 of the Health and Safety Code,
namely the provision of affordable housing.
   (d) The Legislature further finds and declares that the time limits for
incurring indebtedness in Section 33333.6 of the Health and Safety Code
impede the efforts of the Redevelopment Agency of the City and County
of San Francisco to replace affordable housing units destroyed or
removed prior to the enactment of the replacement housing obligations
in 1975.
   (e) The Legislature further finds and declares that the Redevelopment
Agency of the City and County of San Francisco should be granted a
limited continuance of specific tax increment financing powers to
achieve its goal of replacing housing units, and that this continuance will
have no fiscal impact on the state.
   (f) This limited continuance in no way affords the Redevelopment
Agency of the City and County of San Francisco an extension of any of
its powers, above and beyond tax increment financing and the collection
of tax increment to repay indebtedness exclusively to support Low and
Moderate Housing Fund activities, nor does it signify the extension or
expansion of the redevelopment plans or activities to which paragraph
(1) of subdivision (a) of Section 33333.6 of the Health and Safety Code
applies.
   SEC. 2. Section 33333.7 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   33333.7. (a) Notwithstanding the time limits in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) of Section 33333.6, the Redevelopment Agency of the
City and County of San Francisco may, subject to the approval of the
Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco, retain its
ability to incur indebtedness exclusively for Low and Moderate Income
Housing Fund activities eligible under Sections 33334.2 and 33334.3
until January 1, 2014, or until the agency replaces all of the housing units
demolished prior to the enactment of the replacement housing
 4350                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 661 ]
obligations in Chapter 970 of the Statutes of 1975, whichever occurs
earlier. The ability of the agency to receive tax increment revenues to
repay indebtedness incurred for these Low and Moderate Income
Housing Fund activities may be extended until no later than January 1,
2044. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to extend a plan’s
effectiveness, except to incur additional indebtedness for Low and
Moderate Income Housing Fund activities, to pay previously incurred
indebtedness, and to enforce existing covenants, contracts, or other
obligations.
   (b) Annual revenues shall not exceed the amount necessary to fund
the Low and Moderate Income Housing Fund activities of the agency.
The agency shall neither collect nor spend more than 10 percent for the
planning and administrative costs authorized pursuant to subdivision (e)
of Section 33334.3. Revenues received under this paragraph shall not
exceed the amount of tax increment received and allocated to the agency
pursuant to the plan, as it has been amended, less the amount necessary
to pay prior outstanding indebtedness, and less the amount of the project
area’s property tax revenue that school entities are entitled to receive
pursuant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 75) and Chapter 6
(commencing with Section 95) of Part 0.5 of Division 1 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code if the plan had not been amended. Additionally,
revenues collected under this paragraph are subject to the payments to
affected taxing entities pursuant to Section 33607.
   (c) The activities conducted with revenues received under this
paragraph shall be consistent with the policies and objectives of the
community’s housing element, as reviewed and approved by the
department, and shall address the unmet housing needs of very low, low-
and moderate-income households. The activities shall also be consistent
with the community’s most recently approved consolidated and annual
action plans submitted to the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, and if the director deems it necessary, the annual
action plans shall be submitted to the department on an annual basis. No
less than 50 percent of the revenues received shall be devoted to assisting
in the development of housing that is affordable to very low income
households.
   (d) The agency shall not incur any indebtedness pursuant to this
paragraph until the director certifies, after consulting with the agency,
the net difference between the number of housing units affordable to
persons and families of low and moderate income that the agency
destroyed or removed prior to January 1, 1976, and the number of
housing units affordable to persons and families of low and moderate
income that the agency rehabilitated, developed, or constructed, or
caused to be rehabilitated, developed, or constructed within the project
areas adopted prior to January 1, 1976.
[Ch. 662 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4351

   (e) The agency shall not incur any indebtedness pursuant to this
paragraph unless the director of the department certifies annually, prior
to the creation of indebtedness, all of the following:
   (1) The community has a current housing element that substantially
complies with the requirements of Article 10.6 (commencing with
Section 65580) of Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government
Code.
   (2) The community’s housing element indicates an unmet need for
Low and Moderate Income Housing Fund activities.
   (3) The agency’s most recent independent financial audit report
prepared pursuant to Section 33080.1 reports acceptable findings and no
major violations of this part.
   (4) The agency has complied with subdivision (a) of Section 33334.2.
   (5) The agency has met the requirements of this part with respect to
the provision of dwelling units for persons and families of low or
moderate income, including, but not limited to, the requirements of
Section 33413.



                             CHAPTER 662

   An act to amend Sections 47763.5 and 47771.5 of the Education Code,
relating to high-risk youth, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take
effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 47763.5 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   47763.5. (a) Effective July 1, 2000, and in addition to funds from
all other sources and subject to the limitation in subdivision (h), the
Superintendent of Public Instruction shall apportion to each county
office of education or school district that operates a program under this
chapter six thousand dollars ($6,000) per year for each unit of average
daily attendance reported at the annual apportionment for pupil
attendance in a program under this chapter.
   (b) The average daily attendance for a program under this chapter
shall be determined by dividing the total number of days of attendance
in all full school months by a divisor of 135 for the first period of each
fiscal year, by a divisor of 180 for the second period of each fiscal year,
and by a divisor of 250 for the annual time of each fiscal year.
 4352                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 662 ]
   (c) Effective July 1, 2000, and subject to the limitation in subdivision
(h), the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall apportion to each
county office of education or school district that operates a program
under this chapter a sum equal to ten dollars ($10), multiplied by the total
of the number of hours each schoolday that follow completion of the full
instructional day, not to exceed six hours per schoolday, that each
high-risk first-time offender pupil receives services, as specified in the
individual case management plan pursuant to paragraph (1) of
subdivision (c) of Section 47761, when those services are provided by
one or more employees of one or more of the agencies that are parties to
the approved plans developed pursuant to Section 47761.
   (d) Effective July 1, 2000, and subject to the limitation in subdivision
(h), the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall apportion, to each
county office of education or school district that operates a program
under this chapter on days other than schooldays, a sum equal to ten
dollars ($10), multiplied by the total of the number of hours, not to
exceed 10 hours per calendar day that is not a schoolday that each
high-risk first-time offender pupil receives services, as specified in the
individual case management plan pursuant to paragraph (1) of
subdivision (c) of Section 47761, when those services are provided by
one or more employees of one or more of the agencies that are parties to
the approved plans developed pursuant to Section 47761.
   (e) Effective July 1, 2000, and notwithstanding any other provision
of this section, a county office of education or school district shall
receive an apportionment pursuant to subdivision (c) only for days on
which a high-risk first-time offender pupil was required to attend any
specified setting or settings in which services are provided for a total of
at least eight hours each day as specified in his or her individual case
management plan developed pursuant to Section 47761.
   (f) The funds provided in this chapter shall be used only for the
purpose of implementing the plans determined to be eligible for funding
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction pursuant to Section 47756.
   (g) Notwithstanding Section 42238.18, a county office of education
implementing a plan pursuant to this chapter may use funds apportioned
pursuant to this chapter to provide for the services of probation officers.
   (h) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the funding
provided for in this chapter shall be apportioned only to the extent that
funds are appropriated for that purpose in the annual Budget Act or other
legislation, or both.
   (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a pupil’s eligibility to
attend the program for high-risk first-time offenders shall cease on the
second anniversary of his or her first day of attendance in the program.
   (j) Effective July 1, 2000, and notwithstanding any other provision of
this section, a county office of education or school district that operates
[Ch. 662 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4353

a program under this chapter shall not be eligible to receive an
apportionment pursuant to this section in excess of the product of the
average number of pupils, per calendar day between July 1 and June 30,
inclusive, enrolled to receive services in a program for high-risk
first-time offenders, multiplied by twelve thousand dollars ($12,000).
   (k) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Superintendent
of Public Instruction may provide an apportionment to a county office
of education or school district for startup costs, from the funds provided
for the purposes of this chapter during the first year that a county office
of education or a school district operates a program, if each of the
following conditions is met:
   (1) The county office of education or school district has submitted an
application for startup funding to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction by September 1, 1999, for the 1998–99 fiscal year, and for
each fiscal year thereafter, not later than January 31st of the fiscal year
for which startup funding is sought.
   (2) The amount apportioned by the Superintendent of Public
Instruction for startup funding pursuant to this subdivision may not
exceed 15 percent of the county office of education’s or school district’s
maximum permitted apportionment for the fiscal year startup funding is
sought.
   (3) Total funding for programs operated pursuant to this chapter,
including funding for startup costs, may not exceed the recipient’s
maximum permitted apportionment for the fiscal year startup funding is
sought.
   (4) At the final apportionment for the fifth year of program operation,
or at the final apportionment for the last year of program operation if the
program operates for fewer than five years, the apportionment for a
county office of education or school district operating a program under
this chapter shall be reduced by the difference between the amount of
startup funding apportioned pursuant to paragraph (2) and an amount
equal to 15 percent of the maximum apportionment earned, for other
than startup funding, in any one of the first five years of program
operation.
   (5) Approved startup costs may not include indirect costs, as defined
in the California School Accounting Manual, or board and
superintendent costs. If startup costs include personnel costs, those costs
shall be documented by employee time records.
   SEC. 2. Section 47771.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   47771.5. (a) Effective July 1, 2000, and in addition to funds from
all other sources and subject to the limitation in subdivision (h), the
Superintendent of Public Instruction shall apportion to each county
office of education or school district that operates a program under this
chapter six thousand dollars ($6,000) per year for each unit of average
 4354                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 662 ]
daily attendance reported at the annual apportionment for pupil
attendance in a program under this chapter.
   (b) The average daily attendance for a program under this chapter
shall be determined by dividing the total number of days of attendance
in all full school months by a divisor of 135 for the first period of each
fiscal year, by a divisor of 180 for the second period of each fiscal year,
and by a divisor of 250 for the annual time of each fiscal year.
   (c) Effective July 1, 2000, and subject to the limitation in subdivision
(h), the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall apportion to each
county office of education or school district that operates a program
under this chapter a sum equal to ten dollars ($10), multiplied by the total
of the number of hours each schoolday that follow completion of the full
instructional day, not to exceed six hours per schoolday that each
transitioning high-risk youth enrolled in a program for transitioning
high-risk youth receives services, as specified in the individual case
management plan pursuant to clause (i) of subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 47766, when those services
are provided by one or more employees of one or more of the agencies
that are parties to the approved plans developed pursuant to Section
47766.
   (d) Effective July 1, 2000, and subject to the limitation in subdivision
(h), the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall apportion, to each
county office of education or school district that operates a program
under this chapter on days other than schooldays, a sum equal to ten
dollars ($10), multiplied by the total of the number of hours, not to
exceed 10 hours per calendar day that is not a schoolday, that each
transitioning high-risk youth receives services, as specified in the
individual case management plan pursuant to clause (i) of subparagraph
(B) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 47766, when those
services are provided by one or more employees of one or more of the
agencies that are parties to the approved plans developed pursuant to
Section 47766.
   (e) Effective July 1, 2000, and notwithstanding any other provision
of this section, a county office of education or school district shall
receive an apportionment pursuant to subdivision (c) only for days on
which a transitioning high-risk youth was required to attend any
specified setting or settings in which services are provided for a total of
at least eight hours each day as specified in his or her individual case
management plan developed pursuant to Section 47766.
   (f) The funds provided in this chapter shall be used only for the
purpose of implementing the plans determined to be eligible for funding
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction pursuant to Section 47756.
[Ch. 662 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4355

   (g) Notwithstanding Section 42238.18, a county office of education
implementing a plan pursuant to this chapter may use funds apportioned
pursuant to this chapter to provide for the services of probation officers.
   (h) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the funding provided
for in this chapter shall be apportioned only to the extent that funds are
appropriated for that purpose in the annual Budget Act or other
legislation, or both.
   (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a pupil’s eligibility to
attend a program for transitioning high-risk youth shall cease on the
second anniversary of his or her first day of attendance in the program.
   (j) Effective July 1, 2000, and notwithstanding any other provision of
this section, a county office of education or school district that operates
a program under this chapter shall not be eligible to receive an
apportionment pursuant to this section in excess of the product of the
average number of pupils, per calendar day between July 1 and June 30,
inclusive, enrolled to receive services in a program for transitioning
high-risk youth, multiplied by twelve thousand dollars ($12,000).
   (k) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Superintendent
of Public Instruction may provide an apportionment to a county office
of education or school district for startup costs, from the funds provided
for the purposes of this chapter during the first year that a county office
of education or a school district operates a program, if each of the
following conditions is met:
   (1) The county office of education or school district has submitted an
application for startup funding to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction by September 1, 1999, for the 1998–99 fiscal year, and for
each fiscal year thereafter, not later than January 31st of the fiscal year
for which startup funding is sought.
   (2) The amount apportioned by the Superintendent of Public
Instruction for startup funding pursuant to this subdivision may not
exceed 15 percent of the county office of education’s or school district’s
maximum permitted apportionment for the fiscal year startup funding is
sought.
   (3) Total funding for programs operated pursuant to this chapter,
including funding for startup costs, may not exceed the recipient’s
maximum permitted apportionment for the fiscal year startup funding is
sought.
   (4) At the final apportionment for the fifth year of program operation,
or at the final apportionment for the last year of program operation if the
program operates for fewer than five years, the apportionment for a
county office of education or school district operating a program under
this chapter shall be reduced by the difference between the amount of
startup funding apportioned pursuant to paragraph (2) and an amount
equal to 15 percent of the maximum apportionment earned, for other
 4356                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 663 ]
than startup funding, in any one of the first five years of program
operation.
  (5) Approved startup costs may not include indirect costs, as defined
in the California School Accounting Manual, or board and
superintendent costs. If startup costs include personnel costs, those costs
shall be documented by employee time records.
  SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to provide the necessary funding for the High-Risk First-Time
Offenders Program and the Transitioning High-Risk Youth Program at
the earliest opportunity, it is necessary that this measure take effect
immediately.



                             CHAPTER 663

   An act to amend Section 629 of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
relating to juvenile offenders.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 629 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   629. (a) As a condition for the release of a minor pursuant to
Section 628.1 and subject to Sections 631 and 632, the probation officer
shall require the minor to sign, and may also require his or her parent,
guardian, or relative to sign, a written promise to appear before the
probation officer at the juvenile hall or other suitable place designated
by the probation officer at a specified time.
   (b) A minor who is 14 years of age or older who is taken into custody
by a peace officer for the commission or attempted commission of a
felony offense shall not be released until the minor has signed a written
promise to appear before the probation officer at the juvenile hall or other
suitable place designated by the peace officer, or has been given an order
to appear at the juvenile court on a date certain. The peace officer may
also require the minor’s parent, guardian, or relative to sign a written
promise to appear at the same place designated for the minor.
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
[Ch. 664 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4357

costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 664

  An act to add Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 17998) to Part 1.5
of Division 13 of, and to repeal Section 17998.2 of, the Health and Safety
Code, relating to housing.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 17998) is added
to Part 1.5 of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:

       CHAPTER 8.      CODE ENFORCEMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM

  17998. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
  (a) The Department of Housing and Community Development
reports that one in every eight dwelling units in the state is substandard
and that unless health and safety problems are corrected, habitability
conditions generally deteriorate until the units become life threatening
and uninhabitable and must be removed from the housing stock through
closure or demolition.
  (b) California is experiencing a housing shortage of significant
proportions, particularly in the affordable housing sector. The state and
many local governments are funding affordable housing from a variety
of sources at substantial costs. It is ill advised to neglect timely code
enforcement responsibilities and, as a result, to lose housing that could
have been retained.
  (c) The lack of code enforcement on a single dwelling unit can lead
to the deterioration of an entire neighborhood as the substandard or
abandoned unit becomes a magnet for crime, vandalism, fires, and other
activities that rapidly infect the surrounding homes and neighborhood.
  (d) Many local governments endeavor to fulfill their statutory
responsibility for code enforcement. However, local governments with
a higher percentage of lower income households with families, living in
 4358                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 664 ]
older, overcrowded housing stock, exacerbated by the neglect of
absentee slumlords, bear a disproportionate code enforcement cost and
responsibility compared with more affluent communities.
   (e) Existing law provides building standards to assure decent, safe,
and sanitary housing for all Californians.
   (f) Resources for code enforcement at the local level are frequently
allocated to construction-related code enforcement activities, which
generate fees to pay for regulatory services, including building and
permit inspections, rather than housing maintenance activities that
prevent or abate substandard conditions.
   (g) The enforcement of housing maintenance codes for existing
housing is frequently performed only on a complaint-by-complaint basis
and frequently there is insufficient funding for the abatement of existing
violations through timely and effective administrative or judicial
proceedings.
   17998.1. The Department of Housing and Community
Development, upon appropriation by the Legislature for this purpose,
shall make funds available as matching grants to cities, counties, and
cities and counties to increase staffing dedicated to local building code
enforcement efforts. The funds shall be subject to all of the following
provisions:
   (a) Grants shall be made to grantees through December 31, 2003.
   (b) The city, county, or city and county shall provide a cash or in-kind
local match of at least 25 percent in the first year, at least 50 percent in
the second year, and at least 75 percent in the third year.
   (c) The maximum grant to a single recipient shall not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000). The department may establish minimum
grant levels.
   (d) Funds may be used to supplement, but shall not supplant, existing
local funding for code enforcement related to housing code maintenance.
The applicants shall demonstrate an intent to ensure cooperative and
effective working relationships between code enforcement officials and
local prosecutorial agencies, the local health department, and local
government housing rehabilitation financing agencies.
   (e) On or before June 30, 2004, grant recipients shall submit a report
to their local legislative bodies and to the department regarding the
results of the expanded housing maintenance code enforcement efforts
and recommendations for changes in state or local laws and regulations
related to code enforcement. The department shall summarize the results
and transmit the reports to the Legislature by December 31, 2004. The
department may require submission of interim progress reports.
   (f) The department may use up to 5 percent of the funds appropriated
by the Legislature for administering the programs authorized by this
chapter.
[Ch. 664 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           4359

   (g) The department shall award the grants on a competitive basis with
criteria to be established and specified in a ‘‘Notice of Funding
Availability.’’ The criteria shall be weighted for local government
applicants with neighborhoods populated by high percentages of lower
income households, with significant numbers of deteriorating housing
stock containing reported or suspected housing code violations and often
owned by absentee owners. The criteria shall also be weighted for
applications that propose to identify and prosecute owners with habitual,
repeated, multiple code violations that have remained unabated beyond
the period required for abatement. Eligibility criteria, applications,
awards, and other program requirements implementing this chapter shall
not be subject to the requirements of Chapter 2.5 (commencing with
Section 11340) of Part 1 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
   17998.2. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature in the enactment of
this section to do all of the following:
   (1) Initiate a coordinated active community approach to code
enforcement.
   (2) Create a pilot program in which the department awards grants to
communities that develop a code enforcement program pursuant to the
criteria established by this section.
   (3) Substantially reduce the incidence of substandard housing
through the use of creative and coordinated techniques of code
enforcement involving an interdepartmental approach at the local
government level.
   (b) The grant program established pursuant to this section shall be
known as the Community Code Enforcement Pilot Program. The
Department of Housing and Community Development shall administer
the Community Code Enforcement Pilot Program.
   (1) The department need not adopt regulations for the program. The
department shall publish and distribute a Notice of Funding Availability
that contains application forms and instructions, eligibility criteria,
criteria for the rating and ranking of applications, outcome evaluation
criteria, interim or final reporting requirements, and other information
that the department considers necessary or useful for implementation of
the program.
   (2) The department shall review, rate, and rank applications based on
its evaluation of the information provided pursuant to subdivision (e),
and their projected program performance as measured by all of the
following criteria, considering the size of the applicant community:
   (A) The minimum number of housing units affordable to lower
income households that will be rehabilitated or otherwise brought into
compliance with applicable building and housing codes.
   (B) The estimated amount of grants and low interest rehabilitation
loan funds, from sources other than this program, that will be made
 4360                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 664 ]
available to the owners of housing units affordable to lower income
households that are determined to need rehabilitation or repair pursuant
to the program.
   (C) The incidence of poverty and deteriorating housing or housing
code violations in each target area.
   (3) The department shall attempt to award community code
enforcement pilot program grants to cities, counties, and cities and
counties with a wide range of population sizes and compositions and
geographical distribution.
   (c) The department shall award community code enforcement pilot
program grants for programs that shall operate until December 31, 2003.
The grants shall not exceed four hundred fifty thousand dollars
($450,000), which shall pay for costs incurred over the life of the
program. The department may establish minimum grant levels.
   (d) Each city, county, or city and county receiving a grant shall
develop a code enforcement team consisting of a least one full-time code
enforcement officer and a part-time city planner, health officer, or
comparable specialist. Each grantee shall provide, and fund at its own
expense, at least one city planner, health officer, or comparable specialist
for the duration of the pilot program, for a minimum of 20 hours per
week. The grant funds shall be used for the code enforcement officer and
related program costs, which may include full-time or part-time
personnel, in addition to the grantee’s contributions.
   (e) Grant proposals shall include all of the following:
   (1) Demonstration of serious, current housing code enforcement
deficiencies within each target area, whether those code deficiencies are
in violation of locally enacted ordinances or state codes.
   (2) A plan to have high visibility of code enforcement staff and to
create close and frequent communication and interaction with residents
and property owners of the target area, including in the evenings and on
weekends.
   (3) A plan to convene community meetings to inform residents of the
pilot program.
   (4) A plan to conduct ongoing frequent informal and formal
community meetings with the code enforcement team and residents of
the community involved in the pilot program.
   (5) A plan demonstrating an intent to ensure cooperative and effective
working relationships between code enforcement officials, local health
department officials, local prosecutorial agencies, and officials
operating local programs providing public funds to finance affordable
rental housing rehabilitation and repairs.
   (6) A plan for timely and effective administrative and judicial
enforcement of code violations.
[Ch. 664 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4361

   (f) The administrator of each grantee’s pilot program shall evaluate
the pilot program and report the findings and other criteria requested by
the department indicating the effectiveness of the pilot program to the
department by June 30, 2004. The administrator shall evaluate the pilot
program based on criteria including, but not limited to, the following:
   (1) Results of a participant survey, including owners, residents, and
active community leaders.
   (2) Comparison of each targeted area with similar neighborhoods
with respect to repeat calls for service and other criteria testing the
effectiveness of the pilot program.
   (3) The extent of any perceived or actual property value change
between the commencement and the completion of the pilot program.
   (4) The number of cases opened and the number of cases closed,
identifying the nature of code violations, the necessity of formal
proceedings, the cost and nature of abatement violations, or other factors
influencing the effectiveness of the pilot program.
   (g) The department shall review and report to the Legislature by
December 31, 2004, on the findings of the pilot program administrators.
   (h) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2005, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends that date.
   17998.3. In implementing the programs governed by this chapter,
the department has all the general powers granted to it by Division 31
(commencing with Section 50000).
   SEC. 2. (a) Of the amount appropriated in Item 2240-112-0001 of
Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000, two million two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($2,250,000) shall be used by the Department of
Housing and Community Development to implement Section 17998.2
of the Health and Safety Code as enacted by Section 1 of this act.
   (b) Any funds not awarded by December 31, 2001, for the purposes
of the program authorized by Section 17998.2 of the Health and Safety
Code as enacted by Section 1 of this act shall be utilized by the
Department of Housing and Community Development for the program
authorized by Section 17998.1 of the Health and Safety Code as enacted
by Section 1 of this act.
   SEC. 3. If this act becomes operative on or before January 1, 2001,
then Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 17998) of Part 1.5 of Division
13 of the Health and Safety Code, as added by Chapter 82 of the Statutes
of 2000, shall not become operative.
 4362                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 665 ]
                            CHAPTER 665

   An act to add Sections 65891.3, 65891.5, 65891.11, and 65891.12 to
the Government Code, and to add Sections 50542.1, 50543, and 50546
to the Health and Safety Code, relating to balancing jobs and housing.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 65891.3 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   65891.3. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (a) California will experience significant population growth in the
coming decades. In the San Francisco Bay Area, one million new
residents are forecast by the year 2020. An equal number of new jobs are
expected during the same time period. However, less than 500,000 new
housing units are expected to be built in an already costly and
competitive housing market.
   (b) Under the current land use and policy framework, central valley
communities expect to double or triple in size, but most of them will not
attract equivalent numbers of new jobs. Instead, thousands of central
valley residents are expected to commute far into the bay area, often
driving two hours or more each way. The challenges to transportation,
air quality, and social quality of life are enormous. Projections estimate
the current number of less than 100,000 daily Altamont Pass commuters
will more than double to 250,000 by the year 2020.
   (c) These growth-related issues cut across county and regional
boundaries. The Inter-Regional Partnership is intended to provide a
forum for neighboring jurisdictions governed by different regional
councils of government to deal collaboratively with land use,
transportation, and air quality issues that affect a five county region,
while also complementing existing collaborative regional
organizations, including, but not limited to, the Bay Area Alliance for
Sustainable Development, the Bay Area Council, the Silicon Valley
Manufacturing Group, the Great Valley Center, and others, in order to
support optimal intra-regional accountability for growth.
   (d) The IRP State Pilot Project will stand as an important example for
other regions in the state in dealing with multijurisdictional problem
solving and addressing land use planning across metropolitan borders.
   (e) The need for communication and cooperation among these
jurisdictions is underscored by the fact that Alameda County recently
sued the City of Tracy in San Joaquin County concerning the
environmental impacts of a planned housing development on the
[Ch. 665 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4363

western edge of the county where a majority of residents would be
assumed to commute into the San Francisco Bay Area through Alameda
County.
   (f) These interjurisdictional planning issues are not unique to the
IRP’s five county area; several other expanding metropolitan areas in
California are beginning to experience similar problems. However, the
geographic imbalance in housing and job growth in the IRP area is
among the country’s most extreme examples, and, driven by continued
employment growth in the Silicon Valley, is predicted to worsen
significantly in the coming years.
   (g) The housing market in the Silicon Valley is now the most
expensive in the nation. Land being developed for housing in the San
Joaquin Valley is some of the highest quality agricultural land in the
world.
   (h) The IRP area is the best place in the state, and probably one of the
best in the country, to implement a pilot program designed to mitigate
the myriad of problems associated with unbalanced and uncoordinated
growth.
   (i) By implementing this pilot program, the state will play an
important role in creating a more sustainable future pattern of land use
in the IRP area.
   (j) Active investment of state resources to balance job growth and
housing growth will reduce the need for costly transportation
infrastructure investments in the future.
   (k) The current path of land development in the five county area will
have very costly transportation and environmental impacts if efforts are
not made soon to link job growth to housing production.
   SEC. 2. Section 65891.5 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   65891.5. (a) During the first year after the date that funding is
received, the IRP shall complete all the necessary research, outreach, and
negotiation to allow the successful establishment of jobs-housing
opportunity zones throughout the five IRP counties. The IRP shall
collaborate with local governments and existing regional and
subregional organizations committed to improving inter-regional
jobs-housing balance. During this phase, a series of outreach meetings
shall be held with local jurisdictions and the public to review and
comment on the data and make recommendations for locations of
jobs-housing opportunity zones. Public input and participation shall be
encouraged throughout phase one of the IRP pilot project. Local
jurisdictions wishing to participate in the pilot project shall enter into
agreements with the IRP to pursue the regional goals and objectives of
opportunity zones within their jurisdictions.
   (b) The first phase shall provide all of the following:
 4364                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 665 ]
   (1) An integrated Geographic Information System (GIS) designed,
where feasible, to be compatible with existing regional GIS systems.
The IRP’s GIS system shall enable easy comparison of data on land use
and transportation trends and alternative scenarios across the five county
area. The GIS mapping shall focus on obtaining existing data from a
variety of sources, including, but not limited to, the Bay Area Regional
Livability Footprint Project that integrates land use with transportation,
housing, job, economic, social equity, and environmental overlays, and
integrating them into a single system to allow accurate analysis and
scenario work on an interregional scale. The Legislature finds and
declares that the IRP’s GIS system will be a crucial tool for use in
determining the location of proposed jobs-housing opportunity zones.
   (2) General types of data to be assembled in the GIS system shall
include:
   (A) Demographic data, including population and employment by
census tract.
   (B) Projected growth data consisting of information on where
growth, including jobs generation and new housing location, is
predicted to occur over a 20-year period.
   (C) Transportation information such as traffic capacity and usage,
transit access and usage, and journey- to-work data.
   (D) Land use information, including general plan layers and zoning
designations. It is the intent of the Legislature that to reduce costs and
setup time, the IRP’s GIS undertaking shall not include parcel-level data.
   (E) Basic environmental data, including floodplains, slopes,
contamination, prime soils, open space, and important natural resources
both inside and outside of urbanized areas.
   (3) A refined description of the incentive program for application to
the jobs-housing opportunity zones within the IRP counties. This list
shall include thorough descriptions of fiscal and nonfiscal policy and
regulatory incentives. A variety of state departments shall be involved
in determining what incentives might be made available, including, but
not limited to, the Office of Planning and Research, the Department of
Housing and Community Development, the California Housing Finance
Agency, the Department of Transportation, and the Department of
Conservation.
   (4) Recommendations for establishing five to 10 official
Inter-Regional Partnership Jobs-Housing Opportunity Zones located
throughout the five county area. Using the GIS system and conferring
with interested regional organizations and with local jurisdictions, the
IRP shall propose a series of jobs-housing opportunity zones. Each zone
shall have specific goals and a description of the type of action desired
to attain these goals, including recommended state sponsored incentives
intended to encourage the desired results. The types of incentives
[Ch. 665 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4365

requested may vary by zone location and type. Zones located near, or
with good transit access to, existing major employment centers may
receive incentives designed to promote reasonably priced housing
development. Zones located far from existing employment centers, but
near, or with good transit access to, significant work force housing
supply, may receive incentives designed to promote employment
development. Adoption of land use policies that protect agriculture and
natural resources and promote compact, higher density, mixed use,
transit-oriented development may be required as selection criteria for
jobs-housing opportunity zones.
   SEC. 3. Section 65891.11 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   65891.11. The department may administer the programs set forth in
this article, and the funds transferred by Item 2240-112-0001 of the
Budget Act of 2000 to the Housing Rehabilitation Loan Fund
established by Section 50661 of the Health and Safety Code, pursuant
to guidelines that shall not be subject to the requirements of Chapter 3.5
(commencing with Section 11340) of Division 3 of Title 2.
   SEC. 4. Section 65891.12 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   65891.12. This article shall become inoperative on July 31, 2004,
and, as of January 1, 2005, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that
is enacted before January 1, 2005, deletes or extends the dates on which
it becomes inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 5. Section 50542.1 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   50542.1. (a) The Jobs-Housing Balance Improvement Account is
hereby created as a special fund in the State Treasury. All money in the
fund shall be available, upon appropriation by the Legislature, to the
Department of Housing and Community Development for the following
purposes:
   (1) To make grants to local agencies pursuant to Section 50543.
   (2) To make grants to cities, counties, and cities and counties pursuant
to Section 50544.
   (3) For transfer to the Rental Housing Construction Fund pursuant to
Sections 50543 and 50545.
   (4) For the related administrative expenses of the department.
   (b) There shall be paid into the fund, the following moneys:
   (1) Any moneys that may be made available by the Legislature for the
purposes of the fund.
   (2) Any other moneys that may be made available to the department
for the purposes of this chapter from any other source or sources.
   SEC. 6. Section 50543 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   50543. (a) Five million dollars ($5,000,000) of the funds
appropriated for purposes of this chapter in Item 2240-114-0001 of
 4366                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 665 ]
Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000 shall be transferred to the Rental
Housing Construction Fund created pursuant to Section 50740 to be
used pursuant to subdivisions (b) and (c).
   (b) The department shall provide state grants to local agencies to
assist them in attracting new business and jobs in ‘‘housing rich’’
communities that lack an adequate employment base to match the
amount and cost of housing in those communities.
   (c) A local agency that has completed an economic development
strategic plan may apply for a grant to create an economic development
strike team to assist the local agency in better targeting and coordinating
outreach to employers who may choose to locate jobs within the
community.
   (d) In order to be eligible for a grant pursuant to this section, a local
agency shall have an adopted housing element that the department has
determined pursuant to Section 65585 of the Government Code to be in
substantial compliance with the requirements of Article 10.6
(commencing with Section 65580) of Chapter 3 of Division 1 of Title 7
of the Government Code.
   (e) The department shall establish maximum grant amounts and
establish an appropriate process for evaluating need and making grant
awards.
   (f) No later than December 31, 2002, the department shall provide an
interim report to the Legislature indicating the progress of the program
established by this section, including the number of jurisdictions
accessing the program. No later than December 31, 2005, the department
shall provide a final report with updates to the data contained in the
interim report and a description of the achievements by local agencies
participating in the program.
   SEC. 7. Section 50546 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   50546. (a) The administrative expenses of the department shall not
exceed 3 percent of the amount available for the purposes of this chapter.
   (b) The department may administer the programs set forth in this
chapter pursuant to guidelines that shall not be subject to the
requirements of Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of
Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
   SEC. 8. This act shall become operative only if AB 2864 is enacted
and becomes effective on or before January 1, 2001, in which case
Sections 65891.3, 65891.5, and 65891.11 of the Government Code, and
Sections 50543 and 50546 of the Health and Safety Code, as added by
AB 2864, shall not become operative.
[Ch. 666 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4367

                             CHAPTER 666

 An act to amend Sections 65863.10 and 65863.11 of the Government
Code, relating to housing.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 65863.10 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   65863.10. (a) As used in this section, the following terms have the
following meaning:
   (1) ‘‘Affected public entities’’ means the mayor of the city in which
the assisted housing development is located, or, if located in an
unincorporated area, the chairperson of the board of supervisors of the
county; the appropriate local public housing authority, if any; and the
Department of Housing and Community Development.
   (2) ‘‘Affected tenant’’ means a tenant household residing in an
assisted housing development, as defined in paragraph (3), at the time
notice is required to be provided pursuant to this section, that benefits
from the government assistance.
   (3) ‘‘Assisted housing development’’ means a multifamily rental
housing development that receives governmental assistance under any
of the following federal programs:
   (A) New construction, substantial rehabilitation, moderate
rehabilitation, property disposition, and loan management set-aside
programs, or any other program providing project-based assistance,
under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended
(42 U.S.C. Sec. 1437f).
   (B) The following federal programs:
   (i) The Below-Market-Interest-Rate Program under Section
221(d)(3) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1715l(d)(3) and
(5)).
   (ii) Section 236 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. Sec.
1715z-1).
   (iii) Section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. Sec. 1701q).
   (C) Programs for rent supplement assistance under Section 101 of the
Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965, as amended (12 U.S.C.
Sec. 1701s).
   (D) Programs under Section 515 of the Housing Act of 1949, as
amended (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1485).
   (E) Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code.
 4368                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 666 ]
   (4) ‘‘City’’ means a general law city, a charter city, or a city and
county.
   (5) ‘‘Prepayment’’ means the payment in full or refinancing of the
federally insured or federally held mortgage indebtedness prior to its
original maturity date, or the voluntary cancellation of mortgage
insurance, on an assisted housing development described in
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) that would have the effect of
removing the current low-income affordability restrictions contained in
the applicable laws and the regulatory agreement.
   (6) ‘‘Termination’’ means an owner’s decision not to extend or renew
its participation in a federal subsidy program for an assisted housing
development described in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (3), either at
or prior to the scheduled date of the expiration of the contract, or a
decision to terminate the rental restrictions for an assisted housing
development described in subparagraph (E) of paragraph (3), that may
result in an increase in tenant rents or a change in the form of the subsidy
from project-based to tenant-based.
   (b) (1) At least 12 months prior to the anticipated date of termination
of a subsidy contract, termination of rental restrictions, or prepayment
on an assisted housing development, the owner proposing the
termination or prepayment of governmental assistance shall provide a
notice of the proposed change to each affected tenant household residing
in the assisted housing development at the time the notice is provided
and to the affected public entities. The notice shall contain all of the
following:
   (A) In the event of termination, a statement that the owner intends to
terminate the subsidy contract or rental restrictions upon its expiration
date, or the expiration date of any contract extension thereto.
   (B) In the event of prepayment, a statement that the owner intends to
pay in full or refinance the federally insured or federally held mortgage
indebtedness prior to its original maturity date, or voluntarily cancel the
mortgage insurance.
   (C) The anticipated date of the termination or prepayment of the
federal program, and the identity of the federal program described in
subdivision (a).
   (D) A statement that the proposed change would have the effect of
removing the current low-income affordability restrictions in the
applicable contract or regulatory agreement.
   (E) A statement of the possibility that the housing may remain in the
federal program after the proposed date of termination of the subsidy
contract or prepayment if the owner elects to do so under the terms of the
federal government’s offer.
[Ch. 666 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4369

   (F) A statement that other governmental assistance may be provided
to tenants residing in the development at the time of the termination of
the subsidy contract or prepayment.
   (G) A statement that a subsequent notice of the proposed change,
including anticipated changes in rents, if any, for the development, will
be provided at least six months prior to the anticipated date of
termination of the subsidy contract or prepayment.
   (H) A statement of notice of opportunity to submit an offer to
purchase, as required in Section 65863.11.
   (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if an owner provides a copy of a
federally required notice of termination of a subsidy contract or
prepayment at least 12 months prior to the proposed change to each
affected tenant household residing in the assisted housing development
at the time the notice is provided and to the affected public entities, the
owner shall be deemed in compliance with this subdivision, if the notice
is in compliance with all federal laws. However, the federally required
notice need not satisfy the requirements of Section 65863.11.
   (c) (1) At least six months prior to the anticipated date of termination
of a subsidy contract or prepayment on an assisted housing development,
the owner proposing the termination or prepayment of governmental
assistance shall provide a notice of the proposed change to each affected
tenant household residing in the assisted housing development at the
time the notice is provided and to the affected public entities.
   (2) The notice to the tenants shall contain all of the following:
   (A) The anticipated date of the termination or prepayment of the
federal program, and the identity of the federal program, as described in
subdivision (a).
   (B) The current rent and anticipated new rent for the unit on the date
of the prepayment or termination of the federal program.
   (C) A statement that a copy of the notice will be sent to the city or
county, or city and county, where the assisted housing development is
located, to the appropriate local public housing authority, if any, and to
the Department of Housing and Community Development.
   (D) A statement of the possibility that the housing may remain in the
federal program after the proposed date of subsidy termination or
prepayment if the owner elects to do so under the terms of the federal
government’s offer.
   (E) A statement of the owner’s intention to participate in any current
replacement federal subsidy program made available to the affected
tenants.
   (F) The name and telephone number of the city, county, or city and
county, the appropriate local public housing authority, if any, the
Department of Housing and Community Development, and a legal
services organization, that can be contacted to request additional written
 4370                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 666 ]
information about an owner’s responsibilities and the rights and options
of an affected tenant.
   (3) In addition to the information provided in the notice to the affected
tenant, the notice to the affected public entities shall contain information
regarding the number of affected tenants in the project, the number of
units that are government assisted and the type of assistance, the number
of the units that are not government assisted, the number of bedrooms
in each unit that is government assisted, and the ages and income of the
affected tenants. The notice shall briefly describe the owner’s plans for
the project, including any timetables or deadlines for actions to be taken
and specific governmental approvals that are required to be obtained, the
reason the owner seeks to terminate the subsidy contract or prepay the
mortgage, and any contacts the owner has made or is making with other
governmental agencies or other interested parties in connection with the
notice. The owner shall also attach a copy of any federally required
notice of the termination of the subsidy contract or prepayment that was
provided at least six months prior to the proposed change. The
information contained in the notice shall be based on data that is
reasonably available from existing written tenant and project records.
   (d) The owner proposing the termination or prepayment of
governmental assistance shall provide additional notice of any
significant changes to the notice required by subdivision (c) within
seven business days to each affected tenant household residing in the
assisted housing development at the time the notice is provided and to
the affected public entities. ‘‘Significant changes’’ shall include, but not
be limited to, any changes to the date of termination or prepayment or
the anticipated new rent.
   (e) This section shall not require the owner to obtain or acquire
additional information that is not contained in the existing tenant and
project records, or to update any information in his or her records. The
owner shall not be held liable for any inaccuracies contained in these
records or from other sources, nor shall the owner be liable to any party
for providing this information.
   (f) For purposes of this section, service of the notice to the affected
tenants, the city or county, the city and county, the appropriate local
public housing authority, if any, and the Department of Housing and
Community Development by the owner pursuant to subdivisions (b),
(c), and (d) shall be made by first-class mail postage prepaid.
   (g) Nothing in this section shall enlarge or diminish the authority, if
any, that a city, county, city and county, affected tenant, or owner may
have, independent of this section.
   (h) If, prior to January 1, 2001, the owner has already accepted a bona
fide offer from a qualified entity, as defined in subdivision (c) of Section
65863.11, and has complied with this section as it existed prior to
[Ch. 666 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4371

January 1, 2001, at the time the owner decides to sell or otherwise
dispose of the development, the owner shall be deemed in compliance
with this section.
   (i) Injunctive relief shall be available to any party identified in
paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a) who is aggrieved by a violation
of this section.
   (j) The Director of Housing and Community Development shall
approve forms to be used by owners to comply with subdivisions (b) and
(c). Once the director has approved the forms, an owner shall use the
approved forms to comply with subdivisions (b) and (c).
   (k) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2011, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which is enacted
on or before January 1, 2011, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Section 65863.11 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   65863.11. (a) Terms used in this section shall be defined as follows:
   (1) ‘‘Assisted housing development’’ and ‘‘development’’ mean a
multifamily rental housing development as defined in paragraph (3) of
subdivision (a) of Section 65863.10.
   (2) ‘‘Owner’’ means an individual, corporation, association,
partnership, joint venture, or business entity that holds title to an assisted
housing development.
   (3) ‘‘Tenant’’ means a tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee, or other
person legally in possession or occupying the assisted housing
development.
   (4) ‘‘Tenant association’’ means a group of tenants who have formed
a nonprofit corporation, cooperative corporation, or other entity or
organization, or a local nonprofit, regional, or national organization
whose purpose includes the acquisition of an assisted housing
development and that represents the interest of at least a majority of the
tenants in the assisted housing development.
   (5) ‘‘Low or moderate income’’ means having an income as defined
in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (6) ‘‘Very low income’’ means having an income as defined in
Section 50052.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (7) ‘‘Local nonprofit organizations’’ means not-for-profit
corporations organized pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with
Section 5000) of Title 1 of the Corporations Code, that have as their
principal purpose the ownership, development, or management of
housing or community development projects for persons and families of
low or moderate income and very low income, and which have a broadly
representative board, a majority of whose members are
community-based and have a proven track record of local community
service.
 4372                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 666 ]
   (8) ‘‘Local public agencies’’ means housing authorities,
redevelopment agencies, or any other agency of a city, county, or city and
county, whether general law or chartered, which are authorized to own,
develop, or manage housing or community development projects for
persons and families of low or moderate income and very low income.
   (9) ‘‘Regional or national organizations’’ means not-for-profit,
charitable corporations organized on a multicounty, state, or multistate
basis that have as their principal purpose the ownership, development,
or management of housing or community development projects for
persons and families of low or moderate income and very low income.
   (10) ‘‘Regional or national public agencies’’ means multicounty,
state, or multistate agencies that are authorized to own, develop, or
manage housing or community development projects for persons and
families of low or moderate income and very low income.
   (11) ‘‘Use restriction’’ means any federal, state, or local statute,
regulation, ordinance, or contract that, as a condition of receipt of any
housing assistance, including a rental subsidy, mortgage subsidy, or
mortgage insurance, to an assisted housing development, establishes
maximum limitations on tenant income as a condition of eligibility for
occupancy of the units within a development, imposes any restrictions
on the maximum rents that could be charged for any of the units within
a development; or requires that rents for any of the units within a
development be reviewed by any governmental body or agency before
the rents are implemented.
   (12) ‘‘Profit-motivated organizations and individuals’’ means
individuals or two or more persons organized pursuant to Division 1
(commencing with Section 100) of Title 1 of, Division 3 (commencing
with Section 1200) of Title 1 of, or Division 1 (commencing with
Section 15001) of Title 2 of, the Corporations Code, that carry on as a
business for profit.
   (13) ‘‘Department’’ means the Department of Housing and
Community Development.
   (14) ‘‘Offer to purchase’’ means an offer from a qualified or
nonqualified entity that is nonbinding on the owner.
   (b) An owner of an assisted housing development shall not terminate
a subsidy contract or prepay the mortgage pursuant to Section 65863.10,
unless the owner or its agent shall first have provided each of the entities
listed in subdivision (d) an opportunity to submit an offer to purchase the
development, in compliance with subdivision (h).
   (c) An owner of an assisted housing development shall not sell, or
otherwise dispose of, the development in a manner that would result in
either (1) a discontinuance of its use as an assisted housing development,
or (2) the termination of any low-income use restrictions that apply to
the development, unless the owner or its agent shall first have provided
[Ch. 666 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4373

each of the entities listed in subdivision (d) an opportunity to submit an
offer to purchase the development, in compliance with subdivision (h).
   (d) The entities to whom an opportunity to purchase shall be provided
include only the following:
   (1) The tenant association of the development.
   (2) Local nonprofit organizations and public agencies.
   (3) Regional or national nonprofit organizations and regional or
national public agencies.
   (4) Profit-motivated organizations or individuals.
   (e) For the purposes of this section, to qualify as a purchaser of an
assisted housing development, an entity listed in subdivision (d) shall do
all of the following:
   (1) Be capable of managing the housing and related facilities for its
remaining useful life, either by itself or through a management agent.
   (2) Agree to obligate itself and any successors in interest to maintain
the affordability of the assisted housing development for households of
very low, low, or moderate income for either a 30-year period from the
date that the purchaser took legal possession of the housing or the
remaining term of the existing federal government assistance specified
in subdivision (a) of Section 65863.10, whichever is greater. The
development shall be continuously occupied in the approximate
percentages that those households who have occupied that development
on the date the owner gave notice of intent or the approximate
percentages specified in existing use restrictions, whichever is higher.
This obligation shall be recorded prior to the close of escrow in the office
of the county recorder of the county in which the development is located
and shall contain a legal description of the property, indexed to the name
of the owner as grantor. An owner that obligates itself to an enforceable
regulatory agreement that will ensure for a period of not less than 30
years that rents for units occupied by low- and very low income
households or that are vacant at the time of executing a purchase
agreement will conform with restrictions imposed by Section 42(f) of
the Internal Revenue Code shall be deemed in compliance with this
paragraph. In addition, the regulatory agreement shall contain
provisions requiring the renewal of rental subsidies, should they be
available, provided that assistance is at a level to maintain the project’s
fiscal viability.
   (3) Local nonprofit organizations and public agencies shall have no
member among their officers or directorate with a financial interest in
assisted housing developments that have terminated a subsidy contract
or prepaid a mortgage on the development without continuing the
low-income restrictions.
   (f) If an assisted housing development is not economically feasible,
as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (h) of Section 17058 of the
 4374                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 666 ]
Revenue and Taxation Code, a purchaser shall be entitled to remove one
or more units from the rent and occupancy requirements as is necessary
for the development to become economically feasible, provided that
once the development is again economically feasible, the purchaser shall
designate the next available units as low-income units up to the original
number of those units.
   (g) (1) If an owner decides to terminate a subsidy contract, or prepay
the mortgage pursuant to Section 65863.10, or sell or otherwise dispose
of the assisted housing development pursuant to subdivision (b) or (c),
the owner shall first give notice of the opportunity to offer to purchase
to each qualified entity on the list provided to the owner by the
department, in accordance with subdivision (q), as well as to those
qualified entities that directly contact the owner. The notice of the
opportunity to offer to purchase must be given prior to or concurrently
with the notice required pursuant to Section 65863.10 for a period of at
least 12 months. The owner shall contact the department to obtain the list
of qualified entities. The notice shall conform to the requirements of
subdivision (h) and shall be sent to the entities by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested. The owner shall also post a copy of the
notice in a conspicuous place in the common area of the development.
   (2) If the owner already has a bona fide offer to purchase from an
entity prior to January 1, 2001, at the time the owner decides to sell or
otherwise dispose of the development, the owner shall not be required
to comply with this subdivision. However, the owner shall notify the
department of this exemption and provide the department a copy of the
offer.
   (h) The initial notice of a bona fide opportunity to submit an offer to
purchase shall contain all of the following:
   (1) A statement that the owner will make available to each of the type
of entities listed in subdivision (d), within 15 business days of receiving
a request therefor, the terms of assumable financing, if any; the terms of
the subsidy contract, if any; and proposed improvements to the property
to be made by the owner in connection with the sale, if any.
   (2) A statement that each of the type of entities listed in subdivision
(d) has the right to purchase the development under this section.
   (3) A statement that the owner will make available to each of the type
of entities listed in subdivision (d), within 15 business days of receiving
a request therefor, itemized lists of monthly operating expenses, capital
improvements as determined by the owner made within each of the two
preceding calendar years, the amount of project reserves, and copies of
the two most recent financial and physical inspection reports on the
development, if any, filed with the federal, state, or local agencies.
   (4) A statement that the owner will make available to each of the
entities listed in subdivision (d), within 15 business days of a request
[Ch. 666 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4375

therefor, the most recent rent roll listing the rent paid for each unit and
the subsidy, if any, paid by a governmental agency as of the date the
notice of intent was made pursuant to Section 65863.10, and a statement
of the vacancy rate at the development for each of the two preceding
calendar years.
   (5) A statement that the owner has satisfied all notice requirements
pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 65863.10, unless the notice of
opportunity to submit an offer to purchase is delivered more than 12
months prior to the anticipated date of termination of prepayment.
   (i) If a qualified entity elects to purchase an assisted housing
development, it shall make a bona fide offer to purchase the
development. A qualified entity’s bona fide offer to purchase shall
identify whether it is a tenant association, nonprofit organization, public
agency, or profit-motivated organizations or individuals and shall
certify, under penalty of perjury, that it is qualified pursuant to
subdivision (e). During the first 180 days from the date of an owner’s
bona fide notice of the opportunity to submit an offer to purchase, an
owner shall accept a bona fide offer to purchase only from a qualified
entity. During this 180-day period, the owner shall not accept offers from
any other entity.
   (j) When a bona fide offer to purchase has been made to an owner, and
the offer is accepted, a purchase agreement shall be executed.
   (k) Either the owner or the qualified entity may request that the fair
market value of the property, as a development, be determined by an
independent appraiser qualified to perform multifamily housing
appraisals, who shall be selected and paid by the requesting party. All
appraisers shall possess qualifications equivalent to those required by
the members of the Appraisers Institute. This appraisal shall be
nonbinding on either party with respect to the sales price of the
development offered in the bona fide offer to purchase, or the acceptance
or rejection of the offer.
   (l) During the 180-day period following the initial 180-day period
required pursuant to subdivision (i), an owner may accept an offer from
a person or an entity that does not qualify under subdivision (e). This
acceptance shall be made subject to the owner providing each qualified
entity that made a bona fide offer to purchase the first opportunity to
purchase the development at the same terms and conditions as the
pending offer to purchase, unless these terms and conditions are
modified by mutual consent. The owner shall notify in writing those
qualified entities of the terms and conditions of the pending offer to
purchase, sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
The qualified entity shall have 30 days from the date the notice is mailed
to submit a bona fide offer to purchase and that offer shall be accepted
by the owner. The owner shall not be required to comply with the
 4376                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 666 ]
provisions of this subdivision if the person or the entity making the offer
during this time period agrees to maintain the development for persons
and families of very low, low, and moderate income in accordance with
paragraph (2) of subdivision (e). The owner shall notify the department
regarding how the buyer is meeting the requirements of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (e).
   (m) This section shall not apply to any of the following: a government
taking by eminent domain or negotiated purchase; a forced sale pursuant
to a foreclosure; a transfer by gift, devise, or operation of law; a sale to
a person who would be included within the table of descent and
distribution if there were to be a death intestate of an owner; or an owner
who certifies, under penalty of perjury, the existence of a financial
emergency during the period covered by the first right of refusal
requiring immediate access to the proceeds of the sale of the
development. The certification shall be made pursuant to subdivision
(p).
   (n) Prior to the close of escrow, an owner selling, leasing, or
otherwise disposing of a development to a purchaser who does not
qualify under subdivision (e) shall certify under penalty of perjury that
the owner has complied with all provisions of this section and Section
65863.10. This certification shall be recorded and shall contain a legal
description of the property, shall be indexed to the name of the owner as
grantor, and may be relied upon by good faith purchasers and
encumbrances for value and without notice of a failure to comply with
the provisions of this section.
   Any person or entity acting solely in the capacity of an escrow agent
for the transfer of real property subject to this section shall not be liable
for any failure to comply with this section unless the escrow agent either
had actual knowledge of the requirements of this section or acted
contrary to written escrow instructions concerning the provisions of this
section.
   (o) The department shall undertake the following responsibilities and
duties:
   (1) Maintain a form containing a summary of rights and obligations
under this section and make that information available to owners of
assisted housing developments as well as to tenant associations, local
nonprofit organizations, regional or national nonprofit organizations,
public agencies, and other entities with an interest in preserving the
state’s subsidized housing.
   (2) Compile, maintain, and update a list of entities in subdivision (d)
that have either contacted the department with an expressed interest in
purchasing a development in the subject area or have been identified by
the department as potentially having an interest in participating in a
right-of-first-refusal program. The department shall publicize the
[Ch. 667 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4377

existence of the list statewide. Upon receipt of a notice of intent under
Section 65863.10, the department shall make the list available to the
owner proposing the termination or removal of government assistance.
If the department does not make the list available at any time, the owner
shall only be required to send a written copy of the opportunity to submit
an offer to purchase notice to the qualified entities which directly contact
the owner and to post a copy of the notice in the common area pursuant
to subdivision (g).
   (p) (1) The provisions of this section may be enforced either in law
or in equity by any qualified entity entitled to exercise the opportunity
to purchase and right-of-first-refusal under this section, that has been
adversely affected by an owner’s failure to comply with this section.
   (2) An owner may rely on the statements, claims, or representations
of any person or entity that the person or entity is a qualified entity as
specified in subdivision (d), unless the owner has actual knowledge that
the purchaser is not a qualified entity.
   (3) If the person or entity is not an entity as specified in subdivision
(d), that fact, in the absence of actual knowledge as described in
paragraph (2), shall not give rise to any claim against the owner for a
violation of this section.
   (q) It is the intent of the Legislature that the provisions of this section
are in addition to, but not preemptive of, applicable federal laws
governing the sale, or other disposition of a development that would
result in either (1) a discontinuance of its use as an assisted housing
development or (2) the termination of any low-income use restrictions
which apply to the development.
   (r) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2011, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which is enacted
on or before January 1, 2011, deletes or extends that date.



                             CHAPTER 667

  An act to amend Sections 50800, 50801, 50801.5, 50802, 50802.5,
50804, 53260, 53265, 53275, 53280, and 53300 of, and to add Sections
50675.12 and 53311 to, the Health and Safety Code, relating to housing.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

 SECTION 1.        Section 50675.12 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
 4378                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 667 ]
   50675.12. (a) The department shall include in the annual report
required by Section 50408 information that describes all of the
following:
   (1) The number of projects assisted through the program.
   (2) The types of units assisted through the program.
   (3) The location and geographical distribution of the projects and
units assisted.
   (4) The average cost per project, and cost per unit.
   (5) The number of projects and units that have been assisted that serve
special needs populations and information related to the types of special
needs populations served.
   (b) After each Notice of Funding Availability issued for the
distribution of funds pursuant to the program, the department shall
evaluate the ability of projects that serve families or special needs
populations to competitively access the program. Based on its analysis,
if the department determines that those projects are not able to apply for
or to successfully compete for funding, the department shall make the
adjustments it deems appropriate to ensure that these populations are
adequately served in subsequent Notices of Funding Availability. These
adjustments may include, but are not limited to, making adjustments to
threshold requirements, evaluative criteria, or the timing of the issuance
of Notices of Funding Availability to ensure that reasonable funding
remains available for more complex projects that include the supportive
services necessary to serve families and special needs populations.
   SEC. 2. Section 50800 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   50800. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature to encourage the
provision of shelter, with effective personal rehabilitation and
self-sufficiency development services, to homeless persons at as low a
cost and as quickly as possible, without compromising the health and
safety of shelter occupants. It is also the intent of the Legislature to
encourage the move of homeless persons from shelters to a
self-supporting environment as soon as possible, to encourage provision
of services for as many persons at risk of homelessness as possible, to
encourage compatible and effective funding of homeless services, and
to encourage coordination among public agencies that fund or provide
services to homeless individuals, as well as agencies that discharge
people from their institutions, including, but not limited to, child welfare
agencies, health care programs, and jails and prisons. Because many
communities currently provide shelter and limited services to
individuals who are unable or unwilling to comply with traditional
housing programs only during cold and wet weather and because
year-round shelter will encourage these individuals to accept services
and move toward permanent housing, it is also the intent of the
[Ch. 667 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4379

Legislature to increase the availability of year-round shelter to meet the
special needs of those individuals, including a Safe Haven that provides
supportive housing for seriously mentally ill homeless persons.
   (b) There is hereby created the Emergency Housing and Assistance
Program.
   (c) To the extent possible, the Emergency Housing and Assistance
Program shall not conflict with the federal Stewart B. McKinney
Homeless Assistance Act, as approved on July 22, 1987, cited as Public
Law 100-77, as it is, from time to time, amended, and regulations
promulgated thereunder by the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development, or its successor.
   SEC. 3. Section 50801 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   50801. As used in this chapter:
   (a) ‘‘Department’’ means the Department of Housing and
Community Development.
   (b) ‘‘Designated local board’’ means a group, including social service
providers and a representative of local government, that has met
department requirements for distribution of grants allocated by the
department pursuant to this chapter.
   (c) ‘‘Director’’ means the Director of Housing and Community
Development.
   (d) ‘‘Eligible organization’’ means an agency of local government or
a nonprofit corporation that provides, or contracts with community
organizations to provide, emergency shelter or transitional housing, or
both.
   (e) ‘‘Emergency shelter’’ means housing with minimal supportive
services for homeless persons that is limited to occupancy of six months
or less by a homeless person. No individual or household may be denied
emergency shelter because of an inability to pay.
   (f) ‘‘Nonurban county’’ means any county with a population of less
than 200,000, as published in the most recent edition of Population
Estimates of California Cities and Counties, E-1, prepared by the
Department of Finance, Population Research Unit.
   (g) ‘‘Region’’ means a county or a consortium of counties voluntarily
banding together by action of a designated local board.
   (h) ‘‘Safe Haven’’ means supportive housing for seriously mentally
ill homeless persons, many of whom have cooccurring substance abuse
problems, that have been unable or unwilling to participate in high
demand housing programs.
   (i) ‘‘Transitional housing’’ means housing with supportive services
for up to 24 months that is exclusively designated and targeted for
recently homeless persons. Transitional housing includes
self-sufficiency development services, with the ultimate goal of moving
 4380                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 667 ]
recently homeless persons to permanent housing as quickly as possible,
and limits rents and service fees to an ability-to-pay formula reasonably
consistent with the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development’s requirements for subsidized housing for low-income
persons. Rents and service fees paid for transitional housing may be
reserved, in whole or in part, to assist residents in moving to permanent
housing.
   (j) ‘‘Urban county’’ means any county that is not a nonurban county.
   SEC. 4. Section 50801.5 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   50801.5. (a) The department shall adopt regulations for the
administration of the Emergency Housing and Assistance Program. The
regulations shall govern the equitable distribution of funds in
accordance with the intent and provisions of this chapter, and shall
ensure that the program is administered in an effective and efficient
manner. The regulations shall provide for reasonable delegation of
authority to designated local boards, ensure that local priorities and
criteria are reasonably designed to address the needs of homeless people,
and ensure that designated local boards meet reasonable standards of
inclusiveness, accountability, nondiscrimination, and integrity.
   (b) The regulations adopted pursuant to this section shall ensure that
emergency shelter and services shall be provided on a first-come,
first-served basis for whatever time periods are established by the
shelter. No individual or household may be denied shelter or services
because of an inability to pay. Nothing in this provision shall be
construed to preclude a shelter from accepting payment vouchers
provided through any other public or private program so long as no
shelter beds are reserved beyond sundown for that purpose.
Notwithstanding Section 11135 of the Government Code, nothing in this
section shall be construed to preclude a provider of emergency shelter
or transitional housing from restricting occupancy on the basis of sex.
However, in the case of families, providers of emergency shelter or
transitional housing shall provide, to the greatest extent feasible,
adequate facilities within their range of services so that all members of
a family may be housed together, regardless of age and gender.
   SEC. 5. Section 50802 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   50802. (a) The department shall ensure that not less than 20 percent
of the moneys in the Emergency Housing and Assistance Fund shall be
allocated to nonurban counties during any given fiscal year. If the funds
designated for facilities operation that are allocated to nonurban counties
are not awarded by the end of that fiscal year, then those unencumbered
funds shall be allocated in the next fiscal year to urban counties. Funds
for capital development that are not awarded by the end of the second
[Ch. 667 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4381

fiscal year shall be awarded in the subsequent fiscal year to urban
counties.
   (b) The amount of funds that the department allocates from the
Emergency Housing and Assistance Fund to each region, excluding
funds allocated pursuant to subdivision (a), shall be based upon a
formula that accords at least 20 percent weight to each of the following
factors:
   (1) The relative number of persons in the region below the poverty
line according to the most recent federal census, updated, if possible,
with an estimate by the Department of Finance, compared to the total of
the urban counties.
   (2) The relative number of persons unemployed within each region,
based on the most recent one-year period for which data is available,
compared to the total of the urban counties.
   (c) Grant funds shall be disbursed as expeditiously as possible by the
department.
   (d) The department shall use not more than 4 percent of the amount
available for funds pursuant to this chapter to defray the department’s
administrative costs pursuant to this chapter.
   SEC. 6. Section 50802.5 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   50802.5. (a) The department shall issue a notice or notices of
funding availability to potential applicants and designated local boards,
as applicable, as soon as possible after funding becomes available for the
Emergency Housing and Assistance Program. Each notice of funding
availability shall indicate the amounts and types of funds available under
this program.
   (b) A designated local board, or the department in the absence of a
designated local board, shall solicit, receive, and select among
applications for grants pursuant to this chapter from eligible
organizations through an open, fair, and competitive process. These
applications shall be ranked and selected by a designated local board, or
by the department in the absence of a designated local board.
   (c) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), the department may restrict a
designated local board from selecting any application requesting a grant
for capital developments if the amount requested by the application
exceeds the limits determined by the department, and the department
determines that the designated local board is not qualified to evaluate the
application. The department shall establish criteria for distinguishing
between a designated local board that may be so restricted and a
designated local board that would not be so restricted. A designated local
board may appeal to the director, or to the director’s designee, any
decision made by the department pursuant to this subdivision. The
department, by June 30, 2001, shall consider increasing the maximum
 4382                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 667 ]
grant limits to three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) for operating
grants and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) for capital grants.
   (d) The department, or the designated local board, as applicable, shall
not grant more than one million dollars ($1,000,000) to any eligible
organization within a region in a funding round even if the eligible
organization has filed multiple applications.
   (e) The department shall determine requirements of the grant contract
and shall contract directly with the grant recipient. The department shall
not delegate this function to the designated local boards. Eligible
designated local boards may use a percentage of the regional award
funds to defray administrative costs. The department shall establish this
percentage, which shall not exceed 2 percent.
   (f) The designated local board shall regulate the performance of any
grant contract within their region, subject to department oversight and
requirements established by the department.
   (g) The department shall not perform a secondary rating or ranking
review on those grant applications that have been solicited, received, and
selected by a designated local board according to a local ranking
criterion that has been approved by the department.
   SEC. 7. Section 50804 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   50804. (a) Each designated local board shall submit to the
department for approval, a local emergency shelter strategy for its
region, describing the procedures for complying with requirements
pursuant to this chapter and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The
department shall establish, by regulation, the types of information that
each designated local board shall include in the strategy, including, but
not limited to, each of the following:
   (1) A statement of goals and how goals will be achieved.
   (2) A statement of priorities and how the priorities complement the
local continuum of care planning process.
   (3) A description of the application process and ranking criteria for
the Emergency Housing and Assistance Program.
   (4) Copies of application forms for the Emergency Housing and
Assistance Program that the designated local board will use to evaluate
requests for grants.
   (5) A statement of how grant recipients shall be encouraged to
develop year-round emergency shelters and transitional housing to meet
the diverse needs of the homeless populations that include families,
youth, and persons with physical and mental disabilities, people who are
addicted to alcohol and drugs, people living with HIV/AIDS, veterans,
the elderly, and pregnant women. Also, a description of how the local
plan serves the needs of individuals and families at risk of homelessness
as a result of eviction.
[Ch. 667 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4383

   (b) The department shall establish a deadline, by which date the
designated local board shall be required to submit a strategy for the
department’s review.
   (c) Upon the department’s approval of a strategy, the designated local
board shall make the strategy broadly available to shelter and service
providers and to other interested persons in its region.
   SEC. 8. Section 53260 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   53260. For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions
apply:
   (a) ‘‘Council’’ means the Supportive Housing Program Council.
   (b) ‘‘Lead agency’’ means the State Department of Mental Health,
which shall be the governmental agency that is primarily responsible for
administering this chapter.
   (c) ‘‘Supportive housing’’ means housing with no limit on length of
stay, that is occupied by the target population, and that is linked to onsite
or offsite services that assist the tenant to retain the housing, improve his
or her health status, maximize their ability to live and, when possible,
to work in the community. This housing may include apartments,
single-room occupancy residences, or single-family homes.
   (d) ‘‘Target population’’ means adults with low incomes having one
or more disabilities, including mental illness, HIV or AIDS, substance
abuse, or other chronic health conditions, or individuals eligible for
services provided under the Lanterman Developmental Disabilities
Services Act (Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 4500) of the
Welfare and Institutions Code) and may, among other populations,
include families with children, elderly persons, young adults aging out
of the foster care system, individuals exiting from institutional settings,
veterans, or homeless people.
   SEC. 9. Section 53265 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   53265. (a) In order to encourage the integration of housing and
services, it is the intent of the Legislature to promote interagency
coordination and collaboration among not only local private and public
agencies, but also among the state agencies responsible for the provision
of housing and support services to very low income Californians.
   (b) Therefore, there is hereby established the Supportive Housing
Program Council to assist with the implementation of this chapter.
   (c) Members of the council shall include all of the following:
   (1) The following state officials or their designees.
   (A) The Secretary of the Health and Welfare Agency.
   (B) The Secretary of the Business, Transportation and Housing
Agency.
 4384                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 667 ]
   (C) The Directors of the State Department of Mental Health, the State
Department of Developmental Services, the State Department of Social
Services, the State Department of Health Services, the California
Department of Aging, the Department of Housing and Community
Development, the State Department of Alcohol and Drug Programs, the
California Housing Finance Agency, the Department of Rehabilitation,
the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, and the Department of
Employment Development.
   (2) Three consumer representatives from the target population,
appointed by the Secretary of the Health and Welfare Agency, shall also
serve on the council.
   (d) The duties of the council shall include all of the following:
   (1) Developing, promoting, and implementing policy supporting this
chapter.
   (2) Assisting the lead agency in reviewing the requests for grant
applications, reviewing grant applications submitted to the lead agency,
and providing the lead agency with recommendations for awarding
grants pursuant to Section 53275.
   (3) Reviewing input regarding program policy and direction from
individuals and entities with experience with the target population.
   (4) Assisting the lead agency to coordinate programs under this
chapter with special needs housing programs offered by government or
private lenders.
   (5) Assisting the lead agency in fulfilling its responsibilities under
this chapter.
   (6) Providing recommendations to the lead agency regarding this
chapter.
   (7) At the request of the lead agency, assisting agencies in planning
and implementing this chapter including assisting with local technical
assistance.
   SEC. 10. Section 53275 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   53275. (a) Grants shall be awarded by the lead agency based upon
the recommendations of the council and pursuant to this chapter. The
lead agency shall issue requests for applications for awarding the grants,
which shall specify maximum dollar amounts for which grants may be
awarded. The request for applications also shall specify other criteria, as
required by this chapter. Applicants may apply for a single supportive
housing project, or may submit a single application for several projects.
   (b) The lead agency shall award grants as follows:
   (1) Grants shall be awarded for up to a three-year period except for
grants from funds transferred to, or administered by, the Department of
Housing and Community Development, and awarded for housing costs,
in which case the grants may be awarded for a period not to exceed 15
[Ch. 667 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4385

years. Each award shall be in an amount not to exceed two million dollars
($2,000,000) for a single project, or three million dollars ($3,000,000)
for an application from a single jurisdiction for several projects at the
discretion of the lead agency, in consultation with the council. At the
discretion of the lead agency, these grants may include up to twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000) for one-time startup grants which may be
used, among other things, for purchasing equipment or furniture, hiring
staff, designing a program evaluation, or hiring a consultant.
   (2) All grants awarded under this subdivision shall be matched by the
grantee with fifty cents ($0.50) for each one dollar ($1) awarded in the
first year, one dollar ($1) for each one dollar ($1) awarded in the second
year, and one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) for each one dollar ($1)
awarded in the third year and, to the extent that this funding continues,
in subsequent years. The match shall be contributed in cash or as services
or resources of comparable value. It is the intent of the Legislature that
participants seek and utilize private funds, or public funds administered
by the federal or local governments for this purpose.
   (3) In order to receive a grant under this chapter, an applicant shall
demonstrate a need for supportive housing for low-income individuals
with special needs and a local commitment to providing funding for the
purpose of developing and operating supportive housing.
   (c) A local nonprofit agency or local government agency shall be
eligible for a grant under this chapter if it demonstrates in its program
plan that it:
   (1) Meets local priorities for supportive housing as identified in a
publicly adopted planning document, such as the Consolidated Plan
prepared for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the
Continuum of Care Plan, or a local plan for housing services for the
target population.
   (2) Provides evidence that affordable housing linked to services
appropriate to the target population will be made available.
   (3) Has established collaborative agreements with housing and
service programs to deliver the necessary services and housing to the
target population.
   (4) Requests funding supplements and does not supplant existing
funding.
   SEC. 11. Section 53280 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   53280. The lead agency shall give preference to proposals that do
any of the following:
   (a) Provide supportive housing to underserved target groups for
which few alternative resources are available.
   (b) Demonstrate collaborative agreements between entities that fund
and provide local public and private housing services.
 4386                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 667 ]
   (c) Demonstrate cost avoidance as compared to other housing and
service or institutional options available to the specific target
population.
   (d) Propose to serve the target population with an average income of
not more than 100 percent of the federal poverty guidelines, or higher at
the discretion of the council.
   (e) Demonstrate the capacity and readiness to begin operation of a
supportive housing program within one year of receiving the grant.
   (f) Demonstrate linkages to programs established under the Adult and
Older Adult Mental Health System of Care Act (Part 3 (commencing
with Section 5801) of Division 5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code),
or other integrated services projects supported with state or local
government funds.
   SEC. 12. Section 53300 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   53300. (a) No more than 10 percent of the amount appropriated in
a fiscal year for the purposes of this chapter may be used for state
administration of this chapter, including evaluation and technical
assistance. Technical assistance shall include, but is not limited to,
assisting with collaborations, providing information, and convening
training workshops. The Legislature shall be notified of the
administrative costs of this program pursuant to Section 28 of the Budget
Act.
   (b) Notwithstanding the allocation of funds in the Budget Act of 2000
for the supportive housing initiative to the local assistance Item
4440-101-0001, up to 10 percent of the funds may be spent for
administrative costs, as defined in subdivision (a).
   (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the lead agency shall
make all grant awards from funds allocated in the Budget Act of 2000
for the supportive housing initiative no later than June 30, 2001, and
shall expend the funds allocated for those grants no later than June 30,
2004, except for grants awarded for housing costs, as specified in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 53275.
   SEC. 13. Section 53311 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   53311. The lead agency shall annually prepare and provide a report
to the Legislature no later than July 1 of each year that describes all of
the following:
   (a) The number of persons housed pursuant to the program.
   (b) The extent of housing stability.
   (c) The demographic characteristics of those housed pursuant to the
program, including veterans, people with mental illness, people with
substance abuse histories, single adults, and families with children.
   (d) The counties and cities in which the housing is located.
[Ch. 669 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4387

  (e) The changes in income levels of those housed.
  (f) Improvements in health status, to the extent available.



                             CHAPTER 668

  An act to amend Section 12200 of the Penal Code, relating to firearms.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12200 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   12200. The term ‘‘machinegun’’ as used in this chapter means any
weapon which shoots, is designed to shoot, or can readily be restored to
shoot, automatically more than one shot, without manual reloading, by
a single function of the trigger. The term shall also include the frame or
receiver of any such weapon, any part designed and intended solely and
exclusively, or combination of parts designed and intended, for use in
converting a weapon into a machinegun, and any combination of parts
from which a machinegun can be assembled if such parts are in the
possession or under the control of a person. The term also includes any
weapon deemed by the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms as readily convertible to a machinegun under Chapter 53
(commencing with Section 5801) of Title 26 of the United States Code.
   SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 669

  An act to amend Sections 646.9 and 646.93 of, and to add Section
646.94 to, the Penal Code, relating to stalking.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]
 4388                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 669 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 646.9 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   646.9. (a) Any person who willfully, maliciously, and repeatedly
follows or harasses another person and who makes a credible threat with
the intent to place that person in reasonable fear for his or her safety, or
the safety of his or her immediate family, is guilty of the crime of
stalking, punishable by imprisonment in a county jail for not more than
one year or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or
by both that fine and imprisonment, or by imprisonment in the state
prison.
   (b) Any person who violates subdivision (a) when there is a
temporary restraining order, injunction, or any other court order in effect
prohibiting the behavior described in subdivision (a) against the same
party, shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for two,
three, or four years.
   (c) (1) Every person who, after having been convicted of a felony
under Section 273.5, 273.6, or 422, commits a violation of subdivision
(a) shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail for not more than
one year, or by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000), or
by both that fine and imprisonment, or by imprisonment in the state
prison for two, three, or five years.
   (2) Every person who, after having been convicted of a felony under
subdivision (a), commits a violation of this section shall be punished by
imprisonment in the state prison for two, three, or five years.
   (d) In addition to the penalties provided in this section, the sentencing
court may order a person convicted of a felony under this section to
register as a sex offender pursuant to subparagraph (E) of paragraph (2)
of subdivision (a) of Section 290.
   (e) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘harasses’’ means a knowing and
willful course of conduct directed at a specific person that seriously
alarms, annoys, torments, or terrorizes the person, and that serves no
legitimate purpose. This course of conduct must be such as would cause
a reasonable person to suffer substantial emotional distress, and must
actually cause substantial emotional distress to the person.
   (f) For purposes of this section, ‘‘course of conduct’’ means a pattern
of conduct composed of a series of acts over a period of time, however
short, evidencing a continuity of purpose. Constitutionally protected
activity is not included within the meaning of ‘‘course of conduct.’’
   (g) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘credible threat’’ means a verbal
or written threat, including that performed through the use of an
electronic communication device, or a threat implied by a pattern of
conduct or a combination of verbal, written, or electronically
communicated statements and conduct made with the intent to place the
[Ch. 669 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                4389

person that is the target of the threat in reasonable fear for his or her safety
or the safety of his or her family and made with the apparent ability to
carry out the threat so as to cause the person who is the target of the threat
to reasonably fear for his or her safety or the safety of his or her family.
It is not necessary to prove that the defendant had the intent to actually
carry out the threat. The present incarceration of a person making the
threat shall not be a bar to prosecution under this section.
   (h) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘electronic communication
device’’ includes, but is not limited to, telephones, cellular phones,
computers, video recorders, fax machines, or pagers. ‘‘Electronic
communication’’ has the same meaning as the term defined in
Subsection 12 of Section 2510 of Title 18 of the United States Code.
   (i) This section shall not apply to conduct that occurs during labor
picketing.
   (j) If probation is granted, or the execution or imposition of a
sentence is suspended, for any person convicted under this section, it
shall be a condition of probation that the person participate in
counseling, as designated by the court. However, the court, upon a
showing of good cause, may find that the counseling requirement shall
not be imposed.
   (k) The sentencing court also shall consider issuing an order
restraining the defendant from any contact with the victim, that may be
valid for up to 10 years, as determined by the court. It is the intent of the
Legislature that the length of any restraining order be based upon the
seriousness of the facts before the court, the probability of future
violations, and the safety of the victim and his or her immediate family.
   (l) For purposes of this section, ‘‘immediate family’’ means any
spouse, parent, child, any person related by consanguinity or affinity
within the second degree, or any other person who regularly resides in
the household, or who, within the prior six months, regularly resided in
the household.
   (m) The court shall consider whether the defendant would benefit
from treatment pursuant to Section 2684. If it is determined to be
appropriate, the court shall recommend that the Department of
Corrections make a certification as provided in Section 2684. Upon the
certification, the defendant shall be evaluated and transferred to the
appropriate hospital for treatment pursuant to Section 2684.
   SEC. 2. Section 646.93 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   646.93. (a) (1) In those counties where the arrestee is initially
incarcerated in a jail operated by the county sheriff, the sheriff shall
designate a telephone number that shall be available to the public to
inquire about bail status or to determine if the person arrested has been
released and if not yet released, the scheduled release date, if known.
This subdivision does not require a county sheriff or jail administrator
 4390                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 669 ]
to establish a new telephone number but shall require that the
information contained on the victim resource card, as defined in Section
264.2, specify the phone number that a victim should call to obtain this
information. This subdivision shall not require the county sheriff or
municipal police departments to produce new victim resource cards
containing a designated phone number for the public to inquire about the
bail or custody status of a person who has been arrested until their
existing supply of victim resource cards has been exhausted.
   (2) In those counties where the arrestee is initially incarcerated in an
incarceration facility other than a jail operated by the county sheriff and
in those counties that do not operate a Victim Notification (VNE)
system, a telephone number shall be available to the public to inquire
about bail status or to determine if the person arrested has been released
and if not yet released, the scheduled release date, if known. This
subdivision does not require a municipal police agency or jail
administrator to establish a new telephone number but shall require that
the information contained on the victim resource card, as defined in
Section 264.2, specify the phone number that a victim should call to
obtain this information. This subdivision shall not require the county
sheriff or municipal police departments to produce new victim resource
cards containing a designated phone number for the public to inquire
about the bail or custody status of a person who has been arrested until
their existing supply of victim resource cards has been exhausted.
   (3) If an arrestee is transferred to another incarceration facility and is
no longer in the custody of the initial arresting agency, the transfer date
and new incarceration location shall be made available through the
telephone number designated by the arresting agency.
   (4) The resource car provided to victims pursuant to Section 264.2
shall list the designated telephone numbers to which this section refers.
   (b) Any request to lower bail shall be heard in open court in
accordance with Section 1270.1. In addition, the prosecutor shall make
all reasonable efforts to notify the victim or victims of the bail hearing.
The victims may be present at the hearing and shall be permitted to
address the court on the issue of bail.
   (c) Unless good cause is shown not to impose the following
conditions, the judge shall impose as additional conditions of release on
bail that:
   (1) The defendant shall not initiate contact in person, by telephone,
or any other means with the alleged victims.
   (2) The defendant shall not knowingly go within 100 yards of the
alleged victims, their residence, or place of employment.
   (3) The defendant shall not possess any firearms or other deadly or
dangerous weapons.
   (4) The defendant shall obey all laws.
[Ch. 669 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4391

   (5) The defendant, upon request at the time of his or her appearance
in court, shall provide the court with an address where he or she is
residing or will reside, a business address and telephone number if
employed, and a residence telephone number if the defendant’s
residence has a telephone.
   A showing by declaration that any of these conditions are violated
shall, unless good cause is shown, result in the issuance of a no-bail
warrant.
   SEC. 3. Section 646.94 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   646.94. (a) Contingent upon a Budget Act appropriation, the
Department of Corrections shall ensure that any parolee convicted of
violating Section 646.9 on or after January 1, 2002, who is deemed to
pose a high risk of committing a repeat stalking offense be placed on an
intensive and specialized parole supervision program for a period not to
exceed the period of parole.
   (b) (1) The program shall include referral to specialized services, for
example substance abuse treatment, for offenders needing those
specialized services.
   (2) Parolees participating in this program shall be required to
participate in relapse prevention classes as a condition of parole.
   (3) Parole agents may conduct group counseling sessions as part of
the program.
   (4) The department may include other appropriate offenders in the
treatment program if doing so facilitates the effectiveness of the
treatment program.
   (c) The program shall be established with the assistance and
supervision of the staff of the department primarily by obtaining the
services of mental health providers specializing in the treatment of
stalking patients. Each parolee placed into this program shall be required
to participate in clinical counseling programs aimed at reducing the
likelihood that the parolee will commit or attempt to commit acts of
violence or stalk their victim.
   (d) The department may require persons subject to this section to pay
some or all of the costs associated with this treatment, subject to the
person’s ability to pay. ‘‘Ability to pay’’ means the overall capability of
the person to reimburse the costs, or a portion of the costs, of providing
mental health treatment, and shall include, but shall not be limited to,
consideration of all of the following factors:
   (1) Present financial position.
   (2) Reasonably discernible future financial position.
   (3) Likelihood that the person shall be able to obtain employment
after the date of parole.
   (4) Any other factor or factors that may bear upon the person’s
financial capability to reimburse the department for the costs.
 4392                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 669 ]
   (e) For purposes of this section, a mental health provider specializing
in the treatment of stalking patients shall meet all of the following
requirements:
   (1) Be a licensed clinical social worker, as defined in Article 4
(commencing with Section 4996) of Chapter 14 of Division 2 of the
Business and Professions Code, a clinical psychologist, as defined in
Section 1316.5 of the Health and Safety Code, or a physician and
surgeon engaged in the practice of psychiatry.
   (2) Have clinical experience in the area of assessment and treatment
of stalking patients.
   (3) Have two letters of reference from professionals who can attest to
the applicant’s experience in counseling stalking patients.
   (f) The program shall target parolees convicted of violating Section
646.9 who meet the following conditions:
   (A) The offender has been subject to a clinical assessment.
   (B) A review of the offender’s criminal history indicates that the
offender poses a high risk of committing further acts of stalking or acts
of violence against his or her victim or other persons upon his or her
release on parole.
   (C) The parolee, based on his or her clinical assessment, may be
amenable to treatment.
   (g) On or before January 1, 2006, the Department of Corrections shall
evaluate the intensive and specialized parole supervision program and
make a report to the Legislature regarding the results of the program,
including, but not limited to, the recidivism rate for repeat stalking
related offenses committed by persons placed into the program and a
cost-benefit analysis of the program.
   (h) This section shall become operative upon the appropriation of
sufficient funds in the Budget Act to implement this section.
   SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution for certain
costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because
in that regard this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a
crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   However, notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
other costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and
school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7
(commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the
Government Code. If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement
[Ch. 670 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4393

does not exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall
be made from the State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 670

  An act to amend Section 821 of, and to add Article 5 (commencing
with Section 500) to Chapter 3 of Part 1 of Division 1 of, the Food and
Agricultural Code, relating to sustainable agriculture.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares the following:
   (a) A growing number of California farmers and ranchers have
adopted, or are seeking to adopt, sustainable farming practices that
enable them to reduce pesticide use, manage pesticide and water use cost
effectively, increase soil fertility, and reduce off-farm environmental
impacts. California is also home to the nation’s largest number of organic
farmers and ranchers, who produce agricultural products in compliance
with the California Organic Foods Act, and acreage dedicated to
certified organic production is growing rapidly in California.
Additionally, many growers and commodity groups are seeking ways to
market their products based on consumer recognition of their
stewardship activities.
   (b) The State of California and the University of California have
created a number of programs designed to promote research on, and
facilitate adoption of, sustainable agricultural practices. These
programs take a systems approach to agricultural research management,
emphasizing on-farm work with farmers, including small-scale,
immigrant, and minority farmers, who voluntarily seek to make a
transition to more sustainable agricultural practices. The programs
recognize that farmers are implementing successful innovative farming
practices, and they support that innovation by applying scientific
analysis to the practices and encouraging their broader dissemination to
other farmers. The programs emphasize collaborative research and
mutual learning among farmers, pest control advisors, extension
advisers, commodity groups, and affiliated agricultural organizations to
maximize adoption of sustainable agricultural practices by farmers and
others in the agriculture industry. Sustainable agricultural programs at
the university include research, teaching, and outreach in the areas of
sustainable farming systems, biologically integrated farming systems,
 4394                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 670 ]
organic agriculture, small farms, agroecology systems, biointensive
integrated pest management, and biological pest control, and include,
but are not limited to, the Sustainable Agriculture Research and
Education Program, the Center for Agroecology and Sustainable
Farming Systems, the Centers for Biological Control, and the Small
Farm Center.
  (c) California farmers and ranchers are demonstrating a growing
desire to obtain the information on sustainable agricultural practices and
marketing strategies that these university programs are designed to
provide. They are looking to the university to incorporate the programs
and the information and practices developed by these programs into the
University of California Cooperative Extension and other state and
university programs designed to assist California agriculture, so that the
technical information and support to adopt these practices are readily
available to California farmers and ranchers.
  SEC. 2. Article 5 (commencing with Section 500) is added to
Chapter 3 of Part 1 of Division 1 of the Food and Agricultural Code, to
read:

                   Article 5.   Sustainable Agriculture

   500. Pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 821, it is the intent of the
Legislature that programs at the University of California designed to
promote research on, and facilitate adoption of, sustainable agricultural
practices, including, but not limited to, research, teaching, and outreach
in the areas of sustainable farming systems, biologically integrated
farming systems, organic agriculture, small farms, agroecology
systems, biointensive integrated pest management, and biological pest
control shall be adequately funded through the annual budget process to
ensure the programs’ ongoing ability to respond to the needs of all
sectors of California’s agricultural industry. It is the further intent of the
Legislature that the sustainable agricultural practices, methods, and
materials identified and developed by these programs be incorporated
into appropriate programs of the state and the university to maximize the
access of California farmers and ranchers to the information needed to
adopt and implement these measures.
   501. Pursuant to Section 500 and subdivision (d) of Section 821, the
Legislature requests that the Regents of the University of California do
both of the following:
   (a) Provide adequate and ongoing funding to programs at the
University of California designed to promote research on, and facilitate
adoption of, sustainable agricultural practices, including, but not limited
to, research, teaching, and outreach in the areas of sustainable farming
systems, biologically integrated farming systems, organic agriculture,
[Ch. 671 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4395

small farms, agroecology systems, biointensive integrated pest
management, and biological pest control to ensure the programs’
ongoing ability to respond to the needs of all sectors of California’s
agricultural industry.
   (b) Fully incorporate the sustainable agricultural practices, methods,
and materials identified and developed by the programs enumerated in
this article into all appropriate programs of the university to ensure that
California farmers and ranchers have maximum access to the
information needed to adopt and implement these measures.
   SEC. 3. Section 821 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended
to read:
   821. As part of promoting and protecting the agricultural industry
of the state and for the protection of public health, safety, and welfare,
the Legislature shall provide for a continuing sound and healthy
agriculture in California and shall encourage a productive and profitable
agriculture. Major principles of the state’s agricultural policy shall be all
of the following:
   (a) To increase the sale of crops and livestock products produced by
farmers, ranchers, and processors of food and fiber in this state.
   (b) To enhance the potential for domestic and international marketing
of California agricultural products through fostering the creation of
value additions to commodities and the development of new consumer
products.
   (c) To sustain the long-term productivity of the state’s farms by
conserving and protecting the soil, water, and air, which are agriculture’s
basic resources.
   (d) To maximize the ability of farmers, ranchers, and processors to
learn about and adopt practices that will best enable them to achieve the
policies stated in this section.



                             CHAPTER 671

   An act to amend Sections 77201 and 77201.1 of the Government
Code, and to amend Section 1 of Chapter 1045 of the Statutes of 1998,
relating to state and local government, and declaring the urgency thereof,
to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]
 4396                                  STATUTES OF 2000                               [Ch. 671 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 77201 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
  77201. (a) Commencing on July 1, 1997, no county shall be
responsible for funding court operations, as defined in Section 77003
and Rule 810 of the California Rules of Court as it read on July 1, 1996.
  (b) In the 1997–98 fiscal year, each county shall remit to the state in
installments due on January 1, April 1, and June 30, the amounts
specified in paragraphs (1) and (2), as follows:
  (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall remit to the state the amount listed below which is based on
an amount expended by the respective county for court operations during
the 1994–95 fiscal year:

Jurisdiction                                                                       Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 42,045,093
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          46,044
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             900,196
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,604,611
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            420,893
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           309,009
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            21,634,450
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            780,786
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,888,927
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13,355,025
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          371,607
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2,437,196
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2,055,173
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         546,508
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16,669,917
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2,594,901
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         975,311
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           517,921
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          291,872,379
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,242,968
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6,837,518
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             177,880
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1,739,605
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,363,409
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            114,249
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           271,021
[Ch. 671 ]                          STATUTES OF 2000                                      4397

Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        5,739,655
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2,866,986
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        815,130
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     76,567,372
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6,450,175
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        413,368
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      32,524,412
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         40,692,954
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          460,552
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           31,516,134
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      77,637,904
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        31,142,353
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9,102,834
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           6,840,067
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        20,383,643
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        10,604,431
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      49,876,177
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6,449,104
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3,369,017
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       40,477
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        478,144
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10,780,179
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9,273,174
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      8,320,727
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,718,287
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,352,370
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       620,990
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6,981,681
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,080,723
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16,721,157
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2,564,985
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      842,240

  (2) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall also remit to the state the amount listed below which is
based on an amount of fine and forfeiture revenue remitted to the state
pursuant to Sections 27361 and 76000 of this code, Sections 1463.001
and 1464 of the Penal Code, and Sections 42007, 42007.1, and 42008
of the Vehicle Code during the 1994–95 fiscal year:
4398                                   STATUTES OF 2000                                 [Ch. 671 ]

Jurisdiction                                                                      Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $12,769,882
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         58,757
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            377,005
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1,437,671
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           418,558
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          485,040
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            6,138,742
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           235,438
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,217,093
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4,505,786
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         455,389
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1,161,745
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,350,760
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        878,321
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6,688,247
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1,115,601
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        424,070
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          513,445
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          89,771,310
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,207,998
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2,700,045
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            135,457
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             948,837
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2,093,355
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           122,156
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          415,136
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,855,457
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        874,219
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,378,796
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       24,830,542
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,182,230
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          225,080
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        13,328,445
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            7,548,829
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            346,451
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             11,694,120
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        21,410,586
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           5,925,950
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4,753,688
[Ch. 671 ]                          STATUTES OF 2000                                      4399

San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2,573,968
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         7,124,638
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4,094,288
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      15,561,983
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2,267,327
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,198,773
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       46,778
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        801,329
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3,757,059
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2,851,883
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,669,045
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      802,574
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        761,188
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       137,087
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2,299,167
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          440,496
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6,129,411
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,516,065
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      402,077

  (3) The installment due on January 1 shall be for 25 percent of the
amounts specified in paragraphs (1) and (2). The installments due on
April 1 and June 30 shall be prorated uniformly to reflect any
adjustments made by the Department of Finance, as provided in this
section. If no adjustment is made by April 1, 1998, the April 1, 1998,
installment shall be for 15 percent of the amounts specified in paragraphs
(1) and (2). If no adjustment is made by June 30, 1998, the June 30, 1998,
installment shall be for the balance of the amounts specified in
paragraphs (1) and (2).
  (4) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, county
remittances specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not be increased in
subsequent years.
  (5) Any change in statute or rule of court that either reduces the bail
schedule or redirects or reduces a county’s portion of fee, fine, and
forfeiture revenue to an amount that is less than (A) the fees, fines, and
forfeitures retained by that county and (B) the county’s portion of fines
and forfeitures transmitted to the state in the 1994–95 fiscal year, shall
reduce that county’s remittance specified in paragraph (2) of this
subdivision by an equal amount. Nothing in this paragraph is intended
to limit judicial sentencing discretion.
 4400                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 671 ]
   (c) The Department of Finance shall adjust the amount specified in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) that a county is required to submit to the
state, pursuant to the following:
   (1) A county shall submit a declaration to the Department of Finance,
no later than February 15, 1998, that the amount it is required to submit
to the state pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) either includes
or does not include the costs for local judicial benefits which are court
operation costs as defined in Section 77003 and Rule 810 of the
California Rules of Court. The trial courts in a county that submits such
a declaration shall be given a copy of the declaration and the opportunity
to comment on the validity of the statements in the declaration. The
Department of Finance shall verify the facts in the county’s declaration
and comments, if any. Upon verification that the amount the county is
required to submit to the state includes the costs of local judicial benefits,
the department shall reduce on or before June 30, 1998, the amount the
county is required to submit to the state pursuant to paragraph (1) of
subdivision (b) by an amount equal to the cost of those judicial benefits,
in which case the county shall continue to be responsible for the cost of
those benefits. If a county disagrees with the Department of Finance’s
failure to verify the facts in the county’s declaration and reduce the
amount the county is required to submit to the state pursuant to
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), the county may request that the
Controller conduct an audit to verify the facts in the county’s declaration.
The Controller shall conduct the requested audit which shall be at the
requesting county’s expense. If the Controller’s audit verifies the facts
in the county’s declaration, the department shall reduce the amount the
county is required to submit to the state pursuant to paragraph (1) of
subdivision (b) by an amount equal to the amount verified by the
Controller’s audit and the state shall reimburse the requesting county for
the cost of the audit.
   (d) The Department of Finance shall adjust the amount specified in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 77201.1 that a county is
required to submit to the state, pursuant to the following procedures:
   (1) A county may submit a declaration to the Department of Finance,
no later than February 15, 1998, that declares that (A) the county
incorrectly reported county costs as court operations costs as defined in
Section 77003 in the 1994–95 fiscal year, and that incorrect report
resulted in the amount the county is required to submit to the state
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) being too high, (B) the
amount the county is required to submit to the state pursuant to
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) includes amounts that were specifically
appropriated, funded, and expended by a county or city and county
during the 1994–95 fiscal year to fund extraordinary one-time
expenditures for court operation costs, or (C) the amount the county is
[Ch. 671 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4401

required to submit to the state pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision
(b) includes expenses that were funded from grants or subventions from
any source, for court operation costs that could not have been funded
without those grants or subventions being available. A county
submitting that declaration shall concurrently transmit a copy of the
declaration to the trial courts of that county. The trial courts in a county
that submits that declaration shall have the opportunity to comment to
the Department of Finance on the validity of the statements in the
declaration. Upon receipt of the declaration and comments, if any, the
Department of Finance shall determine and certify which costs identified
in the county’s declaration were incorrectly reported as court operation
costs or were expended for extraordinary one-time expenditures or
funded from grants or subventions in the 1994–95 fiscal year. The
Department of Finance shall reduce the amount a county must submit to
the state pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 77201.1
by an amount equal to the amount the department certifies was
incorrectly reported as court operations costs or were expended for
extraordinary one-time expense or funded from grants or subventions in
the 1994–95 fiscal year. If a county disagrees with the Department of
Finance’s failure to verify the facts in the county’s declaration and reduce
the amount the county is required to submit to the state pursuant to
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 77201.1, the county may
request that the Controller conduct an audit to verify the facts in the
county’s declaration. The Controller shall conduct the requested audit,
which shall be at the requesting county’s expense. If the Controller’s
audit verifies the facts in the county’s declaration, the department shall
reduce the amount the county is required to submit to the state pursuant
to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 77201.1 by an amount
equal to the amount verified by the Controller’s audit and the state shall
reimburse the requesting county for the cost of the audit. A county shall
provide, at no charge to the court, any service for which the amount in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 77201.1 was adjusted
downward, if the county is required to provide that service at no cost to
the court by any other provision of law.
   (2) A court may submit a declaration to the Department of Finance,
no later than February 15, 1998, that the county failed to report county
costs as court operations costs as defined in Section 77003 in the
1994–95 fiscal year, and that this failure resulted in the amount the
county is required to submit to the state pursuant to paragraph (1) of
subdivision (b) being too low. A court submitting that declaration shall
concurrently transmit a copy of the declaration to the county. A county
shall have the opportunity to comment to the Department of Finance on
the validity of statements in the declaration and comments, if any. Upon
receipt of the declaration, the Department of Finance shall determine and
 4402                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 671 ]
certify which costs identified in the court’s declaration should have been
reported by the county as court operation costs in the 1994–95 fiscal year
and whether this failure resulted in the amount the county is required to
submit to the state pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) being too
low. The Department of Finance shall notify the county, the trial courts
in the county, and the Judicial Council of its certification and decision.
Within 30 days, the county shall either notify the Department of Finance,
trial courts in the county, and the Judicial Council that the county shall
assume responsibility for the costs the county has failed to report, or that
the department shall increase the amount the county is required to submit
to the state pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section
77201.1 by an amount equal to the amount certified by the department.
A county shall not be required to continue to provide services for which
the amount in paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 77201.1 was
adjusted upward.
   (e) The Legislature hereby finds and declares that to ensure an orderly
transition to state trial court funding, it is necessary to delay the
adjustments to county obligation payments provided for by Article 3
(commencing with Section 77200) of Chapter 13 of Title 8, as added by
Chapter 850 of the Statutes of 1997, until the 1998–99 fiscal year. The
Legislature also finds and declares that since increase adjustments to the
county obligation amounts will not take effect in the 1997–98 fiscal year,
county charges for those services related to the increase adjustments
shall not occur in the 1997–98 fiscal year. It is recognized that the
counties have an obligation to provide, and the trial courts have an
obligation to pay, for services provided by the county pursuant to Section
77212. In the 1997–98 fiscal year, the counties shall charge for, and the
courts shall pay, these obligations consistent with paragraphs (1) and (2)
of this subdivision.
   (1) For the 1997–98 fiscal year, a county shall reduce the charges to
a court for those services for which the amount in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (b) of Section 77201.1 is adjusted upward, by an amount
equal to the lesser of the following:
   (A) The amount of the increase adjustment certified by the
department pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (d).
   (B) The difference between the actual amount charged and paid for
from the trial court operations fund, and the amount charged in the
1994–95 fiscal year.
   (2) For the 1997–98 fiscal year, any funds paid out of the trial court
operations fund established pursuant to Section 77009 during the
1997–98 fiscal year to pay for those services for which there was an
upward adjustment, shall be returned to the trial court operations fund
in the amount equal to the lesser of the following:
[Ch. 671 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4403

   (A) The amount of the increase adjustment certified by the
department pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (d).
   (B) The difference between the actual amount charged and paid for
from the trial court operations fund, and the amount charged in the
1994–95 fiscal year.
   (3) The Judicial Council shall reduce the allocation to the courts by
an amount equal to the amount of any increase adjustment certified by
the Department of Finance, if the cost of those services was used in
determining the Judicial Council’s allocation of funding for the 1997–98
fiscal year.
   (4) In the event the charges are not reduced as provided in paragraph
(1) or the funds are not returned to the trial court operations fund as
provided in paragraph (2), the trial court operations fund shall be
refunded for the 1998–99 fiscal year. Funds provided to the trial court
operations fund pursuant to this paragraph shall be available to the trial
courts to meet financial obligations incurred during the 1997–98 fiscal
year. To the extent that a trial court receives total resources for trial court
funding from the county and the state for the 1997–98 fiscal year that
exceeded the amount of the allocation approved by the Judicial Council
by November 30, 1997, these amounts shall be available for expenditure
in the 1998–99 fiscal year and the Judicial Council shall reduce the
1998–99 fiscal year allocation of the court by an equal amount.
   (f) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility to provide necessary and suitable court facilities pursuant
to Section 68073.
   (g) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility for justice-related expenses not included in Section 77003
which are otherwise required of the county by law, including, but not
limited to, indigent defense representation and investigation, and
payment of youth authority charges.
   (h) The Department of Finance shall notify the county, trial courts in
the county, and Judicial Council of the final decision and resulting
adjustment.
   (i) On or before February 15, 1998, each county shall submit to the
Department of Finance a report of the amount it expended for trial court
operations as defined in Section 77003 and Rule 810 of the California
Rules of Court as it read on July 1, 1996, between the start of the
1997–98 fiscal year and the effective date of this section. The department
shall reduce the amount a county is required to remit to the state pursuant
to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) in the 1997–98 fiscal year by an
amount equal to the amount a county expended for court operation costs
between the start of the 1997–98 fiscal year and the effective date of this
section. The department shall also reduce the amount a county is
required to remit to the state pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (b)
 4404                                  STATUTES OF 2000                               [Ch. 671 ]
in the 1997–98 fiscal year by an amount equal to the amount of fine and
forfeiture revenue that a county remitted to the state between the start of
the 1997–98 fiscal year and the effective date of this section. The
department shall notify the county, the trial courts of the county, and the
Judicial Council of the amount it has reduced a county’s obligation to
remit to the state pursuant to this subdivision.
   SEC. 2. Section 77201.1 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   77201.1. (a) Commencing on July 1, 1997, no county shall be
responsible for funding court operations, as defined in Section 77003
and Rule 810 of the California Rules of Court as it read on July 1, 1996.
   (b) Commencing in the 1999–2000 fiscal year, and each fiscal year
thereafter, each county shall remit to the state in four equal installments
due on October 1, January 1, April 1, and May 1, the amounts specified
in paragraphs (1) and (2), as follows:
   (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall remit to the state the amount listed below which is based on
an amount expended by the respective county for court operations during
the 1994–95 fiscal year:

Jurisdiction                                                                       Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 22,509,905
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            11,974,535
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  –
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11,222,780
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       9,234,511
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          175,330,647
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
[Ch. 671 ]                          STATUTES OF 2000                                      4405

Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 –
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               –
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4,520,911
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     38,846,003
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17,857,241
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         20,733,264
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           20,227,102
San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      43,495,932
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        19,295,303
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6,543,068
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   –
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        12,181,079
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6,764,792
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      28,689,450
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6,242,661
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6,162,466
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3,506,297
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              –
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             –
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                –
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9,734,190
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            –

  (2) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, each
county shall also remit to the state the amount listed below which is
based on an amount of fine and forfeiture revenue remitted to the state
 4406                                  STATUTES OF 2000                            [Ch. 671 ]
pursuant to Sections 27361 and 76000 of this code, Sections 1463.001,
1463.07, and 1464 of the Penal Code, and Sections 42007, 42007.1, and
42008 of the Vehicle Code during the 1994–95 fiscal year:

Jurisdiction                                                                        Amount
Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $ 9,912,156
Alpine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         58,757
Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            265,707
Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1,217,052
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           310,331
Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          397,468
Contra Costa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4,486,486
Del Norte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           124,085
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1,028,349
Fresno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      3,695,633
Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         360,974
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1,025,583
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,144,661
Inyo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        614,920
Kern . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5,530,972
Kings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         982,208
Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        375,570
Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          430,163
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          71,002,129
Madera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,042,797
Marin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2,111,712
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            135,457
Mendocino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             717,075
Merced . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,733,156
Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           104,729
Mono . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          415,136
Monterey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          3,330,125
Napa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        719,168
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,220,686
Orange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19,572,810
Placer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,243,754
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          193,772
Riverside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         7,681,744
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            5,937,204
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            302,324
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              8,163,193
[Ch. 671 ]                          STATUTES OF 2000                                   4407

San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16,166,735
San Francisco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4,046,107
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3,562,835
San Luis Obispo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2,036,515
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4,831,497
Santa Barbara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3,277,610
Santa Clara . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      11,597,583
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1,902,096
Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,044,700
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       42,533
Siskiyou . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        615,581
Solano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,708,758
Sonoma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2,316,999
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,855,169
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      678,681
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        640,303
Trinity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       137,087
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,840,422
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          361,665
Ventura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     4,575,349
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      880,798
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        289,325

  (3) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, county
remittances specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not be increased in
subsequent years.
  (4) Except for those counties with a population of 70,000, or less, on
January 1, 1996, the amount a county is required to remit pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall be adjusted by the amount equal to any adjustment
resulting from the procedures in subdivisions (c) and (d) of Section
77201 as that section read on June 30, 1998, to the extent a county filed
an appeal with the Controller with respect to the findings made by the
Department of Finance. This paragraph shall not be construed to
establish a new appeal process beyond what was provided by Section
77201, as that section read on June 30, 1998.
  (5) Any change in statute or rule of court that either reduces the bail
schedule or redirects or reduces a county’s portion of fee, fine, and
forfeiture revenue to an amount that is less than (A) the fees, fines, and
forfeitures retained by that county, and (B) the county’s portion of fines
and forfeitures transmitted to the state in the 1994–95 fiscal year, shall
reduce that county’s remittance specified in paragraph (2) of this
 4408                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 671 ]
subdivision by an equal amount. Nothing in this paragraph is intended
to limit judicial sentencing discretion.
   (c) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility to provide necessary and suitable court facilities pursuant
to Section 68073.
   (d) Nothing in this section is intended to relieve a county of the
responsibility for justice-related expenses not included in Section 77003
which are otherwise required of the county by law, including, but not
limited to, indigent defense representation and investigation, and
payment of youth authority charges.
   (e) County base year remittance requirements specified in paragraph
(2) of subdivision (b) incorporate specific reductions to reflect those
instances where the Department of Finance has determined that a
county’s remittance to both the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust
Fund during the 1994–95 fiscal year exceeded the aggregate amount of
state funding from the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust Fund. The
amount of the reduction was determined by calculating the difference
between the amount the county remitted to the General Fund and the
Trial Court Trust Fund and the aggregate amount of state support from
the General Fund and the Trial Court Trust Fund allocated to the county’s
trial courts. In making its determination of whether a county is entitled
to a reduction pursuant to that paragraph, the Department of Finance
subtracted from county revenues remitted to the state, all moneys
derived from the fee required by Section 42007.1 of the Vehicle Code
and the parking surcharge required by subdivision (c) of Section 76000.
   (f) Notwithstanding subdivision (e), the Department of Finance shall
not reduce a county’s base year remittance requirement, as specified in
paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), if the county’s trial court funding
allocation was modified pursuant to the amendments to the allocation
formula set forth in paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 77200,
as amended by Chapter 2 of the Statutes of 1993, to provide a stable level
of funding for small county courts in response to reductions in the
General Fund support for the trial courts.
   (g) In any fiscal year in which a county of the first class pays the
employer-paid retirement contribution for court employees, or any other
employees of the county who provide a service to the court, and the
amounts of those payments are charged to the budget of the courts, the
sum the county is required to pay to the state pursuant to paragraph (1)
of subdivision (b) shall be increased by the actual amount charged to the
trial court up to twenty-three million five hundred twenty-seven
thousand nine hundred forty-nine dollars ($23,527,949) in that fiscal
year. The county and the trial court shall report to the Controller and the
Department of Finance the actual amount charged in that fiscal year.
   (h) This section shall become operative on July 1, 1999.
[Ch. 671 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4409

   SEC. 3. Section 1 of Chapter 1045 of the Statutes of 1998 is
amended to read:
   Section 1. (a) For a county that received a loan pursuant to Article
1.5 (commencing with Section 55620) of Chapter 4 of Part 2 of Division
2 of Title 2 of the Government Code, the amount of the local match
required and those other funds necessary to complete the project as
described in the grant award made pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
4 of Chapter 339 of the Statutes of 1998 that is paid by the county during
its participation in the program specified in that subdivision in the
1999–2000, 2000–2001, 2001–2002, and 2002–2003 fiscal years, shall
be deemed a payment on the loan provided pursuant to that article.
   (b) The principal balance of the loan made pursuant to that Article
1.5, following the application of any payments made by a county and the
application of the payment deemed to have been made pursuant to
subdivision (a), shall be paid by a county in annual installments of no
less than 10 percent of the principal balance of the loan. These payments
shall be made by December 31 of each year commencing in the fiscal
year following the initial participation in the program authorized by
Section 4 of Chapter 339 of the Statutes of 1998. No further interest shall
accrue on the loan after the operative date of this act and any interest
accrued to date is hereby waived.
   (c) This act shall become operative only if the county participates
during the 1998–99 fiscal year or the 1999–2000 fiscal year in the
program or programs implemented pursuant to Sections 2 to 4,
inclusive, of Chapter 339 of the Statutes of 1998.
   SEC. 4. Section 2 of this bill shall not become operative if Assembly
Bill 2402 is enacted and becomes operative before this bill and amends
Section 77201.1 of the Government Code.
   SEC. 5. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to correct the statutory amounts that Contra Costa, Del Norte,
and San Bernardino Counties shall be required to remit to the state for
purposes of trial court funding, and in order that Merced County may
proceed with the construction of a new juvenile hall as contemplated in
Chapter 1045 of the Statutes of 1998 it is necessary that this act take
effect immediately.
 4410                          STATUTES OF 2000                           [Ch. 672 ]
                                 CHAPTER 672

   An act to amend Items 3790-101-0001, 3790-102-0005,
3940-101-0418, 3940-101-0419, 3940-101-0744, 3940-101-6013,
3940-101-6016, 3940-101-6017, 3940-101-6019, 3940-101-6020,
3940-101-6021, 3940-101-6022, and 8260-103-0001 of, and Provisions
(10)(a)(4) and (10)(f) of Item 6440-001-0001 of, and to add Item
0540-491 to, and to add Provision 6 to Item 4200-101-0001 of, Section
2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000 (Chapter 52 of the Statutes of 2000), and
to otherwise amend and supplement the Budget Act of 2000, relating to
state government, making an appropriation therefor, and declaring the
urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
               [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                      Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

  Senate Bill 1681 makes various changes to the Budget Act.
  I am signing Senate Bill 1681. However, I am deleting Section 24.5, which adds
Provision 6 to Item 4200-101-0001. The Budget Act of 2000 includes an appropriation
of $250,000 for People in Progress, Inc. Current statute requires counties of more than
100,000 population to provide 10 percent county matching funds for State-funded alcohol
and drug programs and services. This provision would allow Los Angeles County to forgo
the 10 percent county match related to the appropriation for the People in Progress, Inc.
and require the State to pay the match. The section would treat Los Angeles differently
from the other counties that must continue to provide the required match and could
establish an unfavorable precedent and demands from other counties for similar treatment.
Such demands could create potentially significant General Fund costs in the future. I,
therefore, believe this section is inappropriate, potentially costly, and contrary to
long-standing public policy.
                                                            GRAY DAVIS, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The appropriations made by this act are in
augmentation of the appropriations made in Section 2.00 of the Budget
Act of 2000 (Ch. 52, Stats. 2000) and are subject to the provisions of that
act, as appropriate, including, as applicable, the provisions of that act
that apply to the items of appropriation that are augmented by this act.
Unless otherwise specified, the references in this act to item numbers
refer to items of appropriation in Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000.
  SEC. 2. Item 0540-491 is added to Section 2.00 of the Budget Act
of 2000, to read:
[Ch. 672 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                          4411

0540-491—Reappropriation, Secretary for Resources. Not-
    withstanding any other provision of law, as of June 30,
    2000, the balances of the funds appropriated in Item
    0540–103–0001 of the Budget Act of 1999 (Ch. 50,
    Stats. 1999) is reappropriated for the purposes and sub-
    ject to the limitations, unless otherwise specified, pro-
    vided for in that appropriation.
   SEC. 3. The sum appropriated in Provisions (1)(e) of Item
0690-103-0001 to the Office of Emergency Services is hereby
reappropriated to the County of San Mateo for a South San Francisco
emergency shelter facility.
   SEC. 4. The balance of the sum appropriated to the State Coastal
Conservancy in Item 3760-302-0001 of the Budget Act of 1999 (Ch. 50,
Stats. 1999) and available pursuant to Provision 3 of that item for Palo
Corona Ranch is hereby reappropriated to the conservancy for the
acquisition of properties to protect the Big Sur region and the Monterey
Bay seashore, subject to the other applicable provisions of Item
3760-302-0001 of the Budget Act of 1999.
   SEC. 5. Notwithstanding the sum appropriated in Schedule (1) of
Item 3760-301-001 to the State Coastal Conservancy for public access,
of the funds appropriated in that item an amount of three million one
hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($3,175,000) is hereby
appropriated for public access.
   SEC. 5.5. Notwithstanding the sum appropriated in Schedule (2) of
Item 3760-301-0001 to the State Coastal Conservancy for the Southern
California Wetlands Recovery Program, of the funds appropriated in that
item the sum of three million dollars ($3,000,000) is hereby appropriated
and shall be expended for the Southern California Wetlands Recovery
Program.
   SEC. 6. The sum appropriated to the State Coastal Conservancy in
Item 3760-302-0001 is hereby reduced by five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000) to three million five hundred fifty thousand dollars
($3,550,000) and the sum appropriated by Schedule (a)(2) of that item
to the State Coastal Conservancy for the Watts/Willowbrook Boys and
Girls Club to complete construction of a club is hereby reduced by five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) to zero dollars.
   SEC. 7. The sum appropriated to the State Coastal Conservancy in
Schedule 2(I) of Item 3760-302-0005 for the Bay Area Ridge Trail for
the Bay Area Ridge Trail Council for 14 trail-related projects in seven
bay area counties is hereby reappropriated to the State Coastal
Conservancy for the Bay Area Ridge Trail for the Bay Area Ridge Trail
Council for trail-related projects.
 4412                         STATUTES OF 2000                          [Ch. 672 ]
  SEC. 8. The sum appropriated in Schedule (2)(RX) of Item
3760-302-0005 to the State Coastal Conservancy for Cachuma RCD and
Santa Ynes RCD and SB County Water Agency for salmonid habitat
improvement is hereby reappropriated to the State Coastal Conservancy
for the Cachuma Conservation Release Board, Santa Ynez River
Conservation District-Improvement District No. 1, and Santa Barbara
County Water Agency for salmonid habitat improvement.
  SEC. 9. Item 3790-101-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:

3790–101–0001––For local assistance, Department of Parks
    and Recreation, to be available for expenditure during
      the 2000–01, 2001–02, and 2002–03 fiscal years . .                75,790,000
    Schedule:
    (a) Grants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75,790,000
         (1) City of Whit-
             tier: The
             Green– way

               Trail . . . . . .      (500,000)
          (2) City of Poway:
               Parking Im-
               provements
               for access to
               Blue        Sky
               Ecological
               Preserve . . .           (27,000)
          (5) City of Atas-
               cadero:
               Youth Center           (500,000)
          (6) City of Moun-
               tain     View:
               Stevens
               Creek Trail .          (550,000)
          (7)     City        of
               Albany: East
               Bay Shore-
               line project:
               acquisition
               funds . . . . . .      (637,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000   4413

       (8) East Bay Re-
           gional Park
           District: East
           Bay Shore-
           line project:
           Park planning
                                 (200,000)
       (11) City of Whit-
            tier: Parnell
            Park restora-
            tion . . . . . . .   (150,000)
       (12) City of Whit-
            tier: Friends
            Park wading
            pool . . . . . .      (30,000)
       (13) City of Los
            Angeles: Da-
            vid Gonzales
            Park and
            Recreation
            Center . . . . .      (40,000)
       (14)        Turlock
            Community
            Auditorium,
            Inc.: Turlock
            Auditorium .         (250,000)
       (15) City of Los
            Banos: Los
            Banos (PAL)
            Youth Center         (250,000)
       (16) City of Mo-
            desto:       Vir-
            ginia Corri-
            dor Project..        (186,000)
       (17) Bob Ander-
            son Field of
            Dreams:
            Complete
            construction
            of     football
            field and as-
            sociated
            structures . .       (110,000)
       (18)      Anaheim
            YMCA: Af-
            ter      school
            programs . .         (200,000)
4414                       STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (19) ‘‘Taller San
            Jose’’ non-
            profit:     At–
            risk     youth
            program . . .       (100,000)
       (20) City of Gar-
            den Grove:
            Boys        and
            Girls Club —
            Playground
            equipment .         (100,000)
       (21) City of Santa
            Ana: Batting
            cage at Madi-
            son Park . . .       (50,000)
       (22) City of Ana-
            heim: Batting
            cage at Boy-
            sen Park . . .       (50,000)
       (23) City of Ana-
            heim: Play-
            ground
            equipment
            replacement
            at     Pearson
            Park . . . . . .    (125,000)
       (24) T.H.I.N.K.
            Together:
            After school
            learning cen-
            ter for at-risk
            youths . . . . .    (100,000)
       (25)         Garden
            Grove: Ren-
            ovation and
            ADA com-
            pliance        at
            West Haven,
            Woodbury,
            and Pioneer
            parks . . . . . .    (90,000)
[Ch. 672 ]               STATUTES OF 2000   4415

       (26) City of Santa
           Ana:       Citi-
           zens in Ac-
           tion Commu-
           nity Technol-
           ogy        Cen-
           ter–1st phase       (50,000)
       (27) City of Le-
           moore:
           Construct
           outdoor pub-
           lic skate park      (40,000)
       (28) Wasco Rec-
           reation and
           Parks      Dis-
           trict:    Play-
           ground reno-
           vation        for
           three parks .       (40,000)
       (29) Kings Reha-
           bilitation
           Center: Soc-
           cer      sports
           complex . . .       (40,000)
       (30) City of Ave-
           nal:     Sports
           complex
           lighting . . . .    (50,000)
       (31) Bakersfield
           PAL:
           Construct
           multiuse
           playing
           field . . . . . .   (50,000)
       (32) City of Ar-
           vin: Develop
           soccer field–
           Smothermon
           Park . . . . . .    (50,000)
       (33) West side
           parks and rec-
           reation: Ren-
           ovate skate
           escape and
           fitness center      (80,000)
4416                        STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (34)     Kettleman
            City Founda-
            tion: Kettle-
            man         City
            Community
            Center . . . . .       (85,000)
       (35)     Coalinga–
            Huron Parks
            and Recre-
            ation District:
            Joint         use
            sports com-
            plex . . . . . .      (250,000)
       (36)           Kings
            County Sher-
            iffs: Van for
            Avenal Box-
            ing Club . . .         (12,000)
       (37) City of Ave-
            nal:      Bath-
            rooms/pavil-
            ion for Ave-
            nal
            Museum . . .           (25,000)
       (38)     City        of
            Downey:
            Equipment
            for Downey
            Pool . . . . . .       (25,000)
       (39) Los Angeles
            County: Tu-
            junga urban
            river restora-
            tion . . . . . . .   (5,000,000)
       (40) City of Santa
            Paula: Hard-
            ing       Park–
            lighting and
            bleachers . .         (100,000)
       (41) City of Car-
            pinteria:
            Build       ball-
            fields . . . . .      (250,000)
       (42) City of Ven-
            tura:       East
            Ventura Park          (250,000)
[Ch. 672 ]               STATUTES OF 2000   4417

       (43)    Boys and
            Girls Club of
            Ventura:
            Sports equip-
            ment, band
            instruments .       (20,000)
       (44) City of West
            Hollywood:
            Veterans’
            Park . . . . . .   (200,000)
       (45)       Tarzana
            Community
            Center
            Foundation:
            Tarzana
            Community
            Cen–ter . . . .    (250,000)
       (46) City of Long
            Beach: Ran-
            cho Los Ala-
            mitos Histori-
            cal Park . . .     (150,000)
       (47) City of Her-
            mosa Beach:
            Renovate
            community
            center . . . . .   (250,000)
       (49) Marjaree Ma-
            son Center:
            General re-
            pairs      and
            maintenance        (150,000)
       (50) City of Fres-
            no: Holmes
            Park     play-
            ground im-
            prove-
            ments . . . . .     (93,000)
4418                      STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (51) Rotary Play-
           land Story-
           land: Rotary
           Playland at
           Roeding Park
           in Fresno—
           Repair and
           construct new
           rides for the
           park . . . . . .    (150,000)
       (52) Fresno Met-
           ropolitan
           Flood Con-
           trol District:
           Construction
           costs for a
           park
           located        in
           Kings Can-
           yon and Hun-
           tington Ave-
           nue areas . .       (250,000)
       (53) City of Reed-
           ley: Second
           phase of the
           Reedley Rail
           Trail Park-
           way . . . . . . .   (200,000)
       (54) City of Al-
           hambra:
           American
           Legion #139:
           Replace
           the roof, A/C
           system, and
           flooring . . .       (60,000)
       (55) City of San
           Gabriel: Ex-
           pand Asian
           Youth Center
           with the addi-
           tion of a sec-
           ond floor .         (400,000)
[Ch. 672 ]              STATUTES OF 2000   4419

       (56) City of Mon-
           terey Park:
           New roof for
           the Boys and
           Girls Club in
           the City of
           Monterey . .        (50,000)
       (57) Barrio Action
           Youth      and
           Family Cen-
           ter:    Refur-
           bishment of
           the roof over
           the study hall
           and counsel-
           ing center . .     (250,000)
       (58) East Los An-
           geles Com-
           munity Facil-
           ity (City Ter-
           race Neigh-
           borhood):
           Build a com-
           munity facili-
           ty in the City
           Terrace
           neighbor-
           hood of East
           Los Angeles
           for senior cit-
           izens, Cre-
           ative Think-
           ing Program
           and facility
           for communi-
           ty meetings
           and      other
           events . . . . .   (200,000)
4420                        STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (59)   El Sereno
           Youth Center
           in East LA:
           Purchase van
           to transport
           children         to
           and from the
           youth center
           for
           after school
           programs . .          (25,000)
       (60) MERCI Inc.:
           Replacement
           of      kitchen
           and restroom
           sinks to meet
           ADA require-
           ments . . . . .        (5,000)
       (61) City of San
           Gabriel: La
           Casa de San
           Gabriel–Pur-
           chase         new
           books and li-
           brary materi-
           als . . . . . . . .    (5,000)
       (62) City of Al-
           hambra: Girl
           Scouts           of
           America–
           Purchase
           equipment
           and uniforms
           for economi-
           cally disad-
           vantaged
           girls . . . . . .      (5,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000   4421

       (63) City of Rose-
           mead:         The
           Boys          and
           Girls Club–
           Upgrade
           facilities
           which           in-
           clude         new
           PCs, refur-
           bishing extra
           curricular
           room and re-
           placement of
           athletic
           equipment .             (5,000)
       (64) Sacramento
           Boys
           and         Girls
           Club . . . . . .      (350,000)
       (65) County of
           Sacramento:
           Construction
           of the Sacra-
           mento Youth
           Sports Com-
           plex . . . . . .      (500,000)
       (66) City of Sacra-
           mento: Bill
           Bean Jr. Me-
           morial Park           (500,000)
       (67) Del Norte
           County His-
           torical Soci-
           ety: Battery
           Point Light-
           house Pres-
           ervation Proj-
           ect . . . . . . . .    (25,000)
       (68) Pittsburg His-
           torical Soci-
           ety: Restora-
           tion of Old
           Post Dispatch
           Building . . .        (250,000)
4422                        STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (69) City of Los
           Angeles:
           Chinatown
           Service Cen-
           ter . . . . . . . .    (100,000)
       (70) City of Los
           Angeles: Vis-
           ta del Mar . .         (200,000)
       (71) City of Gar-
           dena:        First
           through Sixth
           Grade After
           School Pro-
           gram . . . . . .       (150,000)
       (72) City of Los
           Angeles:
           New          gym
           floor at Vine-
           yard Park . .          (100,000)
       (73) Los Angeles
           County:
           Parking lot
           lighting and
           exercise
           par course re-
           pairs at Che-
           viott       Hills
           Recreation
           Center . . . . .       (150,000)
       (74) City of Pat-
           terson: Pat-
           terson Aquat-
           ic Facility . .        (300,000)
       (75) City of Los
           Angeles:
           Skateboard
           Park–Hanson
           Dam . . . . . .        (100,000)
       (76) City of San
           Fernando:
           Expansion of
           Las Palmas
           Park Multi–
           purpose
           Center . . . . .      (1,000,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000     4423

       (77) City of Los
           Angeles:
           Blythe Street

            Park Expan-
            sion . . . . . . .    (1,000,000)
       (80)        Mission
            Trails        Re-
            gional Park
            Foundation:
            Mission
            Trails        Re-
            gional Park–
            Equestrian
            and       ranger
            station . . . . .     (1,000,000)
       (81) City of San
            Diego: East
            Clairemont
            Community
            Park–Design
            and construc-
            tion of a new
            irrigation sys-
            tem, turf, and
            security
            lights . . . . .       (250,000)
       (82) City of San
            Diego: San
            Carlos Com-
            munity/
            Pershing
            Middle
            School Joint
            Turfing Proj-
            ect . . . . . . . .    (350,000)
       (84) City of San
            Diego: Pres-
            dio Park rest-
            room/picnic
            area . . . . . . .     (425,000)
       (85) City of San
            Diego: San
            Diego Mari-
            time Museum
                                   (450,000)
4424                       STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (86) City of San
           Diego: Serra
           Mesa Com-
           munity Park
           Game Room
           Renova–
           tion . . . . . . .   (100,000)
       (87) County of
           Los Angeles:
           Del        Amo
           Neighbor-
           hood Park . .        (900,000)
       (88) San Francis-
           co Architec-
           tural      Heri-
           tage: Reno-
           vation and
           repairs         at
           Mission Do-
           lores Basilica       (150,000)
       (89) Greater Val-
           lego Recre-
           ation District:
           River       Park
           master plan .        (150,000)
       (90) City of Santa
           Rosa:         ‘‘A
           Place to play”
                                (500,000)
       (92) Greater Val-
           lejo Recre-
           ation District:
           Children’s
           Wonderland           (300,000)
       (93) City of Santa
           Rosa:
           Construction
           of 25,000-
           square-foot
           youth center
           in Southwest
           Community
           Park . . . . . .     (400,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000     4425

       (94)    Mendocino
            Coast Recre-
            ation         and
            Park District:
            Construction
            of Phase I of
            the Ft. Bragg
            Aquatic Cen-
            ter . . . . . . . .    (300,000)
       (95)             Napa
            County: Napa
            Boys          and
            Girls Club . .         (250,000)
       (96) Greater Val-
            lejo Recre-
            ation District:
            North Vallejo
            Community
            Center         ex-
            pansion . . . .        (300,000)
       (97) Del Norte
            County:
            Youth Com-
            munity Cen-
            ter and
            Skateboard
            Park . . . . . .       (100,000)
       (98) City of Ba-
            kersfield:
            Construction
            of the Green-
            field
            Multipurpose
            public use fa-
            cility . . . . . .    (1,000,000)
       (99) City of Fres-
            no: Acquisi-
            tion of land
            for the Bul-
            lard Bambino
            Baseball Fa-
            cility . . . . . .    (1,000,000)
       (100) City of Gar-
            den Grove:
            Chapman
            Sports Com-
            plex . . . . . .       (600,000)
4426                      STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (101) City of Gar-
           den Grove:
           Edgar Park
           renovation .         (95,000)
       (102) City of San-
           ta Ana: Jer-
           ome Park and
           Community
           Center . . . . .    (500,000)
       (104) City of
           Stanton: Re-
           construct and
           upgrade park
           and improve
           park equip-
           ment . . . . . .    (250,000)
       (105) Santa Ana
           Recreation
           Department:
           Vans to trans-
           port under-
           privileged
           children . . .       (60,000)
       (106) City of Bue-
           na Park: Wil-
           liam      Peak
           Park swim-
           ming       pool
           renovation .        (220,000)
       (107) City of Pico
           Rivera:
           Complete
           restoration of
           Rio . . . . . . .   (750,000)
       (108) City of
           Cudahy Park:
           Replace old
           playground
           equipment to
           meet federal
           safety stan-
           dards . . . . . .   (120,000)
[Ch. 672 ]              STATUTES OF 2000    4427

       (110) East Bay
           Regional
           Park District:
           Camp Ohlone
           in Sunol Re-
           gional Wil-
           derness–Im-
           provements .        (330,000)
       (111) Committee
           of Restora-
           tion of Mis-
           sion San Jose:
           Fremont seis-
           mic retrofit
           and
           repairs . . . .    (1,000,000)
       (112)      Theatre
           West      Inc.:
           Theatre West
           repairs and to
           bring under-
           served public
           school pupils
           to the theatre
             ..........        (115,000)
       (113) Manzanar
           Committee:
           Manzanar
           War Reloca-
           tion Center
           restoration .       (150,000)
       (114) Concerned
           Citizens of
           South Central
           Los Angeles:
           Acquisition
           and construc-
           tion of Antes
           Columbus
           Youth Center,
           soccer field
           and pocket
           park . . . . . .   (1,000,000)
4428                       STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (115) County of
           Sacramento:
           Effie Yeaw
           Nature Cen-
           ter rehabilita-
           tion and reno-
           va-
           tion . . . . . . .   (370,000)
       (116)      Sunrise
           Recreation
           and Park Dis-
           trict:       Up-
           grade and re-
           place play-
           ground
           equip–ment            (60,000)
       (117) City of
           Lemon
           Grove: City
           Center Park          (330,000)
       (118) City of El
           Cajon: Ken-
           nedy Park–
           Lighting . . .        (78,000)
       (119) City of El
           Cajon: Ken-
           nedy Recre-
           ation Center           (8,000)
       (120) City of La
           Mesa:          La
           Mesita/Park-
           way Regional
           Sports Com-
           plex . . . . . .     (655,000)
       (122) City of Chu-
           la        Vista:
           Loma Verde
           park pool . .        (490,000)
       (123) City of San
           Diego: Para-
           dise Commu-
           nity Park . . .      (250,000)
       (124) City of
           Lemon
           Grove: Park
           upgrade . . .        (190,000)
[Ch. 672 ]              STATUTES OF 2000   4429

       (125) City of San
           Diego: Sout-
           hcrest Com-
           munity Park/
           Tot lot up–
           grade . . . . .    (150,000)
       (126) County of
           San Diego:
           Spring Valley
           Gymnasium
           and       Teen
           Center/de-
           sign       and
           construction       (350,000)
       (127) Twin Hills
           Youth      and
           Recreation
           Park,     Inc.:
           Twin      Hills
           Little League
           Park . . . . . .    (75,000)
       (128) City of Oak-
           land: Martin
           Luther King
           Center . . . . .   (850,000)
       (129) City of La
           Cañada Flin-
           tridge: Rock-
           ridge Terrace
           purchase by
           City of La
           Cañada Flin-
           tridge       for
           open space .       (450,000)
       (130) City of
           Glendale:
           Deukmejian
           Wilderness
           Park . . . . . .   (300,000)
4430                      STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (131) County of
           Santa Clara:
           Design and
           construction
           of the expan-
           sion of the
           Youth      Sci-
           ence Institute
           at     Vasona
           Lake County
           Park . . . . . .   (300,000)
       (132) County of
           San Mateo:
           Renovations
           and seismic
           and     safety
           improve-
           ments to the
           Old County
           Courthouse
           (home of the
           San     Mateo
           County His-
           torical Mu-
           seum) . . . . .    (635,000)
       (133) City of
           Monterey
           Park: Expan-
           sion of the
           Langley Se-
           nior Center .      (250,000)
       (134) City of San
           Gabriel:
           Construct
           San Gabriel
           skate
           park . . . . . .   (300,000)
       (135) City of
           Monterey
           Park:        La
           Loma Park
           renovation .       (150,000)
       (137) City of On-
           tario: Expand
           the De Anza
           Community
           Center . . . . .   (500,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000   4431

       (139) City of
           Loma Linda:
           Little league
           baseball park         (280,000)
       (140) City of San
           Bernardino:
           Refurbish an
           existing
           building in
           order            to
           create a Mut-
           licultural
           Center . . . . .      (300,000)
       (141) City of Chi-
           no Hills: Re-
           furbishment
           of the Sleepy
           Hollow Com-
           munity Cen-
           ter . . . . . . . .   (250,000)
       (142) City of Po-
           mona: Reno-
           vation           of
           Washington
           Park Com-
           munity Cen-
           ter and Pool          (150,000)
       (143) City of Chi-
           no: Villa Park
           Playground
           Refurbish-
           ment Project           (85,000)
       (144) City of Daly
           City:
           Construction
           of Mid–Pen-
           insula Boys
           and Girls
           Club . . . . . .      (750,000)
       (145) San Mateo
           County:
           Funding for
           Sanchez
           Adobe
           site . . . . . . .    (105,000)
4432                      STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (146) San Mateo
           County: Re-
           place play-
           ground
           equipment at
           the Coyote
           Point Recre-
           ation Area .       (200,000)
       (148) City of Pa-
           cifica: Sup-
           plement the
           cost of per-
           manently re-
           pairing     the
           historic Pa-
           cific Pier in
           Pacifica . . .     (500,000)
       (149) City of San
           Jose: Eden-
           vale Garden
           Park . . . . . .   (150,000)
       (150) City of San-
           ta Clara: Res-
           toration      of
           Casa Grande        (250,000)
       (151) Camarillo
           Ranch
           Foundation:
           Restoration,
           preservation,
           and mainte-
           nance of Ca-
           marillo
           Ranch . . . . .    (493,000)
       (152) Homeboy
           Industries:
           Land acquisi-
           tion and reno-
           vation . . . . .   (100,000)
       (153) City of San
           Lean-
           dro: Little
           league field–
           Corvallis
           school . . . . .   (100,000)
[Ch. 672 ]               STATUTES OF 2000    4433

       (154) City of San
           Diego: En-
           hance exist-
           ing play area
           to accommo-
           date disabled
           access at the
           Lindbergh
           Park Tot Lot         (160,000)
       (155) City of Yu-
           caipa: Com-
           munity Cen-
           ter/Gym . . .       (2,300,000)
       (156) City of Ar-
           tesia: Land
           Acquisition
           for A.J. Pa-
           delford Park
           and       ADA
           compliance
           upgrade . . .        (100,000)
       (157) City of Ar-
           tesia: Family
           Resource
           Center . . . . .     (100,000)
       (158) City of Ha-
           waiian Gar-
           dens: Build
           new      recre-
           ation facility
           to meet ADA
           requirement;
           purchase new
           exercise
           equipment
           that is ADA
           comp-
           liant . . . . . .    (235,000)
       (159) City of Bell-
           flower: Fund
           YMCA/Teen
           Center . . . . .     (250,000)
4434                       STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (160) Midpenin-
           sula       Open
           Space Dis-
           trict
           (MPOSD):
           Fund          im-
           provements
           to     selected
           trail      ease-
           ment trans-
           ferred to the
           MPOSD to
           fund          im-
           provements
           to     selected
           trail      ease-
           ments trans-
           ferred to the
           MPOSD by
           AB 1366 . . .         (300,000)
       (161) Nihonmachi
           Little
           Friends: Ren-
           ovation         of
           historic
           building in
           San Francis-
           co . . . . . . . .    (550,000)
       (162) GLBT Soci-
           ety of North-
           ern Califor-
           nia: Califor-
           nia on–line
           archives of
           manuscripts           (250,000)
       (163)       Jewish
           Community
           Center of San
           Francisco:
           Construction         (1,000,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000   4435

       (164) San Francis-
           co Neighbors
           Association:
           Construction
           of the San
           Francisco
           Neighbor-
           hood          Re-
           source Com-
           munity Cen-
           ter . . . . . . . .   (500,000)
       (166) San Francis-
           co Recreation
           and Park De-
           partment:
           Stabilize and
           restore        the
           Sunnyside
           Conservatory          (300,000)
       (168) City of Daly
           City:
           Construction
           of the Bay-
           shore Boys
           and Girls
           Club . . . . . .      (500,000)
       (169)     Coleman
           Advocates
           for Children
           and Youth:
           Construction
           of the Cole-
           man Children
           and        Youth
           Community
           Center . . . . .      (100,000)
       (170) San Francis-
           co Recreation
           and Park De-
           partment:
           Restoration
           of John Muir
           Fishing Pier
           at          Lake
           Merced . . . .        (400,000)
4436                      STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (172) County of
           Yolo:     New
           Helvetia
           Park—Ac-
           quisition, de-
           velopment,
           and rehabi-
           litation . . . .   (500,000)
       (173) City of In-
           glewood: Re-
           furbishment
           of     Edward
           Vincent Park       (350,000)
       (174) City of San
           Diego: Picnic
           Shelter–
           Clairmont
           Neighbor-
           hood
           Park . . . . . .    (55,000)
       (175) City of San
           Diego: Ocean
           Beach Recre-
           ation Center–
           ADA Tot Lot
           Upgrade . . .      (175,000)
       (176) City of San
           Diego: Teco-
           late Nature
           Center–room
           addition . . .     (200,000)
       (177) City of San
           Diego: Santa
           Clara Recre-
           ation Center–
           New recre-
           ation center       (300,000)
       (178) City of St.
           Helena: St.
           Helena ball-
           park . . . . . .   (500,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000    4437

       (179) Eagle Rock
           Community
           Preservation
           and Revital-
           ization, Inc.:
           Eagle Rock
           Community
           revitalization         (300,000)
       (180) City of
           Monterey
           Park Cascade
           Park: Fund
           rehabilitation         (225,000)
       (181) City of Ir-
           windale: Ir-
           windale
           Community
           Center — Re-
           pair       court-
           yard and pa-
           tio . . . . . . . .    (150,000)
       (183) City of
           Lemon
           Grove: Rec-
           reation Cen-
           ter . . . . . . . .     (81,000)
       (184) City of Re-
           dlands: Local
           park facility         (2,000,000)
       (185) City of Red-
           ding:
           Construct
           recreation
           and        sports
           complex . . .         (3,000,000)
       (186) City of La
           Palma:
           Construct
           new commu-
           nity center .         (1,040,000)
4438                       STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (188) County of
           San      Diego
           Department
           of Parks and
           Recreation:
           Boys         and
           Girls Club of
           Ramona—
           Con-
           struct a gym-
           nasium . . . .       (250,000)
       (189) City of San-
           tee: Comple-
           tion of Town
           Center Com-
           munity Park          (200,000)
       (195) Santa Cruz
           Sheriff’s Ac-
           tivity
           League: Pur-
           chase       vans
           used to trans-
           port youth to
           and        from
           sports activi-
           ties . . . . . . .    (70,000)
       (196) Contra Cos-
           ta     County:
           Sheriff’s
           Charities,
           Inc. for the
           Peace Officer
           Memorial . .         (125,000)
       (197)     Martinez
           Police Activ-
           ities League:
           Purchase
           computer and
           a
           van . . . . . . .    (100,000)
       (199) City of El
           Centro:         El
           Centro’s Mu-
           nicipal Pool          (50,000)
[Ch. 672 ]              STATUTES OF 2000   4439

       (200) Lassen Park
           Foundation:
           Complete
           construction
           of interpre-
           tive exhibits
           in open–air
           pavilions . . .    (100,000)
       (201) Marysville
           Youth      and
           Civic Center:
           Renovation
           and replace-
           ment of park-
           ing, building,
           and
           kitchen . . . .    (100,000)
       (202) San Bernar-
           dino County:
           Downtown
           Crestline Fa-
           cade        im-
           provement .        (100,000)
       (204) Jurapa Area
           Recreation
           and Park Dis-
           trict: Memo-
           rial      Park
           Swimming
           Pool . . . . . .    (50,000)
       (205)        Black
           Chamber of
           Commerce:
           Radio Station
           FCC startup
           qualifications     (150,000)
       (206) Jurapa Area
           Recreation
           and Park Dis-
           trict: Memo-
           rial Park Ath-
           letic Field . .     (85,000)
4440                        STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (207) Jurapa Area
           Recreation
           and Park Dis-
           trict: Memo-
           rial         Park
           Community
           Center . . . . .       (85,000)
       (210)     Martha’s
           Village and
           Kitchen:
           Martha’s Vil-
           lage facility
           expansion . .         (200,000)
       (212) Sacramento
           County:
           Mather Re-
           gional Park
           improve-
           ments . . . . .       (200,000)
       (213) Los Angeles
           County
           United Way:
           United Way
           of      Greater
           Los Angeles–
           Acquisition
           of facility and
           improve-
           ments . . . . .       (200,000)
       (216) City of Riv-
           erside: Janet
           Goeske Se-
           nior Center .         (200,000)
       (219) City of
           Highland:
           Highland
           Community
           Park
           construction          (300,000)
       (220) City of San
           Diego: Ran-
           cho Bernardo
           Community
           Aquatic Cen-
           ter . . . . . . . .   (250,000)
[Ch. 672 ]              STATUTES OF 2000    4441

       (221) City of Re-
           dlands: Re-
           dlands Sports
           Complex de-
           velopment .         (750,000)
       (223) City of Yu-
           caipa: Com-
           munity cen-
           ter/
           gym . . . . . .    (2,000,000)
       (225) City of La
           Mesa: Briar-
           crest
           Park . . . . . .    (157,000)
       (226) City of Oak-
           land: Bertha
           Port Mini–
           Park and Wil-
           low       Park
           Playgrounds         (600,000)
       (227) Homenet-
           men, Glen-
           dale Chapter:
           Fund athletic
           programs . .        (158,000)
       (228) City of San
           Diego : 1.5
           mile      bike
           path parallel
           to the San Di-
           ego River in
           Mission
           Valley . . . . .    (400,000)
       (229) City of
           Lakewood:
           Mae Boyar
           Park        im-
           prove-
           ments . . . . .     (500,000)
       (230)     Western
           Center       for
           Archeology
           and Paleon-
           tology:
           Construction       (2,250,000)
4442                       STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (231) West Shores
           Youth Cen-
           ter: Exercise
           and      equip-
           ment room
           construction          (50,000)
       (232) City of
           Woodlake:
           Community
           pool facility        (100,000)
       (233) Boys and
           Girls Club of
           Hayward:
           New facility
           construction         (500,000)
       (234) City of
           Newman:
           Newman
           Youth Cen-
           ter–remodel          (100,000)
       (235) City of Han-
           ford: Hanford
           Learning
           Center . . . . .     (300,000)
       (236) City of
           Clarksburg:
           Swimming
           Pool Renova-
           tion . . . . . . .   (100,000)
       (237) City of West
           Hollywood:
           Multipurpose
           facility       for
           youths and
           seniors . . . .      (100,000)
       (239) North Ta-
           hoe:      North
           Tahoe Youth
           Center . . . . .     (200,000)
       (240) Santa Bar-
           bara Zoologi-
           cal Gardens:
           Animal con-
           tact yard and
           outreach pro-
           gram . . . . . .     (335,000)
[Ch. 672 ]               STATUTES OF 2000    4443

       (242) City and
           County         of
           San Francis-
           co: Palace of
           Fine Arts—
           restoration
           and rehabi-
           litation       of
           structures and
           landscape . .       (3,000,000)
       (243) Los Angeles
           County: For
           picnic area
           and      sports
           field        im-
           provements
           at Cheviott
           Hills . . . . . .    (100,000)
       (245) LA Con-
           servation
           Corps: Ballo-
           na       Creek
           Youth Center        (2,000,000)
       (246) City of San
           Diego: Bay
           Terrace Park
           Recreation
           Center . . . . .     (500,000)
       (248) City of Hun-
           tington
           Beach: Bon-
           neli Regional
           Youth Center         (500,000)
       (252) Watts/ Wil-
           lowbrook
           Boys        and
           Girls Club:
           Complete
           construction
           of club . . . .      (500,000)
 4444                       STATUTES OF 2000                  [Ch. 672 ]

         (253) City of Palo
             Alto: bay to
             Ridge Trail
             between
             Foothils Park
             and Los Tran-
             cos       Open
             Space       Re-
             serve . . . . . .   (100,000)
         (254) City of Palo
             Alto:      Palo
             Alto Junior
             Zoo renova-
             tions . . . . . .   (100,000)

    Provisions:
        1. The Department of Parks and Recreation may
        allocate funds appropriated in Schedule (a)(226) of
        this item to the City of Oakland, to nonprofit
        organizations designated by the City of Oakland, or
        to both.
  SEC. 9.5. The balance of the sum appropriated to the Department of
Parks and Recreation in Schedule (a)(182) of Item 3790-101-0001 of the
Budget Act of 1999 (Ch. 50, Stats. 1999) for a recreational grant to the
City of Westminster for the purchase of passenger vans to serve
Vietnamese seniors is hereby reappropriated to the Department of Parks
and Recreation for a recreational grant to the City of Santa Ana for the
purchase of passenger vans to serve Vietnamese seniors.
  SEC. 10. The sum appropriated in Schedule (a) (3) of Item
3790-101-0005 to the Department of Parks and Recreation for the Delta
Science Center for Marine and Delta Aquatic Education and Interpretive
Programs is hereby reappropriated to the Department of Parks and
Recreation for the East Bay Regional Park District for Marine and Delta
Aquatic Education and Interpretive Programs.
  SEC. 11. The sum appropriated in Schedule (a) (8) of Item
3790-101-0005 to the Department of Parks and Recreation for the City
of Huntington Beach for storm drain modification to mitigate pollution
impact on state beaches is reappropriated to the Department of Parks and
Recreation for the County of Orange for storm drain modification to
mitigate pollution impact on state beaches.
  SEC. 12. Item 3790-102-0005 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:
[Ch. 672 ]                     STATUTES OF 2000                                     4445

3790–102–0005—For local assistance, Department of Parks
    and Recreation, payable from the Safe Neighborhood
    Parks, Clean Water, Clean Air, and Coastal Protection
    Bond Act of 2000 pursuant to the Murray–Hayden Ur-
    ban Parks and Youth Service Program, to be available
    for expenditure during the 2000–01, 2001–02 and
    2002–03 fiscal years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   79,580,000
    Schedule:
    (a) 80.25-Recreational Grants . . . . . .                79,580,000
    (1) Competitive grants (non–project
        specific) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   (1,740,000)
        (c) Nonmoto-
             rized Trails
             Grants . . . . .           (1,740,000)
    (2) Specific Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . .        (10,836,000)
        (c) City of Fol-
             som: Folsom
             Zoo . . . . . . .          (1,889,000)
        (d) California
             Science Cen-
             ter–African–
             American
             Museum at
             Exposition
             Park . . . . . .           (2,834,000)
        (e) California
             Science Cen-
             ter School . .              (6,113,000)
    (4) Trails . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (5,085,000)
        (a) City of La-
             fayette:
             Construct a
             pedestrian
             bridge from
             Lafayette
             Community
             Center to the
             Lafayette
             Community
             Park . . . . . .              (285,000)
4446                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 672 ]

      (b) City of Los
          Banos:
          Downtown
          Revitaliza-
          tion–Rails to
          Trails . . . . . (1,800,000)
      (c) City of Red-
          ding: Expan-
          sion of bike
          and walk trail
          along       the
          Sacramento
          River . . . . .  (3,000,000)
  (5) Murray–Hayden Grants . . . . . . . .   (47,233,000)
      (a) City       and
          County        of
          San Francis-
          co: Coleman
          Children and
          Youth Com-
          munity Cen-
          ter in Excel-
          sior District–
          capital outlay     (142,000)
      (b) City       and
          County        of
          San Francis-
          co:      Youth
          Mural       Art
          Project       in
          Bayview–
          Hunters Point
          and      Youth
          Stewardship
          Program . . .      (189,000)
      (c) City of Rich-
          mond: Rich-
          mond Natato-
          rium, to en-
          able seismic
          retrofit of the
          Natatorium .       (378,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                STATUTES OF 2000   4447

       (d) City of El
            Monte:
            Construction
            of the Youth
            Learning/Ac-
            tivity Center       (378,000)
       (e) City of Glen-
            dale: South
            Glendale
            mini–park
            development         (378,000)
       (f) City of Ingle-
            wood:       Ed-
            ward Vincent
            Park . . . . . .    (378,000)
       (g) City of San Di-
            ego: Joint–
            use
            facility at La
            Mirada with
            San Ysidro
            School Dis-
            trict . . . . . .   (378,000)
       (h) Sacramento
            Boys        and
            Girls Club:
            Construction
            of
            Boys        and
            Girls Club fa-
            cility in South
            Sacramento          (473,000)
       (i) City of Hun-
            tington Park:
            Regional
            Community
            Youth Center        (492,000)
       (j) City of Los
            Angeles:
            Blythe Street
            Pocket Park         (520,000)
       (k) City of Fonta-
            na:      Center
            City park ac-
            quisition . . .     (709,000)
4448                        STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (l) Fresno Metro-
            politan Flood
            Control Dis-
            trict:
            Construction
            costs for a
            park located
            on        Kings
            Canyon and
            Huntington
            Avenue
            Areas . . . . .       (709,000)
       (m) City of Los
            Angeles:
            Renovation
            of Brand
            Park . . . . . .      (946,000)
       (n) Boys          and
            Girls Club of
            Hayward:
            Construction
            of
            20,000–squar
            e–foot facili-
            ty . . . . . . . .    (946,000)
       (o) City of Los
            Angeles: San
            Pedro park
            improve-
            ments . . . . .       (946,000)
       (p) City of Los
            Angeles:
            Juntos Park:
            outdoor de-
            velopment at
            a recently ac-
            quired parcel
            to serve as a
            new
            park . . . . . .     (1,419,000)
       (q) City of Los
            Angeles:
            Community
            Build Youth
            Center . . . . .     (1,892,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000    4449

       (r) City of Fres-
           no: Acquisi-
           tion of the
           Palm Lakes
           Golf Course
           for the opera-
           tion of Fresno
           Junior Golf
           serving dis-
           advantaged
           youth . . . . .        (236,000)
       (s) City of Buena
           Park: Com-
           munity park
           enhance-
           ments of de-
           teriorated fa-
           cilities . . . . .     (236,000)
       (t) City of Garden
           Grove: Vil-
           lage Green
           Park           im-
           provements .           (615,000)
       (u) City of West-
           minster:
           Youth Activi-
           ty Center Pro-
           gram Expan-
           sions . . . . . .      (709,000)
       (v) City of La
           Puente:
           Youth Learn-
           ing/Activity
           Center . . . . .       (709,000)
       (w) City of Lan-
           caster: Whit
           B.        Carter
           Park Devel-
           opment Proj-
           ect . . . . . . . .    (946,000)
       (x) City of Ana-
           heim: Max-
           well Park Ex-
           pansion Proj-
           ect from 15 to
           21 acres . . .        (1,041,000)
4450                      STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (y) City of Los
            Angeles:
            Soccer Com-
            plex . . . . . .    (305,000)
       (z) City        and
            County        of
            San Francis-
            co: India Ba-
            sin Shoreline
            Park . . . . . .    (378,000)
       (ax) City of Oak-
            land:    West
            Oakland
            Playgrounds         (568,000)
       (bx) City of Los
            Angeles:
            Hansen Dam
            Bluffs . . . . .    (662,000)
       (cx) County of
            Los Angeles:
            Ted Watkins
            Park . . . . . .    (780,000)
       (dx) Santa Moni-
            ca Mountains
            Conservan-
            cy:    Comp-
            ton–Slauson
            Natural Park        (946,000)
       (ex) City of Oak-
            land:     San-
            born Park . .      (1,419,000)
       (fx) City of Oak-
            land: Union
            Point Park . .     (1,419,000)
       (gx) City of San
            Diego: North
            Chollas Park       (1,892,000)
       (hx) City of May-
            wood:      Los
            Angeles Riv-
            er Parkway .       (2,365,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000     4451

       (ix) Santa Moni-
            ca Mountains
            Conservan-
            cy: Arroyo
            Seco/Conflu-
            ence Park . .         (4,730,000)
       (jx) City of San
            Diego: Para-
            dise         Park
            Project . . . .          (32,000)
       (kx) City of Lem-
            on       Grove:
            Berry Street
            Park . . . . . .         (38,000)
       (kx1) City of Im-
            perial Beach
            Sports
            Park . . . . . .         (90,000)
       (lx) County           of
            San Diego:
            Lamar Street
            Park . . . . . .       (213,000)
       (mx) City of East
            Palo        Alto:
            Youth Center           (236,000)
       (mx1) City            of
            San Diego:
            Boys          and
            Girls Clubs of
            San
            Diego—
            Construction
            of Linda Vis-
            ta Teen Cen-
            ter . . . . . . . .    (284,000)
       (nx) City of Chu-
            la         Vista:
            Greg Rogers
            Park . . . . . .       (284,000)
       (ox) City of East
            Palo        Alto:
            Bell Street
            Park . . . . . .       (331,000)
4452                        STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (px) City of East
            Palo       Alto:
            Martin Lu-
            ther     King–
            Jack Farell
            Park . . . . . .     (331,000)
       (px1) City           of
            Stanton:
            Stanton Park         (473,000)
       (qx) City of Hun-
            tington Park:
            Bonelli Re-
            gional Youth
            Center . . . . .     (378,000)
       (rx) City
            of Hunting-
            ton        Park:
            Park         Im-
            provement
            Project . . . .      (473,000)
       (sx) City of Los
            Angeles:
            Tree People
            Two . . . . . .      (473,000)
       (tx) City of
            San Diego:
            Bay Terrace
            School
            Joint Use Fa-
            cility . . . . . .   (473,000)
       (ux) County of
            San Diego:
            Bancroft Park
            acquisition .        (473,000)
       (vx) YMCA of
            San      Diego
            County: Bor-
            der View ex-
            pansion . . . .      (473,000)
       (wx) City of Oak-
            land: Studio
            Recreational
            Center          in
            North Oak-
            land . . . . . .     (473,000)
[Ch. 672 ]             STATUTES OF 2000    4453

       (xx) City        of
           Stockton:
           Van Buskirk
           Community
           Center: gym-
           nasium
           construction       (709,000)
       (yx) City of Fon-
           tana: Center
           City park ac-
           quisition . . .    (709,000)
       (yx1) Columbia
           Boys       and
           Girls Club:
           Renovation
           of building in
           Tenderloin
           for       after
           school pro-
           grams . . . . .    (804,000)
       (zx) City of Bell:
           Bell Park Im-
           provement
           Project . . . .    (946,000)
       (ay) City of Pico
           Rivera: Rio
           Honda Park         (946,000)
       (by) City of Los
           Angeles:
           Blythe Street
           expansion . .      (946,000)
       (cy) City of Bald-
           win      Park:
           Teen Center        (946,000)
       (dy) City of Los
           Angeles:
           South Central
           Sport Center      (1,230,000)
4454                      STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 672 ]

      (ey) Concerned
           Citizens of
           South Central
           Los Angeles:
           Acquisition
           and construc-
           tion of Antes
           Columbus
           Youth
           Center, soc-
           cer field and
           pocket park      (1,272,000)
      (fy) Los Angeles
           Conservation
           Corps: Youth
           Center . . . . . (1,892,000)
      (gy) City          of
           Whittier:
           Children’s
           wading pool
           reconstruc-
           tion          at
           Friends Park
           to     comply
           with current
           standards . .        (76,000)
  (6b) Marine Sanctuary . . . . . . . . . . .     (472,000)
      (n) Wildlife Con-
           servation
           Board: O’N-
           eill Sea Odys-
           sey facilities
           improve-
           ments . . . . .     (472,000)
  (6c) Soccer and baseball fields . . . . .     (13,569,000)
      (o) Bakersfield
           Police Ath-
           letic League:
           Construct
           multiuse
           playing field        (50,000)
[Ch. 672 ]              STATUTES OF 2000   4455

       (p) Merced High
           Dugout Club:
           Merced High
           School Base-
           ball Field
           Lights . . . . .   (175,000)
       (q) Coalinga–
           Huron Parks
           and Recre-
           ation District:
           Joint       use
           sports com-
           plex . . . . . .   (300,000)
       (r) City of Los
           Angeles:
           Boyle
           Heights
           Sports Center
           for develop-
           ment          of
           sports fields
           both soccer
           and baseball       (300,000)
       (s) City of Bell-
           flower: Re-
           furbish and
           upgrade base-
           ball    fields,
           restrooms,
           and announc-
           er booths for
           Little
           League–run
           programs at
           Caruther,
           Simms, and
           Thompson
           Parks . . . . .    (315,000)
4456                     STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (t) City          of
           Downey: Re-
           furbish and
           upgrade soc-
           cer, baseball,
           and softball
           fields
           for programs
           run by the
           American
           Youth Soccer
           Association,
           Junior Athlet-
           ic Associa-
           tion,      and
           Downey
           Girls’
           Softball
           Associa–
           tion . . . . . .    (325,000)
       (u) County of San
           Diego:
           Lighting for
           joint use soc-
           cer and ath-
           letic field in
           the commu-
           nity of Borre-
           go Springs .        (350,000)
       (v) Turlock Re-
           gional Sports
           Complex
           Foundation:
           Purchase and
           construction
           of a sports
           complex,
           creating 8 to
           10 youth soc-
           cer fields and
           two softball
           diamonds . .       (1,200,000)
[Ch. 672 ]              STATUTES OF 2000   4457

       (w) City          of
           Oakley:
           Little League
           Operated–
           Baseball
           Fields Rest-
           rooms
           Project . . . .    (100,000)
       (x) City of Tu-
           lare: Oper-
           ated         by
           AYSO–Elk
           Bayou Soccer
           Complex . . .      (200,000)
       (y) King     City:
           King      City
           Community
           Park (AYSO
           Operated)
           Youth Soccer
           Fields . . . . .   (200,000)
       (z) City of San
           Diego:
           AYSO Oper-
           ated–Design
           and construc-
           tion of Ran-
           cho Bernardo
           soccer fields      (200,000)
       (ax) City of Covi-
           na: Develop-
           ment of the
           Charter
           Oak
           Community
           Sports-
           plex . . . . . .   (250,000)
       (bx) City         of
           Grass Valley:
           Mulcahy
           Field Soccer/
           Baseball
           Complex op-
           erated by Alta
           Vista Neigh-
           borhood
           Group . . . . .    (300,000)
4458                       STATUTES OF 2000   [Ch. 672 ]

       (cx) City of La
            Quinta: De-
            sign        and
            construction
            of soccer
            park . . . . . .    (500,000)
       (dx) City of Red-
            ding: Infra-
            structure im-
            provements
            and field im-
            provements
            for historic
            Tiger Field .       (500,000)
       (ex) City of Re-
            dlands: Re-
            dlands Sports
            Complex de-
            sign and de-
            velopment
            including an
            AYSO oper-
            ated soccer
            field . . . . . .   (500,000)
       (fx) City of Palm-
            dale: Little
            League and
            PONY
            League Oper-
            ated–Youth
            baseball fa-
            cility       im-
            provements .        (500,000)
       (gx) City of Lan-
            caster:
            AYSO Oper-
            ated–Youth
            Soccer Orga-
            nization
            Headquarters
            Building–
            National Soc-
            cer Complex         (500,000)
[Ch. 672 ]                 STATUTES OF 2000     4459

       (hx) City of Tu-
            lare: Light-
            ing, concrete
            picnic tables,
            and benches
            for
            Prosperity
            Sports
            Park . . . . . .        (20,000)
       (ix) Town            of
            Danville:
            Installation
            of synthetic
            playing turf at
            Diablo Vista
            Park . . . . . .       (250,000)
       (jx) Livermore
            Area Recre-
            ation        and
            Park District:
            William          J.
            Payne Sports
            Park: Devel-
            opment          of
            soccer fields          (289,000)
       (kx) City            of
            Oakley:
            Build soccer
            fields . . . . .       (325,000)
       (lx) City            of
            Orange: Soc-
            cer field at
            Rock Creek
            Park . . . . . .       (974,000)
       (mx) City of La-
            fayette:
            Construction
            of a multipur-
            pose ballfield
            facility . . . .      (1,030,000)
       (nx) City of Ir-
            vine: Park fa-
            cility . . . . . .    (1,916,000)
4460                       STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 672 ]

      (ox) City of Re-
           dlands: De-
           sign and de-
           velopment of
           a major sports
           complex . . .      (2,000,000)
  (7) City Park Specific . . . . . . . . . . . .   (645,000)
      (a) San Francisco
           Arts     Com-
           mission: Re-
           store the Por-
           tals of the
           Past Monu-
           ment in Gold-
           en Gate
           Park . . . . . .        (36,000)
      (b) San Francis-
           co: Restora-
           tion of the
           James        A.
           Garfield and
           the Giuseppe
           Verde Monu-
           ments         in
           Golden Gate
           Park . . . . . .      (109,000)
      (c) City         and
           County        of
           San Francis-
           co: Capital
           improve-
           ments to the
           National
           AIDS Memo-
           rial Grove in
           Golden Gate
           Park . . . . . .      (500,000)

  Provisions:
      1. Funds appropriated shall be available for
      encumbrance for 3 years after the date upon which
      the appropriated funds first became available for
      encumbrance. Disbursements in liquidation of
      encumbrances shall be made before or during 5
      years following the last day the appropriation is
      available for encumbrance.
      2. The Department of Parks and Recreation may
[Ch. 672 ]                  STATUTES OF 2000                               4461

          allocate funds appropriated in Schedules 5 (ex) and
          (fx) of this item to the City of Oakland, to nonprofit
          organizations designated by the City of Oakland, or
          to both.
          3. The department of Parks and Recreation may
          allocate funds appropriated in Schedule 5(z) of this
          item to the Trust for Public Land for the purposes of
          the India Basin Shoreline Park.
  SEC. 13. The sum appropriated in Schedule (17) of Item
3790-302-0005 to the Department of Parks and Recreation for the Santa
Monica Mountains Trust for Leo Carillo State Beach, acquisition of
adjacent property at Nicholas Canyon Ridge, a high priority for state
parks is hereby reappropriated to the department for the Nature Trust of
Santa Monica Mountains for Leo Carillo State Beach, acquisition of
adjacent property at Nicholas Canyon Ridge, a high priority for state
parks.
  SEC. 14. The sum appropriated in Schedule (c) (3) of Item
3860-101-0001 to the Department of Water Resources for Yolo County
for the Community of Esparto-Flood control improvements is hereby
reappropriated to the department for Yolo County for the Community of
Esparto and the Community of Madison-Flood control improvements.
  SEC. 15. Item 3940-101-0418 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:

3940-101-0418—For local assistance, State Water Resources
    Control Board, for payment to Item 3940–101–0001,
    payable from the Small Communities Grant Subaccount
    to be available for expenditure during the 2000–01,
    2001–02, and 2002–03 fiscal years . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     15,000,000
  SEC. 16. Item 3940-101-0419 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:

3940-101-0419—For local assistance, State Water Resources
    Control Board, for payment to Item 3940–101–0001,
    payable from the Water Recycling Subaccount to be
    available for expenditure during the 2000–01,
    2001–02, and 2002–03 fiscal years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25,000,000
  SEC. 17. Item 3940-101-0744 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:
 4462                                STATUTES OF 2000                                  [Ch. 672 ]

3940-101-0744—For local assistance, State Water Resources
    Control Board, payable from the 1986 Water Conserva-
    tion and Water Quality Bond Fund to be available for
    expenditure during the 2000–01, 2001–02, and 2002–03
    fiscal years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10,000,000
  SEC. 18. Item 3940-101-6013 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:

3940-101-6013—For local assistance, State Water Resources
    Control Board, for payment to Item 3940–101–0001,
    payable from the Watershed Protection Subaccount to
    be available for expenditure during the 2000–01,
    2001–02, and 2002–03 fiscal years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     20,000,000
  SEC. 19. Item 3940-101-6016 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:

3940-101-6016—For local assistance, State Water Resources
    Control Board, for payment to Item 3940–101–0001,
    payable from Santa Ana River Watershed Subaccount to
    be available for expenditure during the 2000–01,
    2001–02, and 2002–03 fiscal years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    133,000,000
  SEC. 20. Item 3940-101-6017 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:

3940-101-6017—For local assistance, State Water Resources
    Control Board, for payment to Item 3940–101–0001,
    payable from the Lake Elsinore and San Jacinto Wa-
    tershed Subaccount to be available for expenditure dur-
    ing the 2000–01, 2001–02, and 2002–03 fiscal years .                                 8,000,000
  SEC. 21. Item 3940-101-6019 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:

3940-101-6019—For local assistance, State Water Resources
    Control Board, for payment to Item 3940–101–0001,
    payable from the Nonpoint Source Pollution Control
    Subaccount to be available for expenditure during the
    2000–01, 2001–02, and 2002–03 fiscal years . . . . . . .                            10,000,000
  SEC. 22. Item 3940-101-6020 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:
[Ch. 672 ]                  STATUTES OF 2000                               4463

3940-101-6020—For local assistance, State Water Resources
    Control Board, for payment to Item 3940–101–0001,
    payable from the State Revolving Fund Loan Subac-
    count to be available for expenditure during the
    2000–01, 2001–02, and 2002–03 fiscal years . . . . . . .           6,500,000
  SEC. 23. Item 3940-101-6021 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:

3940-101-6021—For local assistance, State Water Resources
    Control Board, for payment to Item 3940–101–0001,
    payable from the Wastewater Construction Subaccount
    to be available for expenditure during the 2000–01,
    2001–02, and 2002–03 fiscal years . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30,000,000
  SEC. 24. Item 3940-101-6022 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:

3940-101-6022—For local assistance, State Water Resources
    Control Board, for payment to Item 3940–101–0001,
    payable from the Coastal Nonpoint Source Control Sub-
    account to be available for expenditure during the
    2000–01, 2001–02, and 2002–03 fiscal years . . . . . .            10,000,000

 SEC. 24.5. Provision 6 is added to Item 4200-101-0001 of the
Budget Act of 2000, to read:

          6. Of the funds appropriated in Schedule (a) of this
              item, $25,000 shall be allocated to Los Angeles
              County for People in Progress, Inc. to fund the
              county’s local matching fund contribution
              required by Section 11840.12 of the Health and
              Safety Code.
  SEC. 25. Of the funds appropriated in Item 5160-101-0001 of
Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000, $250,000 shall be allocated to
the County of Marin for the Marin Brain Injury Network.
  SEC. 26. Provision (10)(a)(4) of Item 6440-001-0001 of Section
2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000 is amended to read:
          (4) $1,000,000 over and above any funds provided
               under (1) is provided to further expand MESA
               programs .
  SEC. 27. Provision (10)(f) of Item 6440-001-0001 of Section 2.00
of the Budget Act of 2000 is amended to read:

     (f) $2,500,000 is provided for systemwide graduate and
          professional school outreach to be matched by
 4464                                 STATUTES OF 2000                                    [Ch. 672 ]
             $1,500,000 in university funds. Of these funds,
             $1,460,000 shall be provided for medical school
             outreach, $1,610,000 for engineering and science
             doctoral program outreach, and $930,000 for law
             school outreach.
  SEC. 28. Item 8260-103-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of
2000 is amended to read:

8260-103-0001—For local assistance,California Arts Coun-
    cil . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31,235,400
    Provisions:
    3. Of the funds appropriated in this item, $5,000,000
         shall be allocated to the Performing Arts Center of
         Los Angeles County for construction of the Walt
         Disney Concert Hall in the City of Los Angeles.
    4. The funds specified in Provision 3 of this item are for
         one–time grants to the Performing Arts Center of
         Los Angeles County.
    5. Of the funds appropriated in this item, $26,235,400
         shall be for the following projects:
         (1) City of La Habra: Outreach
                Program at the Children’s Mu-
                seum of La Habra . . . . . . . .                             250,000
         (3) New Conservatory Theatre:
                Children’s Safe School Arts
                Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      50,000
         (4) San Francisco Mexican Mu-
                seum: Construction of a per-
                manent facility . . . . . . . . . . .                        500,000
         (5) National Maritime Museum
                Association: Maritime Educa-
                tional Program for Northern
                California schoolchildren . .                                250,000
         (6) City of San Francisco: DeY-
                oung Museum . . . . . . . . . . .                         4,500,000
         (7) Bayview Opera House: Reno-
                vation and structural improve-
                ments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    400,000
         (8) Filipino American National
                Historical Society, Sacramen-
                to/Delta Chapter: Documen-
                tary ‘‘AnUntold Triumph’’ .                                    25,000
         (9) Kids Write Plays Pro–
                gram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     65,000
         (10) Armenian Film Foundation                                         78,400
[Ch. 672 ]                   STATUTES OF 2000                         4465

       (11) San Mateo and Los Angeles
           County Offices of Education:
           Civil Rights Project ‘‘Sojourn
           to the Past’’ . . . . . . . . . . . . .         350,000
       (12) DQ University . . . . . . . . . .              300,000
       (13) County of San Luis Obispo:
           Dana Adobe Rehabilitation
           Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       200,000
       (14) City of San Luis Obispo: Chil-
           dren’s Museum Expansion
           Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       200,000
       (15) City of Arroyo Grande: South
           County Performing Arts
           Building . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          400,000
       (16) Port San Luis Marine Insti-
           tute: Floating Marine Labora-
           tory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      150,000
       (18) La Mirada Theatre for Per-
           forming Arts . . . . . . . . . . . .            250,000
       (19) Historical Society of West Co-
           vina: Heritage House and Her-
           itage Gardens Park . . . . . . .                 85,000
       (20) Fender Museum Foundation:
           Fender Museum of the Arts
           and Music . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           250,000
       (21) Italian Cultural Society: Ital-
           ian Cultural Center and Mu-
           seum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        300,000
       (22) Elk Grove Historical Society:
           Old Stage Stop and Hotel Mu-
           seum Project . . . . . . . . . . . .            100,000
       (23) Galt Area Historical Society:
           McFarland Living History
           Ranch Project . . . . . . . . . . . .           100,000
       (28) City of San Diego: Sikes
           Adobe State Point of Historic
           Interest Restora–
           tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    350,000
       (29) The Wall Memorial: Comple-
           tion of memorial to victims of
           HIV and AIDS . . . . . . . . . .                400,000
       (30) Natural History Museum:
           Border Environment Educa-
           tion Program . . . . . . . . . . . .           1,000,000
4466                         STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 672 ]

       (31) 100th/442nd/MIS WWI Me-
           morial Foundation . . . . . . .             500,000
       (32) Jewish Federation Zimmer
           Museum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2,000,000
       (33) Los Angeles Children’s Mu-
           seum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2,500,000
       (34) ADL: Stop the Hate . . . . . .            1,000,000
       (35) National Coalition for Re-
           dress/Reparations: NCRR Ed-
           ucational Program and Mu-
           seum Display . . . . . . . . . . .           50,000
       (37) Skirball Cultural Center:
           Completion of Karen and
           Gary Winnick Family Heri-
           tage Hall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2,000,000
       (39) Redondo Beach Performing
           Arts Center: Replace lavatory
           equipment in Performing Arts
           Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    250,000
       (40) Torrance Cultural Arts Cen-
           ter: Construction of a black–
           box stage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     250,000
       (41) Lomita Railroad Museum
           Foundation, Inc.: Expansion
           of Railroad Museum . . . . . .              250,000
       (42) African American Historical
           and Cultural Museum of the
           San Joaquin Valley: Construc-
           tion and renovation of mu-
           seum in Central Valley . . . .              250,000
       (43) El Pueblo de Los Angeles:
           Streetscape       improvements
           and restoration of historic
           buildings in Pico and Garnier
           blocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2,000,000
       (44) San Francisco Ballet . . . . .              500,000
       (45) Wajumbe Cultural Institution:
           $45,000 for Summer Cultural
           Arts and Education Camp;
           $84,000 for Multimedia and
           Community Television Lab
           for equipment . . . . . . . . . . .         129,000
       (47) Explorit! Science Center:
           Capital outlay assistance . . .             200,000
[Ch. 672 ]                   STATUTES OF 2000                       4467

       (48)    Fresno Art Museum:
           Construction of the Sculpture
           Plaza Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         150,000
       (49) Fresno Museum: Legion of
           Valor, data base, and related
           projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     150,000
       (50) Chinese Historical Society of
           America: Construction of the
           Chinese American National
           Museum and Learning
           Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     200,000
       (51) The Asian Art Museum of San
           Francisco: Museum renova-
           tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   500,000
       (52) Inglewood Recreation, Parks,
           and Community Services . .                      28,000
       (54) Pan African Film and Arts
           Festival . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     200,000
       (55) Sonoma County Museum:
           Sonoma County Museum
           Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      250,000
       (56) Napa Valley Museum: Mu-
           seum expansion . . . . . . . . . .             100,000
       (57) Oakland Museum of Califor-
           nia Foundation: Distribution
           of materials to high school stu-
           dents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    150,000
       (60) Modoc Arts Council: Modoc
           Amphitheater . . . . . . . . . . . .           200,000
       (67) City of Visalia: Visalia Arts
           Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      50,000
       (68) Youth Science Institute:
           Youth        Science            Institute
           Education Facility expansion                   300,000
       (71) County of San Bernardino:
           San Bernardino County Mu-
           seum Mineral Exhibit . . . . .                  50,000
       (74) Palos Verdes Symphony Or-
           chestra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       25,000
       (75) Long Beach Museum of Art                      300,000
4468                     STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 672 ]

       (76) Legion of Valor Museum in
             Fresno: Creation of archival
             system for the purpose of es-
             tablishing a permanent data
             base of original citations . . .        150,000
       (77) Latino Museum of History,
             Art, and Culture . . . . . . . . . .  1,000,000
  6. The funds appropriated by this item are for one–time
       grants to museums and cultural institutions to
       provide educational services to public school
       students and for one–time grants to museum and
       cultural institutions for capital outlay. In making
       this appropriation, it is the intent of the Legislature
       to provide a simple system for allocating funds to
       museums and cultural institutions that ensures
       accountability of public funds. It is not the intent of
       the Legislature to establish an ongoing system of
       local assistance for museums and cultural
       institutions.
  7. (a) For purposes of this item, educational
            services may include teacher training,
            curriculum          development,        schoolsite
            presentations or workshops, distance learning,
            and reduced price or free admissions. No funds
            appropriated by this item may be expended for
            hiring of permanent staff, purchase of vehicles,
            or the general operating expenses of these
            museums. Funds appropriated by this item shall
            be used to supplement, and not supplant, current
            funding for educational services for public
            school students from other funding sources.
       (b) On or before November 1, 2000, each museum
            and cultural institution shall submit to the
            California Arts Council a detailed expenditure
            plan on the proposed uses of the funds
            appropriated to it by this item for educational
            services. Notwithstanding Section 2.00 of this
            act, funds appropriated in this item for
            educational services may be expended only for
            educational services provided from July 1,
            2000, to June 30, 2003, inclusive.
       (c) The California Arts Council shall review and
            approve each expenditure plan to ensure that (1)
            funds are proposed to be expended for
            educational purposes consistent with paragraph
            (a) of this provision and (2) the expenditure plan
            proposes a cost–effective use of the funds. The
            council shall develop a process for reviewing,
[Ch. 672 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                         4469

            approving, and paying grantees in a timely
            fashion. To ensure financial accountability, the
            council shall develop a reporting process and
            specify information to be reported by grantees
            on a regular basis.
        (d) The California Arts Council shall report to the
            Joint Legislature Budget Committee by
            October 1, 2001, detailing expenditures made
            and programmatic outcomes achieved by each
            grant funded pursuant to this item during the
            2000–01 fiscal year, and by October 1 for each
            subsequent fiscal year during which funds are
            expended, including, but not limited to, the
            number of students and teachers served,
            evidence of student achievement, curriculum
            materials developed, and evidence of
            professional growth among teachers trained.
   8. (a) For purposes of this item, capital outlay
            includes expenditures for planning, working
            drawings, and repair, renovation, and
            construction of museum and cultural institution
            facilities. No funds appropriated by this item
            for purposes of capital outlay may be used for
            hiring of permanent staff, operating expenses,
            or non-capital-outlay-related expenditures.
        (b) On or before November 1, 2000, each museum
            and cultural institution shall submit to the
            California Arts Council a detailed expenditure
            plan on the proposed uses of the funds
            appropriated to it by this item for capital outlay.
            Notwithstanding Section 2.00 of this act, funds
            appropriated in this item for capital outlay may
            be expended only for capital outlay purposes
            from July 1, 2000, to June 30, 2003, inclusive.
        (c) The California Arts Council shall review and
            approve each expenditure plan to ensure that (1)
            funds are expended for the capital outlay
            purposes consistent with paragraph (a) of this
            provision and (2) the expenditure plan proposes
            a cost-effective use of the funds. The council
            shall develop a process for reviewing,
            approving, and paying grantees in a timely
            fashion. To ensure financial accountability, the
            council shall develop a reporting process and
            specify information for grantees to report on a
            regular basis.
        (d) The California Arts Council shall report to the
            Joint Legislature Budget Committee by
 4470                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 673 ]
            October 1, 2001, detailing expenditures made
            and the outcome in terms of facilities repaired,
            renovated, or constructed for the 2000–01 fiscal
            year, and by October 1 for each subsequent
            fiscal year during which funds appropriated by
            this item are expended.
    9. Of the funds appropriated in Schedule (ix) of Item
       8260–001–0001, $250,000 shall be used by the
       California Arts Council to defray its expenses for
       support and related expenses for performing its
       responsibilities under this item. The council may
       enter into an interagency agreement to obtain
       personnel services relating to the review and
       approval of capital outlay expenditure plans.
   SEC. 29. The sum appropriated by Schedule (b) of Item
8955-102-0001 to the Department of Veterans Affairs for the Santa
Clarita Historical Veterans Memorial is hereby reappropriated to the
department for the City of Santa Clarita Historical Veterans Memorial.
   SEC. 30. The balance of the sum appropriated to the Department of
Parks and Recreation in Schedule (a)(4.2) of Item 3790-102-0001 of
Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 1998 (Ch. 324, Stats. 1998) for Bear
Mountain Parks and Recreation District for repavement of basketball
courts is hereby reappropriated to the Department of Parks and
Recreation for allocation to the Bear Mountain Parks and Recreation
District for soccer fields.
   SEC. 31. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to make certain necessary augmentations and adjustments to
the appropriations made by the Budget Act of 2000 for support of state
government for the 2000–01 fiscal year, it is necessary that this act take
effect immediately.



                            CHAPTER 673

   An act to amend Section 14320 of the Business and Professions Code,
relating to business practices.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]
[Ch. 673 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4471

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14320 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   14320. (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 14340 a person shall
be subject to a civil action by the owner of a registered mark and the
remedies provided in Section 14330 for doing any of the following:
   (1) Using, without the consent of the registrant, any reproduction,
counterfeit, copy, or colorable imitation of a mark registered under this
chapter in connection with the sale, offering for sale, or advertising of
any goods or services on or in connection with which that use is likely
to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive as to the source of origin of
those goods or services.
   (2) Reproducing, counterfeiting, copying, or colorably imitating any
mark of that type and applying that reproduction, counterfeit, copy, or
colorable imitation to labels, signs, prints, packages, wrappers,
receptacles, or advertisements intended to be used upon or in
conjunction with the sale or other distribution in this state of those goods
or services. The registrant shall not be entitled under this paragraph to
recover profits or damages unless the acts have been committed with
knowledge that the mark is intended to be used to cause confusion or
mistake or to deceive.
   (3) Knowingly facilitating, enabling, or otherwise assisting a person
to manufacture, use, distribute, display, or sell any goods or services
bearing any reproduction, counterfeit, copy, or colorable imitation of a
mark registered under this chapter, without the consent of the registrant.
Any action by a person is presumed to have been taken knowingly
following delivery to that person by personal delivery, courier, or
certified mail return receipt requested, of a written demand to cease and
desist that is accompanied by all of the following:
   (A) A copy of the certificate of registration and of any claimed
reproduction, counterfeit, copy, or colorable imitation of the registered
mark.
   (B) A statement, made under penalty of perjury, by the owner of the
registered mark, by an officer of the corporation that owns the registered
mark, or by legal counsel for the owner of the registered mark, that
includes all of the following:
   (i) The name or description of the infringer.
   (ii) The product or service and mark being or to be infringed.
   (iii) The dates of the infringement.
   (iv) Any other reasonable information to assist the recipient to
identify the infringer.
 4472                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 673 ]
   (4) The presumption created in paragraph (3) does not affect the
trademark owner’s burden of showing that there was a violation of the
trademark law.
   (5) Paragraph (3) is applicable to a landlord or property owner who
provides, rents, leases, or licenses the use of real property where any
goods or services bearing any reproduction, counterfeit, copy, or
colorable imitation of a mark registered pursuant to this chapter are sold,
offered for sale, or advertised, where the landlord or property owner had
control of the property and knew, or had reason to know, of the infringing
activity.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the remedies
given to the owner of the right infringed are limited as follows:
   (1) If an infringer or violator is engaged solely in the business of
printing the mark or violating matter for others and establishes that he
or she was an innocent infringer or innocent violator, the owner of the
right infringed is entitled only to an injunction against future printing of
the mark by the innocent infringer or innocent violator.
   (2) If the infringement complained of is contained in, or is part of,
paid advertising matter in a newspaper, magazine, or other similar
periodical, or in an electronic communication as defined in Title 18
U.S.C. Section 2510(12), the remedies of the owner of the right
infringed against the publisher or distributor of the newspaper,
magazine, or other similar periodical or electronic communication shall
be confined to an injunction against the presentation of the advertising
matter in future issues of the newspapers, magazines, or other similar
periodicals or in further transmissions of the electronic communication.
The limitation of this subdivision shall apply only to innocent infringers
and innocent violators.
   (3) Injunctive relief is not available to the owner of the right infringed
with respect to an issue of a newspaper, magazine, or other similar
periodical or electronic communication containing infringing matter if
restraining the dissemination of the infringing matter in any particular
issue of the periodical or in an electronic communication would delay
the delivery of the issue or transmission of the electronic communication
after the regular time for delivery and the delay would be due to the
method by which publication and distribution of the periodical or
transmission of the electronic communication is customarily conducted
in accordance with sound business practice, and not to any method or
device adopted for the evasion of this section or to prevent or delay the
issuance of an injunction or restraining order with respect to the
infringing matter.
   (c) An innocent infringer or innocent violator is any person whose
acts were committed without knowledge that the mark was intended to
be used to cause confusion, mistake, or to deceive.
[Ch. 674 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4473

  SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 674

  An act to amend Sections 22442.2 and 22445 of, and to add Section
6157.5 to, the Business and Professions Code, relating to consumer
protection.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6157.5 is added to the Business and
Professions Code, to read:
   6157.5. (a) All advertisements published, distributed, or
broadcasted by or on behalf of a member seeking professional
employment for the member in providing services relating to
immigration or naturalization shall include a statement that he or she is
an active member of the State Bar, licensed to practice law in this state.
If the advertisement seeks employment for a law firm or law corporation
employing more than one attorney, the advertisement shall include a
statement that all the services relating to immigration and naturalization
provided by the firm or corporation shall be provided by an active
member of the State Bar or by a person under the supervision of an active
member of the State Bar. This subdivision shall not apply to classified
or ‘‘yellow pages’’ listings in a telephone or business directory of three
lines or less that state only the name, address, and telephone number of
the listed entity.
   (b) If the advertisement is in a language other than English, the
statement required by subdivision (a) shall be in the same language as
the advertisement.
   (c) This section shall not apply to members employed by public
agencies or by nonprofit entities registered with the Secretary of State.
   (d) A violation of this section by a member shall be cause for
discipline by the State Bar.
 4474                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 674 ]
   SEC. 2. Section 22442.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   22442.2. (a) An immigration consultant shall conspicuously
display in his or her office a notice that shall be at least 12 inches by 20
inches with boldface type or print with each character at least one inch
in height and width in English and in the native language of the
consultant’s clientele, the following information:
   (1) The full name, address, and evidence of compliance with any
applicable bonding requirement including the bond number, if any.
   (2) A statement that the consultant is not an attorney.
   (b) Prior to providing any services, an immigration consultant shall
provide the client with a written disclosure that shall include the
immigration consultant’s name, address, telephone number, agent for
service of process, and evidence of compliance with any applicable
bonding requirement, including the bond number, if any.
   (c) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) or (3), an immigration
consultant who prints, displays, publishes, distributes, or broadcasts, or
who causes to be printed, displayed, published, distributed, or
broadcasted, any advertisement for services as an immigration
consultant, within the meaning of Section 22441, shall include in that
advertisement a clear and conspicuous statement that the immigration
consultant is not an attorney.
   (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a person engaging in the business
or acting in the capacity of an immigration consultant who is not licensed
as an attorney in any state or territory of the United States, but is
authorized by federal law to represent persons before the Board of
Immigration Appeals or the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, shall include in any advertisement for services
as an immigration consultant a clear and conspicuous statement that the
consultant is not an attorney but is authorized by federal law to represent
persons before the Board of Immigration Appeals or the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service.
   (3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a person engaging in the business
or acting in the capacity of an immigration consultant who is not an
active member of the State Bar of California, but is an attorney licensed
in another state or territory of the United States and is admitted to
practice before the Board of Immigration Appeals or the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service, shall include in any
advertisement for services as an immigration consultant a clear and
conspicuous statement that the consultant is not an attorney licensed to
practice law in California but is an attorney licensed in another state or
territory of the United States and is authorized by federal law to represent
persons before the Board of Immigration Appeals or the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service.
[Ch. 675 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4475

   (4) If an advertisement subject to this subdivision is in a language
other than English, the statement required by this subdivision shall be
in the same language as the advertisement.
   SEC. 3. Section 22445 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   22445. (a) A person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a
civil penalty not to exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for
each violation, to be assessed and collected in a civil action brought by
any person injured by the violation.
   (b) In addition to the provisions of subdivision (a), a violation of this
chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than two
thousand dollars ($2,000) or more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000),
as to each client with respect to whom a violation occurs, or
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than one year, or by both
fine and imprisonment. However, payment of restitution to a client shall
take precedence over payment of a fine.
   (c) A second or subsequent violation of Sections 22442.2, 22442.3,
and 22442.4 is a misdemeanor subject to the penalties specified in
subdivisions (a) and (b). A second or subsequent violation of any other
provision of this chapter is a felony punishable by imprisonment in state
prison.
   SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 675

  An act to amend Sections 12810 and 27361 of, and to amend, repeal,
and add Sections 27360, 27360.5, 27363, 27363.5, and 27365 of, the
Vehicle Code, relating to vehicles.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 12810 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
 4476                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 675 ]
   12810. In determining the violation point count, the following shall
apply:
   (a) Any conviction of failure to stop in the event of an accident in
violation of Section 20001 or 20002 shall be given a value of two points.
   (b) Any conviction of a violation of Section 23152 or 23153 shall be
given a value of two points.
   (c) Any conviction of reckless driving shall be given a value of two
points.
   (d) (1) Any conviction of a violation of subdivision (c) of Section
192 of the Penal Code, or of Section 2800.2 or 2800.3, subdivision (b)
of Section 21651, subdivision (b) of Section 22348, subdivision (a) of
Section 23109, subdivision (c) of Section 23109, or Section 31602 of
this code, shall be given a value of two points.
   (2) Any conviction of a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) of Section
23140 shall be given a value of two points.
   (e) Except as provided in subdivision (g), any other traffic conviction
involving the safe operation of a motor vehicle upon the highway shall
be given a value of one point.
   (f) Any traffic accident in which the operator is deemed by the
department to be responsible shall be given a value of one point.
   (g) (1) A violation of paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (5) of subdivision (b)
of Section 40001 shall not result in a violation point count being given
to the driver if the driver is not the owner of the vehicle.
   (2) Any conviction of a violation of subdivision (a) of Section 21116,
Section 21207.5, 21708, 21710, 21716, 23120, 24800, or 26707 shall
not be given a violation point count.
   (3) A violation of Section 23136 shall not result in a violation point
count.
   (h) A conviction for only one violation arising from one occasion of
arrest or citation shall be counted in determining the violation point
count for the purposes of this section.
   (i) Any conviction of a violation of Section 14601, 14601.1, 14601.2,
14601.3, or 14601.5 shall be given a value of two points.
   (j) Any conviction of a violation of Section 27360 or 27360.5 shall
be given a value of one point.
   SEC. 2. Section 12810 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   12810. In determining the violation point count, the following shall
apply:
   (a) Any conviction of failure to stop in the event of an accident in
violation of Section 20001 or 20002 shall be given a value of two points.
   (b) Any conviction of a violation of Section 23152 or 23153 shall be
given a value of two points.
   (c) Any conviction of reckless driving shall be given a value of two
points.
[Ch. 675 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4477

   (d) (1) Any conviction of a violation of subdivision (c) of Section
192 of the Penal Code, or of Section 2800.2 or 2800.3, subdivision (b)
of Section 21651, subdivision (b) of Section 22348, subdivision (a) of
Section 23109, subdivision (c) of Section 23109, or Section 31602 of
this code, shall be given a value of two points.
   (2) Any conviction of a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) of Section
23140 shall be given a value of two points.
   (e) Except as provided in subdivision (g), any other traffic conviction
involving the safe operation of a motor vehicle upon the highway shall
be given a value of one point.
   (f) Any traffic accident in which the operator is deemed by the
department to be responsible shall be given a value of one point.
   (g) (1) A violation of paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (5) of subdivision (b)
of Section 40001 shall not result in a violation point count being given
to the driver if the driver is not the owner of the vehicle.
   (2) Any conviction of a violation of paragraph (1) or (2) of
subdivision (a) of Section 12814.6, subdivision (a) of Section 21116,
Section 21207.5, 21708, 21710, 21716, 23120, 24800, or 26707 shall
not be given a violation point count.
   (3) A violation of Section 23136 shall not result in a violation point
count.
   (h) A conviction for only one violation arising from one occasion of
arrest or citation shall be counted in determining the violation point
count for the purposes of this section.
   (i) Any conviction of a violation of Section 14601, 14601.1, 14601.2,
14601.3, or 14601.5 shall be given a value of two points.
   (j) Any conviction of a violation of Section 27360 or 27360.5 shall
be given a value of one point.
   SEC. 3. Section 27360 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   27360. (a) No parent or legal guardian, when present in a motor
vehicle, as defined in Section 27315, shall permit his or her child or ward
under the age of four years, regardless of weight, or weighing less than
40 pounds, regardless of age, to be transported upon a highway in the
motor vehicle without providing and properly using, for each child or
ward, a child passenger restraint system meeting applicable federal
motor vehicle safety standards.
   (b) No driver shall transport on a highway any child under four years
of age, regardless of weight, or weighing less than 40 pounds, regardless
of age, in a motor vehicle, as defined in Section 27315, without
providing and properly securing the child in a child passenger restraint
system meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards. This
subdivision does not apply to a driver if the parent or legal guardian of
the child is also present in the vehicle and is not the driver.
 4478                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 675 ]
   (c) (1) A first offense under this section is punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100), except that the court may reduce or waive the
fine if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he or
she is economically disadvantaged and the court, instead, refers the
defendant to a community education program that includes, but is not
limited to, education on the proper installation and use of child passenger
restraint systems for children of all ages, and provides certification to the
court of completion of that program. Upon completion of the program,
the defendant shall provide proof of participation in the program. If an
education program on the proper installation and use of a child passenger
restraint system is not available within 50 miles of the residence of the
defendant, the requirement to participate in that program shall be
waived. If the fine is paid, waived, or reduced, the court shall report the
conviction to the department pursuant to Section 1803. The court may,
at its discretion, require any defendant described under this section to
attend an education program that includes demonstration of proper
installation and use of child passenger restraint systems and provides
certification to the court that the defendant has presented for inspection
a child passenger restraint system that meets applicable federal safety
standards.
   (2) A second or subsequent offense under this section is punishable
by a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250), no part of which may be
waived by the court, except that the court may reduce or waive the fine
if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he or she
is economically disadvantaged, and the court, instead refers the
defendant to a community education program that includes, but is not
limited to, education on the proper installation and use of child passenger
restraint systems for children of all ages, and provides certification to the
court of completion of that program. Upon completion of the program,
the defendant shall provide proof of participation in the program. If an
education program on the proper installation and use of a child passenger
restraint system is not available within 50 miles of the residence of the
defendant, the requirement to participate in that program shall be
waived. If the fine is paid, waived, or reduced, the court shall report the
conviction to the department pursuant to Section 1803.
   The court may, at its discretion, require any defendant described under
this section to attend an education program that includes demonstration
of proper installation and use of child passenger restraint systems and
provides certification to the court that the defendant has presented for
inspection a child passenger restraint system that meets applicable
federal safety standards.
   (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the fines collected
for a violation of this section shall be allocated as follows:
[Ch. 675 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4479

   (1) Sixty percent to health departments of local jurisdictions, as
defined in Section 16700 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, where the
violation occurred, to be used for a community education program that
includes, but is not limited to, demonstration of the installation of a child
passenger restraint system for children of all ages and also assists
economically disadvantaged families in obtaining those restraint
systems through low-cost purchases or loans. The county or city health
department shall designate a coordinator to facilitate the creation of a
special account and to develop a relationship with the court system to
facilitate the transfer of funds to the program. The county or city may
contract for the implementation of the program. Prior to obtaining a child
passenger restraint system pursuant to this section, a person shall attend
an education program that includes demonstration of the proper
installation and use of child passenger restraint systems.
   As the proceeds from fines become available, county or city health
departments shall prepare and maintain a listing of all child passenger
restraint low-cost purchase or loaner programs in their counties or cities,
including a semiannual verification that all programs listed are in
existence. Each county or city shall forward the listing to the Office of
Traffic Safety in the Business, Transportation and Housing Agency and
the courts, birthing centers, community child health and disability
prevention programs, county clinics, prenatal clinics, women, infants,
and children programs, and county hospitals in that county, who shall
make the listing available to the public. The Office of Traffic Safety shall
maintain a listing of all of the programs in the state.
   (2) Twenty-five percent to the county or city for the administration of
the program.
   (3) Fifteen percent to the city, to be deposited in its general fund
except that, if the violation occurred in an unincorporated area, this
amount shall be allocated to the county for purposes of paragraph (1).
   (e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 4. Section 27360 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   27360. (a) No parent or legal guardian, when present in a motor
vehicle, as defined in Section 27315, shall permit his or her child or ward
to be transported upon a highway in the motor vehicle without providing
and properly securing the child or ward, in a child passenger restraint
system meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards unless
the child or ward is at least one of the following:
   (1) Six years of age or older.
   (2) Weighs 60 pounds or more.
   (b) No driver shall transport on a highway any child in a motor
vehicle, as defined in Section 27315, without providing and properly
 4480                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 675 ]
securing the child in a child passenger restraint system meeting
applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards unless the child is at
least one of the following:
   (1) Six years of age or older.
   (2) Weighs 60 pounds or more.
   This subdivision does not apply to a driver if the parent or legal
guardian of the child is also present in the vehicle and is not the driver.
   (c) (1) A first offense under this section is punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100), except that the court may reduce or waive the
fine if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he or
she is economically disadvantaged, and the court, instead, refers the
defendant to a community education program that includes, but is not
limited to, education on the proper installation and use of child passenger
restraint systems for children of all ages, and provides certification to the
court of completion of that program. Upon completion of the program,
the defendant shall provide proof of participation in the program. If an
education program on the proper installation and use of a child passenger
restraint system is not available within 50 miles of the residence of the
defendant, the requirement to participate in that program shall be
waived. If the fine is paid, waived, or reduced, the court shall report the
conviction to the department pursuant to Section 1803.
   The court may, at its discretion, require any defendant described under
this section to attend an education program that includes demonstration
of proper installation and use of child passenger restraint systems and
provides certification to the court that the defendant has presented for
inspection a child passenger restraint system that meets applicable
federal safety standards.
   (2) A second or subsequent offense under this section is punishable
by a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250), no part of which may be
waived by the court, except that the court may reduce or waive the fine
if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he or she
is economically disadvantaged, and the court, instead refers the
defendant to a community education program that includes, but is not
limited to, education on the proper installation and use of child passenger
restraint systems for children of all ages, and provides certification to the
court of completion of that program. Upon completion of the program,
the defendant shall provide proof of participation in the program. If an
education program on the proper installation and use of a child passenger
restraint system is not available within 50 miles of the residence of the
defendant, the requirement to participate in that program shall be
waived. If the fine is paid, waived, or reduced, the court shall report the
conviction to the department pursuant to Section 1803.
   The court may, at its discretion, require any defendant described under
this section to attend an education program that includes demonstration
[Ch. 675 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4481

of proper installation and use of child passenger restraint systems and
provides certification to the court that the defendant has presented for
inspection a child passenger restraint system that meets applicable
federal safety standards.
   (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the fines collected
for a violation of this section shall be allocated as follows:
   (1) Sixty percent to health departments of local jurisdictions, as
defined in Section 16700 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, where the
violation occurred, to be used for a community education program that
includes, but is not limited to, demonstration of the installation of a child
passenger restraint system for children of all ages and also assists
economically disadvantaged families in obtaining those restraint
systems through low-cost purchases or loans. The county or city health
department shall designate a coordinator to facilitate the creation of a
special account and to develop a relationship with the municipal court
system to facilitate the transfer of funds to the program. The county or
city may contract for the implementation of the program. Prior to
obtaining possession of a child passenger restraint system pursuant to
this section, a person shall attend an education program that includes
demonstration of proper installation and use of child passenger restraint
systems.
   As the proceeds from fines become available, county or city health
departments shall prepare and maintain a listing of all child passenger
restraint low-cost purchase or loaner programs in their counties,
including a semiannual verification that all programs listed are in
existence. Each county or city shall forward the listing to the Office of
Traffic Safety in the Business, Transportation and Housing Agency and
the courts, birthing centers, community child health and disability
prevention programs, county clinics, prenatal clinics, women, infants,
and children programs, and county hospitals in that county, who shall
make the listing available to the public. The Office of Traffic Safety shall
maintain a listing of all of the programs in the state.
   (2) Twenty-five percent to the county or city for the administration of
the program.
   (3) Fifteen percent to the city, to be deposited in its general fund
except that, if the violation occurred in an unincorporated area, this
amount shall be allocated to the county for purposes of paragraph (1).
   (e) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2002.
   SEC. 5. Section 27360.5 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   27360.5. (a) No parent or legal guardian, when present in a motor
vehicle, as defined in Section 27315, shall permit his or her child or ward
who is four years of age or older but less than 16 years of age and weighs
40 pounds or more to be transported upon a highway in the motor vehicle
without providing and properly securing the child or ward in an
 4482                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 675 ]
appropriate child restraint system or safety belt meeting applicable
federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   (b) No driver shall transport on a highway any child who is four years
of age or older but less than 16 years of age and weighs 40 pounds or
more in a motor vehicle, as defined in Section 27315, without providing
and properly securing the child in a child passenger restraint system or
safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards.
This subdivision does not apply to a driver if the parent or legal guardian
of the child is also present in the vehicle and is not the driver.
   (c) (1) A first offense under this section is punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100), except that the court may reduce or waive the
fine if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he or
she is economically disadvantaged and the court, instead, refers the
defendant to a child restraint education program that includes, but is not
limited to, demonstration of the proper installation and use of child
passenger restraint systems for children of all ages, and provides
economically disadvantaged families with a child passenger restraint
low-cost purchase or loaner program. Upon completion of the program,
the defendant shall provide proof of participation in the program that
includes an inspection of a child passenger restraint system that meets
applicable federal safety standards. If an education program on the
proper installation and use of a child passenger restraint system is not
available within 50 miles of the residence of the defendant, the
requirement to participate in that program shall be waived. If the fine is
paid, waived, or reduced, the court shall report the conviction to the
department pursuant to Section 1803. The court may, at its discretion,
require any defendant punishable under this paragraph to attend and
education program that includes demonstration of the proper use of
occupant restraint systems for children of all ages.
   (2) A second or subsequent offense under this section is punishable
by a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250), no part of which may be
waived by the court, except that the court may reduce or waive the fine
if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he or she
is economically disadvantaged, and the court, instead refers the
defendant to a community education program that includes, but is not
limited to, education on the proper installation and use of child passenger
restraint systems for children of all ages, and provides certification to the
court of completion of that program. Upon completion of the program,
the defendant shall provide proof of participation in the program. If an
education program on the proper installation and use of a child passenger
restraint system is not available within 50 miles of the residence of the
defendant, the requirement to participate in that program shall be
waived. If the fine is paid, waived, or reduced, the court shall report the
conviction to the department pursuant to Section 1803. The court may
[Ch. 675 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4483

at its discretion, require any defendant described under this section to
attend an education program that includes demonstration of proper
installation and use of child passenger restraint systems and provides
certification to the court that the defendant has presented for inspection
a child passenger restraint system that meets applicable federal safety
standards.
   (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the fines collected
for a violation of this section shall be allocated as follows:
   (1) Sixty percent to county or city health departments where the
violation occurred, to be used for an education program that includes, but
is not limited to, the demonstration of proper installation and use of child
passenger restraint systems for children of all ages and provides child
restraints for loan or low-cost purchase.
   (2) Twenty-five percent to the county or city for the administration of
the program.
   (3) Fifteen percent to the city, to be deposited in its general fund
except that, if the violation occurred in an unincorporated area, this
amount shall be allocated to the county for purposes of paragraph (1).
   (e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 6. Section 27360.5 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   27360.5. (a) No parent or legal guardian, when present in a motor
vehicle, as defined in Section 27315, may permit his or her child or ward
who is six years of age, but less than 16 years of age, or who is less than
six years of age and weighs 60 pounds or more to be transported upon
a highway in the motor vehicle without providing and properly securing
the child or ward in an appropriate child passenger restraint system or
safety belt meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   (b) No driver may transport on a highway any child who is six years
of age, but less than 16 years of age, or who is less than six years of age
and weighs 60 pounds or more in a motor vehicle, as defined in Section
27315, without providing and properly securing the child in a child
passenger restraint system or safety belt meeting applicable federal
motor vehicle safety standards. This subdivision does not apply to a
driver if the parent or legal guardian of the child is also present in the
vehicle and is not the driver.
   (c) (1) A first offense under this section is punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100), except that the court may reduce or waive the
fine if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he or
she is economically disadvantaged, and the court, instead, refers the
defendant to a child restraint education program that includes, but is not
limited to, demonstration of the proper installation and use of child
passenger restraint systems for children of all ages, and provides
 4484                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 675 ]
economically disadvantaged families with a child passenger restraint
low-cost purchase or loaner program. Upon completion of the program,
the defendant shall provide proof of participation in the program that
includes an inspection of a child passenger restraint system that meets
applicable federal safety standards. If an education program on the
proper installation and use of a child passenger restraint system is not
available within 50 miles of the residence of the defendant, the
requirement to participate in that program shall be waived. If the fine is
paid, waived, or reduced, the court shall report the conviction to the
department pursuant to Section 1803.
   The court may, at its discretion, require any defendant described under
this section to attend an education program that includes demonstration
of proper installation and use of child passenger restraint systems and
provides certification to the court that the defendant has presented for
inspection a child passenger restraint system that meets applicable
federal safety standards.
   (2) A second or subsequent offense under this section is punishable
by a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250), no part of which may be
waived by the court, except that the court may reduce or waive the fine
if the defendant establishes to the satisfaction of the court that he or she
is economically disadvantaged, and the court, instead refers the
defendant to a community education program that includes, but is not
limited to, education on the proper installation and use of child passenger
restraint systems for children of all ages, and provides certification to the
court of completion of that program. Upon completion of the program,
the defendant shall provide proof of participation in the program. If an
education program on the proper installation and use of a child passenger
restraint system is not available within 50 miles of the residence of the
defendant, the requirement to participate in that program shall be
waived. If the fine is paid, waived, or reduced, the court shall report the
conviction to the department pursuant to Section 1803.
   The court may at its discretion, require any defendant described under
this section to attend an education program that includes demonstration
of proper installation and use of child passenger restraint systems and
provides certification to the court that the defendant has presented for
inspection a child passenger restraint system that meets applicable
federal safety standards.
   (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the fines collected
for a violation of this section shall be allocated as follows:
   (1) Sixty percent to county or city health departments where the
violation occurred, to be used for an education program that includes, but
is not limited to, the demonstration of proper installation and use of child
passenger restraint systems for children of all ages and provides child
restraints for loan or low-cost purchase.
[Ch. 675 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4485

   (2) Twenty-five percent to the county or city for the administration of
the program.
   (3) Fifteen percent to the city, to be deposited in its general fund
except that, if the violation occurred in an unincorporated area, this
amount shall be allocated to the county for purposes of paragraph (1).
   (e) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2001.
   SEC. 7. Section 27361 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   27361. Any law enforcement officer reasonably suspecting a
violation of Section 27360 or 27360.5, or both of those sections, may
stop any vehicle transporting a child appearing to the officer to be within
the age or weight specified in Section 27360 or 27360.5. The officer may
issue a notice to appear for a violation of Section 27360.
   SEC. 8. Section 27363 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   27363. (a) The court may exempt from the requirements of this
article any class of child by age, weight, or size if it is determined that
the use of a child passenger restraint system would be impractical by
reason of physical unfitness, medical condition, or size and that an
appropriate special needs child passenger restraint system is not
available. The court may require satisfactory proof of the child’s
physical unfitness, medical condition, or size.
   (b) In case of a life-threatening emergency, or when a child is being
transported in an authorized emergency vehicle, if there is no child
passenger restraint system available and the child is at least one year of
age, a child may be transported without the use of such a system, but the
child shall be secured by a seat belt.
   (c) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 9. Section 27363 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   27363. (a) The court may exempt from the requirements of this
article any class of child by age, weight, or size if it is determined that
the use of a child passenger restraint system would be impractical by
reason of physical unfitness, medical condition, or size. The court may
require satisfactory proof of the child’s physical unfitness, medical
condition, or size and that an appropriate special needs child passenger
restraint system is not available.
   (b) In case of a life-threatening emergency, or when a child is being
transported in an authorized emergency vehicle, if there is no child
passenger restraint system available and the child is at least one year of
age, a child may be transported without the use of that system, but the
child shall be secured by a seatbelt.
   (c) A child weighing more than 40 pounds may be transported in the
backseat of a vehicle while wearing only a lap safety belt when the
 4486                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 675 ]
backseat of the vehicle is not equipped with a combination lap and
shoulder safety belt.
   (d) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2002.
   SEC. 10. Section 27363.5 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   27363.5. (a) Every public or private hospital, clinic, or birthing
center, shall, at the time of or before the discharge of a child under the
age of four years, or weighing less than 40 pounds, provide and discuss
information on the law requiring child passenger restraint systems to the
parents or the person to whom the child is released.
   (b) A public or private hospital, clinic, or birthing center shall not be
responsible for the failure of the parent or person to whom the child is
released to use a child passenger restraint system.
   (c) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 11. Section 27363.5 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   27363.5. (a) Every public or private hospital, clinic, or birthing
center, shall, at the time of the discharge of a child provide and discuss
information on the current law requiring child passenger restraint
systems to the parents or the person to whom the child is released when
at least one of the following conditions is met:
   (1) The child is less than six years of age.
   (2) The child weighs less than 60 pounds.
   (b) A public or private hospital, clinic, or birthing center shall not be
responsible for the failure of the parent or person to whom the child is
released to use a child passenger restraint system.
   (c) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2002.
   SEC. 12. Section 27365 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   27365. (a) (1) Every car rental agency in California shall inform
each of its customers of the provisions of Section 27360 by posting, in
a place conspicuous to the public in each established place of business
of the agency, a notice not smaller than 15 inches by 20 inches which
states the following:

‘‘CALIFORNIA LAW REQUIRES ALL CHILDREN UNDER THE
AGE OF 4, REGARDLESS OF WEIGHT, OR WEIGHING LESS
THAN 40 POUNDS, REGARDLESS OF AGE, TO BE
TRANSPORTED IN A CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM. THIS
AGENCY IS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE FOR RENTAL A CHILD
RESTRAINT SYSTEM IF YOU DO NOT HAVE SUCH A SYSTEM
YOURSELF.’’

  (2) The posted notice specified in paragraph (1) is not required if the
car rental agency’s place of business is located in a hotel which has a
[Ch. 675 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4487

business policy prohibiting the posting of signs or notices in any area of
the hotel. In that case, a car rental agency shall furnish a written notice
to each customer which contains the same information as required for the
posted notice.
   (b) Every car rental agency in California shall have available for, and
shall, upon request, provide for rental to, adults traveling with children
under the age of four, regardless of weight, or weighing less than 40
pounds, regardless of age, child passenger seat restraint systems meeting
applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards on the date of the rental
transaction, in good and safe condition, with no missing original parts,
and not older than five years.
   (c) A violation of this section is an infraction punishable by a fine of
one hundred dollars ($100).
   (d) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2002, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2002, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 13. Section 27365 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   27365. (a) (1) Every car rental agency in California shall inform
each of its customers of the provisions of Section 27360 by posting, in
a place conspicuous to the public in each established place of business
of the agency, a notice not smaller than 15 inches by 20 inches which
states the following: ‘‘CALIFORNIA LAW REQUIRES ALL
CHILDREN WHO ARE 5 YEARS OF AGE OR LESS OR WHO
WEIGH LESS THAN 60 POUNDS TO BE TRANSPORTED IN A
CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM. THIS AGENCY IS REQUIRED TO
PROVIDE FOR RENTAL A CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM IF YOU
DO NOT HAVE A CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM YOURSELF.’’
   (2) The posted notice specified in paragraph (1) is not required if the
car rental agency’s place of business is located in a hotel which has a
business policy prohibiting the posting of signs or notices in any area of
the hotel. In that case, a car rental agency shall furnish a written notice
to each customer which contains the same information as required for the
posted notice.
   (b) Every car rental agency in California shall have available for, and
shall, upon request, provide for rental to, adults traveling with children
under seven years of age, child passenger seat restraint systems that meet
applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards on the date of the rental
transaction, are in good and safe condition, with no missing original
parts, and are not older than five years.
   (c) A violation of this section is an infraction punishable by a fine of
one hundred dollars ($100).
   (d) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2002.
   SEC. 14. Section 2 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
12810 of the Vehicle Code proposed by both this bill and SB 1403. It
 4488                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 676 ]
shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become
effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section
12810 of the Vehicle Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 1403, in
which case Section 1 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 15. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution for certain
costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because
in that regard this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a
crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   However, notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
other costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and
school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7
(commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the
Government Code. If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement
does not exceed one million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall
be made from the State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 676

   An act to amend Sections 2544, 3041, and 3059 of, and to repeal
Section 3041.1 of, the Business and Professions Code, and to amend
Sections 11024, 11026, 11150, and 11210 of the Health and Safety Code,
relating to optometry.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Nothing in this act shall be construed to limit the scope
of practice of an optometrist as it existed prior to the effective date of this
act.
  SEC. 2. Section 2544 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  2544. An assistant in the office of a physician and surgeon or
optometrist acting under the direct responsibility and supervision of the
physician and surgeon or optometrist may fit prescription lenses. Under
the direct responsibility and supervision of the ophthalmologist or
[Ch. 676 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4489

optometrist, an assistant in the office of an ophthalmologist or
optometrist may also do the following:
   (a) Prepare patients for examination.
   (b) Collect preliminary patient data, including taking a patient
history.
   (c) Perform simple noninvasive testing of visual acuity, pupils, and
ocular motility.
   (d) Perform automated visual field testing.
   (e) Perform ophthalmic photography and digital imaging.
   (f) Perform tonometry.
   (g) Perform lensometry.
   (h) Perform nonsubjective auto refraction in connection with
subjective refraction procedures performed by an ophthalmologist or
optometrist.
   (i) Administer cycloplegiacs, mydriatics, and topical anesthetics that
are not controlled substances, for ophthalmic purposes.
   (j) Perform pachymetry, keratometry, A scans, B scans, and
electrodiagnostic testing.
   SEC. 3. Section 3041 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   3041. (a) The practice of optometry includes the prevention and
diagnosis of disorders and dysfunctions of the visual system, and the
treatment and management of certain disorders and dysfunctions of the
visual system, as well as the provision of rehabilitative optometric
services, and is the doing of any or all of the following:
   (1) The examination of the human eye or eyes, or its or their
appendages, and the analysis of the human vision system, either
subjectively or objectively.
   (2) The determination of the powers or range of human vision and the
accommodative and refractive states of the human eye or eyes, including
the scope of its or their functions and general condition.
   (3) The prescribing or directing the use of, or using, any optical
device in connection with ocular exercises, visual training, vision
training, or orthoptics.
   (4) The prescribing of contact and spectacle lenses for, or the fitting
or adaptation of contact and spectacle lenses to, the human eye,
including lenses which may be classified as drugs or devices by any law
of the United States or of this state.
   (5) The use of topical pharmaceutical agents for the sole purpose of
the examination of the human eye or eyes for any disease or pathological
condition. The topical pharmaceutical agents shall include mydriatics,
cycloplegics, anesthetics, and agents for the reversal of mydriasis.
   (b) (1) An optometrist who is certified to use therapeutic
pharmaceutical agents, pursuant to Section 3041.3, may also diagnose
 4490                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 676 ]
and exclusively treat the human eye or eyes, or any of its appendages,
for all of the following conditions:
   (A) Through medical treatment, infections of the anterior segment
and adnexa, excluding the lacrimal gland, the lacrimal drainage system
and the sclera. Nothing in this section shall authorize any optometrist to
treat a person with AIDS for ocular infections.
   (B) Ocular allergies of the anterior segment and adnexa.
   (C) Ocular inflammation, nonsurgical in cause, limited to
inflammation resulting from traumatic iritis, peripheral corneal
inflammatory keratitis, episcleritis, and unilateral nonrecurrent
nongranulomatous idiopathic iritis in patients over the age of 18.
Unilateral nongranulomatous idiopathic iritis recurring within one year
of the initial occurrence shall be referred to an ophthalmologist. An
optometrist shall consult with an ophthalmologist if a patient has a
recurrent case of episcleritis within one year of the initial occurrence. An
optometrist shall consult with an ophthalmologist if a patient has a
recurrent case of peripheral corneal inflammatory keratitis within one
year of the initial occurrence.
   (D) Traumatic or recurrent conjunctival or corneal abrasions and
erosions.
   (E) Corneal surface disease and dry eyes.
   (F) Ocular pain, not related to surgery, associated with conditions
optometrists are authorized to treat.
   (G) Pursuant to subdivision (f), primary open angle glaucoma in
patients over the age of 18.
   (2) For purposes of this section, ‘‘treat’’ means the use of therapeutic
pharmaceutical agents, as described in subdivision (c), and the
procedures described in subdivision (e).
   (c) In diagnosing and treating the conditions listed in subdivision (b),
an optometrist certified to use therapeutic pharmaceutical agents
pursuant to Section 3041.3, may use all of the following therapeutic
pharmaceutical agents exclusively:
   (1) All of the topical pharmaceutical agents listed in paragraph (5) of
subdivision (a) as well as topical miotics for diagnostic purposes.
   (2) Topical lubricants.
   (3) Topical antiallergy agents. In using topical steroid medication for
the treatment of ocular allergies, an optometrist shall do the following:
   (A) Consult with an ophthalmologist if the patient’s condition
worsens 72 hours after diagnosis.
   (B) Consult with an ophthalmologist if the inflammation is still
present three weeks after diagnosis.
   (C) Refer the patient to an ophthalmologist if the patient is still on the
medication six weeks after diagnosis.
[Ch. 676 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4491

   (D) Refer the patient to an ophthalmologist if the patient’s condition
recurs within three months.
   (4) Topical antiinflammatories. In using topical steroid medication
for:
   (A) Unilateral nonrecurrent nongranulomatous idiopathic iritis or
episcleritis, an optometrist shall consult with an ophthalmologist if the
patient’s condition worsens 72 hours after the diagnosis, or if the
patient’s condition has not resolved three weeks after diagnosis. If the
patient is still receiving medication for these conditions six weeks after
diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an ophthalmologist.
   (B) Peripheral corneal inflammatory keratitis, excluding Moorens
and Terriens diseases, an optometrist shall consult with an
ophthalmologist if the patient’s condition worsens 48 hours after
diagnosis. If the patient is still receiving the medication two weeks after
diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an ophthalmologist.
   (C) Traumatic iritis, an optometrist shall consult with an
ophthalmologist if the patient’s condition worsens 72 hours after
diagnosis and shall refer the patient to an ophthalmologist if the patient’s
condition has not resolved one week after diagnosis.
   (5) Topical antibiotic agents.
   (6) Topical hyperosmotics.
   (7) Topical antiglaucoma agents pursuant to the certification process
defined in subdivision (f).
   (A) The optometrist shall not use more than two concurrent topical
medications in treating the patient for primary open angle glaucoma. A
single combination medication that contains two pharmacological
agents shall be considered as two medications.
   (B) The optometrist shall refer the patient to an ophthalmologist if
requested by the patient, if treatment goals are not achieved with the use
of two topical medications or if indications of narrow angle or secondary
glaucoma develop.
   (C) If the glaucoma patient also has diabetes, the optometrist shall
consult in writing with the physician treating the patient’s diabetes in
developing the glaucoma treatment plan and shall notify the physician
in writing of any changes in the patient’s glaucoma medication. The
physician shall provide written confirmation of such consultations and
notifications.
   (8) Nonprescription medications used for the rational treatment of an
ocular disorder.
   (9) Oral antihistamines. In using oral antihistamines for the treatment
of ocular allergies, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an
ophthalmologist if the patient’s condition has not resolved two weeks
after diagnosis.
 4492                      STATUTES OF 2000                        [Ch. 676 ]
   (10) Prescription oral nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents. The
agents shall be limited to three days’ use. If the patient’s condition has
not resolved three days after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the
patient to an ophthalmologist.
   (11) The following oral antibiotics for medical treatment as set forth
in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (b): tetracyclines,
dicloxacillin, amoxicillin, amoxicillin with clavulanate, erythromycin,
clarythromycin, cephalexin, cephadroxil, cefaclor, trimethoprim with
sulfamethoxazole, ciprofloxacin, and azithromycin. The use of
azithromycin shall be limited to the treatment of eyelid infections and
chlamydial disease manifesting in the eyes.
   (A) If the patient has been diagnosed with a central corneal ulcer and
the condition has not improved 24 hours after diagnosis, the optometrist
shall consult with an ophthalmologist. If the central corneal ulcer has not
improved 48 hours after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient
to an ophthalmologist. If the patient is still receiving antibiotics 10 days
after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an
ophthalmologist.
   (B) If the patient has been diagnosed with preseptal cellulitis or
dacryocystitis and the condition has not improved 72 hours after
diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an ophthalmologist.
If a patient with preseptal cellulitis or dacryocystitis is still receiving oral
antibiotics 10 days after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient
to an ophthalmologist.
   (C) If the patient has been diagnosed with blepharitis and the patient’s
condition does not improve after six weeks of treatment, the optometrist
shall consult with an ophthalmologist.
   (D) For the medical treatment of all other medical conditions as set
forth in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), if the
patient’s condition worsens 72 hours after diagnosis, the optometrist
shall consult with an ophthalmologist. If the patient’s condition has not
resolved 10 days after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient
to an ophthalmologist.
   (12) Topical antiviral medication and oral acyclovir for the medical
treatment of the following: herpes simplex viral keratitis, herpes simplex
viral conjunctivitis and periocular herpes simplex viral dermatitis; and
varicella zoster viral keratitis, varicella zoster viral conjunctivitis and
periocular varicella zoster viral dermatitis.
   (A) If the patient has been diagnosed with herpes simplex keratitis or
varicella zoster viral keratitis and the patient’s condition has not
improved seven days after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the
patient to an ophthalmologist. If a patient’s condition has not resolved
three weeks after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an
ophthalmologist.
[Ch. 676 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4493

   (B) If the patient has been diagnosed with herpes simplex viral
conjunctivitis, herpes simplex viral dermatitis, varicella zoster viral
conjunctivitis or varicella zoster viral dermatitis, and if the patient’s
condition worsens seven days after diagnosis, the optometrist shall
consult with an ophthalmologist. If the patient’s condition has not
resolved three weeks after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the
patient to an ophthalmologist.
   (C) In all cases, the use of topical antiviral medication shall be limited
to three weeks, and the use of oral acyclovir shall be limited to 10 days.
   (13) Oral analgesics that are not controlled substances.
   (14) Codeine with compounds and hydrocodone with compounds as
listed in the California Uniform Controlled Substances Act (Section
11000 of the Health and Safety Code et seq.) and the United States
Uniform Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. Sec. 801 et seq.). The
use of these agents shall be limited to three days, with a referral to an
ophthalmologist if the pain persists.
   (d) In any case where this chapter requires that an optometrist consult
with an ophthalmologist, the optometrist shall maintain a written record
in the patient’s file of the information provided to the ophthalmologist,
the ophthalmologist’s response and any other relevant information.
Upon the consulting ophthalmologist’s request, the optometrist shall
furnish a copy of the record to the ophthalmologist.
   (e) An optometrist who is certified to use therapeutic pharmaceutical
agents pursuant to Section 3041.3 may also perform all of the following:
   (1) Mechanical epilation.
   (2) Ordering of smears, cultures, sensitivities, complete blood count,
mycobacterial culture, acid fast stain, and urinalysis.
   (3) Punctal occlusion by plugs, excluding laser, cautery, diathermy,
cryotherapy, or other means constituting surgery as defined in this
chapter.
   (4) The prescription of therapeutic contact lenses.
   (5) Removal of foreign bodies of the cornea, eyelid, and conjunctiva.
Corneal foreign bodies shall be nonperforating, be no deeper than the
anterior stroma, and require no surgical repair upon removal. Within the
central three millimeters of the cornea, the use of sharp instruments is
prohibited.
   (6) For patients over the age of 12 years, lacrimal irrigation and
dilation, excluding probing of the nasal lacrimal tract. The State Board
of Optometry shall certify an optometrist to perform this procedure after
completing 10 of the procedures under the supervision of an
ophthalmologist as confirmed by the ophthalmologist.
   (7) No injections other than the use of an auto-injector to counter
anaphylaxis.
 4494                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 676 ]
   (f) The State Board of Optometry shall grant a certificate to an
optometrist certified pursuant to Section 3041.3 for the treatment of
primary open angle glaucoma in patients over the age of 18 only after the
optometrist meets the following requirements:
   (1) Satisfactory completion of a didactic course of not less than 24
hours in the diagnosis, pharmacological and other treatment and
management of glaucoma. The 24-hour glaucoma curriculum shall be
developed by an accredited California school of optometry. Any
applicant who graduated from an accredited California school of
optometry on or after May 1, 2000, shall be exempt from the 24-hour
didactic course requirement contained in this paragraph.
   (2) After completion of the requirement contained in paragraph (1),
collaborative treatment of 50 glaucoma patients for a period of two years
for each patient under the following terms:
   (A) After the optometrist makes a provisional diagnosis of glaucoma,
the optometrist and the patient shall identify a collaborating
ophthalmologist.
   (B) The optometrist shall develop a treatment plan that considers for
each patient target intraocular pressures, optic nerve appearance and
visual field testing for each eye, and an initial proposal for therapy.
   (C) The optometrist shall transmit relevant information from the
examination and history taken of the patient along with the treatment
plan to the collaborating ophthalmologist. The collaborating
ophthalmologist shall confirm or refute the glaucoma diagnosis within
30 days. To accomplish this, the collaborating ophthalmologist shall
perform a physical examination of the patient.
   (D) Once the collaborating ophthalmologist confirms the diagnosis
and approves the treatment plan in writing, the optometrist may begin
treatment.
   (E) The optometrist shall use no more than two concurrent topical
medications in treating the patient for glaucoma. A single combination
medication that contains two pharmacologic agents shall be considered
as two medications. The optometrist shall notify the collaborating
ophthalmologist in writing if there is any change in the medication used
to treat the patient for glaucoma.
   (F) Annually after commencing treatment, the optometrist shall
provide a written report to the collaborating ophthalmologist about the
achievement of goals contained in the treatment plan. The collaborating
ophthalmologist shall acknowledge receipt of the report in writing to the
optometrist within 10 days.
   (G) The optometrist shall refer the patient to an ophthalmologist if
requested by the patient, if treatment goals are not achieved with the use
of two topical medications, or if indications of secondary glaucoma
[Ch. 676 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4495

develop. At his or her discretion, the collaborating ophthalmologist may
periodically examine the patient.
   (H) If the glaucoma patient also has diabetes, the optometrist shall
consult in writing with the physician treating the patient’s diabetes in
preparation of the treatment plan and shall notify the physician in writing
if there is any change in the patient’s glaucoma medication. The
physician shall provide written confirmation of the consultations and
notifications.
   (I) The optometrist shall provide the following information to the
patient in writing: nature of the working or suspected diagnosis,
consultation evaluation by a collaborating ophthalmologist, treatment
plan goals, expected followup care, and a description of the referral
requirements. The document containing the information shall be signed
and dated by both the optometrist and the ophthalmologist and
maintained in their files.
   (3) When the requirements contained in paragraphs (1) and (2) have
been satisfied, the optometrist shall submit proof of completion to the
State Board of Optometry and apply for a certificate to treat primary
open angle glaucoma. That proof shall include corroborating
information from the collaborating ophthalmologist. If the
ophthalmologist fails to respond within 60 days of a request for
information from the State Board of Optometry, the board may act on the
optometrist’s application without that corroborating information.
   (4) After an optometrist has treated a total of 50 patients for a period
of two years each and has received certification from the State Board of
Optometry, the optometrist may treat the original 50 collaboratively
treated patients independently, with the written consent of the patient.
However, any glaucoma patients seen by the optometrist before the
two-year period has expired for each of the 50 patients shall be treated
under the collaboration protocols described in this section.
   (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an optometrist shall
not treat children under one year of age with therapeutic pharmaceutical
agents.
   (h) Any dispensing of a therapeutic pharmaceutical agent by an
optometrist shall be without charge.
   (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the practice of
optometry does not include performing surgery. ‘‘Surgery’’ means any
procedure in which human tissue is cut, altered, or otherwise infiltrated
by mechanical or laser means in a manner not specifically authorized by
this act. Nothing in the act amending this section shall limit an
optometrist’s authority, as it existed prior to the effective date of the act
amending this section, to utilize diagnostic laser and ultrasound
technology.
 4496                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 676 ]
   (j) All collaborations, consultations, and referrals made by an
optometrist pursuant to this section shall be to an ophthalmologist
located geographically appropriate to the patient.
   SEC. 4. Section 3041.1 of the Business and Professions Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 5. Section 3059 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   3059. (a) It is the intent of the Legislature that the public health and
safety would be served by requiring all holders of licenses to practice
optometry granted under this chapter to continue their education after
receiving their licenses. The board shall adopt regulations that require,
as a condition to the renewal thereof, that all holders of licenses submit
proof satisfactory to the board that they have informed themselves of the
developments in the practice of optometry occurring since the original
issuance of their licenses by pursuing one or more courses of study
satisfactory to the board or by other means deemed equivalent by the
board.
   (b) The board may, in accordance with the intent of this section, make
exceptions from continuing education requirements for reasons of
health, military service, or other good cause.
   (c) If for good cause compliance cannot be met for the current year,
the board may grant exemption of compliance for that year, provided that
a plan of future compliance that includes current requirements as well
as makeup of previous requirements is approved by the board.
   (d) The board may require that proof of compliance with this section
be submitted on an annual or biennial basis as determined by the board.
   (e) The board may adopt regulations to require licensees to maintain
current certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Training required
for the granting or renewal of a cardiopulmonary certificate shall not be
credited towards the requirements of subdivision (a) or (f).
   (f) An optometrist certified to use therapeutic pharmaceutical agents
pursuant to Section 3041.3 shall complete a total of 50 hours of
continuing education every two years in order to renew his or her
certificate. Thirty-five of the required 50 hours of continuing education
shall be on the diagnosis, treatment, and management of ocular disease
as follows: 12 hours on glaucoma, 10 hours on ocular infections; five
hours on inflammation and topical steroids; six hours on systemic
medications and two hours on the use of pain medications.
   (g) The board shall encourage every optometrist to take a course or
courses in pharmacology and pharmaceuticals as part of his or her
continuing education.
   (h) The board shall consider requiring courses in child abuse
detection to be taken by those licensees whose practices are such that
there is a likelihood of contact with abused or neglected children.
[Ch. 676 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4497

   (i) The board shall consider requiring courses in elder abuse detection
to be taken by those licensees whose practices are such that there is a
likelihood of contact with abuse or neglected elder persons.
   SEC. 6. Section 11024 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to
read:
   11024. ‘‘Physician,’’ ‘‘dentist,’’ ‘‘podiatrist,’’ ‘‘pharmacist,’’
‘‘veterinarian,’’ and ‘‘optometrist’’ means persons who are licensed to
practice their respective professions in this state.
   SEC. 7. Section 11026 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to
read:
   11026. ‘‘Practitioner’’ means any of the following:
   (a) A physician, dentist, veterinarian, podiatrist, or pharmacist acting
within the scope of a project authorized under Article 1 (commencing
with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107, a registered
nurse acting within the scope of a project authorized under Article 1
(commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division
107, a nurse practitioner acting within the scope of Section 2836.1 of the
Business and Professions Code, or a physician assistant acting within the
scope of a project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section
128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107 or Section 3502.1 of the
Business and Professions Code, or an optometrist acting within the
scope of Section 3041 of the Business and Professions Code.
   (b) A pharmacy, hospital, or other institution licensed, registered, or
otherwise permitted to distribute, dispense, conduct research with
respect to or to administer a controlled substance in the course of
professional practice or research in this state.
   (c) A scientific investigator, or other person licensed, registered, or
otherwise permitted, to distribute, dispense, conduct research with
respect to, or administer, a controlled substance in the course of
professional practice or research in this state.
   SEC. 8. Section 11150 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to
read:
   11150. No person other than a physician, dentist, podiatrist, or
veterinarian, or pharmacist acting within the scope of a project
authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of
Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107, a registered nurse acting within the
scope of a project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section
128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107, a nurse practitioner
acting within the scope of Section 2836.1 of the Business and
Professions Code, a physician assistant acting within the scope of a
project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125)
of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107 or Section 3502.1 of the Business
and Professions Code, or an optometrist acting within the scope of
Section 3041 of the Business and Professions Code, or an out-of-state
 4498                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 676 ]
prescriber acting pursuant to Section 4005 of the Business and
Professions Code shall write or issue a prescription.
   SEC. 9. Section 11210 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to
read:
   11210. A physician, surgeon, dentist, veterinarian, or podiatrist, or
pharmacist acting within the scope of a project authorized under Article
1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division
107, or registered nurse acting within the scope of a project authorized
under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part
3 of Division 107, or physician assistant acting within the scope of a
project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125)
of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107, or an optometrist acting within
the scope of Section 3041 of the Business and Professions Code may
prescribe for, furnish to, or administer controlled substances to his or her
patient when the patient is suffering from a disease, ailment, injury, or
infirmities attendant upon old age, other than addiction to a controlled
substance.
   The physician, surgeon, dentist, veterinarian, or podiatrist, or
pharmacist acting within the scope of a project authorized under Article
1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division
107, or registered nurse acting within the scope of a project authorized
under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part
3 of Division 107, or physician assistant acting within the scope of a
project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125)
of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107, or an optometrist acting within
the scope of Section 3041 of the Business and Professions Code shall
prescribe, furnish, or administer controlled substances only when in
good faith he or she believes the disease, ailment, injury, or infirmity
requires the treatment.
   The physician, surgeon, dentist, veterinarian, or podiatrist, or
pharmacist acting within the scope of a project authorized under Article
1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division
107, or registered nurse acting within the scope of a project authorized
under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part
3 of Division 107, or physician assistant acting within the scope of a
project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125)
of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107, or an optometrist acting within
the scope of Section 3041 of the Business and Professions Code shall
prescribe, furnish, or administer controlled substances only in the
quantity and for the length of time as are reasonably necessary.
   SEC. 10. It is the intent of the Legislature that the law governing the
scope of practice of optometry shall not be amended prior to January 1,
2009, and that no legislation to this effect be introduced prior to January
1, 2008. However, the Legislature intends that parties who are interested
[Ch. 677 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4499

in the scope of practice of optometrists commence negotiations on any
proposed changes to the law governing this practice no later than January
1, 2007.



                             CHAPTER 677

   An act to add Section 4125 to the Business and Professions Code,
relating to pharmacies.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 4125 is added to the Business and Professions
Code, to read:
   4125. (a) Every pharmacy shall establish a quality assurance
program that shall, at a minimum, document medication errors
attributable, in whole or in part, to the pharmacy or its personnel. The
purpose of the quality assurance program shall be to assess errors that
occur in the pharmacy in dispensing or furnishing prescription
medications so that the pharmacy may take appropriate action to prevent
a recurrence.
   (b) Records generated for and maintained as a component of a
pharmacy’s ongoing quality assurance program shall be considered peer
review documents and not subject to discovery in any arbitration, civil,
or other proceeding, except as provided hereafter. That privilege shall
not prevent review of a pharmacy’s quality assurance program and
records maintained as part of that system by the board as necessary to
protect the public health and safety or if fraud is alleged by a government
agency with jurisdiction over the pharmacy. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to prohibit a patient from accessing his or her own
prescription records. Nothing in this section shall affect the
discoverability of any records not solely generated for and maintained
as a component of a pharmacy’s ongoing quality assurance program.
   (c) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2002.
   SEC. 2. The California State Board of Pharmacy shall adopt
regulations on or before September 1, 2001, specifying the requirements
and implementation of quality assurance programs established pursuant
to Section 4125 of the Business and Professions Code.
   SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
 4500                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 678 ]
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                            CHAPTER 678

 An act to amend Sections 8741, 8761, 8762, 8771, and 8773.2 of the
Business and Professions Code, and to amend Section 66466 of the
Government Code, relating to land surveyors.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 8741 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  8741. (a) The first division of the examination shall test the
applicant’s fundamental knowledge of surveying, mathematics, and
basic science. The board shall prescribe by regulation reasonable
educational or experience requirements including two years of
postsecondary education in land surveying, two years of experience in
land surveying, or a combination of one year of postsecondary education
and one year of experience in land surveying for admission to the first
division of the examination. Applicants who have passed the
engineer-in-training examination, or who hold professional engineer
registration, are exempt from this division of the examination.
  The second division of the examination shall test the applicant’s
ability to apply his or her knowledge and experience and to assume
responsible charge in the professional practice of land surveying.
  (b) The applicant for the second division examination shall have
successfully passed the first division examination, or shall be exempt
therefrom. The applicant shall be thoroughly familiar with (1) the
procedure and rules governing the survey of public lands as set forth in
‘‘Manual of Surveying Instructions,’’ published by the Bureau of Land
Management, Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. and (2) the
principles of real property relating to boundaries and conveyancing.
  (c) The board may by rule provide for a waiver of the first division
of the examination for applicants whose education and experience
qualifications substantially exceed the requirements of Section 8742.
[Ch. 678 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4501

  (d) The board may by rule provide for a waiver of the second division
of the examination and the assignment to a special examination for those
applicants whose educational qualifications are equal to, and whose
experience qualifications substantially exceed, those qualifications
established under subdivision (c). The special examination may be either
written or oral, or a combination of both.
  SEC. 2. Section 8761 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  8761. Any licensed land surveyor or registered civil engineer may
practice land surveying and prepare maps, plats, reports, descriptions, or
other documentary evidence in connection with that practice. All maps,
plats, reports, descriptions, or other documents issued by the licensed
land surveyor or registered civil engineer shall be signed by the surveyor
or engineer to indicate the surveyor’s or engineer’s responsibility for
them. In addition to the signature, the map, plat, report, description, or
other document shall bear the seal or stamp of the licensee or registrant
and the expiration date of the license or registration. If the map, plat,
report, description, or other document has multiple pages or sheets, the
signature, seal or stamp, and expiration date of the license or registration
need only appear on the originals of the map or plat and on the title sheet
of the report, description, or other document.
  It is unlawful for any person to sign, stamp, seal, or approve any map,
plat, report, description, or other document unless the person is
authorized to practice land surveying.
  SEC. 2.5. Section 8761 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  8761. Any licensed land surveyor or registered civil engineer may
practice land surveying and prepare maps, plats, reports, descriptions, or
other documentary evidence in connection with that practice. All maps,
plats, reports, descriptions, or other documents issued by the licensed
land surveyor or registered civil engineer shall be signed by the surveyor
or engineer to indicate the surveyor’s or engineer’s responsibility for
them. In addition to the signature, the map, plat, report, description, or
other document shall bear the seal or stamp of the licensee or registrant
and the expiration date of the license or registration. If the map, plat,
report, description, or other document has multiple pages or sheets, the
signature, seal or stamp, and expiration date of the license or registration
need only appear on the originals of the map or plat and on the title sheet
of the report, description, or other document.
  It is unlawful for any person to sign, stamp, seal, or approve any map,
plat, report, description, or other document unless the person is
authorized to practice land surveying.
  It is unlawful for any person to stamp or seal any map, plat, report,
description, or other document with the seal after the certificate of the
 4502                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 678 ]
licensee that is named on the seal has expired or has been suspended or
revoked, unless the certificate has been renewed or reissued.
   SEC. 3. Section 8762 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   8762. After making a field survey in conformity with the practice of
land surveying, the surveyor or civil engineer may file with the county
surveyor in the county in which the survey was made, a record of the
survey.
   After making a field survey in conformity with the practice of land
surveying, the licensed land surveyor or registered civil engineer shall
file with the county surveyor in the county in which the field survey was
made a record of the survey relating to land boundaries or property lines,
if the field survey discloses any of the following:
   (a) Material evidence or physical change, which in whole or in part
does not appear on any subdivision map, official map, or record of
survey previously recorded or properly filed in the office of the county
recorder or county surveying department, or map or survey record
maintained by the Bureau of Land Management of the United States.
   (b) A material discrepancy with the information contained in any
subdivision map, official map, or record of survey previously recorded
or filed in the office of the county recorder or the county surveying
department, or any map or survey record maintained by the Bureau of
Land Management of the United States. For purposes of this
subdivision, a ‘‘material discrepancy’’ is limited to a material
discrepancy in the position of points or lines, or in dimensions.
   (c) Evidence that, by reasonable analysis, might result in materially
alternate positions of lines or points, shown on any subdivision map,
official map, or record of survey previously recorded or filed in the office
of the county recorder or the county surveying department, or any map
or survey record maintained by the Bureau of Land Management of the
United States.
   (d) The establishment of one or more points or lines not shown on any
subdivision map, official map, or record of survey, the positions of
which are not ascertainable from an inspection of the subdivision map,
official map, or record of survey.
   (e) The points or lines set during the performance of a field survey of
any parcel described in any deed or other instrument of title recorded in
the county recorder’s office are not shown on any subdivision map,
official map, or record of survey.
   The record of survey required to be filed pursuant to this section shall
be filed within 90 days after the setting of boundary monuments during
the performance of a field survey or within 90 days after completion of
a field survey, whichever occurs first.
[Ch. 678 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4503

   If the 90-day time limit contained in this section cannot be complied
with for reasons beyond the control of the licensed land surveyor or
registered civil engineer, the 90-day time period shall be extended until
the time at which the reasons for delay are eliminated. If the licensed land
surveyor or registered civil engineer cannot comply with the 90-day time
limit, he or she shall, prior to the expiration of the 90-day time limit,
provide the county surveyor with a letter stating that he or she is unable
to comply. The letter shall provide an estimate of the date for completion
of the record of survey, the reasons for the delay, and a general statement
as to the location of the survey, including the assessor’s parcel number
or numbers.
   The licensed land surveyor or registered civil engineer shall not
initially be required to provide specific details of the survey. However,
if other surveys at the same location are performed by others which may
affect or be affected by the survey, the licensed land surveyor or
registered civil engineer shall then provide information requested by the
county surveyor without unreasonable delay.
   Any record of survey filed with the county surveyor shall, after being
examined by him or her, be filed with the county recorder. The county
recorder shall provide the preparer of the map with the filing data within
10 days of the filing of the map.
   SEC. 4. Section 8771 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   8771. (a) Monuments set shall be sufficient in number and
durability and efficiently placed so as not to be readily disturbed, to
assure, together with monuments already existing, the perpetuation or
facile reestablishment of any point or line of the survey.
   (b) When monuments exist that control the location of subdivisions,
tracts, boundaries, roads, streets, or highways, or provide survey control,
the monuments shall be located and referenced by or under the direction
of a licensed land surveyor or registered civil engineer prior to the time
when any streets, highways, other rights-of-way, or easements are
improved, constructed, reconstructed, maintained, resurfaced, or
relocated, and a corner record or record of survey of the references shall
be filed with the county surveyor. They shall be reset in the surface of
the new construction, a suitable monument box placed thereon, or
permanent witness monuments set to perpetuate their location if any
monument could be destroyed, damaged, covered, or otherwise
obliterated, and a corner record or record of survey filed with the county
surveyor prior to the recording of a certificate of completion for the
project. Sufficient controlling monuments shall be retained or replaced
in their original positions to enable property, right-of-way and easement
lines, property corners, and subdivision and tract boundaries to be
reestablished without devious surveys necessarily originating on
 4504                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 678 ]
monuments differing from those that currently control the area. It shall
be the responsibility of the governmental agency or others performing
construction work to provide for the monumentation required by this
section. It shall be the duty of every land surveyor or civil engineer to
cooperate with the governmental agency in matters of maps, field notes,
and other pertinent records. Monuments set to mark the limiting lines of
highways, roads, streets or right-of-way or easement lines shall not be
deemed adequate for this purpose unless specifically noted on the corner
record or record of survey of the improvement works with direct ties in
bearing or azimuth and distance between these and other monuments of
record.
   (c) The decision to file the required corner record or a record of
survey shall be at the election of the licensed land surveyor or registered
civil engineer submitting the document.
   SEC. 4.5. Section 8771 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   8771. (a) Monuments set shall be sufficient in number and
durability and efficiently placed so as not to be readily disturbed, to
assure, together with monuments already existing, the perpetuation or
facile reestablishment of any point or line of the survey.
   (b) When monuments exist that control the location of subdivisions,
tracts, boundaries, roads, streets, or highways, or provide survey control,
the monuments shall be located and referenced by or under the direction
of a licensed land surveyor or registered civil engineer prior to the time
when any streets, highways, other rights-of-way, or easements are
improved, constructed, reconstructed, maintained, resurfaced, or
relocated, and a corner record or record of survey of the references shall
be filed with the county surveyor. They shall be reset in the surface of
the new construction, a suitable monument box placed thereon, or
permanent witness monuments set to perpetuate their location if any
monument could be destroyed, damaged, covered, or otherwise
obliterated, and a corner record or record of survey filed with the county
surveyor prior to the recording of a certificate of completion for the
project. Sufficient controlling monuments shall be retained or replaced
in their original positions to enable property, right-of-way and easement
lines, property corners, and subdivision and tract boundaries to be
reestablished without devious surveys necessarily originating on
monuments differing from those that currently control the area. It shall
be the responsibility of the governmental agency or others performing
construction work to provide for the monumentation required by this
section. It shall be the duty of every land surveyor or civil engineer to
cooperate with the governmental agency in matters of maps, field notes,
and other pertinent records. Monuments set to mark the limiting lines of
highways, roads, streets or right-of-way or easement lines shall not be
[Ch. 678 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4505

deemed adequate for this purpose unless specifically noted on the corner
record or record of survey of the improvement works with direct ties in
bearing or azimuth and distance between these and other monuments of
record.
   (c) The decision to file either the required corner record or a record
of survey pursuant to subdivision (b) shall be at the election of the
licensed land surveyor or registered civil engineer submitting the
document.
   SEC. 5. Section 8773.2 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   8773.2. (a) A ‘‘corner record’’ submitted to the county surveyor or
engineer shall be examined by him or her for compliance with
subdivision (d) of Section 8765 and Sections 8773, 8773.1, and 8773.4,
endorsed with a statement of his or her examination, and filed with the
county surveyor or returned to the submitting party within 20 working
days after receipt.
   (b) In the event the submitted ‘‘corner record’’ fails to comply with
the examination criteria of subdivision (a), the county surveyor or
engineer shall return it to the person who submitted it together with a
written statement of the changes necessary to make it conform to the
requirements of subdivision (a). The licensed land surveyor or registered
civil engineer submitting the corner record may then make the changes
in compliance with subdivision (a) and resubmit the corner record for
filing. The county surveyor or engineer shall file the corner record within
10 working days after receipt of the resubmission.
   (c) If the matters appearing on the corner record cannot be agreed
upon by the licensed land surveyor or the registered civil engineer and
the county surveyor within 10 working days after the licensed land
surveyor or registered civil engineer resubmits and requests the corner
record be filed without further change, an explanation of the differences
shall be noted on the corner record and it shall be submitted to and filed
by the county surveyor. When the county surveyor places an explanatory
note on a corner record, the county surveyor shall transmit a copy of the
filed corner record within 10 working days of the filing to the licensed
land surveyor or registered civil engineer who submitted the corner
record.
   (d) The corner record filed with the county surveyor of any county
shall be securely fastened by him or her into a suitable book provided for
that purpose.
   (e) A charge for examining, indexing, and filing the corner record
may be collected by the county surveyor, not to exceed the amount
required for the recording of a deed.
   (f) If the preparer of the corner record provides a postage-paid,
self-addressed envelope or postcard with the filing of the corner record,
 4506                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 678 ]
the county surveyor shall provide the preparer of the corner record with
the filing data within 20 days of final filing. For the purposes of this
subdivision, ‘‘filing data’’ includes the date, book or volume, and the
page at which the corner record is filed by the county surveyor. This
subdivision shall not apply to a county surveyor’s office that maintains
an electronic data base of filed corner records that is accessible to the
public by reference to the preparer’s license number.
   SEC. 6. Section 66466 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   66466. (a) The county recorder shall have not more than 10 days
within which to examine a final or parcel map and either accept or reject
it for filing.
   (b) If the county recorder rejects a final or parcel map for filing, the
county recorder shall, within 10 days thereafter, mail notice to the
subdivider and the city engineer if the map is within a city, or the county
surveyor if the map is within the unincorporated area, that the map has
been rejected for filing, giving the reasons therefor, and that the map is
being returned to the city clerk if the map is within a city, or to the clerk
of the board if the map is within the unincorporated area, for action by
the legislative body. Upon receipt of the map, the clerk shall place the
map on the agenda of the next regular meeting of the legislative body and
the legislative body shall, within 15 days thereafter, rescind its approval
of the map and return the map to the subdivider unless the subdivider
presents evidence that the basis for the rejection by the county recorder
has been removed. The subdivider may consent to a continuance of the
matter; however, the prior approval of the legislative body shall be
deemed rescinded during any period of continuance. If a map is returned
to the county recorder, the county recorder shall have a new 10-day
period to examine the map and either accept or reject it for filing.
   (c) If the county recorder accepts the map for filing, the acceptance
shall be certified on the face thereof. The map shall be securely fastened
in a book of subdivision maps, in a book of parcel maps, or in a book of
cities and towns which shall be kept for that purpose, or in any other
manner as will assure that the maps will be kept together. The map shall
become a part of the official records of the county recorder upon its
acceptance by the county recorder for filing. If the preparer of the map
provides a postage-paid, self-addressed envelope or postcard with the
filing of the map, the county recorder shall provide the preparer of the
map with the filing data within 10 days of the filing of the map. For the
purposes of this subdivision, ‘‘filing data’’ includes the date, book or
volume, and the page at which the map is filed by the county recorder.
   (d) The fee for filing and indexing the map is as prescribed in Section
27372 of the Government Code.
   (e) The original map shall be stored for safekeeping in a reproducible
condition. The county recorder may maintain for public reference a set
[Ch. 679 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4507

of counter maps that are prints of the original maps and produce the
original maps for comparison upon demand.
  (f) Upon the filing of any map, including amended maps and
certificates of correction for recordation pursuant to this section or any
record of survey pursuant to the Professional Land Surveyors’ Act
(Chapter 15 (commencing with Section 8700) of Division 3 of the
Business and Professions Code), the surveyor or engineer who prepared
the document shall transmit a copy of the document, including all
recording information, to the county surveyor, who shall maintain an
index, by geographic location, of the documents. The county surveyor
may charge a fee not to exceed the fee charged for recording the
document, for purposes of financing the costs of maintaining the index
of the documents.
  The requirements of this subdivision shall not apply to any county that
requires a document filed pursuant to this section to be transmitted to the
county surveyor and requires that official to maintain an index of those
documents.
  SEC. 7. Section 2.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
8761 of the Business and Professions Code proposed by both this bill
and SB 1863. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted
and become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 8761 of the Business and Professions Code, and (3) this bill is
enacted after SB 1863, in which case Section 2 of this bill shall not
become operative.
  SEC. 8. Section 4.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
8771 of the Business and Professions Code proposed by both this bill
and SB 1863. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted
and become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 8771 of the Business and Professions Code, and (3) this bill is
enacted after SB 1863, in which case Section 4 of this bill shall not
become operative.
  SEC. 9. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local
agency or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees,
or assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
Government Code.



                            CHAPTER 679

 An act to amend Section 1793.22 of the Civil Code, relating to
warranties.
 4508                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 679 ]
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1793.22 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   1793.22. (a) This section shall be known and may be cited as the
Tanner Consumer Protection Act.
   (b) It shall be presumed that a reasonable number of attempts have
been made to conform a new motor vehicle to the applicable express
warranties if, within 18 months from delivery to the buyer or 18,000
miles on the odometer of the vehicle, whichever occurs first, one or more
of the following occurs:
   (1) The same nonconformity results in a condition that is likely to
cause death or serious bodily injury if the vehicle is driven and the
nonconformity has been subject to repair two or more times by the
manufacturer or its agents, and the buyer or lessee has at least once
directly notified the manufacturer of the need for the repair of the
nonconformity.
   (2) The same nonconformity has been subject to repair four or more
times by the manufacturer or its agents and the buyer has at least once
directly notified the manufacturer of the need for the repair of the
nonconformity.
   (3) The vehicle is out of service by reason of repair of
nonconformities by the manufacturer or its agents for a cumulative total
of more than 30 calendar days since delivery of the vehicle to the buyer.
The 30-day limit shall be extended only if repairs cannot be performed
due to conditions beyond the control of the manufacturer or its agents.
The buyer shall be required to directly notify the manufacturer pursuant
to paragraphs (1) and (2) only if the manufacturer has clearly and
conspicuously disclosed to the buyer, with the warranty or the owner’s
manual, the provisions of this section and that of subdivision (d) of
Section 1793.2, including the requirement that the buyer must notify the
manufacturer directly pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2). The
notification, if required, shall be sent to the address, if any, specified
clearly and conspicuously by the manufacturer in the warranty or
owner’s manual. This presumption shall be a rebuttable presumption
affecting the burden of proof, and it may be asserted by the buyer in any
civil action, including an action in small claims court, or other formal or
informal proceeding.
   (c) If a qualified third-party dispute resolution process exists, and the
buyer receives timely notification in writing of the availability of that
qualified third-party dispute resolution process with a description of its
operation and effect, the presumption in subdivision (b) may not be
[Ch. 679 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4509

asserted by the buyer until after the buyer has initially resorted to the
qualified third-party dispute resolution process as required in
subdivision (d). Notification of the availability of the qualified
third-party dispute resolution process is not timely if the buyer suffers
any prejudice resulting from any delay in giving the notification. If a
qualified third-party dispute resolution process does not exist, or if the
buyer is dissatisfied with that third-party decision, or if the manufacturer
or its agent neglects to promptly fulfill the terms of the qualified
third-party dispute resolution process decision after the decision is
accepted by the buyer, the buyer may assert the presumption provided
in subdivision (b) in an action to enforce the buyer’s rights under
subdivision (d) of Section 1793.2. The findings and decision of a
qualified third-party dispute resolution process shall be admissible in
evidence in the action without further foundation. Any period of
limitation of actions under any federal or California laws with respect to
any person shall be extended for a period equal to the number of days
between the date a complaint is filed with a third-party dispute resolution
process and the date of its decision or the date before which the
manufacturer or its agent is required by the decision to fulfill its terms
if the decision is accepted by the buyer, whichever occurs later.
   (d) A qualified third-party dispute resolution process shall be one that
does all of the following:
   (1) Complies with the minimum requirements of the Federal Trade
Commission for informal dispute settlement procedures as set forth in
Part 703 of Title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as those
regulations read on January 1, 1987.
   (2) Renders decisions which are binding on the manufacturer if the
buyer elects to accept the decision.
   (3) Prescribes a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days after the
decision is accepted by the buyer, within which the manufacturer or its
agent must fulfill the terms of its decisions.
   (4) Provides arbitrators who are assigned to decide disputes with
copies of, and instruction in, the provisions of the Federal Trade
Commission’s regulations in Part 703 of Title 16 of the Code of Federal
Regulations as those regulations read on January 1, 1987, Division 2
(commencing with Section 2101) of the Commercial Code, and this
chapter.
   (5) Requires the manufacturer, when the process orders, under the
terms of this chapter, either that the nonconforming motor vehicle be
replaced if the buyer consents to this remedy or that restitution be made
to the buyer, to replace the motor vehicle or make restitution in
accordance with paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 1793.2.
   (6) Provides, at the request of the arbitrator or a majority of the
arbitration panel, for an inspection and written report on the condition
 4510                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 679 ]
of a nonconforming motor vehicle, at no cost to the buyer, by an
automobile expert who is independent of the manufacturer.
   (7) Takes into account, in rendering decisions, all legal and equitable
factors, including, but not limited to, the written warranty, the rights and
remedies conferred in regulations of the Federal Trade Commission
contained in Part 703 of Title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations as
those regulations read on January 1, 1987, Division 2 (commencing with
Section 2101) of the Commercial Code, this chapter, and any other
equitable considerations appropriate in the circumstances. Nothing in
this chapter requires that, to be certified as a qualified third-party dispute
resolution process pursuant to this section, decisions of the process must
consider or provide remedies in the form of awards of punitive damages
or multiple damages, under subdivision (c) of Section 1794, or of
attorneys’ fees under subdivision (d) of Section 1794, or of
consequential damages other than as provided in subdivisions (a) and (b)
of Section 1794, including, but not limited to, reasonable repair, towing,
and rental car costs actually incurred by the buyer.
   (8) Requires that no arbitrator deciding a dispute may be a party to the
dispute and that no other person, including an employee, agent, or dealer
for the manufacturer, may be allowed to participate substantively in the
merits of any dispute with the arbitrator unless the buyer is allowed to
participate also. Nothing in this subdivision prohibits any member of an
arbitration board from deciding a dispute.
   (9) Obtains and maintains certification by the Department of
Consumer Affairs pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section
472) of Division 1 of the Business and Professions Code.
   (e) For the purposes of subdivision (d) of Section 1793.2 and this
section, the following terms have the following meanings:
   (1) ‘‘Nonconformity’’ means a nonconformity which substantially
impairs the use, value, or safety of the new motor vehicle to the buyer
or lessee.
   (2) ‘‘New motor vehicle’’ means a new motor vehicle that is bought
or used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. ‘‘New
motor vehicle’’ also means a new motor vehicle with a gross vehicle
weight under 10,000 pounds that is bought or used primarily for business
purposes by a person, including a partnership, limited liability company,
corporation, association, or any other legal entity, to which not more than
five motor vehicles are registered in this state. ‘‘New motor vehicle’’
includes the chassis, chassis cab, and that portion of a motor home
devoted to its propulsion, but does not include any portion designed,
used, or maintained primarily for human habitation, a dealer-owned
vehicle and a ‘‘demonstrator’’ or other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty but does not include a motorcycle or
a motor vehicle which is not registered under the Vehicle Code because
[Ch. 680 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4511

it is to be operated or used exclusively off the highways. A demonstrator
is a vehicle assigned by a dealer for the purpose of demonstrating
qualities and characteristics common to vehicles of the same or similar
model and type.
   (3) ‘‘Motor home’’ means a vehicular unit built on, or permanently
attached to, a self-propelled motor vehicle chassis, chassis cab, or van,
which becomes an integral part of the completed vehicle, designed for
human habitation for recreational or emergency occupancy.
   (f) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), no person shall sell,
either at wholesale or retail, lease, or transfer a motor vehicle transferred
by a buyer or lessee to a manufacturer pursuant to paragraph (2) of
subdivision (d) of Section 1793.2 or a similar statute of any other state,
unless the nature of the nonconformity experienced by the original buyer
or lessee is clearly and conspicuously disclosed to the prospective buyer,
lessee, or transferee, the nonconformity is corrected, and the
manufacturer warrants to the new buyer, lessee, or transferee in writing
for a period of one year that the motor vehicle is free of that
nonconformity.
   (2) Except for the requirement that the nature of the nonconformity
be disclosed to the transferee, paragraph (1) does not apply to the transfer
of a motor vehicle to an educational institution if the purpose of the
transfer is to make the motor vehicle available for use in automotive
repair courses.



                             CHAPTER 680

   An act to amend, repeal, and add Section 827 of the Civil Code,
relating to landlord-tenant.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature to respond to tight
rental market conditions by providing tenants with longer notice when
served with a rent increase of more than 10 percent in a 12-month period
and providing owners with an easier method of service for notices of rent
increases. The longer notice prescribed in this act provides tenants with
additional time to respond to rent increases by, for example, augmenting
their income with an additional job, finding a roommate, or relocating.
The longer notice is not intended to constitute rent control, nor is it a
 4512                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 680 ]
statement of public policy regarding acceptable or unacceptable levels
of rent increases.
   SEC. 2. Section 827 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   827. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), in all leases of lands
or tenements, or of any interest therein, from week to week, month to
month, or other period less than a month, the landlord may, upon giving
notice in writing to the tenant, in the manner prescribed by Section 1162
of the Code of Civil Procedure, change the terms of the lease to take
effect, as to tenancies for less than one month, upon the expiration of a
period at least as long as the term of the hiring itself, and, as to tenancies
from month to month, to take effect at the expiration of not less than 30
days, but if that change takes effect within a rental term, the rent accruing
from the first day of the term to the date of that change shall be computed
at the rental rate which obtained immediately prior to that change;
provided, however, that it shall be competent for the parties to provide
by an agreement in writing that a notice changing the terms thereof may
be given at any time not less than seven days before the expiration of a
term, to be effective upon the expiration of the term.
   The notice, when served upon the tenant, shall of itself operate and be
effectual to create and establish, as a part of the lease, the terms, rents,
and conditions specified in the notice, if the tenant shall continue to hold
the premises after the notice takes effect.
   (b) (1) In all leases of a residential dwelling, or of any interest
therein, from week to week, month to month, or other period less than
a month, the landlord may increase the rent provided in the lease or rental
agreement, upon giving written notice to the tenant, as follows, by either
of the following procedures:
   (A) By delivering a copy to the tenant personally.
   (B) By serving a copy by mail under the procedures prescribed in
Section 1013 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (2) If the proposed rent increase for that tenant is 10 percent or less
of the rental amount charged to that tenant at any time during the 12
months prior to the effective date of the increase, either in and of itself
or when combined with any other rent increases for the 12 months prior
to the effective date of the increase, the notice shall be delivered at least
30 days prior to the effective date of the increase, and subject to Section
1013 of the Code of Civil Procedure if served by mail.
   (3) For an increase in rent greater than the amount described in
paragraph (2), the minimum notice period required pursuant to that
paragraph shall be increased by an additional 30 days, and subject to
Section 1013 of the Code of Civil Procedure if served by mail.
   (c) If a state or federal statute, state or federal regulation, recorded
regulatory agreement, or contract provides for a longer period of notice
regarding a rent increase than that provided in subdivision (a) or (b), the
[Ch. 681 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4513

personal service or mailing of the notice shall be in accordance with the
longer period.
   (d) This section shall be operative only until January 1, 2006, and as
of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which is enacted
on or before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 3. Section 827 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
   827. (a) In all leases of lands or tenements, or of any interest
therein, from week to week, month to month, or other period less than
a month, the landlord may, upon giving notice in writing to the tenant,
in the manner prescribed by Section 1162 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
change the terms of the lease to take effect, as to tenancies for less than
one month, upon the expiration of a period at least as long as the term
of the hiring itself, and, as to tenancies from month to month, to take
effect at the expiration of not less than 30 days, but if that change takes
effect within a rental term, the rent accruing from the first day of the term
to the date of that change shall be computed at the rental rate which was
obtained immediately prior to that change; provided, however, that it
shall be competent for the parties to provide by an agreement in writing
that a notice changing the terms thereof may be given at any time not less
than seven days before the expiration of a term, to be effective upon the
expiration of the term.
   The notice, when served upon the tenant, shall of itself operate and be
effectual to create and establish, as a part of the lease, the terms, rents,
and conditions specified in the notice, if the tenant shall continue to hold
the premises after the notice takes effect.
   (b) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2006.



                             CHAPTER 681

  An act to add Sections 2242.1 and 4067 to the Business and
Professions Code, relating to medicine, and making an appropriation
therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 2242.1 is added to the Business and
Professions Code, to read:
  2242.1. (a) No person or entity may prescribe, dispense, or furnish,
or cause to be prescribed, dispensed, or furnished, dangerous drugs or
dangerous devices, as defined in Section 4022, on the Internet for
 4514                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 681 ]
delivery to any person in this state, without a good faith prior
examination and medical indication therefor, except as authorized by
Section 2242.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a violation of this
section may subject the person or entity that has committed the violation
to either a fine of up to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per
occurrence pursuant to a citation issued by the board or a civil penalty
of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per occurrence.
   (c) The Attorney General may bring an action to enforce this section
and to collect the fines or civil penalties authorized by subdivision (b).
   (d) For notifications made on and after January 1, 2002, the Franchise
Tax Board, upon notification by the Attorney General or the board of a
final judgment in an action brought under this section, shall subtract the
amount of the fine or awarded civil penalties from any tax refunds or
lottery winnings due to the person who is a defendant in the action using
the offset authority under Section 12419.5 of the Government Code, as
delegated by the Controller, and the processes as established by the
Franchise Tax Board for this purpose. That amount shall be forwarded
to the board for deposit in the Contingent Fund of the Medical Board of
California.
   (e) If the person or entity that is the subject of an action brought
pursuant to this section is not a resident of this state, a violation of this
section shall, if applicable, be reported to the person’s or entity’s
appropriate professional licensing authority.
   (f) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the board from commencing
a disciplinary action against a physician and surgeon pursuant to Section
2242.
   SEC. 2. Section 4067 is added to the Business and Professions
Code, to read:
   4067. (a) No person or entity shall dispense or furnish, or cause to
be dispensed or furnished, dangerous drugs or dangerous devices, as
defined in Section 4022, on the Internet for delivery to any person in this
state without a prescription issued pursuant to a good faith prior
examination if the person or entity either knew or reasonably should
have known that the prescription was not issued pursuant to a good faith
prior examination, or if the person or entity did not act in accordance
with Section 1761 of Title 16 of the California Code of Regulations.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a violation of this
section may subject the person or entity that has committed the violation
to either a fine of up to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per
occurrence pursuant to a citation issued by the board or a civil penalty
of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) per occurrence.
   (c) The Attorney General may bring an action to enforce this section
and to collect the fines or civil penalties authorized by subdivision (b).
[Ch. 682 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4515

   (d) For notifications made on and after January 1, 2002, the Franchise
Tax Board, upon notification by the Attorney General or the board of a
final judgment in an action brought under this section, shall subtract the
amount of the fine or awarded civil penalties from any tax refunds or
lottery winnings due to the person who is a defendant in the action using
the offset authority under Section 12419.5 of the Government Code, as
delegated by the Controller, and the processes as established by the
Franchise Tax Board for this purpose. That amount shall be forwarded
to the board for deposit in the Pharmacy Board Contingent Fund.
   (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the unlicensed
practice of pharmacy, or to limit the authority of the board to enforce any
other provision of this chapter.
   SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 682

   An act to add Section 18901.8 to the Welfare and Institutions Code,
relating to food stamps.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 18901.8 is added to the Welfare and
Institutions Code, to read:
  18901.8. (a) To the extent permitted by federal law, and with receipt
of necessary federal approvals, the State Department of Social Services,
in conjunction with affected stakeholder groups, shall develop and
implement, if otherwise feasible, a simplified and shorter application
form for nonassistance food stamp cases. The contents of this simpler
form shall be evaluated for use in multiprogram application forms for the
Food Stamp, Medi-Cal, and CalWORKs programs. The department
shall seek any federal approvals necessary for implementation of the
form.
 4516                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 683 ]
  (b) The department shall not require any county to implement use of
the form described in subdivision (a) until the county has been allowed
sufficient time to reprogram its automated systems for the purpose of
implementing the form.
  (c) The department shall provide information on implementation,
including a simplified form, to the appropriate legislative committees on
or before July 1, 2001.



                            CHAPTER 683

  An act to amend Sections 7583.2, 7583.9, and 7587.8 of, to amend and
repeal Section 7583.11 of, and to add Section 7587.15 to, the Business
and Professions Code, relating to private patrol operators.
            [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 7583.2 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   7583.2. No person licensed as a private patrol operator shall do any
of the following:
   (a) Fail to properly maintain an accurate and current record of all
firearms or other deadly weapons that are in the possession of the
licensee or of any employee while on duty. Within seven days after a
licensee or his or her employees discover that a deadly weapon which has
been recorded as being in his or her possession has been misplaced, lost,
or stolen, or in any other way missing, the licensee or his or her manager
shall mail or deliver to any local law enforcement agency who has
jurisdiction, a written report concerning the incident. The report shall
describe fully the circumstances surrounding the incident, any injuries
or damages incurred, the identity of all participants, and whether a police
investigation was conducted.
   (b) Fail to properly maintain an accurate and current record of the
name, address, commencing date of employment, and position of each
employee, and the date of termination of employment when an employee
is terminated.
   (c) Fail to properly maintain an accurate and current record of proof
of completion by each employee of the licensee of the course of training
in the exercise of the power to arrest as required by Section 7583.5.
[Ch. 683 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4517

   (d) Fail to certify an employee’s completion of the course of training
in the exercise of the power to arrest prior to placing the employee at a
duty station.
   (e) Fail to certify proof of current and valid registration for each
employee who is subject to registration or fail to comply with the
provisions of Section 7583.11 if employing an individual who does not
possess a current and valid registration from the bureau.
   (f) Fail to certify within three business days after assigning an
employee to work with a temporary registration card that the employee
has submitted fingerprint cards as required by Section 7583.9.
   (g) Permit any employee to carry a firearm or other deadly weapon
without first ascertaining that the employee is proficient in the use of
each weapon to be carried. With respect to firearms, evidence of
proficiency shall include a certificate from a firearm training facility
approved by the director certifying that the employee is proficient in the
use of that specified caliber of firearm and a current and valid firearm
qualification permit issued by the department. With respect to other
deadly weapons, evidence of proficiency shall include a certificate from
a training facility approved by the director certifying that the employee
is proficient in the use of that particular deadly weapon.
   (h) Fail to deliver to the director a written report describing fully the
circumstances surrounding the discharge of any firearm, or physical
altercation with a member of the public while on duty, by a licensee or
any officer, partner, or employee of a licensee while acting within the
course and scope of his or her employment within seven days after the
incident. For the purposes of this subdivision, a report shall be required
only for physical altercations that result in any of the following: (1) the
arrest of a security guard, (2) the filing of a police report by a member
of the public, (3) injury on the part of a member of the public that requires
medical attention, or (4) the discharge, suspension, or reprimand of a
security guard by his or her employer. The report shall include, but not
be limited to, a description of any injuries or damages incurred, the
identity of all participants, and whether a police investigation was
conducted. Any report may be investigated by the director to determine
if any disciplinary action is necessary.
   (i) Fail to notify the bureau in writing and within 30 days that a
manager previously qualified pursuant to this chapter is no longer
connected with the licensee.
   SEC. 2. Section 7583.9 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7583.9. (a) Upon accepting employment by a private patrol
operator, any employee who performs the function of a security guard
or security patrolperson who is not currently registered with the bureau,
shall complete an application for registration on a form as prescribed by
 4518                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 683 ]
the director, and obtain two classifiable fingerprint cards for submission
to the Department of Justice. The Department of Justice shall forward
one classifiable fingerprint card to the Federal Bureau of Investigation
for purposes of a background check. The applicant shall submit the
application and registration fee to the bureau on or before the same
business day that he or she is assigned to work as a security guard or
security patrolperson performing any of the functions set forth in
subdivision (a) of Section 7582.1. If the applicant is assigned to work on
a Saturday, Sunday, or on a federal holiday, the applicant may submit the
application and registration fee to the bureau on the first business day
immediately following the Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday. The
applicant shall submit the fingerprints to the bureau within three
business days after being assigned to work with a temporary registration
card.
   (b) If a private patrol operator pays the application fee on behalf of the
applicant, nothing in this section shall preclude the private patrol
operator from withholding the amount of the fee from the applicant’s
compensation.
   (c) The licensee shall maintain supplies of applications and
fingerprint cards that shall be provided by the bureau upon request.
   (d) In lieu of classifiable fingerprint cards provided for in this section,
the bureau may authorize applicants to submit their fingerprints into an
electronic fingerprinting system administered by the Department of
Justice. Applicants who submit their fingerprints by electronic means
shall have their fingerprints entered into the system through a terminal
operated by a law enforcement agency or other facility authorized by the
Department of Justice to conduct electronic fingerprinting. The
enforcement agency responsible for operating the terminal may charge
a fee sufficient to reimburse it for the costs incurred in providing this
service.
   (e) Upon receipt of an applicant’s electronic fingerprints as provided
in this section, the Department of Justice shall determine whether the
applicant has been convicted of any crime and forward the information
to the bureau.
   (f) The requirement of submission of fingerprint cards to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation shall not apply to currently employed, full-time
peace officers holding peace officer status under Chapter 4.5
(commencing with Section 830) of Title 3 of Part 2 of the Penal Code,
or to level I or level II reserve officers as described in paragraphs (1) and
(2) of subdivision (a) of Section 832.6 of the Penal Code.
   (g) In addition to the amount authorized pursuant to Section 7570.1,
the bureau may impose an additional fee not to exceed three dollars ($3)
for processing classifiable fingerprint cards submitted by applicants
[Ch. 683 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4519

excluding those submitted into an electronic fingerprint system using
electronic fingerprint technology.
   (h) An employee shall, on the first day of employment, display to the
client his or her registration card if it is feasible and practical to comply
with this disclosure requirement. The employee shall thereafter display
to the client his or her registration card upon the request of the client.
   (i) ‘‘Submit,’’ as used in subdivision (a), means any of the following:
   (1) To ensure that the application and registration fee have been
received by the bureau on or before the business day that the employee
is assigned to work.
   (2) To ensure that the application and registration fee either have been
mailed to the bureau and officially postmarked with a date on or before
the employee is assigned to work or have been deposited with a carrier
performing overnight delivery services on or before the business day that
the employee is assigned to work.
   (3) To ensure, if the applicant is assigned to work on a Saturday,
Sunday, or on a federal holiday, that the application and registration fee
either have been mailed to the bureau and officially postmarked with a
date on the first business day immediately following that Saturday,
Sunday, or federal holiday or have been deposited with a carrier
performing overnight delivery services on the first business day
immediately following that Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday.
   SEC. 3. Section 7583.11 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
   7583.11. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), an employee of
a licensee may be assigned to work with a temporary registration card
that indicates completion of the course in the exercise of the power to
arrest until the bureau issues a registration card or denies the application
for registration. However, a licensee shall not assign an employee to
work with a temporary registration card unless the licensee submits the
employee’s application and registration fee to the bureau on or before the
same business day that the employee is assigned to work as a security
guard or security patrolperson performing any of the functions set forth
in subdivision (a) of Section 7582.1. If a licensee assigns an employee
to work with a temporary registration card on a Saturday, Sunday, or on
a federal holiday, the licensee may submit the employee’s application
and registration fee to the bureau on the first business day immediately
following the Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday. A temporary
registration card shall in no event be valid for more than 120 days.
However, the director may extend the expiration date beyond the 120
days at any time when there is an abnormal delay in processing
applications for prospective security guards. For purposes of this
section, the 120-day period shall commence on the date the applicant
signs the application.
 4520                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 683 ]
   (b) An employee who has been convicted of a crime prior to applying
for a position as a security guard shall not be issued a temporary
registration card and shall not be assigned to work as a security guard
until the bureau issues a permanent registration card. This subdivision
shall apply only if the applicant for registration as a security guard has
disclosed the conviction to the bureau on his or her application form, or
if the fact of the conviction has come to the attention of the bureau
through official court or other governmental documents. In no event
shall the director, the department, the bureau, the chief, or the State of
California be liable for any civil damages in the event of the issuance of
a temporary registration if the applicant has falsified his or her
application to conceal a prior criminal conviction.
   (c) A temporary registration card issued pursuant to this section shall
include the name, address, and license number of the private patrol
operator employer or training facility that issued the temporary
registration card.
   (d) An employee shall, on the first day of employment, display to the
client his or her registration card or temporary registration card, when it
is feasible and practical to comply with this disclosure requirement. The
employee shall thereafter display to the client his or her registration card
or temporary registration card upon the request of the client.
   (e) ‘‘Submit’’ as used in subdivision (a), means any of the following:
   (1) To ensure that the application and registration fee have been
received by the bureau on or before the business day that the employee
is assigned to work.
   (2) To ensure that the application and registration fee either have been
mailed to the bureau and officially postmarked with a date on or before
the employee is assigned to work or have been deposited with a carrier
performing overnight delivery services on or before the business day that
the employee is assigned to work.
   (3) To ensure, if the applicant is assigned to work on a Saturday,
Sunday, or on a federal holiday, that the application and registration fee
either have been mailed to the bureau and officially postmarked with a
date on the first business day immediately following that Saturday,
Sunday, or federal holiday or have been deposited with a carrier
performing overnight delivery services on the first business day
immediately following that Saturday, Sunday, or federal holiday.
   (f) This section shall become inoperative on June 30, 2003, and, as
of January 1, 2004, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that
becomes operative on or before January 1, 2004, deletes or extends the
dates on which it becomes inoperative and is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 7587.8 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
[Ch. 684 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4521

  7587.8. The director may assess fines for the following acts
pursuant to Article 4 (commencing with Section 7583) only as follows:
  (a) Violation of subdivisions (a), (b), and (c) of Section 7583.2;
twenty-five dollars ($25) per violation.
  (b) Violation of subdivisions (h) and (i) of Section 7583.2;
twenty-five dollars ($25) for the first violation and one hundred dollars
($100) per violation for each violation thereafter.
  (c) Violation of subdivision (d) of Section 7583.2; one hundred
dollars ($100) per violation.
  (d) Violation of subdivision (g) of Section 7583.2; two hundred fifty
dollars ($250) per violation.
  (e) Violation of subdivision (f) of Section 7583.2; two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500) per violation, notwithstanding any other
provision of law.
  SEC. 5. Section 7587.15 is added to the Business and Professions
Code, to read:
  7587.15. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the director
may assess a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000) per violation
against any licensee for a failure to comply with subdivision (e) of
Section 7583.2 or Section 7583.11. In addition, the director may deny,
suspend, or revoke a license issued under this chapter for a failure to
comply with Section 7583.11.
  SEC. 6. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 684

  An act to amend Section 13591.4 of the Penal Code, relating to peace
officer training.
             [Approved by Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 26, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 13519.4 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
 4522                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 684 ]
   13519.4. (a) On or before August 1, 1993, the commission shall
develop and disseminate guidelines and training for all law enforcement
officers in California as described in subdivision (a) of Section 13510
and who adhere to the standards approved by the commission, on the
racial and cultural differences among the residents of this state. The
course or courses of instruction and the guidelines shall stress
understanding and respect for racial and cultural differences, and
development of effective, noncombative methods of carrying out law
enforcement duties in a racially and culturally diverse environment.
   (b) The course of basic training for law enforcement officers shall, no
later than August 1, 1993, include adequate instruction on racial and
cultural diversity in order to foster mutual respect and cooperation
between law enforcement and members of all racial and cultural groups.
In developing the training, the commission shall consult with
appropriate groups and individuals having an interest and expertise in
the field of cultural awareness and diversity.
   (c) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘culturally diverse’’ and
‘‘cultural diversity’’ include, but are not limited to, gender and sexual
orientation issues. The Legislature finds and declares as follows:
   (1) Racial profiling is a practice that presents a great danger to the
fundamental principals of a democratic society. It is abhorrent and
cannot be tolerated.
   (2) Motorists who have been stopped by the police for no reason other
than the color of their skin or their apparent nationality or ethnicity are
the victims of discriminatory practices.
   (3) It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting the changes to Section
13519.4 of the Penal Code made by the act that added this subdivision
that more than additional training is required to address the pernicious
practice of racial profiling and that enactment of this bill is in no way
dispositive of the issue of how the state should deal with racial profiling.
   (4) The working men and women in California law enforcement risk
their lives every day. The people of California greatly appreciate the hard
work and dedication of law enforcement officers in protecting public
safety. The good name of these officers should not be tarnished by the
actions of those few who commit discriminatory practices.
   (d) ‘‘Racial profiling,’’ for purposes of this section, is the practice of
detaining a suspect based on a broad set of criteria which casts suspicion
on an entire class of people without any individualized suspicion of the
particular person being stopped.
   (e) A law enforcement officer shall not engage in racial profiling.
   (f) Every law enforcement officer in this state shall participate in
expanded training as prescribed and certified by the Commission on
Peace Officers Standards and Training. Training shall begin being
offered no later than January 1, 2002. The curriculum shall be created by
[Ch. 684 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4523

the commission in collaboration with a five-person panel, appointed no
later than March 1, 2001, as follows: the Governor shall appoint three
members and one member each shall be appointed by the Senate
Committee on Rules and the Speaker of the Assembly. Each appointee
shall be appointed from among prominent members of the following
organizations:
   (1) State Conference of the NAACP.
   (2) Brotherhood Crusade.
   (3) Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund.
   (4) The League of United Latin American Citizens.
   (5) American Civil Liberties Union.
   (6) Anti-Defamation League.
   (7) California NOW.
   (8) Asian Pacific Bar of California.
   (9) The Urban League.
   (g) Members of the panel shall not be compensated, except for
reasonable per diem expenses related to their work for panel purposes.
   (h) The curriculum shall utilize the Tools for Tolerance for Law
Enforcement Professionals framework and shall include and examine
the patterns, practices, and protocols that make up racial profiling. This
training shall prescribe patterns, practices, and protocols that prevent
racial profiling. In developing the training, the commission shall consult
with appropriate groups and individuals having an interest and expertise
in the field of racial profiling. The course of instruction shall include, but
not be limited to, adequate consideration of each of the following
subjects:
   (1) Identification of key indices and perspectives that make up
cultural differences among residents in a local community.
   (2) Negative impact of biases, prejudices, and stereotyping on
effective law enforcement, including examination of how historical
perceptions of discriminatory enforcement practices have harmed
police-community relations.
   (3) The history and the role of the civil rights movement and struggles
and their impact on law enforcement.
   (4) Specific obligations of officers in preventing, reporting, and
responding to discriminatory or biased practices by fellow officers.
   (5) Perspectives of diverse, local constituency groups and experts on
particular cultural and police-community relations issues in a local area.
   (i) Once the initial basic training is completed, each law enforcement
officer in California as described in subdivision (a) of Section 13510
who adheres to the standards approved by the commission shall be
required to complete a refresher course every five years thereafter, or on
a more frequent basis if deemed necessary, in order to keep current with
changing racial and cultural trends.
 4524                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 685 ]
   (j) The Legislative Analyst shall conduct a study of the data being
voluntarily collected by those jurisdictions that have instituted a
program of data collection with regard to racial profiling, including, but
not limited to, the California Highway Patrol, the City of San Jose, and
the City of San Diego, both to ascertain the incidence of racial profiling
and whether data collection serves to address and prevent such practices,
as well as to assess the value and efficacy of the training herein
prescribed with respect to preventing local profiling. The Legislative
Analyst may prescribe the manner in which the data is to be submitted
and may request that police agencies collecting such data submit it in the
requested manner. The Legislative Analyst shall provide to the
Legislature a report and recommendations with regard to racial profiling
by July 1, 2002.
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                            CHAPTER 685

   An act to add Section 17155.5 to the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation, to take effect immediately, tax levy.
            [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 17155.5 is added to the Revenue and Taxation
Code, to read:
  17155.5. Gross income does not include any amount received as
reparation payments paid by the German Foundation known as
Remembrance, Responsibility, and the Future, or any other source of
humanitarian reparations made for purposes of redressing the injustice
done to persons who were required to perform slave or forced labor
during World War II.
[Ch. 686 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4525

  SEC. 2. This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.



                             CHAPTER 686

   An act to amend Section 5205.5 of the Vehicle Code, relating to
transportation.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 5205.5 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   5205.5. (a) For the purposes of implementing Section 21655.9,
beginning July 1, 2000, and through December 31, 2003, the
department, in consultation with the Department of the California
Highway Patrol, shall make available for issuance, for a fee determined
by the department to be sufficient to reimburse the department for actual
costs incurred pursuant to this section, distinctive decals, labels, or other
identifiers for vehicles that meet California’s ultra-low emission vehicle
(ULEV) standard for exhaust emissions and the federal ILEV
evaporative emission standard, as defined in Part 88 (commencing with
Section 88.101-94) of Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations, in a
manner that clearly distinguishes them from other vehicles.
   (b) For the purposes of implementing Section 21655.9, beginning
January 1, 2004, and through December 31, 2007, the department shall
make available for issuance, for a fee determined by the department to
be sufficient to reimburse the department for actual costs incurred
pursuant to this section, distinctive decals, labels, and other identifiers
for vehicles that meet California’s super ultra-low emission vehicle
(SULEV) standard for exhaust emissions and the federal inherently
low-emission vehicle (ILEV) evaporative emission standard, as defined
in Part 88 (commencing with Section 88.101-94) of Title 40 of the Code
of Federal Regulations, in a manner that clearly distinguishes them from
other vehicles.
   (c) The department shall include a summary of the provisions of this
section on each motor vehicle registration renewal notice, or on a
separate insert, if space is available and the summary can be included
without incurring additional printing or postage costs.
   (d) The Governor may remove individual high-occupancy vehicle
(HOV) lanes, or portions of those lanes, during periods of peak
 4526                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 687 ]
congestion from the ILEV access provisions provided in subdivisions
(a) and (b), following a finding by the Department of Transportation as
follows:
   (1) The lane, or portion thereof, exceeds a level of service C, as
discussed in subdivision (b) of Section 65089 of the Government Code.
   (2) The operation or projected operation of the vehicles described in
subdivisions (a) and (b) in these lanes, or portions thereof, will
significantly increase congestion.
   The finding also shall demonstrate the infeasibility of alleviating the
congestion by other means, including, but not limited to, reducing the
use of the lane by noneligible vehicles, further increasing vehicle
occupancy, or adding additional capacity.
   (e) For purposes of subdivisions (a) and (b), the Department of the
California Highway Patrol shall design and specify the placement of the
decal, label, or other identifier on the vehicle. Each decal, label, or other
identifier issued for a vehicle shall display a unique number, which
number shall be printed on, or affixed to, the vehicle registration.
   (f) If the Metropolitan Transportation Commission, serving as the
Bay Area Toll Authority, grants toll-free and reduced-rate passage on toll
bridges under its jurisdiction to any vehicle pursuant to Section 30101.8
of the Streets and Highways Code, it shall also grant the same toll-free
and reduced-rate passage to vehicles displaying a valid ULEV or
SULEV identifier issued by the department pursuant to subdivisions (a)
and (b).
   (g) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2008, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2008, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                             CHAPTER 687

   An act to amend Sections 8855 and 53646 of the Government Code,
relating to the California Debt and Investment Advisory Commission.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]
[Ch. 687 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4527

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8855 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   8855. (a) There is created the California Debt and Investment
Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members, selected as follows:
   (1) The Treasurer, or his or her designee.
   (2) The Governor or the Director of Finance.
   (3) The Controller, or his or her designee.
   (4) Two local government finance officers appointed by the
Treasurer, one each from among persons employed by a county and by
a city or a city and county of this state, experienced in the issuance and
sale of municipal bonds and nominated by associations affiliated with
these agencies.
   (5) Two Members of the Assembly appointed by the Speaker of the
Assembly.
   (6) Two Members of the Senate appointed by the Senate Committee
on Rules.
   (b) (1) The term of office of an appointed member is four years, but
appointed members serve at the pleasure of the appointing power. In case
of a vacancy for any cause, the appointing power shall make an
appointment to become effective immediately for the unexpired term.
   (2) Any legislators appointed to the commission shall meet with and
participate in the activities of the commission to the extent that the
participation is not incompatible with their respective positions as
Members of the Legislature. For purposes of this chapter, the Members
of the Legislature shall constitute a joint interim legislative committee
on the subject of this chapter.
   (c) The Treasurer shall serve as chairperson of the commission and
shall preside at meetings of the commission. The commission, on or after
January 1, 1982, and annually thereafter, shall elect from its members a
vice chairperson and a secretary who shall hold office until the next
ensuing December 31 and shall continue to serve until their respective
successors are elected.
   (d) Appointed members of the commission shall not receive a salary,
but shall be entitled to a per diem allowance of fifty dollars ($50) for each
day’s attendance at a meeting of the commission not to exceed three
hundred dollars ($300) in any month, and reimbursement for expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties under this chapter, including
travel and other necessary expenses.
   (e) The commission shall do all of the following:
   (1) Assist all state financing authorities and commissions in carrying
out their responsibilities as prescribed by law, including assistance with
respect to federal legislation pending in Congress.
 4528                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 687 ]
   (2) Upon request of any state or local government units, to assist them
in the planning, preparation, marketing, and sale of new debt issues to
reduce cost and to assist in protecting the issuer’s credit.
   (3) Collect, maintain, and provide comprehensive information on all
state and all local debt authorization, sold and outstanding, and serve as
a statistical clearinghouse for all state and local debt issues. This
information shall be readily available upon request by any public official
or any member of the public.
   (4) Maintain contact with state and municipal bond issuers,
underwriters, credit rating agencies, investors, and others to improve the
market for state and local government debt issues.
   (5) Undertake or commission studies on methods to reduce the costs
and improve credit ratings of state and local issues.
   (6) Recommend changes in state laws and local practices to improve
the sale and servicing of state and local debts.
   (7) Establish a continuing education program for local officials
having direct or supervisory responsibility over municipal investments,
and undertake other activities conducive to the disclosure of investment
practices and strategies for oversight purposes.
   (8) Collect, maintain, and provide information on local agency
investments of public funds for local agency investment.
   (f) The city, county, or city and county investor of any public funds,
no later than 60 days after the close of the second and fourth quarters of
each calendar year, shall provide the quarterly reports required pursuant
to Section 53646 and, no later than 60 days after the close of the quarter
of each calendar year and 60 days after the subsequent amendment
thereto, provide the statement of investment policy required pursuant to
Section 53646, to the commission by mail, postage prepaid, or by any
other method approved by the commission. The commission shall
collect these reports to further its educational responsibilities as
described under subdivision (e). Nothing in this section shall be
construed to create additional oversight responsibility for the
commission or any of its members. Sole responsibility for control,
oversight, and accountability of local investment decisions shall remain
with local officials. The commission shall not be considered to have any
fiduciary duty with respect to any local agency income report received
under this subdivision. In addition, the commission shall not have any
legal liability with respect to these investments.
   (g) The commission may adopt bylaws for the regulation of its affairs
and the conduct of its business.
   (h) The issuer of any proposed new debt issue of state or local
government shall, no later than 30 days prior to the sale of any debt issue
at public or private sale, give written notice of the proposed sale to the
commission, by mail, postage prepaid. This subdivision shall also apply
[Ch. 687 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4529

to any nonprofit public benefit corporation incorporated for the purpose
of acquiring student loans.
   (i) The notice shall include the proposed sale date, the name of the
issuer, the type of debt issue, and the estimated principal amount thereof.
Failure to give this notice shall not affect the validity of the sale.
   (j) The issuer of any new debt issue of state or local government, not
later than 45 days after the signing of the bond purchase contract in a
negotiated or private financing, or after the acceptance of a bid in a
competitive offering, shall submit a report of final sale to the
commission by mail, postage prepaid, or by any other method approved
by the commission. A copy of the final official statement for the issue
shall accompany the report of final sale. The commission may require
information to be submitted in the report of final sale that it considers
appropriate.
   (k) The commission shall publish a monthly newsletter describing
and evaluating the operations of the commission during the preceding
month.
   (l) The commission shall meet on the call of the chairperson, or at the
request of a majority of the members, or at the request of the Governor.
A majority of all nonlegislative members of the commission constitutes
a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (m) All administrative and clerical assistance required by the
commission shall be furnished by the office of the Treasurer.
   (n) The commission, no later than May 1, 2006, shall report to the
Legislature describing its activities since the inception of the local
agency investment reporting program regarding the collection and
maintenance of information on local agency investment practices and
how the commission uses that information to fulfill its statutory goals.
   SEC. 2. Section 53646 of the Government Code is amended to read:
   53646. (a) (1) In the case of county government, the treasurer shall
annually render to the board of supervisors and any oversight committee
a statement of investment policy, which the board shall review and
approve at a public meeting. Any change in the policy shall also be
reviewed and approved by the board at a public meeting.
   (2) In the case of any other local agency, the treasurer or chief fiscal
officer of the local agency shall annually render to the legislative body
of that local agency and any oversight committee of that local agency a
statement of investment policy, which the legislative body of the local
agency shall consider at a public meeting. Any change in the policy shall
also be considered by the legislative body of the local agency at a public
meeting.
   (b) (1) The treasurer or chief fiscal officer shall render a quarterly
report to the chief executive officer, the internal auditor, and the
legislative body of the local agency. The quarterly report shall be so
 4530                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 687 ]
submitted within 30 days following the end of the quarter covered by the
report. Except as provided in subdivisions (e) and (f), this report shall
include the type of investment, issuer, date of maturity par and dollar
amount invested on all securities, investments and moneys held by the
local agency, and shall additionally include a description of any of the
local agency’s funds, investments, or programs, that are under the
management of contracted parties, including lending programs. With
respect to all securities held by the local agency, and under management
of any outside party that is not also a local agency or the State of
California Local Agency Investment Fund, the report shall also include
a current market value as of the date of the report, and shall include the
source of this same valuation.
   (2) The quarterly report shall state compliance of the portfolio to the
statement of investment policy, or manner in which the portfolio is not
in compliance.
   (3) The quarterly report shall include a statement denoting the ability
of the local agency to meet its pool’s expenditure requirements for the
next six months, or provide an explanation as to why sufficient money
shall, or may, not be available.
   (4) In the quarterly report, a subsidiary ledger of investments may be
used in accordance with accepted accounting practices.
   (c) Pursuant to subdivision (b), the treasurer or chief fiscal officer
shall report whatever additional information or data may be required by
the legislative body of the local agency.
   (d) The legislative body of a local agency may elect to require the
report specified in subdivision (b) to be made on a monthly basis instead
of quarterly.
   (e) For local agency investments that have been placed in the Local
Agency Investment Fund, created by Section 16429.1, in National
Credit Union Share Insurance Fund-insured accounts in a credit union,
in accounts insured or guaranteed pursuant to Section 14858 of the
Financial Code, or in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured
accounts in a bank or savings and loan association, in a county
investment pool, or any combination of these, the treasurer or chief fiscal
officer may supply to the governing body, chief executive officer, and the
auditor of the local agency the most recent statement or statements
received by the local agency from these institutions in lieu of the
information required by paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) regarding
investments in these institutions.
   (f) The treasurer or chief fiscal officer shall not be required to render
a quarterly report, as required by subdivision (b), to a legislative body
or any oversight committee of a school district or county office of
education for securities, investments, or moneys held by the school
[Ch. 687 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4531

district or county office of education in individual accounts that are less
than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000).
   (g) Except as provided in subdivisions (h) and (i), each city, county,
or city and county shall submit copies of its second and fourth quarter
reports to the California Debt and Investment Advisory Commission
within 60 days after the close of the second and fourth quarters of each
calendar year. Any city, county, or city and county not required to submit
a report pursuant to subdivision (h) or (i) shall file with the commission
a certification within 60 days of the end of the second and fourth quarters
of the calendar year stating the distribution and amount of its investment
portfolio and that it is therefore not subject to this reporting requirement.
This subdivision shall become inoperative on January 1, 2007.
   (h) A city shall not be required to submit a quarterly report to the
commission if, during the entire reporting period, the city has
maintained 100 percent of its investment portfolio in (1) the treasury of
the county in which it is located for investment by the county treasurer
pursuant to Section 53684, (2) the Local Agency Investment Fund
created by Section 16429.1, (3) National Credit Union Share Insurance
Fund-insured accounts in a credit union, in accounts insured or
guaranteed pursuant to Section 14858 of the Financial Code, or in
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured accounts in a bank or
savings and loan association, or (4) in any combination of these.
   (i) A county or city and county shall not be required to submit a
quarterly report to the commission if, during the entire reporting period,
the county has maintained 100 percent of its investment portfolio in (1)
the Local Agency Investment Fund created by Section 16429.1, (2)
National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund-insured accounts in a credit
union, in accounts insured or guaranteed pursuant to Section 14858 of
the Financial Code, or in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured
accounts in a bank or savings and loan association, or (3) in any
combination of these.
   SEC. 3. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.
 4532                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 688 ]
                            CHAPTER 688

  An act to amend Section 1788.17 of the Civil Code, to amend Sections
403, 404, 527, 527.6, 527.8, 871.3, 1277, 1731, 1738, 2024, 2031, and
2094 of, to repeal Sections 2095, 2096, and 2097 of, the Code of Civil
Procedure, to amend Sections 66909.2 and 66909.5 of the Government
Code, to amend Section 14029 of the Penal Code, to amend Section 1310
of the Probate Code, and to amend Section 2805 of the Vehicle Code,
relating to civil procedure.
            [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1788.17 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   1788.17. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, every
debt collector collecting or attempting to collect a consumer debt shall
comply with the provisions of Sections 1692b to 1692j, inclusive, of,
and shall be subject to the remedies in Section 1692k of, Title 15 of the
United States Code. However, subsection (11) of Section 1692e and
Section 1692g shall not apply to any person specified in paragraphs (A)
and (B) of subsection (6) of Section 1692a of Title 15 of the United States
Code or that person’s principal. The references to federal codes in this
section refer to those codes as they read January 1, 2001.
   SEC. 2. Section 403 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   403. A judge may, on motion, transfer an action or actions from
another court to that judge’s court for coordination with an action
involving a common question of fact or law within the meaning of
Section 404. The motion shall be supported by a declaration stating facts
showing that the actions meet the standards specified in Section 404.1,
are not complex as defined by the Judicial Council and that the moving
party has made a good faith effort to obtain agreement to the transfer
from all parties to each action. Notice of the motion shall be served on
all parties to each action and on each court in which an action is pending.
Any party to that action may file papers opposing the motion within the
time permitted by rule of the Judicial Council. The court to which a case
is transferred may order the cases consolidated for trial pursuant to
Section 1048 without any further motion or hearing.
   If the cases are pending in different courts of the same county, the
judge who grants the motion to transfer may also order the cases
consolidated for trial in the receiving court.
[Ch. 688 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4533

   The Judicial Council may adopt rules to implement this section,
including rules prescribing procedures for preventing duplicative or
conflicting transfer orders issued by different courts.
   SEC. 3. Section 404 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   404. When civil actions sharing a common question of fact or law
are pending in different courts, a petition for coordination may be
submitted to the Chairperson of the Judicial Council, by the presiding
judge of any such court, or by any party to one of the actions after
obtaining permission from the presiding judge, or by all of the parties
plaintiff or defendant in any such action. A petition for coordination, or
a motion for permission to submit a petition, shall be supported by a
declaration stating facts showing that the actions are complex, as defined
by the Judicial Council and that the actions meet the standards specified
in Section 404.1. On receipt of a petition for coordination, the
Chairperson of the Judicial Council may assign a judge to determine
whether the actions are complex, and if so, whether coordination of the
actions is appropriate, or the Chairperson of the Judicial Council may
authorize the presiding judge of a court to assign the matter to judicial
officers of the court to make the determination in the same manner as
assignments are made in other civil cases.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when civil actions
sharing a common question of fact or law are pending in a superior court
and in a municipal court of the same county, the superior court may, on
the motion of any party supported by an affidavit stating facts showing
that the actions meet the standards specified in Section 404.1, order
transfer from the municipal court and consolidation of the actions in the
superior court.
   SEC. 4. Section 527 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   527. (a) A preliminary injunction may be granted at any time before
judgment upon a verified complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint
in the one case, or the affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that
sufficient grounds exist therefor. No preliminary injunction shall be
granted without notice to the opposing party.
   (b) A temporary restraining order or a preliminary injunction, or both,
may be granted in a class action, in which one or more of the parties sues
or defends for the benefit of numerous parties upon the same grounds as
in other actions, whether or not the class has been certified.
   (c) No temporary restraining order shall be granted without notice to
the opposing party, unless both of the following requirements are
satisfied:
 4534                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 688 ]
   (1) It appears from facts shown by affidavit or by the verified
complaint that great or irreparable injury will result to the applicant
before the matter can be heard on notice.
   (2) The applicant or the applicant’s attorney certifies one of the
following to the court under oath:
   (A) That within a reasonable time prior to the application the
applicant informed the opposing party or the opposing party’s attorney
at what time and where the application would be made.
   (B) That the applicant in good faith attempted but was unable to
inform the opposing party and the opposing party’s attorney, specifying
the efforts made to contact them.
   (C) That for reasons specified the applicant should not be required to
so inform the opposing party or the opposing party’s attorney.
   (d) In case a temporary restraining order is granted without notice in
the contingency specified in subdivision (c):
   (1) The matter shall be made returnable on an order requiring cause
to be shown why a preliminary injunction should not be granted, on the
earliest day that the business of the court will admit of, but not later than
15 days or, if good cause appears to the court, 22 days from the date the
temporary restraining order is issued.
   (2) The party who obtained the temporary restraining order shall,
within five days from the date the temporary restraining order is issued
or two days prior to the hearing, whichever is earlier, serve on the
opposing party a copy of the complaint if not previously served, the order
to show cause stating the date, time, and place of the hearing, any
affidavits to be used in the application, and a copy of the points and
authorities in support of the application. The court may for good cause,
on motion of the applicant or on its own motion, shorten the time
required by this paragraph for service on the opposing party.
   (3) When the matter first comes up for hearing, if the party who
obtained the temporary restraining order is not ready to proceed, or if the
party has failed to effect service as required by paragraph (2), the court
shall dissolve the temporary restraining order.
   (4) The opposing party is entitled to one continuance for a reasonable
period of not less than 15 days or any shorter period requested by the
opposing party, to enable the opposing party to meet the application for
a preliminary injunction. If the opposing party obtains a continuance
under this paragraph, the temporary restraining order shall remain in
effect until the date of the continued hearing.
   (5) Upon the filing of an affidavit by the applicant that the opposing
party could not be served within the time required by paragraph (2), the
court may reissue any temporary restraining order previously issued.
The reissued order shall be made returnable as provided by paragraph
[Ch. 688 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4535

(1), with the time for hearing measured from the date of reissuance. No
fee shall be charged for reissuing the order.
   (e) The opposing party may, in response to an order to show cause,
present affidavits relating to the granting of the preliminary injunction,
and if the affidavits are served on the applicant at least two days prior to
the hearing, the applicant shall not be entitled to any continuance on
account thereof. On the day the order is made returnable, the hearing
shall take precedence over all other matters on the calendar of the day,
except older matters of the same character, and matters to which special
precedence may be given by law. When the cause is at issue it shall be
set for trial at the earliest possible date and shall take precedence over
all other cases, except older matters of the same character, and matters
to which special precedence may be given by law.
   (f) Notwithstanding failure to satisfy the time requirements of this
section, the court may nonetheless hear the order to show cause why a
preliminary injunction should not be granted if the moving and
supporting papers are served within the time required by Section 1005
and one of the following conditions is satisfied:
   (1) The order to show cause is issued without a temporary restraining
order.
   (2) The order to show cause is issued with a temporary restraining
order, but is either not set for hearing within the time required by
paragraph (1) of subdivision (d), or the party who obtained the temporary
restraining order fails to effect service within the time required by
paragraph (2) of subdivision (d).
   (g) This section does not apply to an order issued under the Family
Code.
   (h) As used in this section:
   (1) ‘‘Complaint’’ means a complaint or a cross-complaint.
   (2) ‘‘Court’’ means the court in which the action is pending.
   SEC. 5. Section 527.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   527.6. (a) A person who has suffered harassment as defined in
subdivision (b) may seek a temporary restraining order and an injunction
prohibiting harassment as provided in this section.
   (b) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘harassment’’ is unlawful
violence, a credible threat of violence, or a knowing and willful course
of conduct directed at a specific person that seriously alarms, annoys, or
harasses the person, and that serves no legitimate purpose. The course
of conduct must be such as would cause a reasonable person to suffer
substantial emotional distress, and must actually cause substantial
emotional distress to the plaintiff.
   As used in this subdivision:
 4536                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 688 ]
   (1) ‘‘Unlawful violence’’ is any assault or battery, or stalking as
prohibited in Section 646.9 of the Penal Code, but shall not include
lawful acts of self-defense or defense of others.
   (2) ‘‘Credible threat of violence’’ is a knowing and willful statement
or course of conduct that would place a reasonable person in fear for his
or her safety, or the safety of his or her immediate family, and that serves
no legitimate purpose.
   (3) ‘‘Course of conduct’’ is a pattern of conduct composed of a series
of acts over a period of time, however short, evidencing a continuity of
purpose, including following or stalking an individual, making
harassing telephone calls to an individual, or sending harassing
correspondence to an individual by any means, including, but not
limited to, the use of public or private mails, interoffice mail, fax, or
computer e-mail. Constitutionally protected activity is not included
within the meaning of ‘‘course of conduct.’’
   (c) Upon filing a petition for an injunction under this section, the
plaintiff may obtain a temporary restraining order in accordance with
Section 527, except to the extent this section provides a rule that is
inconsistent. A temporary restraining order may be issued with or
without notice upon an affidavit that, to the satisfaction of the court,
shows reasonable proof of harassment of the plaintiff by the defendant,
and that great or irreparable harm would result to the plaintiff. In the
discretion of the court, and on a showing of good cause, a temporary
restraining order issued under this section may include other named
family or household members who reside with the plaintiff. A temporary
restraining order issued under this section shall remain in effect, at the
court’s discretion, for a period not to exceed 15 days, or, if the court
extends the time for hearing under subdivision (d), not to exceed 22 days,
unless otherwise modified or terminated by the court.
   (d) Within 15 days, or, if good cause appears to the court, 22 days
from the date the temporary restraining order is issued, a hearing shall
be held on the petition for the injunction. The defendant may file a
response that explains, excuses, justifies, or denies the alleged
harassment or may file a cross-complaint under this section. At the
hearing, the judge shall receive any testimony that is relevant, and may
make an independent inquiry. If the judge finds by clear and convincing
evidence that unlawful harassment exists, an injunction shall issue
prohibiting the harassment. An injunction issued pursuant to this section
shall have a duration of not more than three years. At any time within the
three months before the expiration of the injunction, the plaintiff may
apply for a renewal of the injunction by filing a new petition for an
injunction under this section.
[Ch. 688 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4537

   (e) Nothing in this section shall preclude either party from
representation by private counsel or from appearing on the party’s own
behalf.
   (f) In a proceeding under this section where there are allegations or
threats of domestic violence, a support person may accompany a party
in court and, where the party is not represented by an attorney, may sit
with the party at the table that is generally reserved for the party and the
party’s attorney. The support person is present to provide moral and
emotional support for a person who alleges he or she is a victim of
domestic violence. The support person is not present as a legal adviser
and shall not give legal advice. The support person shall assist the person
who alleges he or she is a victim of domestic violence in feeling more
confident that he or she will not be injured or threatened by the other
party during the proceedings where the person who alleges he or she is
a victim of domestic violence and the other party must be present in close
proximity. Nothing in this subdivision precludes the court from
exercising its discretion to remove the support person from the
courtroom if the court believes the support person is prompting,
swaying, or influencing the party assisted by the support person.
   (g) Upon filing of a petition for an injunction under this section, the
defendant shall be personally served with a copy of the petition,
temporary restraining order, if any, and notice of hearing of the petition.
Service shall be made at least five days before the hearing. The court may
for good cause, on motion of the plaintiff or on its own motion, shorten
the time for service on the defendant.
   (h) The court shall order the plaintiff or the attorney for the plaintiff
to deliver a copy of each temporary restraining order or injunction, or
modification or termination thereof, granted under this section, by the
close of the business day on which the order was granted, to the law
enforcement agencies within the court’s discretion as are requested by
the plaintiff. Each appropriate law enforcement agency shall make
available information as to the existence and current status of these
orders to law enforcement officers responding to the scene of reported
harassment.
   An order issued under this section shall, on request of the plaintiff, be
served on the defendant, whether or not the defendant has been taken into
custody, by any law enforcement officer who is present at the scene of
reported harassment involving the parties to the proceeding. The
plaintiff shall provide the officer with an endorsed copy of the order and
a proof of service that the officer shall complete and send to the issuing
court.
   Upon receiving information at the scene of an incident of harassment
that a protective order has been issued under this section, or that a person
who has been taken into custody is the subject of an order, if the protected
 4538                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 688 ]
person cannot produce a certified copy of the order, a law enforcement
officer shall immediately attempt to verify the existence of the order.
   If the law enforcement officer determines that a protective order has
been issued, but not served, the officer shall immediately notify the
defendant of the terms of the order and shall at that time also enforce the
order. Verbal notice of the terms of the order shall constitute service of
the order and is sufficient notice for the purposes of this section and for
the purposes of Section 273.6 and subdivision (g) of Section 12021 of
the Penal Code.
   (i) The prevailing party in any action brought under this section may
be awarded court costs and attorney’s fees, if any.
   (j) Any willful disobedience of any temporary restraining order or
injunction granted under this section is punishable pursuant to Section
273.6 of the Penal Code.
   (k) This section does not apply to any action or proceeding covered
by Title 1.6C (commencing with Section 1788) of the Civil Code or by
Division 10 (commencing with Section 6200) of the Family Code.
Nothing in this section shall preclude a plaintiff’s right to use other
existing civil remedies.
   (l) The Judicial Council shall promulgate forms and instructions
therefor, and rules for service of process, scheduling of hearings, and any
other matters required by this section. The petition and response forms
shall be simple and concise, and their use by parties in actions brought
pursuant to this section shall be mandatory.
   (m) A temporary restraining order or injunction relating to
harassment or domestic violence issued by a court pursuant to this
section shall be issued on forms adopted by the Judicial Council of
California and that have been approved by the Department of Justice
pursuant to subdivision (i) of Section 6380 of the Family Code.
However, the fact that an order issued by a court pursuant to this section
was not issued on forms adopted by the Judicial Council and approved
by the Department of Justice shall not, in and of itself, make the order
unenforceable.
   (n) Information on any temporary restraining order or injunction
relating to harassment or domestic violence issued by a court pursuant
to this section shall be transmitted to the Department of Justice in
accordance with subdivision (b) of Section 6380 of the Family Code.
   (o) There shall be no filing fee for a petition that alleges that a person
has inflicted or threatened violence against the petitioner, or stalked the
petitioner, or acted or spoke in any other manner that has placed the
petitioner in reasonable fear of violence, and that seeks a protective or
restraining order or injunction restraining stalking or future violence or
threats of violence, in any action brought pursuant to this section. No fee
shall be paid for filing a response to a petition alleging these acts.
[Ch. 688 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4539

   SEC. 6. Section 527.8 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   527.8. (a) Any employer, whose employee has suffered unlawful
violence or a credible threat of violence from any individual, that can
reasonably be construed to be carried out or to have been carried out at
the workplace, may seek a temporary restraining order and an injunction
on behalf of the employee prohibiting further unlawful violence or
threats of violence by that individual.
   (b) For the purposes of this section:
   (1) ‘‘Unlawful violence’’ is any assault or battery, or stalking as
prohibited in Section 646.9 of the Penal Code, but shall not include
lawful acts of self-defense or defense of others.
   (2) ‘‘Credible threat of violence’’ is a knowing and willful statement
or course of conduct that would place a reasonable person in fear for his
or her safety, or the safety of his or her immediate family, and that serves
no legitimate purpose.
   (3) ‘‘Course of conduct’’ is a pattern of conduct composed of a series
of acts over a period of time, however short, evidencing a continuity of
purpose, including following or stalking an employee to or from the
place of work; entering the workplace; following an employee during
hours of employment; making telephone calls to an employee; or
sending correspondence to an employee by any means, including, but
not limited to, the use of the public or private mails, interoffice mail, fax,
or computer e-mail.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit a court to issue
a temporary restraining order or injunction prohibiting speech or other
activities that are constitutionally protected, or otherwise protected by
Section 527.3 or any other provision of law.
   (d) For purposes of this section, the terms ‘‘employer’’ and
‘‘employee’’ mean persons defined in Section 350 of the Labor Code.
The term ‘‘employer’’ also includes a federal agency, the state, a state
agency, a city, county, or district, and a private, public, or quasi-public
corporation, or any public agency thereof or therein. The term
‘‘employee’’ also includes the members of boards of directors of private,
public, and quasi-public corporations and elected and appointed public
officers. For purposes of this section only, the term ‘‘employee’’ also
includes a volunteer or independent contractor who performs services
for the employer at the employer’s worksite.
   (e) Upon filing a petition for an injunction under this section, the
plaintiff may obtain a temporary restraining order in accordance with
subdivision (a) of Section 527, if the plaintiff also files an affidavit that,
to the satisfaction of the court, shows reasonable proof that an employee
has suffered unlawful violence or a credible threat of violence by the
defendant, and that great or irreparable harm would result to an
 4540                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 688 ]
employee. In the discretion of the court, and on a showing of good cause,
a temporary restraining order issued under this section may include other
named family or household members who reside with the employee.
   A temporary restraining order granted under this section shall remain
in effect, at the court’s discretion, for a period not to exceed 15 days,
unless otherwise modified or terminated by the court.
   (f) Within 15 days of the filing of the petition, a hearing shall be held
on the petition for the injunction. The defendant may file a response that
explains, excuses, justifies, or denies the alleged unlawful violence or
credible threats of violence or may file a cross-complaint under this
section. At the hearing, the judge shall receive any testimony that is
relevant and may make an independent inquiry. Moreover, if the
defendant is a current employee of the entity requesting the injunction,
the judge shall receive evidence concerning the employer’s decision to
retain, terminate, or otherwise discipline the defendant. If the judge finds
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in unlawful
violence or made a credible threat of violence, an injunction shall issue
prohibiting further unlawful violence or threats of violence. An
injunction issued pursuant to this section shall have a duration of not
more than three years. At any time within the three months before the
expiration of the injunction, the plaintiff may apply for a renewal of the
injunction by filing a new petition for an injunction under this section.
   (g) Nothing in this section shall preclude either party from
representation by private counsel or from appearing on his or her own
behalf.
   (h) Upon filing of a petition for an injunction under this section, the
defendant shall be personally served with a copy of the petition,
temporary restraining order, if any, and notice of hearing of the petition.
Service shall be made at least five days before the hearing. The court
may, for good cause, on motion of the plaintiff or on its own motion,
shorten the time for service on the defendant.
   (i) The court shall order the plaintiff or the attorney for the plaintiff
to deliver a copy of each temporary restraining order or injunction, or
modification or termination thereof, granted under this section, by the
close of the business day on which the order was granted, to the law
enforcement agencies within the court’s discretion as are requested by
the plaintiff. Each appropriate law enforcement agency shall make
available information as to the existence and current status of these
orders to law enforcement officers responding to the scene of reported
unlawful violence or a credible threat of violence.
   (j) Any intentional disobedience of any temporary restraining order
or injunction granted under this section is punishable pursuant to Section
273.6 of the Penal Code.
[Ch. 688 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4541

   (k) Nothing in this section shall be construed as expanding,
diminishing, altering, or modifying the duty, if any, of an employer to
provide a safe workplace for employees and other persons.
   (l) The Judicial Council shall develop forms, instructions, and rules
for scheduling of hearings and other procedures established pursuant to
this section. The forms for the petition and response shall be simple and
concise, and their use by parties in actions brought pursuant to this
section shall be mandatory.
   (m) A temporary restraining order or injunction relating to
harassment or domestic violence issued by a court pursuant to this
section shall be issued on forms adopted by the Judicial Council of
California and that have been approved by the Department of Justice
pursuant to subdivision (i) of Section 6380 of the Family Code.
However, the fact that an order issued by a court pursuant to this section
was not issued on forms adopted by the Judicial Council and approved
by the Department of Justice shall not, in and of itself, make the order
unenforceable.
   (n) Information on any temporary restraining order or injunction
relating to harassment or domestic violence issued by a court pursuant
to this section shall be transmitted to the Department of Justice in
accordance with subdivision (b) of Section 6380 of the Family Code.
   (o) There shall be no filing fee for a petition that alleges that a person
has inflicted or threatened violence against an employee of the
petitioner, or stalked the employee, or acted or spoke in any other manner
that has placed the employee in reasonable fear of violence, and that
seeks protective or restraining orders or injunctions restraining stalking
or future violence or threats of violence, in any action brought pursuant
to this section. No fee shall be paid for filing a response to a petition
alleging these acts.
   SEC. 7. Section 871.3 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   871.3. (a) An action for relief under this chapter shall be treated as
an unlimited civil case, regardless of the amount in controversy and
regardless of whether a defendant cross-complains for relief under this
chapter. Any other case in which a defendant cross-complains for relief
under this chapter shall be treated as a limited civil case if the
cross-complaint is defensive and the case otherwise satisfies the amount
in controversy and other requirements of Section 85.
   (b) In every case, the burden is on the good faith improver to establish
that the good faith improver is entitled to relief under this chapter, and
the degree of negligence of the good faith improver should be taken into
account by the court in determining whether the improver acted in good
faith and in determining the relief, if any, that is consistent with
 4542                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 688 ]
substantial justice to the parties under the circumstances of the particular
case.
   SEC. 8. Section 1277 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   1277. (a) Where an action for a change of name is commenced by
the filing of a petition, the court shall thereupon make an order reciting
the filing of the petition, the name of the person by whom it is filed and
the name proposed, and directing all persons interested in the matter to
appear before the court at a time and place specified, which shall be not
less than four or more than eight weeks from the time of making the
order, to show cause why the application for change of name should not
be granted. A copy of the order to show cause shall be published pursuant
to Section 6064 of the Government Code in a newspaper of general
circulation to be designated in the order published in the county. If no
newspaper of general circulation is published in the county, a copy of the
order to show cause shall be posted by the clerk of the court in three of
the most public places in the county in which the court is located, for a
like period. Proof shall be made to the satisfaction of the court of this
publication or posting, at the time of the hearing of the application.
   Four weekly publications shall be sufficient publication of the order
to show cause. If the order is published in a daily newspaper, publication
once a week for four successive weeks shall be sufficient.
   Where a petition has been filed for a minor and the other parent, if
living, does not join in consenting thereto, the petitioner shall cause, not
less than 30 days prior to the hearing, to be served notice of the time and
place of the hearing or a copy of the order to show cause on the other
parent pursuant to Section 413.10, 414.10, 415.10, or 415.40.
   (b) An action for a change of name for a witness participating in the
state Witness Protection Program established by Title 7.5 (commencing
with Section 14020) of Part 4 of the Penal Code who has been approved
for the change of name by the program is exempt from the requirement
for publication of the order to show cause under subdivision (a).
   (c) Where application for change of name is brought as part of an
action under the Uniform Parentage Act (Part 3 (commencing with
Section 7600) of Division 12 of the Family Code), whether as part of a
petition or cross-complaint or as a separate order to show cause in a
pending action thereunder, service of the application shall be made upon
all other parties to the action in a like manner as prescribed for the service
of a summons, as is set forth in Article 3 (commencing with Section
415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2. Upon the setting of a hearing
on the issue, notice of the hearing shall be given to all parties in the action
in a like manner and within the time limits prescribed generally for the
type of hearing (whether trial or order to show cause) at which the issue
of the change of name is to be decided.
[Ch. 688 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4543

   SEC. 8.2. Section 1277 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   1277. (a) Where an action for a change of name is commenced by
the filing of a petition, except as provided in subdivisions (b) and (c), the
court shall thereupon make an order reciting the filing of the petition, the
name of the person by whom it is filed and the name proposed, and
directing all persons interested in the matter to appear before the court
at a time and place specified, which shall be not less than four or more
than eight weeks from the time of making the order, to show cause why
the application for change of name should not be granted. A copy of the
order to show cause shall be published pursuant to Section 6064 of the
Government Code in a newspaper of general circulation to be designated
in the order published in the county. If no newspaper of general
circulation is published in the county, a copy of the order to show cause
shall be posted by the clerk of the court in three of the most public places
in the county in which the court is located, for a like period. Proof shall
be made to the satisfaction of the court of this publication or posting, at
the time of the hearing of the application.
   Four weekly publications shall be sufficient publication of the order
to show cause. If the order is published in a daily newspaper, publication
once a week for four successive weeks shall be sufficient.
   Where a petition has been filed for a minor by a parent and the other
parent, if living, does not join in consenting thereto, the petitioner shall
cause, not less than 30 days prior to the hearing, to be served notice of
the time and place of the hearing or a copy of the order to show cause on
the other parent pursuant to Section 413.10, 414.10, 415.10, or 415.40.
   (b) Where the petition for a change of name alleges that the reason for
the petition is to avoid domestic violence, as defined in Section 6211 of
the Family Code, and the petitioner is a participant in the address
confidentiality program created pursuant to Chapter 3.1 (commencing
with Section 6205) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, the
petition, the order of the court, and the copy published pursuant to
subdivision (a) shall, in lieu of reciting the proposed name, indicate that
the proposed name is confidential and will be on file with the Secretary
of State pursuant to the provisions of the address confidentiality
program.
   (c) An action for a change of name for a witness participating in the
state Witness Protection Program established by Title 7.5 (commencing
with Section 14020) of Part 4 of the Penal Code who has been approved
for the change of name by the program is exempt from the requirement
for publication of the order to show cause under subdivision (a).
   (d) Where application for change of name is brought as part of an
action under the Uniform Parentage Act (Part 3 (commencing with
Section 7600) of Division 12 of the Family Code), whether as part of a
 4544                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 688 ]
petition or cross-complaint or as a separate order to show cause in a
pending action thereunder, service of the application shall be made upon
all other parties to the action in a like manner as prescribed for the service
of a summons, as is set forth in Article 3 (commencing with Section
415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2. Upon the setting of a hearing
on the issue, notice of the hearing shall be given to all parties in the action
in a like manner and within the time limits prescribed generally for the
type of hearing (whether trial or order to show cause) at which the issue
of the change of name is to be decided.
   (e) Where a guardian files a petition to change the name of his or her
minor ward pursuant to Section 1276:
   (1) The guardian shall provide notice of the hearing to any living
parent of the minor by personal service at least 30 days prior to the
hearing.
   (2) If either or both parents are deceased or cannot be located, the
guardian shall cause, not less than 30 days prior to the hearing, to be
served a notice of the time and place of the hearing or a copy of the order
to show cause on the child’s grandparents, if living, pursuant to Section
413.10, 414.10, 415.10, or 415.40.
   SEC. 8.3. Section 1277 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   1277. (a) Where an action for a change of name is commenced by
the filing of a petition, except as provided in subdivisions (b) and (c), the
court shall thereupon make an order reciting the filing of the petition, the
name of the person by whom it is filed and the name proposed, and
directing all persons interested in the matter to appear before the court
at a time and place specified, which shall be not less than four or more
than eight weeks from the time of making the order, to show cause why
the application for change of name should not be granted. A copy of the
order to show cause shall be published pursuant to Section 6064 of the
Government Code in a newspaper of general circulation to be designated
in the order published in the county. If no newspaper of general
circulation is published in the county, a copy of the order to show cause
shall be posted by the clerk of the court in three of the most public places
in the county in which the court is located, for a like period. Proof shall
be made to the satisfaction of the court of this publication or posting, at
the time of the hearing of the application.
   Four weekly publications shall be sufficient publication of the order
to show cause. If the order is published in a daily newspaper, publication
once a week for four successive weeks shall be sufficient.
   Where a petition has been filed for a minor by a parent and the other
parent, if living, does not join in consenting thereto, the petitioner shall
cause, not less than 30 days prior to the hearing, to be served notice of
[Ch. 688 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4545

the time and place of the hearing or a copy of the order to show cause on
the other parent pursuant to Section 413.10, 414.10, 415.10, or 415.40.
   (b) Where the petition for a change of name alleges that the reason for
the petition is to avoid domestic violence, as defined in Section 6211 of
the Family Code, or stalking, as defined in Section 646.9 of the Penal
Code, and the petitioner is a participant in the address confidentiality
program created pursuant to Chapter 3.1 (commencing with Section
6205) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, the petition, the
order of the court, and the copy published pursuant to subdivision (a)
shall, in lieu of reciting the proposed name, indicate that the proposed
name is confidential and will be on file with the Secretary of State
pursuant to the provisions of the address confidentiality program.
   (c) An action for a change of name for a witness participating in the
state Witness Protection Program established by Title 7.5 (commencing
with Section 14020) of Part 4 of the Penal Code who has been approved
for the change of name by the program is exempt from the requirement
for publication of the order to show cause under subdivision (a).
   (d) Where application for change of name is brought as part of an
action under the Uniform Parentage Act (Part 3 (commencing with
Section 7600) of Division 12 of the Family Code), whether as part of a
petition or cross-complaint or as a separate order to show cause in a
pending action thereunder, service of the application shall be made upon
all other parties to the action in a like manner as prescribed for the service
of a summons, as is set forth in Article 3 (commencing with Section
415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2. Upon the setting of a hearing
on the issue, notice of the hearing shall be given to all parties in the action
in a like manner and within the time limits prescribed generally for the
type of hearing (whether trial or order to show cause) at which the issue
of the change of name is to be decided.
   (e) Where a guardian files a petition to change the name of his or her
minor ward pursuant to Section 1276:
   (1) The guardian shall provide notice of the hearing to any living
parent of the minor by personal service at least 30 days prior to the
hearing.
   (2) If either or both parents are deceased or cannot be located, the
guardian shall cause, not less than 30 days prior to the hearing, to be
served a notice of the time and place of the hearing or a copy of the order
to show cause on the child’s grandparents, if living, pursuant to Section
413.10, 414.10, 415.10, or 415.40.
   SEC. 9. Section 1731 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to
read:
   1731. As used in this title:
 4546                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 688 ]
   (a) ‘‘Alternative dispute resolution process’’ or ‘‘ADR process’’
means a process in which parties meet with a third party neutral to assist
them in resolving their dispute outside of formal litigation.
   (b) ‘‘General civil case’’ means all civil cases except probate,
guardianship, conservatorship, family law (including proceedings under
the Family Law Act, Uniform Parentage Act, and Uniform Child
Custody Jurisdiction Act; freedom from parental custody and control
proceedings; and adoption proceedings), juvenile court proceedings,
small claims, and other civil petitions, as defined by the Judicial Council
on the effective date of this section, including petitions for a writ of
mandate or prohibition, temporary restraining orders, harassment
restraining orders, domestic violence restraining orders, writs of
possession, appointment of a receiver, release of property from lien, and
change of name.
   (c) ‘‘Mediation’’ means a process in which a neutral person or persons
facilitate communication between disputants to assist them in reaching
a mutually acceptable agreement.
   SEC. 10. Section 1738 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   1738. (a) All statements made by the parties during a mediation
under this title shall be subject to Sections 703.5 and 1152, and Chapter
2 (commencing with Section 1115) of Division 9 of, the Evidence Code.
   (b) Any reference to a mediation or the statement of nonagreement
filed pursuant to Section 1739 during any subsequent trial shall
constitute an irregularity in the proceedings of the trial for the purposes
of Section 657.
   SEC. 11. Section 2024 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   2024. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, any party
shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings
on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery
heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial
of the action. If either of these dates falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or
holiday as specified in Section 10, the last day shall be the next
successive court day. As used in this section, discovery is considered
completed on the day a response is due or on the day a deposition begins.
Except as provided in subdivision (e), a continuance or postponement
of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.
   (b) The time limit on completing discovery in an action to be
arbitrated under Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1141.10) of
Title 3 of Part 3 is subject to Judicial Council Rule. After an award in a
case ordered to judicial arbitration, completion of discovery is limited
by Section 1141.24.
[Ch. 688 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4547

   (c) This section does not apply to (1) summary proceedings for
obtaining possession of real property governed by Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 1159) of Title 3 of Part 3, in which discovery
shall be completed on or before the fifth day before the date set for trial
except as provided in subdivisions (e) and (f), or (2) eminent domain
proceedings governed by Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010)
of Part 3.
   (d) Any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete
discovery proceedings pertaining to a witness identified under Section
2034 on or before the 15th day, and to have motions concerning that
discovery heard on or before the 10th day, before the date initially set for
the trial of the action.
   (e) On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete
discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a declaration stating
facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.
   In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall
take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
   (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier.
   (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.
   (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously
set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.
   The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
   (f) Parties to the action may, with the consent of any party affected by
it, enter into an agreement to extend the time for the completion of
discovery proceedings or for the hearing of motions concerning
discovery, or to reopen discovery after a new date for trial of the action
has been set. This agreement may be informal, but it shall be confirmed
in a writing that specifies the extended date. In no event shall this
 4548                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 688 ]
agreement require a court to grant a continuance or postponement of the
trial of the action.
   (g) When the last day to perform or complete any act provided for in
this article falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday as specified in Section
10, the time limit is extended until the next day that is not a Saturday,
Sunday, or holiday.
   SEC. 12. Section 2031 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   2031. (a) Any party may obtain discovery within the scope
delimited by Section 2017, and subject to the restrictions set forth in
Section 2019, by inspecting documents, tangible things, and land or
other property that are in the possession, custody, or control of any other
party to the action.
   (1) A party may demand that any other party produce and permit the
party making the demand, or someone acting on that party’s behalf, to
inspect and to copy a document that is in the possession, custody, or
control of the party on whom the demand is made.
   (2) A party may demand that any other party produce and permit the
party making the demand, or someone acting on that party’s behalf, to
inspect and to photograph, test, or sample any tangible things that are in
the possession, custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is
made.
   (3) A party may demand that any other party allow the party making
the demand, or someone acting on that party’s behalf, to enter on any
land or other property that is in the possession, custody, or control of the
party on whom the demand is made, and to inspect and to measure,
survey, photograph, test, or sample the land or other property, or any
designated object or operation on it.
   (b) A defendant may make a demand for inspection without leave of
court at any time. A plaintiff may make a demand for inspection without
leave of court at any time that is 10 days after the service of the summons
on, or in unlawful detainer actions within five days after service of the
summons on or appearance by, the party to whom the demand is directed,
whichever occurs first. However, on motion with or without notice, the
court, for good cause shown, may grant leave to a plaintiff to make an
inspection demand at an earlier time.
   (c) A party demanding an inspection shall number each set of
demands consecutively. In the first paragraph immediately below the
title of the case, there shall appear the identity of the demanding party,
the set number, and the identity of the responding party. Each demand
in a set shall be separately set forth, identified by number or letter, and
shall do all of the following:
[Ch. 688 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4549

   (1) Designate the documents, tangible things, or land or other
property to be inspected either by specifically describing each individual
item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item.
   (2) Specify a reasonable time for the inspection that is at least 30 days
after service of the demand, or in unlawful detainer actions at least five
days after service of the demand, unless the court for good cause shown
has granted leave to specify an earlier date.
   (3) Specify a reasonable place for making the inspection, copying,
and performing any related activity.
   (4) Specify any related activity that is being demanded in addition to
an inspection and copying, as well as the manner in which that related
activity will be performed, and whether that activity will permanently
alter or destroy the item involved.
   (d) The party demanding an inspection shall serve a copy of the
inspection demand on the party to whom it is directed and on all other
parties who have appeared in the action.
   (e) In addition to the inspection demands permitted by this section,
a party may propound a supplemental demand to inspect any later
acquired or discovered documents, tangible things, or land or other
property that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party on
whom the demand is made (1) twice prior to the initial setting of a trial
date, and (2) subject to the time limits on discovery proceedings and
motions provided in Section 2024, once after the initial setting of a trial
date. However, on motion, for good cause shown, the court may grant
leave to a party to propound an additional number of supplemental
demands for inspection.
   (f) When an inspection of documents, tangible things or places has
been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and
any other party or affected person or organization, may promptly move
for a protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a declaration
stating facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.
   The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited
to, one or more of the following directions:
   (1) That all or some of the items or categories of items in the
inspection demand need not be produced or made available at all.
   (2) That the time specified in subdivision (i) to respond to the set of
inspection demands, or to a particular item or category in the set, be
extended.
   (3) That the place of production be other than that specified in the
inspection demand.
 4550                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 688 ]
   (4) That the inspection be made only on specified terms and
conditions.
   (5) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or
commercial information not be disclosed, or be disclosed only to
specified persons or only in a specified way.
   (6) That the items produced be sealed and thereafter opened only on
order of the court.
   If the motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the
court may order that the party to whom the demand was directed provide
or permit the discovery against which protection was sought on terms
and conditions that are just.
   The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
   (g) The party to whom an inspection demand has been directed shall
respond separately to each item or category of item by a statement that
the party will comply with the particular demand for inspection and any
related activities, a representation that the party lacks the ability to
comply with the demand for inspection of a particular item or category
of item, or an objection to the particular demand.
   In the first paragraph of the response immediately below the title of
the case, there shall appear the identity of the responding party, the set
number, and the identity of the demanding party. Each statement of
compliance, each representation, and each objection in the response
shall bear the same number and be in the same sequence as the
corresponding item or category in the demand, but the text of that item
or category need not be repeated.
   (1) A statement that the party to whom an inspection demand has been
directed will comply with the particular demand shall state that the
production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be allowed
either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that
party and to which no objection is being made will be included in the
production.
   Any documents demanded shall either be produced as they are kept in
the usual course of business, or be organized and labeled to correspond
with the categories in the demand. If necessary, the responding party at
the reasonable expense of the demanding party shall, through detection
devices, translate any data compilations included in the demand into
reasonably usable form.
   (2) A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand
for inspection shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry
[Ch. 688 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4551

has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement
shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the
particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has
been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement
shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization
known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control
of that item or category of item.
   (3) If only part of an item or category of item in an inspection demand
is objectionable, the response shall contain a statement of compliance,
or a representation of inability to comply with respect to the remainder
of that item or category. If the responding party objects to the demand
for inspection of an item or category of item, the response shall (A)
identify with particularity any document, tangible thing, or land falling
within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is being
made, and (B) set forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground for,
the objection. If an objection is based on a claim of privilege, the
particular privilege invoked shall be stated. If an objection is based on
a claim that the information sought is protected work product under
Section 2018, that claim shall be expressly asserted.
   (h) The party to whom the demand for inspection is directed shall sign
the response under oath unless the response contains only objections. If
that party is a public or private corporation or a partnership or association
or governmental agency, one of its officers or agents shall sign the
response under oath on behalf of that party. If the officer or agent signing
the response on behalf of that party is an attorney acting in that capacity
for a party, that party waives any lawyer-client privilege and any
protection for work product under Section 2018 during any subsequent
discovery from that attorney concerning the identity of the sources of the
information contained in the response. The attorney for the responding
party shall sign any responses that contain an objection.
   (i) Within 30 days after service of an inspection demand, or in
unlawful detainer actions within five days of an inspection demand, the
party to whom the demand is directed shall serve the original of the
response to it on the party making the demand, and a copy of the response
on all other parties who have appeared in the action, unless on motion
of the party making the demand the court has shortened the time for
response, or unless on motion of the party to whom the demand has been
directed, the court has extended the time for response. In unlawful
detainer actions, the party to whom the demand is directed shall have at
least five days from the date of service of the demand to respond unless
on motion of the party making the demand the court has shortened the
time for the response.
 4552                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 688 ]
   (j) The party demanding an inspection and the responding party may
agree to extend the time for service of a response to a set of inspection
demands, or to particular items or categories of items in a set, to a date
beyond that provided in subdivision (i). This agreement may be
informal, but it shall be confirmed in a writing that specifies the extended
date for service of a response. Unless this agreement expressly states
otherwise, it is effective to preserve to the responding party the right to
respond to any item or category of item in the demand to which the
agreement applies in any manner specified in subdivision (g).
   (k) The inspection demand and the response to it shall not be filed
with the court. The party demanding an inspection shall retain both the
original of the inspection demand, with the original proof of service
affixed to it, and the original of the sworn response until six months after
final disposition of the action. At that time, both originals may be
destroyed, unless the court, on motion of any party and for good cause
shown, orders that the originals be preserved for a longer period.
   (l) If a party to whom an inspection demand has been directed fails
to serve a timely response to it, that party waives any objection to the
demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product under Section 2018. However, the court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that (1) the party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with
subdivision (g), and (2) the party’s failure to serve a timely response was
the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
   The party making the demand may move for an order compelling
response to the inspection demand. The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Section 2023 against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to an
inspection demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order
compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or
a terminating sanction under Section 2023. In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023.
   (m) If the party demanding an inspection, on receipt of a response to
an inspection demand, deems that (1) a statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete, (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or (3) an objection in the response
is without merit or too general, that party may move for an order
compelling further response to the demand. This motion (A) shall set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought
by the inspection demand, and (B) shall be accompanied by a declaration
[Ch. 688 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4553

stating facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of any issue presented by it.
   Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of
the response, or any supplemental response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a
further response to the inspection demand.
   The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further response to an inspection demand,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the
sanction unjust.
   If a party fails to obey an order compelling further response, the court
may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Section
2023. In lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may impose a
monetary sanction under Section 2023.
   (n) If a party filing a response to a demand for inspection under
subdivision (g) thereafter fails to permit the inspection in accordance
with that party’s statement of compliance, the party demanding the
inspection may move for an order compelling compliance.
   The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Section 2023
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with an inspection demand,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the
sanction unjust.
   If a party then fails to obey an order compelling inspection, the court
may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Section
2023. In lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may impose a
monetary sanction under Section 2023.
   SEC. 13. Section 2094 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
to read:
   2094. (a) An oath, affirmation, or declaration in an action or a
proceeding, may be administered by obtaining an affirmative response
to one of the following:
   (1) ‘‘You do solemnly state that the evidence you shall give in this
issue (or matter) shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth, so help you God.’’
   (2) ‘‘You do solemnly state, under penalty of perjury, that the
evidence that you shall give in this issue or matter shall be the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth.’’
 4554                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 688 ]
   (b) In the alternative to the forms prescribed in subdivision (a), the
court may administer an oath, affirmation, or declaration in an action or
a proceeding in a manner that is calculated to awaken the person’s
conscience and impress the person’s mind with the duty to tell the truth.
The court shall satisfy itself that the person testifying understands that
his or her testimony is being given under penalty of perjury.
   SEC. 14. Section 2095 of the Code of Civil Procedure is repealed.
   SEC. 15. Section 2096 of the Code of Civil Procedure is repealed.
   SEC. 16. Section 2097 of the Code of Civil Procedure is repealed.
   SEC. 17. Section 66909.2 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   66909.2. (a) The Legislature finds and declares that
accomplishment of the goals and objectives of the Lake Tahoe
Acquisitions Bond Act (Title 7.43 (commencing with Section 66950))
depends upon prompt and efficient acquisition of property within the
Lake Tahoe region.
   (b) The Legislature further finds and declares that the conservancy is
a unique entity, that some lands acquired in furtherance of the goals and
objectives of this title and the Lake Tahoe Acquisitions Bond Act (Title
7.43 (commencing with Section 66950)), though not wholly
unimproved, are equivalent in character and uses to unimproved public
lands coming within the purview of Section 831.2, and that, for the
above reasons, the immunity provisions of Section 831.2 should be
extended to provide an immunity from liability for injuries resulting
from a natural condition of certain partially improved lands acquired in
furtherance of the goals and objectives of the Lake Tahoe Acquisitions
Bond Act and this title.
   (c) It is the intent of the Legislature that the extension of Section
831.2 pursuant to this chapter apply only to lands acquired in furtherance
of the goals and objectives of the Lake Tahoe Acquisitions Bond Act and
this title and that this chapter does not affect the construction of Section
831.2, or justify a provision similar to this chapter, with respect to any
other public property.
   SEC. 18. Section 66909.5 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
   66909.5. (a) This chapter shall remain in effect only until January
1, 2006, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute,
which is chaptered before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends that date.
   (b) On or before January 1, 2006, the conservancy shall report to the
Legislature, with respect to any property that is subject to the immunity
provided by this chapter, both of the following:
   (1) The nature and extent of any injury sustained by any person on
that property since September 17, 1984.
[Ch. 688 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4555

   (2) Any personal injury or wrongful death litigation brought by, on
behalf of, or against, any public entity since September 17, 1984, arising
from occurrences on that property.
   SEC. 19. Section 14029 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   14029. All information relating to any witness participating in the
program established pursuant to this title shall remain confidential and
is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the California Public Records Act
(Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 6250) of Division 7 of Title 1
of the Government Code) and, if a change of name has been approved
by the program, the order to show cause is not subject to the publication
requirement of Section 1277 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
   SEC. 20. Section 1310 of the Probate Code is amended to read:
   1310. (a) Except as provided in subdivisions (b), (c), (d), and (e),
an appeal pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1300) stays
the operation and effect of the judgment or order.
   (b) Notwithstanding that an appeal is taken from the judgment or
order, for the purpose of preventing injury or loss to a person or property,
the trial court may direct the exercise of the powers of the fiduciary, or
may appoint a temporary guardian or conservator of the person or estate,
or both, or special administrator, to exercise the powers, from time to
time, as if no appeal were pending. All acts of the fiduciary pursuant to
the directions of the court made under this subdivision are valid,
irrespective of the result of the appeal. An appeal of the directions made
by the court under this subdivision shall not stay these directions.
   (c) In proceedings for guardianship of the person, Section 917.7 of the
Code of Civil Procedure shall apply.
   (d) An appeal shall not stay the operation and effect of the judgment
or order if the court requires an undertaking, as provided in Section 917.9
of the Code of Civil Procedure, and the undertaking is not given.
   (e) An appeal shall not stay the operation and effect of a judgment for
money or an order directing payment of money, unless one of the
following applies:
   (1) A bond is posted as provided in Section 917.1 of the Code of Civil
Procedure.
   (2) The payment is to be made from a decedent’s estate being
administered under Division 7 (commencing with Section 7000) or from
the estate of a person who is subject to a guardianship or conservatorship
of the estate under Division 4 (commencing with Section 1400).
However, a court may require bond as provided in subdivision (d).
   SEC. 21. Section 2805 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
   2805. (a) For the purpose of locating stolen vehicles, (1) any
member of the California Highway Patrol, or (2) a member of a city
police department, a member of a county sheriff’s office, or a district
attorney investigator, whose primary responsibility is to conduct vehicle
 4556                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 688 ]
theft investigations, may inspect any vehicle of a type required to be
registered under this code, or any identifiable vehicle component
thereof, on a highway or in any public garage, repair shop, terminal,
parking lot, new or used car lot, automobile dismantler’s lot, vehicle
shredding facility, vehicle leasing or rental lot, vehicle equipment rental
yard, vehicle salvage pool, or other similar establishment, or any
agricultural or construction work location where work is being actively
performed, and may inspect the title or registration of vehicles, in order
to establish the rightful ownership or possession of the vehicle or
identifiable vehicle component.
   As used in this subdivision, ‘‘identifiable vehicle component’’ means
any component which can be distinguished from other similar
components by a serial number or other unique distinguishing number,
sign, or symbol.
   (b) A member of the California Highway Patrol, a member of a city
police department or county sheriff’s office, or a district attorney
investigator whose primary responsibility is to conduct vehicle theft
investigations, may also inspect, for the purposes specified in
subdivision (a), implements of husbandry, special construction
equipment, forklifts, and special mobile equipment in the places
described in subdivision (a) or when that vehicle is incidentally operated
or transported upon a highway.
   (c) Whenever possible, inspections conducted pursuant to
subdivision (a) or (b) shall be conducted at a time and in a manner so as
to minimize any interference with, or delay of, business operations.
   SEC. 21. Section 8.2 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 1277 of the Code of Civil Procedure proposed by this bill,
Section 1 of AB 205, and Section 3 of AB 2155. It shall only become
operative if (1) all bills are enacted and become effective on or before
January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section 1277 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, (3) SB 1318 is not enacted or if enacted does not amend
Sections 6205, 6205.5, 6206, 6208.5, and 6209.7 of the Government
Code, and (4) this bill is enacted after AB 205 and AB 2155, in which
case Sections 8 and 8.3 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 22. Section 8.3 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 1277 of the Code of Civil Procedure proposed by this bill,
Section 1.5 of AB 205, and Section 4 of AB 2155. It shall only become
operative if (1) all bills are enacted and become effective on or before
January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends Section 1227 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, (3) SB 1318 is enacted and amends Sections 6205, 6205.5,
6206, 6208.5, and 6209.7 of the Government Code, and (4) this bill is
[Ch. 689 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4557

enacted after AB 205 and AB 2155, in which case Sections 8 and 8.2 of
this bill shall not become operative.



                             CHAPTER 689

  An act to amend Sections 1170.1 and 1385 of, and to repeal Section
1170.95 of, the Penal Code, relating to sentencing.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1170.1 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   1170.1. (a) Except as otherwise provided by law, and subject to
Section 654, when any person is convicted of two or more felonies,
whether in the same proceeding or court or in different proceedings or
courts, and whether by judgment rendered by the same or by a different
court, and a consecutive term of imprisonment is imposed under
Sections 669 and 1170, the aggregate term of imprisonment for all these
convictions shall be the sum of the principal term, the subordinate term,
and any additional term imposed for applicable enhancements for prior
convictions, prior prison terms, and Section 12022.1. The principal term
shall consist of the greatest term of imprisonment imposed by the court
for any of the crimes, including any term imposed for applicable specific
enhancements. The subordinate term for each consecutive offense shall
consist of one-third of the middle term of imprisonment prescribed for
each other felony conviction for which a consecutive term of
imprisonment is imposed, and shall include one-third of the term
imposed for any specific enhancements applicable to those subordinate
offenses.
   (b) When a consecutive term of imprisonment is imposed under
Sections 669 and 1170 for two or more convictions for kidnapping, as
defined in Section 207, involving separate victims, the aggregate term
shall be calculated as provided in subdivision (a), except that the
subordinate term for each subordinate kidnapping conviction shall
consist of the full middle term for each kidnapping conviction for which
a consecutive term of imprisonment is imposed and shall include the full
term imposed for specific enhancements applicable to those subordinate
offenses.
   (c) In the case of any person convicted of one or more felonies
committed while the person is confined in a state prison or is subject to
reimprisonment for escape from custody and the law either requires the
 4558                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 689 ]
terms to be served consecutively or the court imposes consecutive terms,
the term of imprisonment for all the convictions that the person is
required to serve consecutively shall commence from the time the person
would otherwise have been released from prison. If the new offenses are
consecutive with each other, the principal and subordinate terms shall be
calculated as provided in subdivision (a). This subdivision shall be
applicable in cases of convictions of more than one offense in different
proceedings, and convictions of more than one offense in the same or
different proceedings.
   (d) When the court imposes a prison sentence for a felony pursuant
to Section 1170, the court shall also impose the additional terms
provided for any applicable enhancements. The court shall also impose
any other additional term that the court determines in its discretion or as
required by law shall run consecutive to the term imposed under Section
1170. In considering the imposition of the additional term, the court shall
apply the sentencing rules of the Judicial Council.
   (e) All enhancements shall be alleged in the accusatory pleading and
either admitted by the defendant in open court or found to be true by the
trier of fact.
   (f) When two or more enhancements may be imposed for being armed
with or using a dangerous or deadly weapon or a firearm in the
commission of a single offense, only the greatest of those enhancements
shall be imposed for that offense. This subdivision shall not limit the
imposition of any other enhancements applicable to that offense,
including an enhancement for the infliction of great bodily injury.
   (g) When two or more enhancements may be imposed for the
infliction of great bodily injury in the commission of a single offense,
only the greatest of those enhancements shall be imposed for that
offense. This subdivision shall not limit the imposition of any other
enhancements applicable to that offense, including an enhancement for
being armed with or using a dangerous or deadly weapon or a firearm.
   (h) For any violation of an offense specified in Section 667.6, the
number of enhancements that may be imposed shall not be limited,
regardless of whether the enhancements are pursuant to this section,
Section 667.6, or some other provision of law. Each of the enhancements
shall be a full and separately served term.
   SEC. 2. Section 1170.95 of the Penal Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 1385 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   1385. (a) The judge or magistrate may, either of his or her own
motion or upon the application of the prosecuting attorney, and in
furtherance of justice, order an action to be dismissed. The reasons for
the dismissal must be set forth in an order entered upon the minutes. No
dismissal shall be made for any cause which would be ground of
demurrer to the accusatory pleading.
[Ch. 690 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4559

   (b) This section does not authorize a judge to strike any prior
conviction of a serious felony for purposes of enhancement of a sentence
under Section 667.
   (c) (1) If the court has the authority pursuant to subdivision (a) to
strike or dismiss an enhancement, the court may instead strike the
additional punishment for that enhancement in the furtherance of justice
in compliance with subdivision (a).
   (2) This subdivision does not authorize the court to strike the
additional punishment for any enhancement that cannot be stricken or
dismissed pursuant to subdivision (a).



                             CHAPTER 690

  An act to add Section 10129 to the Public Contract Code, relating to
public contracts.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10129 is added to the Public Contract Code,
to read:
   10129. (a) Notwithstanding Section 3400, no agency of the state
charged with the letting of contracts for the construction, alteration, or
repair of public works may draft or cause to be drafted specifications for
bids, in connection with the construction, alteration, or repair of public
works, (1) in a manner as to limit the bidding, directly or indirectly, to
any one specific concern, or (2) calling for a designated material,
product, thing, or service by specific brand or trade name unless the
specification lists at least two brands or trade names of comparable
quality or utility and is followed by the words ‘‘or equal’’ so that bidders
may furnish any equal material, product, thing, or service. In applying
this section, the awarding authority shall, if aware of an equal product
manufactured in this state, name that product in the specification. In
those cases involving a unique or novel product application required to
be used in the public interest, or where only one brand or trade name is
known to the awarding authority, it may list only one. Specifications
shall provide a period of time prior to or after the award of the contract
for submission of data substantiating a request for a substitution of ‘‘an
equal’’ item. If no time period is specified, data may be submitted any
time within 35 days after the award of the contract.
 4560                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 691 ]
   (b) Subdivision (a) is not applicable if the awarding authority makes
a finding that is described in the specifications that a particular material,
product, thing, or service is designated by specific brand or trade name
for either of the following purposes:
   (1) In order that a field test or experiment may be made to determine
the product’s suitability for future use.
   (2) In order to match other products in use on a particular public
improvement either completed or in the course of completion.



                             CHAPTER 691

  An act to amend Section 114145 of, and to add Sections 113831,
113946, and 113947 to, the Health and Safety Code, relating to
environmental health.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature hereby finds and declares all of the
following:
   (a) Food facility inspection information is currently developed by
each local health agency. The form, scope, and content of food facility
inspection information varies from agency to agency. These various
methods of reporting food facility inspection information can be
confusing to food facility owners, public agencies, and the public.
   (b) In the event that food facility inspection information is made
available in a standardized format, it will be easier for local health
agencies to compare and evaluate inspection information, and the State
Department of Health Services will be better able to evaluate local health
agency inspection programs.
   (c) The purposes of the California Uniform Retail Food Facilities Act
will be advanced through standardized retail food facility inspection
training, increased department oversight of local inspection programs,
continuing review of the act and the federal model, and adequate funding
of the department’s oversight activities.
   (d) Standardization of food facility inspection formats and reporting
procedures should further reduce any existing confusion between
jurisdictions, and contribute to increased compliance by food facility
operators and thereby decrease the risk of food-borne illnesses.
   SEC. 2. Section 113831 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
[Ch. 691 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4561

   113831. ‘‘Outdoor beverage bar’’ means an unenclosed facility
operated on the same premises as, or in conjunction with, a fully
enclosed food establishment where any alcoholic and nonalcoholic
beverages are prepared out of doors.
   SEC. 3. Section 113946 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
   113946. (a) On or before January 1, 2002, the department shall
establish, and each local health agency shall utilize, a standardized, food
facility inspection format for food facility inspections that includes all
of the following:
   (1) The name and address of the food facility.
   (2) Identification of the following inspection criteria, which shall be
the basis of the inspection report:
   (A) Improper holding temperatures.
   (B) Inadequate cooking.
   (C) Poor personal hygiene of food handlers.
   (D) Contaminated equipment.
   (E) Food from unsafe sources.
   (3) For each violation identified pursuant to paragraph (2),
classification of the violation as a ‘‘minor violation’’ or ‘‘major
violation.’’ Major violations are those violations that pose an imminent
risk to public health and warrant immediate closure of the food
establishment or immediate correction. Minor violations are those that
do not pose an imminent public health risk, but do warrant correction.
   (b) A local health agency may modify the format to add criteria to the
criteria specified pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), provided
both of the following conditions are met:
   (1) The additional criteria are based on other provisions of this part.
   (2) A violation is identified by reference to items and sections of this
part, or the regulations adopted pursuant to this part relating to those
items, if a food facility is cited for a violation of the additional criteria.
   (c) A copy of the most recent inspection report shall be maintained
at the food facility. The food facility shall post a notice advising patrons
that a copy of the most recent inspection report is available for review
by interested parties.
   (d) The department and local health agencies shall conduct routine
training on food facility inspection standardization to promote the
uniform application of inspection procedures.
   (e) This section shall not restrict the ability of a local health agency
to inspect and report on matters other than matters subject to regulation
under this chapter.
   SEC. 4. Section 113947 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
 4562                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 691 ]
   113947. (a) On or before January 1, 2002, the department, in
consultation with local environmental health officers, representatives of
the retail food industry, and other interested parties, shall establish
standardized procedures for local health agencies to report the following
food facility inspection information regarding each food facility:
   (1) Name and address.
   (2) Date of last inspection.
   (3) Identification of any major violation identified in a food facility
inspection.
   (4) Reinspection date, if applicable.
   (5) Period of closure, if applicable.
   (b) The department, in consultation with local environmental health
officers, representatives of the retail food industry, and other interested
parties, may periodically review and revise the standardized procedures
established pursuant to subdivision (a). In making any revisions, the
department shall strive to ensure that the required information can be
reported and made available in the most efficient, timely, and
cost-effective manner.
   (c) (1) The standardized procedures established pursuant to this
section shall include a standardized electronic format and protocol for
reporting the food facility inspection data in a timely manner, and shall
strive to ensure that the information is readily accessible, can be rapidly
reported, and, if necessary, corrected, for each food facility that has been
inspected or reinspected. If the local health agency determines that
reported information is materially in error, that error shall be corrected
within 48 hours after that determination.
   (2) The department may also establish standardized procedures for
reporting the information on magnetic media, including, but not limited
to, floppy disks or magnetic tape.
   (d) Within 60 days after the department has established the
standardized procedures pursuant to this section, the department shall
publish these procedures.
   (e) (1) Commencing July 1, 2002, each local health agency that
reports food facility inspection information on an Internet web site shall
report the information in accordance with the standardized procedures
established pursuant to this section.
   (2) This section shall not restrict the ability of a local health agency
to report on matters other than matters subject to regulation under this
chapter.
   (f) The department may establish a link to each Internet web site
utilized by any local health agency containing the food facility
inspection information pursuant to subdivision (e).
   SEC. 5. Section 114145 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
[Ch. 691 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4563

   114145. (a) Each food establishment, except produce stands and
swap meet prepackaged food stands, shall be fully enclosed in a building
consisting of floors, walls, and an overhead structure that meet the
minimum standards prescribed by this chapter. Food establishments that
are not fully enclosed on all sides and that are in operation on January
1, 1985, shall not be required to meet the requirement for a fully enclosed
structure pursuant to this section.
   (b) This section shall not be construed to require the enclosure of any
of the following:
   (1) Dining areas.
   (2) Open-air barbecue facilities.
   (3) Outdoor wood-burning ovens that meet all of the food preparation
and safety requirements applicable to open-air barbecue facilities.
   (4) Outdoor beverage bars contiguous with a fully enclosed food
establishment under the constant and complete control of the operator
of the food establishment, provided that the following requirements are
met:
   (A) The food establishment is a bona fide public eating place, as
defined by Sections 23038, 23038.1, and 23038.2 of the Business and
Professions Code.
   (B) The operator of the food establishment is a licensee, as defined
by Section 23009 of the Business and Professions Code, performing
under authority of a license issued pursuant to the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act (Division 9 (commencing with Section 23000), Business
and Professions Code) for the outdoor beverage bar.
   (c) The outdoor beverage bar is, at all times, operated pursuant to the
requirements of this chapter, including, without limitation, Sections
114010 and 114080, and any conditions imposed by the local health
agency to ensure compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (5) Outdoor displays that meet all of the following requirements:
   (A) Only prepackaged nonpotentially hazardous food, uncut
produce, or both is displayed or sold in the outdoor displays.
   (B) Outdoor displays are contiguous with a fully enclosed food
establishment that is in compliance with subdivision (a).
   (C) Outdoor displays have overhead protection that extends over all
food items.
   (D) Food items from the outdoor display are stored inside a fully
enclosed food establishment that is in compliance with subdivision (a)
at all times other than during business hours. Any food items to be stored
pursuant to this subdivision shall be stored in accordance with
subdivision (a) of Section 114080.
   (E) Outdoor displays comply with Section 114010 and have been
approved by the enforcement agency.
 4564                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 691 ]
   (F) Outdoor displays are under the constant and complete control of
the operator of the permitted food establishment.
   (d) This section shall not be construed to require the enclosure during
operating hours of customer self-service nonpotentially hazardous bulk
beverage dispensing operations that meet the following requirements:
   (1) The dispensing operations are installed contiguous with a fully
enclosed food establishment that is in compliance with subdivision (a)
and operated by the food establishment.
   (2) The beverages are dispensed from enclosed equipment that
precludes exposure of the beverages until they are dispensed at the
nozzles.
   (3) Ice is dispensed only from an ice maker-dispenser. Ice is not
scooped or manually loaded into an ice dispenser out-of-doors.
   (4) Single-service utensils are protected from contamination and are
individually wrapped or dispensed from approved sanitary dispensers.
   (5) The dispensing operations have overhead protection that fully
extends over all equipment associated with the facility.
   (6) During nonoperating hours, the dispensing operations are fully
enclosed so as to be protected from contamination by vermin and
exposure to the elements.
   (7) The owner or operator of the food establishment demonstrates to
the enforcement agency that acceptable methods are in place to properly
clean and sanitize the beverage dispensing equipment.
   (8) Beverage dispensing operations are in compliance with Section
114010 and have been approved by the enforcement agency.
   (9) Beverage dispensing operations are under the constant and
complete control of the permitholder of the food establishments who is
operating the dispensing facility.
   (d) This section shall not be construed to allow outdoor displays in
violation of local ordinances.
   SEC. 6. (a) No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution for certain
costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district because
in that regard this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a
crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   (b) No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution because a local agency or
school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees, or
assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
[Ch. 693 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4565

mandated by certain other provisions of this act, within the meaning of
Section 17556 of the Government Code.



                             CHAPTER 692

  An act to amend Section 2253 of the Business and Professions Code,
and to repeal Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 274) of Title 9 of Part
1 of the Penal Code, relating to abortions.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 2253 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  2253. (a) The procuring or aiding, abetting, attempting, agreeing,
or offering to procure an illegal abortion constitutes unprofessional
conduct, unless the act is done in compliance with the Therapeutic
Abortion Act (Article 2 (commencing with Section 123400) of Chapter
2 of Part 2 of Division 106 of the Health and Safety Code).
  (b) A person is subject to Sections 2052 and 2053 if he or she
performs or assists in performing a surgical abortion, and at the time of
so doing, does not have a valid, unrevoked, and unsuspended license to
practice as a physician and surgeon as provided in this chapter, or does
not have a certificate obtained in accordance with some other provision
of law that authorizes him or her to perform or assist in performing a
surgical abortion.
  SEC. 2. Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 274) of Title 9 of Part
1 of the Penal Code is repealed.



                             CHAPTER 693

   An act to amend Section 69.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
relating to taxation, to take effect immediately, tax levy.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]
 4566                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 693 ]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 69.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   69.5. (a) (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, pursuant
to subdivision (a) of Section 2 of Article XIII A of the California
Constitution, any person over the age of 55 years, or any severely and
permanently disabled person, who resides in property that is eligible for
the homeowner’s exemption under subdivision (k) of Section 3 of
Article XIII of the California Constitution and Section 218 may transfer,
subject to the conditions and limitations provided in this section, the
base year value of that property to any replacement dwelling of equal or
lesser value that is located within the same county and is purchased or
newly constructed by that person as his or her principal residence within
two years of the sale by that person of the original property, provided that
the base year value of the original property shall not be transferred to the
replacement dwelling until the original property is sold.
   (2) Notwithstanding the limitation in paragraph (1) requiring that the
original property and the replacement dwelling be located in the same
county, this limitation shall not apply in any county in which the county
board of supervisors, after consultation with local affected agencies
within the boundaries of the county, adopts an ordinance making the
provisions of paragraph (1) also applicable to situations in which
replacement dwellings are located in that county and the original
properties are located in another county within this state. The
authorization contained in this paragraph shall be applicable in a county
only if the ordinance adopted by the board of supervisors complies with
all of the following requirements:
   (A) It is adopted only after consultation between the board of
supervisors and all other local affected agencies within the county’s
boundaries.
   (B) It requires that all claims for transfers of base year value from
original property located in another county be granted if the claims meet
the applicable requirements of both subdivision (a) of Section 2 of
Article XIII A of the California Constitution and this section.
   (C) It requires that all base year valuations of original property
located in another county and determined by its assessor be accepted in
connection with the granting of claims for transfers of base year value.
   (D) The ordinance provides that its provisions shall remain operative
for a period of not less than five years.
   (E) The ordinance specifies the date on and after which its provisions
shall be applicable. However, the date specified shall not be earlier than
November 9, 1988. The specified applicable date may be a date earlier
than the date the county adopts the ordinance.
[Ch. 693 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4567

   (b) In addition to meeting the requirements of subdivision (a), any
person claiming the property tax relief provided by this section shall be
eligible for that relief only if the following conditions are met:
   (1) The claimant is an owner and a resident of the original property
either at the time of its sale or within two years of the purchase or new
construction of the replacement dwelling.
   (2) The original property is eligible for the homeowner’s exemption,
as the result of the claimant’s ownership and occupation of the property
as his or her principal residence, either at the time of its sale or within
two years of the purchase or new construction of the replacement
dwelling.
   (3) At the time of the sale of the original property, the claimant or the
claimant’s spouse who resides with the claimant is at least 55 years of
age, or is severely and permanently disabled.
   (4) At the time of claiming the property tax relief provided by
subdivision (a), the claimant is an owner of a replacement dwelling and
occupies it as his or her principal place of residence and, as a result
thereof, the property is currently eligible for the homeowner’s
exemption or would be eligible for the exemption except that the
property is already receiving the exemption because of an exemption
claim filed by the previous owner.
   (5) The original property of the claimant is sold by him or her within
two years of the purchase or new construction of the replacement
dwelling. For purposes of this paragraph, the purchase or new
construction of the replacement dwelling includes the purchase of that
portion of land on which the replacement building, structure, or other
shelter constituting a place of abode of the claimant will be situated and
that, pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (g), constitutes a part of
the replacement dwelling.
   (6) The replacement dwelling, including that portion of land on
which it is situated that is specified in paragraph (5), is located entirely
within the same county as the claimant’s original property.
   (7) The claimant has not previously been granted, as a claimant, the
property tax relief provided by this section, except that this paragraph
shall not apply to any person who becomes severely and permanently
disabled subsequent to being granted, as a claimant, the property tax
relief provided by this section for any person over the age of 55 years.
In order to prevent duplication of claims under this section within this
state, county assessors shall report quarterly to the State Board of
Equalization that information from claims filed in accordance with
subdivision (f) and from county records as is specified by the board
necessary to identify fully all claims under this section allowed by
assessors and all claimants who have thereby received relief. The board
may specify that the information include all or a part of the names and
 4568                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 693 ]
social security numbers of claimants and their spouses and the identity
and location of the replacement dwelling to which the claim applies. The
information may be required in the form of data processing media or
other media and in a format that is compatible with the recordkeeping
processes of the counties and the auditing procedures of the state.
   (c) The property tax relief provided by this section shall be available
if the original property or the replacement dwelling, or both, of the
claimant, includes, but is not limited to, either of the following:
   (1) A unit or lot within a cooperative housing corporation, a
community apartment project, a condominium project, or a planned unit
development. If the unit or lot constitutes the original property of the
claimant, the assessor shall transfer to the claimant’s replacement
dwelling only the base year value of the claimant’s unit or lot and his or
her share in any common area reserved as an appurtenance of that unit
or lot. If the unit or lot constitutes the replacement dwelling of the
claimant, the assessor shall transfer the base year value of the claimant’s
original property only to the unit or lot of the claimant and any share of
the claimant in any common area reserved as an appurtenance of that unit
or lot.
   (2) A mobilehome or a mobilehome and any land owned by the
claimant on which the mobilehome is situated. If the mobilehome or the
mobilehome and the land on which it is situated constitutes the
claimant’s original property, the assessor shall transfer to the claimant’s
replacement dwelling either the base year value of the mobilehome or
the base year value of the mobilehome and the land on which it is
situated, as appropriate. No transfer of base year value shall be made by
the assessor of that portion of land that does not constitute a part of the
original property, as provided in paragraph (4) of subdivision (g). If the
mobilehome or the mobilehome and the land on which it is situated
constitutes the claimant’s replacement dwelling, the assessor shall
transfer the base year value of the claimant’s original property either to
the mobilehome or the mobilehome and the land on which it is situated,
as appropriate. No transfer of base year value shall be made by the
assessor to that portion of land that does not constitute a part of the
replacement dwelling, as provided in paragraph (3) of subdivision (g).
   This subdivision shall be subject to the limitations specified in
subdivision (d).
   (d) The property tax relief provided by this section shall be available
to a claimant who is the coowner of original property, as a joint tenant,
a tenant in common, or a community property owner, subject to the
following limitations:
   (1) If a single replacement dwelling is purchased or newly
constructed by all of the coowners and each coowner retains an interest
in the replacement dwelling, the claimant shall be eligible under this
[Ch. 693 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4569

section whether or not any or all of the remaining coowners would
otherwise be eligible claimants.
   (2) If two or more replacement dwellings are separately purchased or
newly constructed by two or more coowners and more than one coowner
would otherwise be an eligible claimant, only one coowner shall be
eligible under this section. These coowners shall determine by mutual
agreement which one of them shall be deemed eligible.
   (3) If two or more replacement dwellings are separately purchased or
newly constructed by two coowners who held the original property as
community property, only the coowner who has attained the age of 55
years, or is severely and permanently disabled, shall be eligible under
this section. If both spouses are over 55 years of age, they shall determine
by mutual agreement which one of them is eligible.
   In the case of coowners whose original property is a multiunit
dwelling, the limitations imposed by paragraphs (2) and (3) shall only
apply to coowners who occupied the same dwelling unit within the
original property at the time specified in paragraph (2) of subdivision
(b).
   (e) Upon the sale of original property, the assessor shall determine a
new base year value for that property in accordance with subdivision (a)
of Section 2 of Article XIII A of the California Constitution and Section
110.1, whether or not a replacement dwelling is subsequently purchased
or newly constructed by the former owner or owners of the original
property.
   This section shall not apply unless the transfer of the original property
is a change in ownership that either (1) subjects that property to
reappraisal at its current fair market value in accordance with Section
110.1 or 5803 or (2) results in a base year value determined in accordance
with this section, Section 69, or Section 69.3 because the property
qualifies under this section, Section 69, or Section 69.3 as a replacement
dwelling or property.
   (f) A claimant shall not be eligible for the property tax relief provided
by this section unless the claimant provides to the assessor, on a form that
the assessor shall make available upon request, the following
information:
   (1) The name and social security number of each claimant and of any
spouse of the claimant who was a record owner of the original property
at the time of its sale or is a record owner of the replacement dwelling.
   (2) Proof that the claimant or the claimant’s spouse who resided on
the original property with the claimant was, at the time of its sale, at least
55 years of age, or severely and permanently disabled. Proof of severe
and permanent disability shall be considered a certification, signed by
a licensed physician and surgeon of appropriate specialty, attesting to the
claimant’s severely and permanently disabled condition. In the absence
 4570                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 693 ]
of available proof that a person is over 55 years of age, the claimant shall
certify under penalty of perjury that the age requirement is met. In the
case of a severely and permanently disabled claimant either of the
following shall be submitted:
   (A) A certification, signed by a licensed physician or surgeon of
appropriate specialty that identifies specific reasons why the disability
necessitates a move to the replacement dwelling and the
disability-related requirements, including any locational requirements,
of a replacement dwelling. The claimant shall substantiate that the
replacement dwelling meets disability-related requirements so
identified and that the primary reason for the move to the replacement
dwelling is to satisfy those requirements. If the claimant, or the
claimant’s spouse or guardian, so declares under penalty of perjury, it
shall be rebuttably presumed that the primary purpose of the move to the
replacement dwelling is to satisfy identified disability-related
requirements.
   (B) The claimant’s substantiation that the primary purpose of the
move to the replacement dwelling is to alleviate financial burdens
caused by the disability. If the claimant, or the claimant’s spouse or
guardian, so declares under penalty of perjury, it shall be rebuttably
presumed that the primary purpose of the move is to alleviate the
financial burdens caused by the disability.
   (3) The address and, if known, the assessor’s parcel number of the
original property.
   (4) The date of the claimant’s sale of the original property and the date
of the claimant’s purchase or new construction of a replacement
dwelling.
   (5) A statement by the claimant that he or she occupied the
replacement dwelling as his or her principal place of residence on the
date of the filing of his or her claim.
   The State Board of Equalization shall design the form for claiming
eligibility.
   Any claim under this section shall be filed within three years of the
date the replacement dwelling was purchased or the new construction of
the replacement dwelling was completed.
   (g) For purposes of this section:
   (1) ‘‘Person over the age of 55 years’’ means any person or the spouse
of any person who has attained the age of 55 years or older at the time
of the sale of original property.
   (2) ‘‘Base year value of the original property’’ means its base year
value, as determined in accordance with Section 110.1, with the
adjustments permitted by subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article XIII A
of the California Constitution and subdivision (f) of Section 110.1,
[Ch. 693 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4571

determined as of the date immediately prior to the date that the original
property is sold by the claimant.
   If the replacement dwelling is purchased or newly constructed after the
transfer of the original property, ‘‘base year value of the original
property’’ also includes any inflation factor adjustments permitted by
subdivision (f) of Section 110.1 for the period subsequent to the sale of
the original property. The base year or years used to compute the ‘‘base
year value of the original property’’ shall be deemed to be the base year
or years of any property to which that base year value is transferred
pursuant to this section.
   (3) ‘‘Replacement dwelling’’ means a building, structure, or other
shelter constituting a place of abode, whether real property or personal
property, that is owned and occupied by a claimant as his or her principal
place of residence, and any land owned by the claimant on which the
building, structure, or other shelter is situated. For purposes of this
paragraph, land constituting a part of a replacement dwelling includes
only that area of reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence, and
‘‘land owned by the claimant’’ includes land for which the claimant
either holds a leasehold interest described in subdivision (c) of Section
61 or a land purchase contract. Each unit of a multiunit dwelling shall
be considered a separate replacement dwelling. For purposes of this
paragraph, ‘‘area of reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence’’
includes all land if any nonresidential uses of the property are only
incidental to the use of the property as a residential site.
   (4) ‘‘Original property’’ means a building, structure, or other shelter
constituting a place of abode, whether real property or personal property,
that is owned and occupied by a claimant as his or her principal place of
residence, and any land owned by the claimant on which the building,
structure, or other shelter is situated. For purposes of this paragraph, land
constituting a part of original property includes only that area of
reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence, and ‘‘land owned by
the claimant’’ includes land for which the claimant either holds a
leasehold interest described in subdivision (c) of Section 61 or a land
purchase contract. Each unit of a multiunit dwelling shall be considered
a separate original property. For purposes of this paragraph, ‘‘area of
reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence’’ includes all land if
any nonresidential uses of the property are only incidental to the use of
the property as a residential site.
   (5) ‘‘Equal or lesser value’’ means that the amount of the full cash
value of a replacement dwelling does not exceed one of the following:
   (A) One hundred percent of the amount of the full cash value of the
original property if the replacement dwelling is purchased or newly
constructed prior to the date of the sale of the original property.
 4572                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 693 ]
   (B) One hundred and five percent of the amount of the full cash value
of the original property if the replacement dwelling is purchased or
newly constructed within the first year following the date of the sale of
the original property.
   (C) One hundred and ten percent of the amount of the full cash value
of the original property if the replacement dwelling is purchased or
newly constructed within the second year following the date of the sale
of the original property.
   For the purposes of this paragraph, except as otherwise provided in
paragraph (4) of subdivision (h), if the replacement dwelling is, in part,
purchased and, in part, newly constructed, the date the ‘‘replacement
dwelling is purchased or newly constructed’’ is the date of purchase or
the date of completion of construction, whichever is later.
   (6) ‘‘Full cash value of the replacement dwelling’’ means its full cash
value, determined in accordance with Section 110.1, as of the date on
which it was purchased or new construction was completed, and after the
purchase or the completion of new construction.
   (7) ‘‘Full cash value of the original property’’ means its new base year
value, determined in accordance with subdivision (e), without the
application of subdivision (h) of Section 2 of Article XIII A of the
California Constitution, plus the adjustments permitted by subdivision
(b) of Section 2 of Article XIII A and subdivision (f) of Section 110.1
for the period from the date of its sale by the claimant to the date on which
the replacement property was purchased or new construction was
completed.
   (8) ‘‘Sale’’ means any change in ownership of the original property
for consideration.
   (9) ‘‘Claimant’’ means any person claiming the property tax relief
provided by this section. If a spouse of that person is a record owner of
the replacement dwelling, the spouse is also a claimant for purposes of
determining whether in any future claim filed by the spouse under this
section the condition of eligibility specified in paragraph (7) of
subdivision (b) has been met.
   (10) ‘‘Property that is eligible for the homeowner’s exemption’’
includes property that is the principal place of residence of its owner and
is entitled to exemption pursuant to Section 205.5.
   (11) ‘‘Person’’ means any individual, but does not include any firm,
partnership, association, corporation, company, or other legal entity or
organization of any kind.
   (12) ‘‘Severely and permanently disabled’’ means any person
described in subdivision (b) of Section 74.3.
   (h) (1) Upon the timely filing of a claim, the assessor shall adjust the
new base year value of the replacement dwelling in conformity with this
[Ch. 693 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4573

section. This adjustment shall be made as of the latest of the following
dates:
   (A) The date the original property is sold.
   (B) The date the replacement dwelling is purchased.
   (C) The date the new construction of the replacement dwelling is
completed.
   (2) Any taxes that were levied on the replacement dwelling prior to
the filing of the claim on the basis of the replacement dwelling’s new
base year value, and any allowable annual adjustments thereto, shall be
canceled or refunded to the claimant to the extent that the taxes exceed
the amount that would be due when determined on the basis of the
adjusted new base year value.
   (3) Notwithstanding Section 75.10, Chapter 3.5 (commencing with
Section 75) shall be utilized for purposes of implementing this
subdivision, including adjustments of the new base year value of
replacement dwellings acquired prior to the sale of the original property.
   (4) In the case where a claim under this section has been timely filed
and granted, and new construction is performed upon the replacement
dwelling subsequent to the transfer of base year value, the property tax
relief provided by this section also shall apply to the replacement
dwelling, as improved, and thus there shall be no reassessment upon
completion of the new construction if both of the following conditions
are met:
   (A) The new construction is completed within two years of the date
of the sale of the original property and the owner notifies the assessor in
writing of completion of the new construction within 30 days after
completion.
   (B) The fair market value of the new construction on the date of
completion, plus the full cash value of the replacement dwelling on the
date of acquisition, is not more than the full cash value of the original
property as determined pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (g) for
purposes of granting the original claim.
   (i) Any claimant may rescind a claim for the property tax relief
provided by this section and shall not be considered to have received that
relief for purposes of paragraph (7) of subdivision (b), if a written notice
of rescission is delivered to the office of the assessor in which the
original claim was filed and all of the following have occurred:
   (1) The notice is signed by the original filing claimant or claimants.
   (2) The notice is delivered to the office of the assessor before the date
that the county first issues, as a result of relief granted under this section,
a refund check for property taxes imposed upon the replacement
dwelling. If granting relief will not result in a refund of property taxes,
then the notice shall be delivered before payment is first made of any
property taxes, or any portion thereof, imposed upon the replacement
 4574                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 693 ]
dwelling consistent with relief granted under this section. If payment of
the taxes is not made, then notice shall be delivered before the first date
that those property taxes, or any portion thereof, imposed upon the
replacement dwelling, consistent with relief granted under this section,
are delinquent.
   (3) The notice is accompanied by the payment of a fee as the assessor
may require, provided that the fee shall not exceed an amount reasonably
related to the estimated cost of processing a rescission claim, including
both direct costs and developmental and indirect costs, such as costs for
overhead, personnel, supplies, materials, office space, and computers.
   (j) (1) With respect to the transfer of base year value of original
properties to replacement dwellings located in the same county, this
section, except as provided in paragraph (3) or (4), shall apply to any
replacement dwelling that is purchased or newly constructed on or after
November 6, 1986.
   (2) With respect to the transfer of base year value of original
properties to replacement dwellings located in different counties, except
as provided in paragraph (4), this section shall apply to any replacement
dwelling that is purchased or newly constructed on or after the date
specified in accordance with subparagraph (E) of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) in the ordinance of the county in which the replacement
dwelling is located, but shall not apply to any replacement dwelling
which was purchased or newly constructed before November 9, 1988.
   (3) With respect to the transfer of base year value by a severely and
permanently disabled person, this section shall apply only to
replacement dwellings that are purchased or newly constructed on or
after June 6, 1990.
   (4) The amendments made to subdivision (e) by the act adding this
paragraph shall apply only to replacement dwellings under Section 69
that are acquired or newly constructed on or after October 20, 1991, and
shall apply commencing with the 1991–92 fiscal year.
   (k) No escape assessment may be levied if a transfer of base year
value under this section has been erroneously granted by the assessor
pursuant to an expired ordinance authorizing intercounty transfers of
base year value.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 69.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   69.5. (a) (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, pursuant
to subdivision (a) of Section 2 of Article XIII A of the California
Constitution, any person over the age of 55 years, or any severely and
permanently disabled person, who resides in property that is eligible for
the homeowner’s exemption under subdivision (k) of Section 3 of
Article XIII of the California Constitution and Section 218 may transfer,
subject to the conditions and limitations provided in this section, the
[Ch. 693 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4575

base year value of that property to any replacement dwelling of equal or
lesser value that is located within the same county and is purchased or
newly constructed by that person as his or her principal residence within
two years of the sale by that person of the original property, provided that
the base year value of the original property shall not be transferred to the
replacement dwelling until the original property is sold.
   (2) Notwithstanding the limitation in paragraph (1) requiring that the
original property and the replacement dwelling be located in the same
county, this limitation shall not apply in any county in which the county
board of supervisors, after consultation with local affected agencies
within the boundaries of the county, adopts an ordinance making the
provisions of paragraph (1) also applicable to situations in which
replacement dwellings are located in that county and the original
properties are located in another county within this state. The
authorization contained in this paragraph shall be applicable in a county
only if the ordinance adopted by the board of supervisors complies with
all of the following requirements:
   (A) It is adopted only after consultation between the board of
supervisors and all other local affected agencies within the county’s
boundaries.
   (B) It requires that all claims for transfers of base year value from
original property located in another county be granted if the claims meet
the applicable requirements of both subdivision (a) of Section 2 of
Article XIII A of the California Constitution and this section.
   (C) It requires that all base year valuations of original property
located in another county and determined by its assessor be accepted in
connection with the granting of claims for transfers of base year value.
   (D) It provides that its provisions are operative for a period of not less
than five years.
   (E) The ordinance specifies the date on and after which its provisions
shall be applicable. However, the date specified shall not be earlier than
November 9, 1988. The specified applicable date may be a date earlier
than the date the county adopts the ordinance.
   (b) In addition to meeting the requirements of subdivision (a), any
person claiming the property tax relief provided by this section shall be
eligible for that relief only if the following conditions are met:
   (1) The claimant is an owner and a resident of the original property
either at the time of its sale or within two years of the purchase or new
construction of the replacement dwelling.
   (2) The original property is eligible for the homeowner’s exemption,
as the result of the claimant’s ownership and occupation of the property
as his or her principal residence, either at the time of its sale or within
two years of the purchase or new construction of the replacement
dwelling.
 4576                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 693 ]
   (3) At the time of the sale of the original property, the claimant or the
claimant’s spouse who resides with the claimant is at least 55 years of
age, or is severely and permanently disabled.
   (4) At the time of claiming the property tax relief provided by
subdivision (a), the claimant is an owner of a replacement dwelling and
occupies it as his or her principal place of residence and, as a result
thereof, the property is currently eligible for the homeowner’s
exemption or would be eligible for the exemption except that the
property is already receiving the exemption because of an exemption
claim filed by the previous owner.
   (5) The original property of the claimant is sold by him or her within
two years of the purchase or new construction of the replacement
dwelling. For purposes of this paragraph, the purchase or new
construction of the replacement dwelling includes the purchase of that
portion of land on which the replacement building, structure, or other
shelter constituting a place of abode of the claimant will be situated and
that, pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (g), constitutes a part of
the replacement dwelling.
   (6) The replacement dwelling, including that portion of land on
which it is situated that is specified in paragraph (5), is located entirely
within the same county as the claimant’s original property.
   (7) The claimant has not previously been granted, as a claimant, the
property tax relief provided by this section, except that this paragraph
shall not apply to any person who becomes severely and permanently
disabled subsequent to being granted, as a claimant, the property tax
relief provided by this section for any person over the age of 55 years.
In order to prevent duplication of claims under this section within this
state, county assessors shall report quarterly to the State Board of
Equalization that information from claims filed in accordance with
subdivision (f) and from county records as is specified by the board
necessary to identify fully all claims under this section allowed by
assessors and all claimants who have thereby received relief. The board
may specify that the information include all or a part of the names and
social security numbers of claimants and their spouses and the identity
and location of the replacement dwelling to which the claim applies. The
information may be required in the form of data processing media or
other media and in a format that is compatible with the recordkeeping
processes of the counties and the auditing procedures of the state.
   (c) The property tax relief provided by this section shall be available
if the original property or the replacement dwelling, or both, of the
claimant, includes, but is not limited to, either of the following:
   (1) A unit or lot within a cooperative housing corporation, a
community apartment project, a condominium project, or a planned unit
development. If the unit or lot constitutes the original property of the
[Ch. 693 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4577

claimant, the assessor shall transfer to the claimant’s replacement
dwelling only the base year value of the claimant’s unit or lot and his or
her share in any common area reserved as an appurtenance of that unit
or lot. If the unit or lot constitutes the replacement dwelling of the
claimant, the assessor shall transfer the base year value of the claimant’s
original property only to the unit or lot of the claimant and any share of
the claimant in any common area reserved as an appurtenance of that unit
or lot.
   (2) A mobilehome or a mobilehome and any land owned by the
claimant on which the mobilehome is situated. If the mobilehome or the
mobilehome and the land on which it is situated constitutes the
claimant’s original property, the assessor shall transfer to the claimant’s
replacement dwelling either the base year value of the mobilehome or
the base year value of the mobilehome and the land on which it is
situated, as appropriate. No transfer of base year value shall be made by
the assessor of that portion of land that does not constitute a part of the
original property, as provided in paragraph (4) of subdivision (g). If the
mobilehome or the mobilehome and the land on which it is situated
constitutes the claimant’s replacement dwelling, the assessor shall
transfer the base year value of the claimant’s original property either to
the mobilehome or the mobilehome and the land on which it is situated,
as appropriate. No transfer of base year value shall be made by the
assessor to that portion of land that does not constitute a part of the
replacement dwelling, as provided in paragraph (3) of subdivision (g).
   This subdivision shall be subject to the limitations specified in
subdivision (d).
   (d) The property tax relief provided by this section shall be available
to a claimant who is the coowner of original property, as a joint tenant,
a tenant in common, or a community property owner, subject to the
following limitations:
   (1) If a single replacement dwelling is purchased or newly
constructed by all of the coowners and each coowner retains an interest
in the replacement dwelling, the claimant shall be eligible under this
section whether or not any or all of the remaining coowners would
otherwise be eligible claimants.
   (2) If two or more replacement dwellings are separately purchased or
newly constructed by two or more coowners and more than one coowner
would otherwise be an eligible claimant, only one coowner shall be
eligible under this section. These coowners shall determine by mutual
agreement which one of them shall be deemed eligible.
   (3) If two or more replacement dwellings are separately purchased or
newly constructed by two coowners who held the original property as
community property, only the coowner who has attained the age of 55
years, or is severely and permanently disabled, shall be eligible under
 4578                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 693 ]
this section. If both spouses are over 55 years of age, they shall determine
by mutual agreement which one of them is eligible.
   In the case of coowners whose original property is a multiunit
dwelling, the limitations imposed by paragraphs (2) and (3) shall only
apply to coowners who occupied the same dwelling unit within the
original property at the time specified in paragraph (2) of subdivision
(b).
   (e) Upon the sale of original property, the assessor shall determine a
new base year value for that property in accordance with subdivision (a)
of Section 2 of Article XIII A of the California Constitution and Section
110.1, whether or not a replacement dwelling is subsequently purchased
or newly constructed by the former owner or owners of the original
property.
   This section shall not apply unless the transfer of the original property
is a change in ownership that either (1) subjects that property to
reappraisal at its current fair market value in accordance with Section
110.1 or 5803 or (2) results in a base year value determined in accordance
with this section, Section 69, or Section 69.3 because the property
qualifies under this section, Section 69, or Section 69.3 as a replacement
dwelling or property.
   (f) A claimant shall not be eligible for the property tax relief provided
by this section unless the claimant provides to the assessor, on a form that
the assessor shall make available upon request, the following
information:
   (1) The name and social security number of each claimant and of any
spouse of the claimant who was a record owner of the original property
at the time of its sale or is a record owner of the replacement dwelling.
   (2) Proof that the claimant or the claimant’s spouse who resided on
the original property with the claimant was, at the time of its sale, at least
55 years of age, or severely and permanently disabled. Proof of severe
and permanent disability shall be considered a certification, signed by
a licensed physician and surgeon of appropriate specialty, attesting to the
claimant’s severely and permanently disabled condition. In the absence
of available proof that a person is over 55 years of age, the claimant shall
certify under penalty of perjury that the age requirement is met. In the
case of a severely and permanently disabled claimant either of the
following shall be submitted:
   (A) A certification, signed by a licensed physician or surgeon of
appropriate specialty that identifies specific reasons why the disability
necessitates a move to the replacement dwelling and the
disability-related requirements, including any locational requirements,
of a replacement dwelling. The claimant shall substantiate that the
replacement dwelling meets disability-related requirements so
identified and that the primary reason for the move to the replacement
[Ch. 693 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4579

dwelling is to satisfy those requirements. If the claimant, or the
claimant’s spouse or guardian, so declares under penalty of perjury, it
shall be rebuttably presumed that the primary purpose of the move to the
replacement dwelling is to satisfy identified disability-related
requirements.
   (B) The claimant’s substantiation that the primary purpose of the
move to the replacement dwelling is to alleviate financial burdens
caused by the disability. If the claimant, or the claimant’s spouse or
guardian, so declares under penalty of perjury, it shall be rebuttably
presumed that the primary purpose of the move is to alleviate the
financial burdens caused by the disability.
   (3) The address and, if known, the assessor’s parcel number of the
original property.
   (4) The date of the claimant’s sale of the original property and the date
of the claimant’s purchase or new construction of a replacement
dwelling.
   (5) A statement by the claimant that he or she occupied the
replacement dwelling as his or her principal place of residence on the
date of the filing of his or her claim.
   The State Board of Equalization shall design the form for claiming
eligibility.
   Any claim under this section shall be filed within three years of the
date the replacement dwelling was purchased or the new construction of
the replacement dwelling was completed subject to subdivision (k).
   (g) For purposes of this section:
   (1) ‘‘Person over the age of 55 years’’ means any person or the spouse
of any person who has attained the age of 55 years or older at the time
of the sale of original property.
   (2) ‘‘Base year value of the original property’’ means its base year
value, as determined in accordance with Section 110.1, with the
adjustments permitted by subdivision (b) of Section 2 of Article XIII A
of the California Constitution and subdivision (f) of Section 110.1,
determined as of the date immediately prior to the date that the original
property is sold by the claimant.
   If the replacement dwelling is purchased or newly constructed after the
transfer of the original property, ‘‘base year value of the original
property’’ also includes any inflation factor adjustments permitted by
subdivision (f) of Section 110.1 for the period subsequent to the sale of
the original property. The base year or years used to compute the ‘‘base
year value of the original property’’ shall be deemed to be the base year
or years of any property to which that base year value is transferred
pursuant to this section.
   (3) ‘‘Replacement dwelling’’ means a building, structure, or other
shelter constituting a place of abode, whether real property or personal
 4580                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 693 ]
property, that is owned and occupied by a claimant as his or her principal
place of residence, and any land owned by the claimant on which the
building, structure, or other shelter is situated. For purposes of this
paragraph, land constituting a part of a replacement dwelling includes
only that area of reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence, and
‘‘land owned by the claimant’’ includes land for which the claimant
either holds a leasehold interest described in subdivision (c) of Section
61 or a land purchase contract. Each unit of a multiunit dwelling shall
be considered a separate replacement dwelling. For purposes of this
paragraph, ‘‘area of reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence’’
includes all land if any nonresidential uses of the property are only
incidental to the use of the property as a residential site.
   (4) ‘‘Original property’’ means a building, structure, or other shelter
constituting a place of abode, whether real property or personal property,
that is owned and occupied by a claimant as his or her principal place of
residence, and any land owned by the claimant on which the building,
structure, or other shelter is situated. For purposes of this paragraph, land
constituting a part of original property includes only that area of
reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence, and ‘‘land owned by
the claimant’’ includes land for which the claimant either holds a
leasehold interest described in subdivision (c) of Section 61 or a land
purchase contract. Each unit of a multiunit dwelling shall be considered
a separate original property. For purposes of this paragraph, ‘‘area of
reasonable size that is used as a site for a residence’’ includes all land if
any nonresidential uses of the property are only incidental to the use of
the property as a residential site.
   (5) ‘‘Equal or lesser value’’ means that the amount of the full cash
value of a replacement dwelling does not exceed one of the following:
   (A) One hundred percent of the amount of the full cash value of the
original property if the replacement dwelling is purchased or newly
constructed prior to the date of the sale of the original property.
   (B) One hundred and five percent of the amount of the full cash value
of the original property if the replacement dwelling is purchased or
newly constructed within the first year following the date of the sale of
the original property.
   (C) One hundred and ten percent of the amount of the full cash value
of the original property if the replacement dwelling is purchased or
newly constructed within the second year following the date of the sale
of the original property.
   For the purposes of this paragraph, except as otherwise provided in
paragraph (4) of subdivision (h), if the replacement dwelling is, in part,
purchased and, in part, newly constructed, the date the ‘‘replacement
dwelling is purchased or newly constructed’’ is the date of purchase or
the date of completion of construction, whichever is later.
[Ch. 693 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4581

   (6) ‘‘Full cash value of the replacement dwelling’’ means its full cash
value, determined in accordance with Section 110.1, as of the date on
which it was purchased or new construction was completed, and after the
purchase or the completion of new construction.
   (7) ‘‘Full cash value of the original property’’ means its new base year
value, determined in accordance with subdivision (e), without the
application of subdivision (h) of Section 2 of Article XIII A of the
California Constitution, plus the adjustments permitted by subdivision
(b) of Section 2 of Article XIII A and subdivision (f) of Section 110.1
for the period from the date of its sale by the claimant to the date on which
the replacement property was purchased or new construction was
completed.
   (8) ‘‘Sale’’ means any change in ownership of the original property
for consideration.
   (9) ‘‘Claimant’’ means any person claiming the property tax relief
provided by this section. If a spouse of that person is a record owner of
the replacement dwelling, the spouse is also a claimant for purposes of
determining whether in any future claim filed by the spouse under this
section the condition of eligibility specified in paragraph (7) of
subdivision (b) has been met.
   (10) ‘‘Property that is eligible for the homeowner’s exemption’’
includes property that is the principal place of residence of its owner and
is entitled to exemption pursuant to Section 205.5.
   (11) ‘‘Person’’ means any individual, but does not include any firm,
partnership, association, corporation, company, or other legal entity or
organization of any kind.
   (12) ‘‘Severely and permanently disabled’’ means any person
described in subdivision (b) of Section 74.3.
   (h) (1) Upon the timely filing of a claim, the assessor shall adjust the
new base year value of the replacement dwelling in conformity with this
section. This adjustment shall be made as of the latest of the following
dates:
   (A) The date the original property is sold.
   (B) The date the replacement dwelling is purchased.
   (C) The date the new construction of the replacement dwelling is
completed.
   (2) Any taxes that were levied on the replacement dwelling prior to
the filing of the claim on the basis of the replacement dwelling’s new
base year value, and any allowable annual adjustments thereto, shall be
canceled or refunded to the claimant to the extent that the taxes exceed
the amount that would be due when determined on the basis of the
adjusted new base year value.
   (3) Notwithstanding Section 75.10, Chapter 3.5 (commencing with
Section 75) shall be utilized for purposes of implementing this
 4582                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 693 ]
subdivision, including adjustments of the new base year value of
replacement dwellings acquired prior to the sale of the original property.
   (4) In the case where a claim under this section has been timely filed
and granted, and new construction is performed upon the replacement
dwelling subsequent to the transfer of base year value, the property tax
relief provided by this section also shall apply to the replacement
dwelling, as improved, and thus there shall be no reassessment upon
completion of the new construction if both of the following conditions
are met:
   (A) The new construction is completed within two years of the date
of the sale of the original property and the owner notifies the assessor in
writing of completion of the new construction within 30 days after
completion.
   (B) The fair market value of the new construction on the date of
completion, plus the full cash value of the replacement dwelling on the
date of acquisition, is not more than the full cash value of the original
property as determined pursuant to paragraph (7) of subdivision (g) for
purposes of granting the original claim.
   (i) Any claimant may rescind a claim for the property tax relief
provided by this section and shall not be considered to have received that
relief for purposes of paragraph (7) of subdivision (b), and the assessor
shall grant the rescission, if a written notice of rescission is delivered to
the office of the assessor as follows:
   (1) A written notice of rescission signed by the original filing
claimant or claimants is delivered to the office of the assessor in which
the original claim was filed.
   (2) (A) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the notice of
rescission is delivered to the office of the assessor before the date that
the county first issues, as a result of relief granted under this section, a
refund check for property taxes imposed upon the replacement dwelling.
If granting relief will not result in a refund of property taxes, then the
notice shall be delivered before payment is first made of any property
taxes, or any portion thereof, imposed upon the replacement dwelling
consistent with relief granted under this section. If payment of the taxes
is not made, then notice shall be delivered before the first date that those
property taxes, or any portion thereof, imposed upon the replacement
dwelling, consistent with relief granted under this section, are
delinquent.
   (B) Notwithstanding any other provision in this division, any time
the notice of rescission is delivered to the office of the assessor within
six years after relief was granted, provided that the replacement property
has been vacated as the claimant’s principal place of residence within 90
days after the original claim was filed, regardless of whether the property
continues to receive the homeowner’s exemption. If the rescission
[Ch. 693 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4583

increases the base year value of a property, or the homeowners’
exemption has been incorrectly allowed, appropriate escape assessments
or supplemental assessments, including interest as provided in Section
506, shall be imposed. The limitations periods for any escape
assessments or supplemental assessments shall not commence until July
1 of the assessment year in which the notice of rescission is delivered to
the office of the assessor.
   (3) The notice is accompanied by the payment of a fee as the assessor
may require, provided that the fee shall not exceed an amount reasonably
related to the estimated cost of processing a rescission claim, including
both direct costs and developmental and indirect costs, such as costs for
overhead, personnel, supplies, materials, office space, and computers.
   (j) (1) With respect to the transfer of base year value of original
properties to replacement dwellings located in the same county, this
section, except as provided in paragraph (3) or (4), shall apply to any
replacement dwelling that is purchased or newly constructed on or after
November 6, 1986.
   (2) With respect to the transfer of base year value of original
properties to replacement dwellings located in different counties, except
as provided in paragraph (4), this section shall apply to any replacement
dwelling that is purchased or newly constructed on or after the date
specified in accordance with subparagraph (E) of paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) in the ordinance of the county in which the replacement
dwelling is located, but shall not apply to any replacement dwelling
which was purchased or newly constructed before November 9, 1988.
   (3) With respect to the transfer of base year value by a severely and
permanently disabled person, this section shall apply only to
replacement dwellings that are purchased or newly constructed on or
after June 6, 1990.
   (4) The amendments made to subdivision (e) by the act adding this
paragraph shall apply only to replacement dwellings under Section 69
that are acquired or newly constructed on or after October 20, 1991, and
shall apply commencing with the 1991–92 fiscal year.
   (k) (1) In the case in which a county adopts an ordinance pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) that establishes an applicable date which
is more than three years prior to the date of adoption of the ordinance,
those potential claimants who purchased or constructed replacement
dwellings more than three years prior to the date of adoption of the
ordinance and who would, therefore, be precluded from filing a timely
claim, shall be deemed to have timely filed a claim if the claim is filed
within three years after the date that the ordinance is adopted. This
paragraph may not be construed as a waiver of any other requirement of
this section.
 4584                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 694 ]
   (2) This subdivision does not apply to a claimant who has transferred
his or her replacement dwelling prior to filing a claim.
   (3) The property tax relief provided by this section, but filed under
this subdivision, shall apply prospectively only, commencing with the
lien date of the assessment year in which the claim is filed. There shall
be no refund or cancellation of taxes prior to the date that the claim is
filed.
   (l) No escape assessment may be levied if a transfer of base year value
under this section has been erroneously granted by the assessor pursuant
to an expired ordinance authorizing intercounty transfers of base year
value.
   SEC. 2. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
69.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code proposed by both this bill and
SB 1417. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
come effective on or before January 1, 2001, but this bill becomes
operative first, (2) each bill amends Section 69.5 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 1417, in which case
Section 69.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as amended by Section
1 of this bill, shall remain operative only until the operative date of SB
1417, at which time Section 1.5 of this bill shall become operative.
   SEC. 3. This act provides for a tax levy within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect.



                             CHAPTER 694

  An act to add Section 10506.5 to the Insurance Code, relating to
insurance, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10506.5 is added to the Insurance Code, to
read:
   10506.5. (a) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘guaranteed living
benefit’’ means a benefit in a variable annuity or a variable life insurance
contract providing that one or more benefit amounts available to a living
contractholder, under specified conditions, will be enhanced should it
fall below a given level, in the absence of the guaranteed living benefit.
   (b) An insurer may deliver or issue for delivery contracts containing,
or riders to variable contracts providing, guaranteed living benefits if all
the following requirements are met:
[Ch. 695 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4585

   (1) The insurer is authorized to deliver, or issue for delivery, variable
insurance products in this state.
   (2) The insurer meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of
subdivision (d) of Section 10506.4.
   (3) The commissioner has issued a bulletin setting forth the terms and
conditions under which variable contracts containing or riders to
variable contracts providing guaranteed living benefits may be issued or
delivered in this state.
   (4) The variable contract or rider meets the terms and conditions for
guaranteed living benefits established by the commissioner and set forth
in the bulletin described in paragraph (3) and the insurer desiring to issue
the variable contract or rider has satisfied the requirements set forth in
Section 2529 of Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations.
   (c) The bulletin described in paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) may
include provisions covering requirements similar to those included in
subdivision (f) of Section 10506.4. The bulletin shall have the same
force and effect, and may be enforced by the commissioner to the same
extent and degree as regulations issued by the commissioner until the
time that the commissioner issues additional or amended regulations
pertaining to guaranteed living benefits.
   (d) An insurer may not deliver or issue for delivery variable contracts
containing, or riders to variable contracts, providing guaranteed living
benefits except pursuant to this section. No policy, contract, rider, or
agreement that constitutes investment return assurance pursuant to
Section 10203.10 or 10507, or guarantee pursuant to Section 10506.4,
may be issued pursuant to this section.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order for consumers to receive the benefits of the insurance
contracts authorized by this act on a timely basis, it is necessary that this
act take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 695

  An act to amend Sections 52052, 52052.3, 52053, 52054, 52054.5,
52055, 52055.5, 52056, 52057, and 52058 of the Education Code, and
to amend Section 2 of Chapter 3 of the Statutes of 1999, relating to
academic achievement, making an appropriation therefor, and declaring
the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
 4586                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 695 ]
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 52052 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   52052. (a) (1) By July 1, 1999, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction, with approval of the State Board of Education, shall develop
an Academic Performance Index (API), to measure the performance of
schools, especially the academic performance of pupils, and to
demonstrate comparable improvement in academic achievement by all
numerically significant ethnic and socioeconomically disadvantaged
subgroups within schools.
   (2) For purposes of this section, a numerically significant ethnic or
socioeconomically disadvantaged subgroup is a subgroup that
constitutes at least 15 percent of a school’s total pupil population and
consists of at least 30 pupils. An ethnic or socioeconomically
disadvantaged subgroup of at least 100 pupils constitutes a numerically
significant subgroup, even if the subgroup does not constitute 15 percent
of the total enrollment at a school.
   (3) The API shall consist of a variety of indicators currently reported
to the State Department of Education including, but not limited to, the
results of the achievement test administered pursuant to Section 60640,
attendance rates for pupils and certificated school personnel for
elementary schools, middle schools, and secondary schools, and the
graduation rates for pupils in secondary schools.
   (A) The pupil data collected for the API that comes from the
achievement test administered pursuant to Sections 60640 and 60644
and the high school exit examination administered pursuant to Section
60851, when fully implemented, shall be disaggregated by special
education status, English language learners, socioeconomic status,
gender and ethnic group. Only the test scores of pupils who were
enrolled in a school district in the prior fiscal year may be included in
the test results reported in the API. Results of the achievement test and
other tests specified in subdivision (b) shall constitute at least 60 percent
of the value of the index.
   (B) Before including high school graduation rates and attendance
rates in the index, the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall
determine the extent to which the data is currently reported to the state
and the accuracy of the data.
   (C) If the Superintendent of Public Instruction determines that
accurate data for these indicators is not available, the Superintendent of
Public Instruction shall report to the Governor and the Legislature by
[Ch. 695 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4587

September 1, 1999, and recommend necessary action to implement an
accurate reporting system.
   (b) Pupil scores from the following tests, when available and when
found to be valid and reliable for this purpose, shall be incorporated into
the API:
   (1) The assessment of the applied academic skills matrix test
developed pursuant to Section 60604.
   (2) The nationally normed test as augmented pursuant to paragraph
(1) of subdivision (f) of Section 60644.
   (3) The high school exit examination.
   (c) Based on the API, the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall
develop, and the State Board of Education shall adopt, expected annual
percentage growth targets for all schools based on their API baseline
score as measured in July 1999. Schools are expected to meet these
growth targets through effective allocation of available resources. For
schools below the statewide API performance target adopted by the State
Board of Education pursuant to subdivision (d), the minimum annual
percentage growth target shall be 5 percent of the difference between a
school’s actual API score and the statewide API performance target, or
one API point, whichever is greater. Schools at or above the statewide
API performance target shall have, as their growth target, maintenance
of their API score above the statewide API performance target. However,
the State Board of Education may set differential growth targets based
on grade level of instruction and may set higher growth targets for the
lowest performing schools because they have the greatest room for
improvement. To meet its growth target, a school shall demonstrate that
the annual growth in its API is equal to or more than its schoolwide
annual percentage growth target and that all numerically-significant
ethnic and socioeconomically disadvantaged subgroups, as defined in
subdivision (a) of Section 52052, are making comparable improvement.
   (d) Upon adoption of state performance standards by the State Board
of Education, the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall recommend,
and the State Board of Education shall adopt, a statewide API
performance target that includes consideration of performance standards
and represents the proficiency level required to meet the state
performance target. When fully developed, schools may either meet the
state target or meet their growth targets to be eligible for the Governor’s
Performance Award Program as set forth in Section 52057.
   (e) Beginning in June 2000, the API shall be used for both of the
following:
   (1) Measuring the progress of schools selected for participation in the
Immediate Intervention/Underperforming Schools Program pursuant to
Section 52053.
 4588                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 695 ]
  (2) Ranking all public schools in the state for the purpose of the High
Achieving/Improving Schools Program pursuant to Section 52056.
  (f) Only comprehensive high schools, middle schools, and
elementary schools that have a population of 100 or more pupils may be
included in the API ranking.
  (g) By July 1, 2000, the Superintendent of Public Instruction, with the
approval of the State Board of Education, shall develop an alternative
accountability system for schools with fewer than 100 pupils, and for
schools under the jurisdiction of a county board of education or a county
superintendent of schools, community day schools, and alternative
schools, including continuation high schools and independent study
schools.
  SEC. 2. Section 52053 of the Education Code is amended to read:
  52053. (a) The Immediate Intervention/Underperforming Schools
Program is hereby established. By August 15, 1999, the Superintendent
of Public Instruction, with the approval of the State Board of Education,
shall invite schools that scored below the 50th percentile on the
achievement tests administered pursuant to Section 60640 both in the
spring of 1998 and in the spring of 1999 to participate in the Immediate
Intervention/Underperforming Schools Program. A school invited to
participate may take any action not otherwise prohibited under state or
federal law and that would not require reimbursement by the
Commission on State Mandates to improve pupil performance.
  (b) The total number of schools participating in the program in 1999
shall be 430. Unless subdivision (d) applies, schools that apply will be
selected based on the order in which they apply within ranks of deciles,
not to exceed 86 per decile, within the following grade level categories:
  (1) No more than 301 elementary schools.
  (2) No more than 78 middle schools.
  (3) No more than 52 high schools.
  (c) The 86 schools selected within each decile range pursuant to
subdivision (b) shall proportionately represent elementary, middle, and
high schools and shall provide statewide proportionate geographic
representation of urban and rural schools.
  (d) If fewer than the number of schools in any grade level category
apply, schools that scored below the 50th percentile in those grade level
categories that did not apply for the program shall randomly be selected
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction, with the approval of the
State Board of Education, to participate based on their proportional
representation in the state until the number of schools in each grade level
category set forth in subdivision (b) is achieved.
  (e) If more than the requisite number of schools apply for any grade
level category, the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall select an
array of schools that reflect a broad range of academic performance of
[Ch. 695 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4589

schools that scored below the 50th percentile, until the number of
schools in each grade level category set forth in subdivision (b) is
achieved.
   (f) A school selected to participate on or before September 1, 1999,
shall be awarded a planning grant from funds appropriated pursuant to
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 2 of the act adding this section
in the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). A school selected to
receive federal funds pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of
Section 2 of the act adding this section shall be awarded an
implementation grant in an amount of at least fifty thousand dollars
($50,000) pursuant to Public Law 105-78.
   (g) Schools receiving funding under paragraph (2) of subdivision (a)
of Section 2 of the act adding this section shall comply with Public Law
105-78.
   (h) By September 15, 2000, and each year thereafter, the
Superintendent of Public Instruction, with the approval of the State
Board of Education, shall identify schools that failed to meet their
Academic Performance Index (API) growth targets and that have an API
below the 50th percentile relative to all other public elementary, middle
or high schools. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall invite
these       schools     to      participate     in      the     Immediate
Intervention/Underperforming Schools Programs. A school invited to
participate may take any action to improve pupil performance not
otherwise prohibited under state or federal law and that would not
require reimbursement by the Commission on State Mandates.
   (i) The total number of schools selected for participation in the
program shall be no more than the number that can be funded through
the total appropriation for the planning grants referenced in subdivision
(l) below.
   (j) If fewer schools apply for participation than can be funded, the
Superintendent of Public Instruction, with the approval of the State
Board of Education, shall randomly select the balance of schools from
schools eligible to participate that did not apply. Insofar as possible, the
schools randomly selected should reflect a representative proportion of
elementary, middle and high schools, as well as a broad range of
academic achievement.
   (k) If more schools apply for participation than can be funded, the
schools shall be selected on the order in which they apply. Insofar as
possible, the schools randomly selected should reflect a representative
proportion of elementary, middle and high schools, as well as a broad
range of academic achievement.
   (l) A school selected to participate on or before October 15, 2000, and
each year thereafter, shall be awarded a planning grant from funds
appropriated pursuant to this act of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).
 4590                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 695 ]
   (m) Schools selected for participation in the program shall be notified
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction no later than October 15 of
each year.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 52052.3 of the Education Code, as added by
Chapter 71 of the Statutes of 2000, is amended to read:
   52052.3. Test scores of pupils who are in the first year of enrollment
in a high school district, but who, in the prior year, were enrolled in an
elementary school district that normally matriculates to the high school
district, shall be included in the Academic Performance Index, as
provided in Section 52052.
   SEC. 3. Section 52054 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   52054. (a) By November 15 of the year that the school is selected
to participate, the governing board of a school district having
jurisdiction over a school selected for participation in the program shall
contract with an external evaluator from the list of external evaluators
and shall appoint a broad-based schoolsite and community team,
consisting of a majority of nonschoolsite personnel. In a school that has
a limited-English-proficient pupil population that constitutes at least 40
percent of the total pupil population, an external evaluator shall have
demonstrated experience in working with a limited-English-proficient
pupil population. Not less than 20 percent of the members of the team
shall be parents or legal guardians of pupils in the school.
   (b) The selected external evaluator shall solicit input from the parents
and legal guardians of the pupils of the school. At a minimum, the
evaluator shall do all of the following:
   (1) Inform the parents and legal guardians, in writing, that the school
has     been     selected     to   participate    in     the    Immediate
Intervention/Underperforming Schools Program due to its below
average performance.
   (2) Hold a public meeting at the school, in cooperation with the
principal, to which all parents and legal guardians of pupils in the school
receive a written invitation. The invitation to the meeting may be
combined with the written notice required by paragraph (1).
   (3) Solicit, at the public meeting, the recommendations and opinions
of the participating parents and legal guardians of pupils in the school
regarding actions that should be taken to improve the performance of the
school. These opinions and recommendations shall be considered by the
external evaluator and the community team in the development of the
action plan pursuant to this section.
   (4) Notify all parents and legal guardians of pupils in the school of
their opportunity to provide written recommendations of actions that
should be taken to improve the performance of the school which shall
be considered by the external evaluator and the community team in the
development of the action plan pursuant to this section. Notice required
[Ch. 695 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4591

by this subdivision may be combined with the written notice required by
paragraph (1).
   (c) By February 15 of the school year in which the school is selected
to participate, the selected external evaluator, in collaboration with the
broad-based schoolsite and community team selected pursuant to
subdivision (a), shall complete a review of the school that identifies
weaknesses that contribute to the school’s below average performance,
make recommendations for improvement, and begin to develop an
action plan to improve the academic performance of the pupils enrolled
at the school. The action plan shall include percentage growth targets at
least as high as the annual growth targets adopted by the State Board of
Education pursuant to Section 52052. The action plan shall include an
expenditure plan and shall be of a scope that does not require expenditure
of funds in excess of those provided pursuant to this article or otherwise
available to the school. The action plan may not be of a scope that
requires reimbursement by the Commission on State Mandates for its
implementation.
   (d) At a minimum, the action plan shall do all of the following:
   (1) Review and include the school and district conditions identified
in the school accountability report card pursuant to Section 33126.
   (2) Identify the current barriers at the school and district toward
improvements in pupil achievement.
   (3) Identify schoolwide and districtwide strategies to remove these
barriers.
   (4) Review and include school and school district crime statistics, in
accordance with Section 628.5 of the Penal Code.
   (5) Examine and consider disaggregated data regarding pupil
achievement and other indicators to consider whether all groups and
types of pupils make adequate progress toward short-term growth targets
and long-term performance goals. The disaggregated data to be included
and considered by the plan shall, at a minimum, provide information
regarding the achievement of English language learners, pupils with
exceptional needs, pupils who qualify for free and reduced price meals,
and all pupils, by race, ethnicity, and gender.
   (6) Set short-term academic objectives pursuant to Section 52052 for
a two-year period that will allow the school to make adequate progress
toward the growth targets established for each participating school for
pupil achievement as measured by all of the following to the extent that
the data is available for the school:
   (A) The achievement test administered pursuant to Section 60640.
   (B) Graduation rates for grades 7 to 12, inclusive.
   (C) Attendance rates for pupils and school personnel for elementary,
middle, and secondary schools.
   (D) Any other indicators approved by the State Board of Education.
 4592                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 695 ]
   (e) The school action plan shall focus on improving pupil academic
performance, improving the involvement of parents and guardians,
improving the effective and efficient allocation of resources and
management of the school, and identifying and developing solutions that
take into account the underlying causes for low performance by pupils.
   (f) The team, in the development of the action plan, shall consult with
the exclusive representatives of employee organizations, where they
exist.
   (g) The school action plan may propose to increase the number of
instructional days offered at the schoolsite and also may propose to
increase up to a full 12 months the amount of time for which certificated
employees are contracted, if all of the following conditions are met:
   (1) Provisions of the plan proposed pursuant to this subdivision shall
not violate current applicable collective bargaining agreements.
   (2) An agreement is reached with the exclusive representative
concerning staffing specifically to accommodate the extended school
year or 12-month contract.
   (h) The team, in the development of the action plan, shall consult with
the exclusive representatives of employee organizations, where they
exist.
   (i) Upon its completion, the action plan shall be submitted to the
governing board of the school districts for its approval. After the plan is
approved, but no later than May 15 of the year that follows the year the
school is selected to participate, the plan shall be submitted to the
Superintendent of Public Instruction with a request for funding in the
form prescribed by the Superintendent of Public Instruction, who shall
review the school action plan and recommend approval or disapproval
of the school’s request for funding to the State Board of Education.
   (j) Not later than July 15 of the year next following the year in which
a school is selected for participation, the State Board of Education shall
review and approve or disapprove the school’s request for funding, based
on the recommendation of the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
Within thirty days of the State Board of Education’s review, the State
Superintendent of Public Instruction shall notify the effected school
districts of the state of the board’s action regarding the request for
funding. In conjunction with its approval of a request for funding to
implement a school’s action plan, the State Board of Education may, at
the request of the governing board of the school district or the county
board of education for a school under its jurisdiction, waive all or any
part of any provision of this code, or any regulation adopted by the State
Board of Education, controlling any of the programs listed in clause (i)
of subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 54761
and Section 64000 if the waiver does not result in a decrease in the
instructional time otherwise required by law or regulation or an increase
[Ch. 695 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           4593

in state costs and is determined to be consistent with subdivision (a) of
Section 46300.
   SEC. 4. Section 52054.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   52054.5. Subject to the appropriation of funds for this purpose in the
Budget Act, a school whose application is approved shall receive a grant
for implementing the program, in each subsequent fiscal year that it
participates in the program, in an amount up to two hundred dollars
($200) per pupil enrolled in the school, with a minimum allocation of
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per schoolsite. As a condition of
receiving this funding, a participating school or the school district
having jurisdiction over that school shall match the amount of state
funding from any new or existing sources of funding. To help meet this
matching requirement, a participating school and the governing board
of the school district having jurisdiction over that school shall receive
maximum flexibility in the expenditure of any new or existing
categorical funds not otherwise prohibited by state or federal law and
shall redirect for the purposes of their academic improvement plan new
or existing categorical or general purpose funds.
   SEC. 5. Section 52055 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   52055. The governing board of a school that fails to meet its annual
short-term growth target within 12 months following receipt of funding
pursuant to Section 52054.5 shall hold a public hearing at a regularly
scheduled meeting to ensure that members of the school community are
aware of the lack of progress. The governing board of the school district
shall, upon consultation with the external evaluator and the schoolsite
and community team selected pursuant to Section 52054, choose from
a range of interventions for the school, including reassignment of school
personnel to the extent authorized by law, negotiation of site-specific
amendments to collective bargaining agreements, or other changes
deemed appropriate, in order to continue implementing the action plan
approved pursuant to Section 51054, and to make progress toward
meeting the school’s growth target.
   SEC. 6. Section 52055.5 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   52055.5. (a) Twenty-four months after receipt of funding pursuant
to Section 52054.5, a school that has met or exceeded its growth target
each year shall receive a monetary or nonmonetary award, under the
Governor’s Performance Award Program, as set forth in Section 52057.
Funds received pursuant to that section may be used at the school’s
discretion.
   (b) Twenty-four months after receipt of funding pursuant to Section
52054.5, a school that has not met its growth targets each year, but
demonstrates significant growth, as determined by the State Board of
Education, shall continue to participate in the program for an additional
year and to receive funding in the amount specified in Section 52054.5.
 4594                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 695 ]
Thirty-six months after receipt of funds pursuant to Section 52054.5, a
school is no longer eligible to receive funding pursuant to that section.
   (c) A school that does not meet its growth targets within the periods
described in either subdivision (a) or (b), as applicable, and has failed to
show significant growth, as determined by the State Board of Education,
shall be deemed a low-performing school. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall assume
all the legal rights, duties, and powers of the governing board with
respect to that school. The Superintendent of Public Instruction, in
consultation with the State Board of Education and the governing board
of the school district, shall reassign the principal of that school subject
to the findings in subdivision (e). In addition to reassigning the principal,
the Superintendent of Public Instruction, in consultation with the State
Board of Education, shall, notwithstanding any other provision of law,
do at least one of the following:
   (1) Revise attendance options for pupils to allow them to attend any
public school in which space is available. If additional attendance
options are made available, nothing in this option shall be construed to
require either the sending or receiving school district to incur additional
transportation costs.
   (2) Allow parents to apply directly to the State Board of Education for
the establishment of a charter school and allow parents to establish the
charter school at the existing schoolsite.
   (3) Under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Instruction,
assign the management of the school to a college, university, county
office of education, or other appropriate educational institution.
However, the Superintendent of Public Instruction may not assume the
management of the school.
   (4) Reassign other certificated employees of the school.
   (5) Renegotiate a new collective bargaining agreement at the
expiration of the existing collective bargaining agreement.
   (6) Reorganize the school.
   (7) Close the school.
   (d) In addition to the actions listed in subdivision (c), the
Superintendent of Public Instruction, in consultation with the State
Board of Education, may take any other action considered necessary or
desirable against the school district or the school district governing
board, including appointment of a new superintendent or suspension of
the authority of the governing board with respect to the school or schools
identified pursuant to subdivision (c).
   (e) Before the Superintendent of Public Instruction may take any
action against a principal pursuant to subdivision (c), the Superintendent
of Public Instruction or a designee of the superintendent shall hold a
[Ch. 695 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4595

public hearing on the matter in the school district and make both of the
following findings:
   (1) A finding that the principal had the authority to take specific
enumerated actions that would have helped the school meet its
performance goals.
   (2) A finding that the principal failed to take specific enumerated
actions pursuant to paragraph (1).
   (f) An action taken pursuant to subdivision (c), (d), or (e) shall not
increase local costs or require reimbursement by the Commission on
State Mandates.
   (g) An action taken pursuant to subdivision (c), (d), or (e) shall be
accompanied by specific findings by the Superintendent of Public
Instruction and the State Board of Education that the action is directly
related to the identified causes for continued failure by a school to meet
its performance goals.
   SEC. 7. Section 52056 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   52056. (a) The High Achieving/Improving Schools Program is
hereby established. Commencing in June 2000, and every June
thereafter, the Superintendent of Public Instruction, with approval of the
State Board of Education, shall rank all public schools based on the
Academic Performance Index established pursuant to Section 52052.
The schools shall be ranked by the value of the API in decile categories
by grade level of instruction provided and shall include three categories:
elementary, middle, and high school. The schools shall also be ranked
by the value of the API when compared to schools with similar
characteristics. Commencing in June 2001, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction shall also report the target annual growth rates of schools, and
the actual growth rates attained by the schools. For purposes of this
section, similar characteristics include, but are not limited to, the
following characteristics, insofar as data is available from the State
Department of Education’s data: pupil mobility, pupil ethnicity, pupil
socioeconomic status, percentage of teachers who are fully credentialed,
percentage of teachers who hold emergency credentials, percentage of
pupils who are English language learners, average class size per grade
level, and whether the schools operate multitrack year-round educational
programs. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall annually
publish these rankings on the Internet.
   (b) All schools shall report their ranking, including a description of
the components of the API, in their annual school accountability report
card pursuant to Sections 33126 and 35256.
   (c) Following the annual publication of the API and school rankings
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction, the governing board of each
school district shall discuss the results of the annual ranking at the next
regularly scheduled meeting.
 4596                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 695 ]
   SEC. 8. Section 52057 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   52057. (a) The State Board of Education shall establish a
Governor’s Performance Award Program to provide monetary and
nonmonetary awards to schools that meet or exceed API performance
growth targets established pursuant to Section 52052, and demonstrate
comparable improvement in academic achievement by all numerically
significant ethnic and socioeconomically disadvantaged subgroups
within schools. For purposes of this section, an ethnic or
socioeconomically disadvantaged subgroup of at least 100 pupils
constitutes a numerically significant subgroup, even if the subgroup
does not constitute 15 percent of the total enrollment at a school.
   (b) All schools, including schools participating in the Immediate
Intervention/Underperforming Schools Program are eligible to
participate in the Governor’s Performance Award Program. The manner
and form in which the monetary and nonmonetary awards are given shall
be established by the Superintendent of Public Instruction and approved
by the State Board of Education. The monetary awards shall be made
available on either a per pupil or per school basis, not to exceed one
hundred fifty dollars ($150) per pupil enrolled and subject to funds
appropriated in the annual Budget Act. A school that continues to show
improvement in successive years is eligible to receive annual bonuses.
   (c) In addition to or in substitution of monetary awards, the
Superintendent of Public Instruction may establish, upon approval by
the State Board of Education, nonmonetary awards that may include, but
are not limited to, classification as a distinguished school, listing on a
published public school honor roll, and public commendations by the
Governor and the Legislature.
   (d) A governing board of a school district or a county board of
education with one or more schools under its jurisdiction that are eligible
to receive an award from the Governor’s Performance Award Program
may request on behalf of those schools that the State Board of Education
waive all or any part of any provision of this code, or any regulation
adopted by the State Board of Education, controlling any of the
programs listed in clause (i) of subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) of Section 54761 and Section 64000. The board may
grant the request if the waiver does not result in a decrease in the
instructional time otherwise required by law or regulation or an increase
in state costs and is determined to be consistent with subdivision (a) of
Section 46300. The waiver shall be granted for no more than three
consecutive fiscal years. A governing board of a school district or a
county board of education may request a renewal for schools under their
jurisdiction that still meet the eligibility criteria.
   (e) The waiver granted pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 52057
may also provide the governing board of a school district or a county
[Ch. 695 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4597

board of education with maximum flexibility, on the part of eligible
schools within the districts, in the expenditure of any new or existing
categorical funds not otherwise prohibited under state or federal law to
enable the school to continue improvement in pupil performance.
   SEC. 8.5. Section 52057 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   52057. (a) The State Board of Education shall establish a
Governor’s Performance Award Program to provide monetary and
nonmonetary awards to schools that meet or exceed API performance
growth targets established pursuant to Section 52052, and demonstrate
comparable improvement in academic achievement by all numerically
significant ethnic and socioeconomically disadvantaged subgroups
within schools. For purposes of this section, an ethnic or
socioeconomically disadvantaged subgroup of at least 100 pupils
constitutes a numerically significant subgroup, even if the subgroup
does not constitute 15 percent of the total enrollment at school.
   (b) All schools, including schools participating in the Immediate
Intervention/Underperforming Schools Program are eligible to
participate in the Governor’s Performance Award Program. The manner
and form in which the monetary and nonmonetary awards are given shall
be established by the Superintendent of Public Instruction and approved
by the State Board of Education. The monetary awards shall be made
available on either a per pupil or per school basis, not to exceed one
hundred fifty dollars ($150) per pupil enrolled and subject to funds
appropriated in the annual Budget Act. A school that continues to show
improvement in successive years is eligible to receive annual bonuses.
   (c) In addition to or in substitution of monetary awards, the
Superintendent of Public Instruction may establish, upon approval by
the State Board of Education, nonmonetary awards that may include, but
are not limited to, classification as a distinguished school, listing on a
published public school honor roll, and public commendations by the
Governor and the Legislature.
   (d) A governing board of a school district or a county board of
education with one or more schools under its jurisdiction that are eligible
to receive an award from the Governor’s Performance Award Program
may request on behalf of those schools that the State Board of Education
waive all or any part of any provision of this code, or any regulation
adopted by the State Board of Education, controlling any of the
programs listed in clause (i) of subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) of Section 54761 and Section 64000, and the board may
grant the request if the waiver does not result in a decrease in the
instructional time otherwise required by law or regulation or an increase
in state costs and is determined to be consistent with subdivision (a) of
Section 46300. The waiver shall be granted for no more than three
consecutive fiscal years. A governing board of a school district or a
 4598                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 695 ]
county board of education may request a renewal for schools under their
jurisdiction that still meet the eligibility criteria.
   (e) The waiver granted pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 52057
may also provide the governing board of a school district or a county
board of education with maximum flexibility, on the part of eligible
schools within the districts, in the expenditure of any new or existing
categorical funds not otherwise prohibited under state or federal law to
enable the school to continue improvement in pupil performance.
   SEC. 9. Section 52058 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   52058. (a) Each school district with schools participating in the
Immediate Intervention/Underperforming Schools Program established
pursuant to Section 52053 shall submit to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction an evaluation of the impact, costs, and benefits of the
program as it relates to the school district and the schools under its
jurisdiction that are participating in the program and whether or not the
schools met their growth targets, with an analysis of the reasons why the
schools have or have not met those growth targets. Costs to develop and
submit the evaluation shall be funded with resources provided pursuant
to Article 3 (commencing with Section 52053). The evaluation shall be
submitted by November 30, subsequent to the first full year of action
plan implementation by participating schools, and on November 30, of
each year thereafter.
   (b) By January 15, 2000, the Superintendent of Public Instruction
shall develop, and the State Board of Education shall approve, the
guidelines for a request for proposal for an independent evaluator as
described in this subdivision. By September 1, 2000, the Superintendent
of Public Instruction shall contract with an independent evaluator to
prepare a comprehensive evaluation of the implementation, impact,
costs, and benefits of the Immediate Intervention/Underperforming
Schools Program and the High Achieving/Improving Schools Program.
The preliminary results of the evaluation shall be disseminated to the
Legislature, the Governor, and interested parties no later than March 31,
2002, with a final report no later than June 30, 2002. The final report
shall include recommendations for necessary or desirable modifications
to the programs established pursuant to this chapter.
   (c) The evaluations shall consider all of the following:
   (1) Pupil performance data, including, but not limited to, results of
assessments used to determine whether or not schools have made
significant progress towards meeting their growth targets.
   (2) Program implementation data, including, but not limited to, a
review of startup activities, community support, parental participation,
staff development activities associated with implementation of the
program, percentage of fully credentialed teachers, percentage of
teachers who hold emergency credentials, percentage of teachers
[Ch. 695 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4599

assigned outside their subject area of competence, the accreditation
status of the school if appropriate, average class size per grade level, and
the number of pupils in a multitrack year-round educational program.
   (3) (A) Pupil performance data, and its impact on the API, for each
of the following subgroups:
   (i) English language learners.
   (ii) Pupils with exceptional needs.
   (iii) Pupils that qualify for free or reduced price meals and are
enrolled in schools that receive funds under Chapter 1 of the federal
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended by the
Augustus F. Hawkins-Robert T. Stafford Elementary and Secondary
School Improvement Amendments of 1988 (P.L. 100-290).
   (B) Information concerning individual pupils may not be disclosed
in the process of preparing pupil performance data pursuant to this
subdivision.
   (d) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall recommend and
the State Board of Education shall approve a schedule for biennial
evaluations of the programs established pursuant to this chapter,
subsequent to the evaluation required by this section. The biennial
evaluations shall be submitted, with appropriate recommendations, by
June 30 of every odd-numbered year, commencing with the year 2003.
   SEC. 10. Section 2 of Chapter 3 of the Statutes of 1999, of the First
Extraordinary Session, is amended to read:
   Sec. 2. (a) The sum of one hundred ninety-three million two
hundred thousand dollars ($193,200,000) is hereby appropriated
according to the following schedule:
   (1) Sixty-three million seven hundred four thousand dollars
($63,704,000) from the General Fund to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction for allocation to school districts for purposes of providing
funding for planning and grants for implementing the Immediate
Intervention/Underperforming Schools Program as set forth in Article
3 (commencing with Section 52053) of Chapter 6.1 of Part 28 of the
Education Code.
   (2) Thirty-two million four hundred forty-six thousand dollars
($32,446,000) from the Federal Trust Fund to the Superintendent of
Public Instruction for allocation to school districts for purposes of
providing funding for planning and grants for implementing the
Immediate Intervention/Underperforming Schools Program as set forth
in Article 3 (commencing with Section 52053) of Chapter 6.1 of Part 28
of the Education Code.
   (3) Ninety-six million one hundred fifty thousand dollars
($96,150,000) from the General Fund to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction for allocation to school districts that meet or exceed
performance growth targets established by the board pursuant to the
 4600                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 695 ]
High Achieving/Improving Schools Program as set forth in Article 4
(commencing with Section 52056) of Chapter 6.1 of Part 28 of the
Education Code. Funds appropriated pursuant to this paragraph that
have not been allocated by June 30, 2000, shall be available for
allocation and expenditure for purposes of this paragraph in the 2000–01
fiscal year.
   (4) Nine hundred thousand dollars ($900,000) from the General Fund
to the Superintendent of Public Instruction to provide support services
related to programs established by the Public Schools Accountability
Act of 1999 pursuant to Chapter 6.1 (commencing with Section 52050)
of Part 28 of the Education Code.
   (b) For the purposes of making the computations required by Section
8 of Article XVI of the California Constitution, the appropriation made
by paragraphs (1) and (3) shall be deemed to be ‘‘General Fund revenues
appropriated for school districts,’’ as defined in subdivision (c) of
Section 41202 of the Education Code, for the 1999–2000 fiscal year, and
included within the ‘‘total allocations to school districts and community
college districts from General Fund proceeds of taxes appropriated
pursuant to Article XIII B,’’ as defined in subdivision (e) of Section
41202 of the Education Code, for the 1999–2000 fiscal year.
   SEC. 11. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.
   SEC. 12. Section 8.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 52057 of the Education Code proposed by both this bill and SB
961. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 52057 of the Education Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after
SB 961, in which case Section 52057 of the Education Code, as amended
by Section 6 of this bill, shall remain operative only until January 1,
2001, at which time Section 8.5 of this bill shall become operative.
   SEC. 13. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
[Ch. 696 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4601

  In order to implement the provisions of the Public Schools
Accountability Act of 1999, and to provide clarification, it is necessary
that this bill take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 696

  An act to amend Sections 14087.51 and 14087.57 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code, relating to Medi-Cal.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14087.51 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
is amended to read:
   14087.51. (a) It is necessary that a special commission be
established in San Mateo County and in any other county designated by
the California Medical Assistance Commission in order to meet the
problems of the delivery of publicly assisted medical care in the counties
and to demonstrate ways of promoting quality care and cost efficiency.
   (b) The Board of Supervisors of San Mateo County and of the
designated counties may, by ordinance, establish commissions to do any
or all of the following:
   (1) Negotiate the exclusive contracts specified in Section 14087.5
and to arrange for the provision of health care services provided pursuant
to this chapter.
   (2) Enter into contracts for the provision of health care services to
subscribers in the Healthy Families Program.
   (c) In addition to the authority specified in subdivision (b), the Board
of Supervisors of San Mateo County may, by ordinance, authorize the
commission established pursuant to this section to provide health care
delivery systems for any or all of the following persons:
   (1) Persons who are eligible to receive medical benefits under this
chapter in the county, including, but not limited to, persons who are
eligible through federal waiver or a pilot project.
   (2) Persons who are eligible to receive medical benefits under both
Title 18 and Title 19 of the federal Social Security Act.
   (3) Persons who are eligible to receive medical benefits under Title
18 of the federal Social Security Act.
   (4) Persons who are eligible to receive medical benefits under
publicly supported programs if the commission and participating
providers acting pursuant to subcontracts with the commission agree to
 4602                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 696 ]
hold harmless the beneficiaries of the publicly supported programs if the
contract between the sponsoring government agency and the
commission does not ensure sufficient funding to cover program costs.
   (d) If the board of supervisors elects to enact an ordinance pursuant
to this section, all rights, powers, duties, privileges, and immunities
vested in a county by an article shall be vested in the county commission.
Any reference in this article to ‘‘county’’ shall mean a commission
established pursuant to this section.
   (e) The enabling ordinance shall specify the membership of the
county commission, the qualifications for individual members, and such
other matters as the board of supervisors deems necessary or convenient
for the conduct of the county commission’s activities. All
commissioners shall be appointed by majority vote of the board of
supervisors and shall serve at the pleasure thereof. The board of
supervisors may appoint no more than two of its own members to serve
on the commission.
   (f) As an alternative to establishing a separate commission, the
enabling ordinance may designate the board of supervisors itself as the
commission authorized by this article.
   SEC. 2. Section 14087.57 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is
amended to read:
   14087.57. Notwithstanding any provision of law, a member of a
commission authorized by Section 14087.51 or 14087.54, or a member
of any advisory committee to the commission, shall not be deemed to be
interested in a contract entered into by the commission within the
meaning of Article 4 (commencing with Section 1090) of Chapter 1 of
Division 4 of Title 1 of the Government Code if all of the following
apply:
   (a) The member was appointed to represent the interests of
physicians, health care practitioners, hospitals, pharmacies, or other
health care organizations.
   (b) The contract authorizes the member or the organization the
member represents to provide services under the commission’s program.
   (c) The contract contains substantially the same terms and conditions
as contracts entered into with other individuals or organizations that the
member was appointed to represent.
   (d) The member does not influence or attempt to influence the
commission or another member of the commission to enter into the
contract in which the member is interested.
   (e) The member discloses the interest to the commission and abstains
from voting on the contract.
   (f) The commission notes the member’s disclosure and abstention in
its official records and authorizes the contract in good faith by a vote of
[Ch. 697 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4603

its membership sufficient for the purpose without counting the vote of
the interested member.



                             CHAPTER 697

  An act to amend Sections 101 and 144 of, to add and repeal Section
2570.19 of, and to repeal and add Chapter 5.6 (commencing with Section
2570) of Division 2 of, the Business and Professions Code, relating to
occupational therapy, and making an appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 101 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  101. The department is comprised of:
  (a) The Dental Board of California.
  (b) The Medical Board of California.
  (c) The State Board of Optometry.
  (d) The California State Board of Pharmacy.
  (e) The Veterinary Medical Board.
  (f) The California Board of Accountancy.
  (g) The California Architects Board.
  (h) The Barbering and Cosmetology Program.
  (i) The Board for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.
  (j) The Contractors’ State License Board.
  (k) The Funeral Directors and Embalmers Program.
  (l) The Structural Pest Control Board.
  (m) The Bureau of Home Furnishings and Thermal Insulation.
  (n) The Board of Registered Nursing.
  (o) The Board of Behavioral Sciences.
  (p) The State Athletic Commission.
  (q) The Cemetery Program.
  (r) The State Board of Guide Dogs for the Blind.
  (s) The Bureau of Security and Investigative Services.
  (t) The Court Reporters Board of California.
  (u) The Board of Vocational Nursing and Psychiatric Technicians.
  (v) The Landscape Architects Technical Committee.
  (w) The Bureau of Electronic and Appliance Repair.
  (x) The Division of Investigation.
  (y) The Bureau of Automotive Repair.
 4604                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 697 ]
  (z) The State Board of Registration for Geologists and Geophysicists.
  (aa) The State Board of Nursing Home Administrators.
  (ab) The Respiratory Care Board of California.
  (ac) The Acupuncture Board.
  (ad) The Board of Psychology.
  (ae) The California Board of Podiatric Medicine.
  (af) The Physical Therapy Board of California.
  (ag) The Arbitration Review Program.
  (ah) The Committee on Dental Auxiliaries.
  (ai) The Hearing Aid Dispensers Advisory Commission.
  (aj) The Physician Assistant Committee.
  (ak) The Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology Board.
  (al) The Tax Preparers Program.
  (am) The California Board of Occupational Therapy.
  (an) Any other boards, offices, or officers subject to its jurisdiction
by law.
  SEC. 1.1. Section 101 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  101. The department is comprised of:
  (a) The Dental Board of California.
  (b) The Medical Board of California.
  (c) The State Board of Optometry.
  (d) The California State Board of Pharmacy.
  (e) The Veterinary Medical Board.
  (f) The California Board of Accountancy.
  (g) The California Architects Board.
  (h) The Bureau of Barbering and Cosmetology.
  (i) The Board for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.
  (j) The Contractors’ State License Board.
  (k) The Bureau for Private Postsecondary and Vocational Education.
  (l) The Structural Pest Control Board.
  (m) The Bureau of Home Furnishings and Thermal Insulation.
  (n) The Board of Registered Nursing.
  (o) The Board of Behavioral Sciences.
  (p) The State Athletic Commission.
  (q) The Cemetery and Funeral Bureau.
  (r) The State Board of Guide Dogs for the Blind.
  (s) The Bureau of Security and Investigative Services.
  (t) The Court Reporters Board of California.
  (u) The Board of Vocational Nursing and Psychiatric Technicians.
  (v) The Landscape Architects Technical Committee.
  (w) The Bureau of Electronic and Appliance Repair.
  (x) The Division of Investigation.
  (y) The Bureau of Automotive Repair.
[Ch. 697 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4605

  (z) The State Board for Geologists and Geophysicists.
  (aa) The Respiratory Care Board of California.
  (ab) The Acupuncture Board.
  (ac) The Board of Psychology.
  (ad) The California Board of Podiatric Medicine.
  (ae) The Physical Therapy Board of California.
  (af) The Arbitration Review Program.
  (ag) The Committee on Dental Auxiliaries.
  (ah) The Hearing Aid Dispensers Bureau.
  (ai) The Physician Assistant Committee.
  (aj) The Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology Board.
  (ak) The Osteopathic Medical Board of California.
  (al) The California Board of Occupational Therapy.
  (am) Any other boards, offices, or officers subject to its jurisdiction
by law.
  SEC. 1.2. Section 144 of the Business and Professions Code is
amended to read:
  144. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an agency
designated in subdivision (b) shall require an applicant to furnish to the
agency a full set of fingerprints for purposes of conducting criminal
history record checks. Any agency designated in subdivision (b) may
obtain and receive, at its discretion, criminal history information from
the Department of Justice and the United States Federal Bureau of
Investigation.
  (b) Subdivision (a) applies to the following boards or committees:
  (1) California Board of Accountancy.
  (2) State Athletic Commission.
  (3) Board of Behavioral Sciences.
  (4) Court Reporters Board of California.
  (5) State Board of Guide Dogs for the Blind.
  (6) California State Board of Pharmacy.
  (7) Board of Registered Nursing.
  (8) Veterinary Medical Board.
  (9) Registered Veterinary Technician Committee.
  (10) Board of Vocational Nursing and Psychiatric Technicians.
  (11) Respiratory Care Board of California.
  (12) Hearing Aid Dispensers Advisory Commission.
  (13) Physical Therapy Board of California.
  (14) Physician Assistant Committee of the Medical Board of
California.
  (15) Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology Board.
  (16) Medical Board of California.
  (17) Board of Nursing Home Administrators.
  (18) State Board of Optometry.
 4606                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 697 ]
  (19) Acupuncture Board.
  (20) Cemetery and Funeral Programs.
  (21) Bureau of Security and Investigative Services.
  (22) Division of Investigation.
  (23) Board of Psychology.
  (24) The California Board of Occupational Therapy.
  SEC. 2. Chapter 5.6 (commencing with Section 2570) of Division
2 of the Business and Professions Code is repealed.
  SEC. 3. Chapter 5.6 (commencing with Section 2570) is added to
Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code, to read:

               CHAPTER 5.6.     OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY

   2570. This chapter may be cited as the Occupational Therapy
Practice Act.
   2570.1. The Legislature finds and declares that the practice of
occupational therapy in California affects the public health, safety, and
welfare and there is a necessity for that practice to be subject to
regulation and control.
   2570.2. As used in this chapter, unless the context requires
otherwise:
   (a) ‘‘Appropriate supervision of an aide’’ means that the responsible
occupational therapist shall provide direct in-sight supervision when the
aide is providing delegated client-related tasks and shall be readily
available at all times to provide advice or instruction to the aide. The
occupational therapist is responsible for documenting the client’s record
concerning the delegated client-related tasks performed by the aide.
   (b) ‘‘Aide’’ means an individual who provides supportive services to
an occupational therapist and who is trained by an occupational therapist
to perform, under appropriate supervision, delegated, selected client and
nonclient-related tasks for which the aide has demonstrated competency.
An occupational therapist licensed pursuant to this chapter may utilize
the services of one aide engaged in patient-related tasks to assist the
occupational therapist in his or her practice of occupational therapy. An
occupational therapy assistant shall not supervise an aide engaged in
client-related tasks.
   (c) ‘‘Association’’ means the Occupational Therapy Association of
California or a similarly constituted organization representing
occupational therapists in this state.
   (d) ‘‘Board’’ means the California Board of Occupational Therapy.
   (e) ‘‘Examination’’ means an entry level certification examination for
occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants
administered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational
Therapy or by another nationally recognized credentialing body.
[Ch. 697 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4607

   (f) ‘‘Good standing’’ means that the person has a current, valid license
to practice occupational therapy or assist in the practice of occupational
therapy and has not been disciplined by the recognized professional
certifying or standard-setting body within five years prior to application
or renewal of the person’s license.
   (g) ‘‘Occupational therapist’’ means an individual who meets the
minimum education requirements specified in Section 2570.6 and is
licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and whose license is
in good standing as determined by the board to practice occupational
therapy under this chapter. Only the occupational therapist is responsible
for the occupational therapy assessment of a client, and the development
of an occupational therapy plan of treatment.
   (h) ‘‘Occupational therapy assistant’’ means an individual who is
certified pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, who is in good
standing as determined by the board, and based thereon, who is qualified
to assist in the practice of occupational therapy under this chapter, and
who works under the appropriate supervision of a licensed occupational
therapist.
   (i) ‘‘Occupational therapy services’’ means the services of an
occupational therapist or the services of an occupational therapy
assistant under the appropriate supervision of an occupational therapist.
   (j) ‘‘Person’’ means an individual, partnership, unincorporated
organization, or corporation.
   (k) ‘‘Practice of occupational therapy’’ means the therapeutic use of
purposeful and meaningful goal-directed activities (occupations) which
engage the individual’s body and mind in meaningful, organized, and
self-directed actions that maximize independence, prevent or minimize
disability, and maintain health. Occupational therapy services
encompass occupational therapy assessment, treatment, education of,
and consultation with, individuals who have been referred for
occupational therapy services subsequent to diagnosis of disease or
disorder (or who are receiving occupational therapy services as part of
an Individualized Education Plan (IEP) pursuant to the federal
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA)). Occupational
therapy assessment identifies performance abilities and limitations that
are necessary for self-maintenance, learning, work, and other similar
meaningful activities. Occupational therapy treatment is focused on
developing, improving, or restoring functional daily living skills,
compensating for and preventing dysfunction, or minimizing disability.
Occupational therapy techniques that are used for treatment involve
teaching activities of daily living (excluding speech language skills);
designing or fabricating selective temporary orthotic devices, and
applying or training in the use of assistive technology or orthotic and
prosthetic devices (excluding gait training). Occupational therapy
 4608                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 697 ]
consultation provides expert advice to enhance function and quality of
life. Consultation or treatment may involve modification of tasks or
environments to allow an individual to achieve maximum
independence. Services are provided individually, in groups, or through
social groups.
   (l) ‘‘Hand therapy’’ means the treatment of the hand, wrist, and
forearm.
   2570.3. (a) No person shall practice occupational therapy or hold
himself or herself out as an occupational therapist or as being able to
practice occupational therapy, or to render occupational therapy services
in this state unless he or she is licensed as an occupational therapist under
the provisions of this chapter. No person shall hold himself or herself out
as an occupational therapy assistant or work as an occupational therapy
assistant under the supervision of an occupational therapist unless he or
she is certified as an occupational therapy assistant under the provisions
of this chapter.
   (b) Only an individual may be licensed or certified under this chapter.
   (c) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as authorizing an
occupational therapist to practice physical therapy, as defined in Section
2620; speech-language pathology or audiology, as defined in Section
2530.2; nursing, as defined Section 2725; psychology, as defined in
Section 2903; or spinal manipulation or other forms of healing, except
as authorized by this section.
   (d) An occupational therapist may provide feeding or swallowing
assessment, evaluation, or intervention if the therapist has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the board that he or she has met educational training,
and competency requirements that the board shall develop in
collaboration with the Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology
Board.
   (e) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as authorizing an
occupational therapist to seek reimbursement for services other than for
the practice of occupational therapy as defined in this chapter.
   (f) ‘‘Supervision of an occupational therapy assistant’’ means that the
responsible occupational therapist shall at all times be responsible for all
occupational therapy services provided to the client. The occupational
therapist who is responsible for appropriate supervision shall formulate
and document in each client’s record, with his or her signature, the goals
and plan for that client, and shall make sure that the occupational therapy
assistant assigned to that client functions under appropriate supervision.
As part of the responsible occupational therapist’s appropriate
supervision, he or she shall conduct at least weekly review and
inspection of all aspects of occupational therapy services by the
occupational therapy assistant.
[Ch. 697 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4609

   (1) The supervising occupational therapist has the continuing
responsibility to follow the progress of each patient, provide direct care
to the patient, and to assure that the occupational therapy assistant does
not function autonomously.
   (2) An occupational therapist shall not supervise more occupational
therapy assistants, at any one time, than can be appropriately supervised
in the opinion of the board. Two occupational therapy assistants shall be
the maximum number of occupational therapy assistants supervised by
an occupational therapist at any one time, but the board may permit the
supervision of a greater number by an occupational therapist if, in the
opinion of the board, there would be adequate supervision and the
public’s health and safety would be served. In no case shall the total
number of occupational therapy assistants exceed twice the number of
occupational therapists regularly employed by a facility at any one time.
   (g) On and after January 1, 2005, any occupational therapist
providing hand therapy services shall be certified by the Hand Therapy
Certification Commission and shall maintain this certification in order
to continue to provide hand therapy services.
   (1) Techniques used by hand therapists to augment occupational
therapy treatment are physical agent modalities and massage.
   (2) On and after January 1, 2002, occupational therapists who are
seeking certification by the Hand Therapy Certification Commission,
and who have duly notified the board in writing of their intent to seek
that certification, may provide hand therapy services under the
supervision of an occupational therapist or physical therapist certified by
the Hand Therapy Certification Commission in order to complete the
experience requirements for certification.
   (3) The board shall promulgate rules and regulations specifically
pertaining to the practice of hand therapy by a person licensed under this
chapter.
   (h) In developing the rules and regulations required under this
section, the board shall collaborate with the Physical Therapy Board of
California and the Board of Registered Nursing.
   2570.4. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as preventing or
restricting the practice, services, or activities of any of the following
persons:
   (a) Any person licensed, certified, or otherwise recognized in this
state by any other law or regulation when that person is engaged in the
profession or occupation for which he or she is licensed, certified, or
otherwise recognized.
   (b) Any person pursuing a supervised course of study leading to a
degree or certificate in occupational therapy at an accredited educational
program, if the person is designated by a title which clearly indicates his
or her status as a student or trainee.
 4610                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 697 ]
   (c) Any person fulfilling the supervised fieldwork experience
requirements of subdivision (c) of Section 2570.6, if the experience
constitutes a part of the experience necessary to meet the requirement of
that provision.
   (d) Any person performing occupational therapy services in the state,
if those services are performed for no more than 45 days in a calendar
year in association with an occupational therapist licensed under this
chapter, and if either of the following conditions is satisfied:
   (1) The person is licensed under the laws of another state which the
board determines has licensure requirements at least as stringent as the
requirements of this chapter.
   (2) The person successfully completes the entry-level certification
examination requirement described in subdivision (b) of Section 2570.7.
   (e) Any person employed as an aide subject to the supervision
requirements of this section.
   2570.5. (a) A limited permit may be granted to any person who has
completed the education and experience requirements of this chapter.
   (b) A person who meets the qualifications to be admitted to the
examination for licensure or certification under this chapter and is
awaiting the announcement of the results of the next succeeding
examination, according to the application requirements for a limited
permit, may practice as an occupational therapist or as an occupational
therapy assistant under the direction and appropriate supervision of an
occupational therapist duly licensed under this chapter. If that person
fails to qualify for or pass the first announced examination, all privileges
under this section shall automatically cease upon due notice to the
applicant of that failure and may not be renewed.
   (c) A limited permit shall be subject to other requirements set forth
in rules adopted by the board.
   2570.6. An applicant applying for a license as an occupational
therapist or certification as an occupational therapy assistant shall file
with the board a written application provided by the board, showing to
the satisfaction of the board that he or she meets all of the following
requirements:
   (a) That the applicant is in good standing and has not committed acts
or crimes constituting grounds for denial of a license under Section 480.
   (b) (1) That the applicant has successfully completed the academic
requirements of an educational program for occupational therapists or
occupational therapy assistants that is approved by the board and
accredited by the American Occupational Therapy Association’s
Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE).
   (2) The curriculum of an education program for occupational
therapists shall contain the content specifically required in the ACOTE
accreditation standards, including all of the following subjects:
[Ch. 697 ]             STATUTES OF 2000                           4611

   (A) Biological, behavioral, and health sciences.
   (B) Structure and function of the human body, including anatomy,
kinesiology, physiology, and the neurosciences.
   (C) Human development throughout the life span.
   (D) Human behavior in the context of sociocultural systems.
   (E) Etiology, clinical course, management, and prognosis of disease
processes and traumatic injuries, and the effects of those conditions on
human functioning.
   (F) Occupational therapy theory, practice, and process which shall
include the following:
   (i) Human performance which shall include occupational
performance throughout the life cycle, human interaction, roles, values,
and the influences of the nonhuman environment.
   (ii) Activity processes which shall include the following:
   (I) Theories underlying the use of purposeful activity and the
meaning and dynamics of activity.
   (II) Performance of selected life tasks and activities.
   (III) Analysis, adaptation, and application of purposeful activity as
therapeutic intervention.
   (IV) Use of self, dyadic, and group interaction.
   (iii) Theoretical approaches, including those related to purposeful
activity, human performance, and adaptation.
   (iv) Application of occupational therapy theory to practice, which
shall include the following:
   (I) Assessment and interpretation, observation, interviews, history,
standardized and nonstandardized tests.
   (II) Directing, planning and implementation, which shall include:
therapeutic intervention related to daily living skills and occupational
components; therapeutic adaptation, including methods of
accomplishing daily life tasks, environmental adjustments, orthotics,
and assistive devices and equipment; and health maintenance, including
energy conservation, joint protection, body mechanics, and positioning;
prevention programs to foster age-appropriate recommendations to
maximize treatment gains.
   (III) Program termination including reevaluation, determination of
discharge, summary of occupational therapy outcome, and appropriate
recommendations to maximize treatment gains.
   (IV) Documentation.
   (v) Development and implementation of quality assurance.
   (vi) Management of occupational therapy service, which shall
include:
   (I) Planning services for client groups.
   (II) Personnel management, including occupational therapy
assistants, aides, volunteers, and level I students.
 4612                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 697 ]
   (III) Departmental operations, including budgeting, scheduling,
recordkeeping, safety, and maintenance of supplies and equipment.
   (3) The curriculum of an education program for occupational therapy
assistants shall contain the content specifically required in the ACOTE
accreditation standards, including all of the following subjects:
   (A) Biological, behavioral, and health sciences.
   (B) Structure and function of the normal human body.
   (C) Human development.
   (D) Conditions commonly referred to occupational therapists.
   (E) Occupational therapy principles and skills, which shall include
the following:
   (i) Human performance, including life tasks and roles as related to the
developmental process from birth to death.
   (ii) Activity processes and skills, which shall include the following:
   (I) Performance of selected life tasks and activities.
   (II) Analysis and adaptation of activities.
   (III) Instruction of individuals and groups in selected life tasks and
activities.
   (iii) Concepts related to occupational therapy practice, which shall
include the following:
   (I) The importance of human occupation as a health determinant.
   (II) The use of self, interpersonal, and communication skills.
   (iv) Use of occupational therapy concepts and skills, which shall
include the following:
   (I) Data collection, which shall include structured observation and
interviews, history, and structured tests.
   (II) Participation in planning and implementation, which shall
include: therapeutic intervention related to daily living skills and
occupational components; therapeutic adaptation, including methods of
accomplishing daily life tasks, environmental adjustments, orthotics,
and assistive devices and equipment; health maintenance, including
mental health techniques, energy conservation, joint protection, body
mechanics, and positioning; and prevention programs to foster
age-appropriate balance of self-care and work.
   (III) Program termination, including assisting in reevaluation,
summary of occupational therapy outcome, and appropriate
recommendations to maximize treatment gains.
   (IV) Documentation.
   (c) That the applicant has successfully completed a period of
supervised fieldwork experience approved by the board and arranged by
a recognized educational institution where he or she met the academic
requirements of subdivision (b) or arranged by a nationally recognized
professional association. The fieldwork requirements shall be as
follows:
[Ch. 697 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4613

   (1) For an occupational therapist, a minimum of 960 hours of
supervised fieldwork experience shall be completed within 24 months
of the completion of didactic coursework.
   (2) For an occupational therapy assistant, a minimum of 640 hours of
supervised fieldwork experience shall be completed within 20 months
of the completion of didactic coursework.
   (d) That the applicant has passed an examination as provided in
Section 2570.7.
   (e) That the applicant, at the time of application, is a person over 18
years of age, is not addicted to alcohol or any controlled substance, and
has not committed acts or crimes constituting grounds for denial of
licensure or certification under Section 480.
   2570.7. (a) An applicant who has satisfied the requirements of
Section 2570.6 may apply for examination for licensure or certification
in a manner prescribed by the board. Subject to the provisions of this
chapter, an applicant who fails an examination may apply for
reexamination.
   (b) Each applicant for licensure or certification shall successfully
complete the entry level certification examination for occupational
therapists or occupational therapy assistants approved by the board, such
as the examination administered by the National Board for Certification
in Occupational Therapy or by another nationally recognized
credentialing body. The examination shall be appropriately validated.
Each applicant shall be examined by written examination to test his or
her knowledge of the basic and clinical sciences relating to occupational
therapy, occupational therapy techniques and methods, and any other
subjects that the board may require to determine the applicant’s fitness
to practice under this chapter.
   (c) Applicants for licensure or certification shall be examined at a
time and place and under that supervision as the board may require.
Examinations shall be given at least twice each year at places determined
by the board. The board shall give reasonable public notice of these
examinations pursuant to rules adopted by the board.
   2570.8. (a) The board may grant a license or certificate to any
person who applies on or before January 1, 2003, and who met the
requirements of Section 2570 before January 1, 2003.
   (b) The board may grant a license or certificate to any applicant who
presents proof of current licensure as an occupational therapist or
occupational therapy assistant in another state, the District of Columbia,
or territory of the United States, if that jurisdiction requires standards for
licensure considered by the board to meet or exceed the requirements for
licensure or certification under this chapter.
   (c) An applicant seeking a license or certificate under this section
based on his or her current practice shall submit to the board all of the
 4614                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 697 ]
following as proof of actual practice within one year of the effective date
of this chapter:
   (1) The applicant’s affidavit containing all of the following
information:
   (A) The location and dates of the applicant’s employment for the
relevant period.
   (B) A description of the capacity in which the applicant was
employed, including job title and description of specific duties and the
nature of the patients or clientele.
   (C) The name and job title of the applicant’s supervisor.
   (2) A written job description.
   (3) The employer’s affidavit containing all of the following
information:
   (A) The dates of the applicant’s employment for the relevant period.
   (B) A description of the applicant’s specific duties.
   (C) The title of the person completing the affidavit.
   (d) After reviewing the information submitted under subdivision (c),
the board may require additional information necessary to enable it to
determine whether to grant a license or certificate under this section.
   2570.9. The board shall issue a license or certificate to any applicant
who meets the requirements of this chapter, including the payment of the
prescribed licensure, certification, or renewal fee, and who meets any
other requirement in accordance with applicable state law.
   2570.10. (a) Any license or certificate issued under this chapter
shall be subject to renewal as prescribed by the board and shall expire
unless renewed in that manner. The board may provide for the late
renewal of a license or certificate as provided for in Section 163.5.
   (b) In addition to any other qualifications and requirements for
licensure or certification renewal, the board may by rule establish and
require the satisfactory completion of continuing competency
requirements as a condition of renewal of a license or certificate.
   2570.11. Upon a written request, the board may grant inactive status
to an occupational therapist or occupational therapy assistant who is in
good standing, who meets the requirements of Section 462.
   2570.13. (a) Consistent with this section, subdivisions (a), (b), and
(c) of Section 2570.2, and accepted professional standards, the board
shall adopt rules necessary to assure appropriate supervision of
occupational therapy assistants and aides.
   (b) A certified occupational therapy assistant may practice only under
the supervision of an occupational therapist who is authorized to practice
occupational therapy in this state.
   (c) An aide providing delegated, client-related supportive services
shall require continuous and direct supervision by an occupational
therapist.
[Ch. 697 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4615

  2570.14. Any initial applicant who has not been actively engaged in
the practice of occupational therapy within the past five years shall
provide to the board, in addition to the requirements for licensure under
Section 2570.6, any of the following:
  (a) Evidence of continued competency as referred to in subdivision
(b) of Section 2570.10 for the previous two-year period.
  (b) Evidence of having completed the entry-level certification
examination as described in subdivision (b) of Section 2570.7 within the
previous two-year period.
  (c) Evidence of having successfully completed a board-approved
educational program specifically designed for applicants preparing for
reentry into the field of occupational therapy.
  2570.15. Occupational therapists and occupational therapy
assistants trained outside of the United States and its possessions shall
be required to satisfy the examination requirements of Section 2570.7.
The board shall require that these applicants have completed educational
and supervised fieldwork requirements substantially equal to those
contained in Section 2570.6, before taking the examination.
  2570.16. Initial license or certification and renewal fees shall be
established by the board in an amount that does not exceed a ceiling of
one hundred fifty dollars ($150) per year. The board shall establish the
following additional fees:
  (a) A late renewal fee as provided for in Section 2570.10.
  (b) A limited permit fee.
  (c) A fee to collect fingerprints for criminal history record checks.
  2570.17. The board may, after a hearing in accordance with the
Administrative Procedure Act, deny a license or certificate, or suspend
or revoke the license or certificate of, or place on probation, reprimand,
censure, or otherwise discipline, a licensee or certificated person in
accordance with Section 480.
  2570.18. (a) On and after January 1, 2003, a person shall not
represent to the public by title, by description of services, methods, or
procedures, or otherwise, that the person is authorized to practice
occupational therapy in this state, unless authorized to practice
occupational therapy under this chapter.
  (b) Unless licensed to practice as an occupational therapist under this
chapter, a person may not use the professional abbreviations ‘‘O.T.,’’
‘‘O.T.R.,’’ or ‘‘O.T.R./L.,’’ or ‘‘Occupational Therapist,’’ or
‘‘Occupational Therapist Registered,’’ or any other words, letters, or
symbols with the intent to represent that the person practices or is
authorized to practice occupational therapy.
  (c) Unless certified to assist in the practice of occupational therapy as
an occupational therapy assistant under this chapter, a person may not
use the professional abbreviations ‘‘O.T.A.,’’ ‘‘C.O.T.A.,’’
 4616                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 697 ]
‘‘C.O.T.A./C.’’ or ‘‘Occupational Therapy Assistant,’’ or ‘‘Certified
Occupational Therapy Assistant,’’ or any other words, letters, or
symbols, with the intent to represent that the person assists in, or is
authorized to assist in, the practice of occupational therapy as an
occupational therapy assistant.
   (d) The unauthorized practice or representation as an occupational
therapist or as an occupational therapy assistant constitutes an unfair
business practice under Section 17200 and false and misleading
advertising under Section 17500.
   2570.185. An occupational therapist shall document his or her
evaluation, goals, treatment plan, and summary of treatment in the
patient record. Patient records shall be maintained for a period of no less
than seven years following the discharge of the patient, except that the
records of unemancipated minors shall be maintained at least one year
after the minor has reached the age of 18 years, and not in any case less
than seven years.
   2570.19. (a) There is hereby created a California Board of
Occupational Therapy, hereinafter referred to as the board. The board
shall enforce and administer this chapter.
   (b) The members of the board shall consist of the following:
   (1) Three occupational therapists who shall have practiced
occupational therapy for five years.
   (2) One occupational therapy assistant who shall have assisted in the
practice of occupational therapy for five years.
   (3) Three public members who shall not be licentiates of the board or
of any board referred to in Section 1000 or 3600.
   (c) The Governor shall appoint the three occupational therapists and
one occupational therapy assistant to be members of the board. The
Governor, the Senate Rules Committee, and the Speaker of the
Assembly shall each appoint a public member. Not more than one
member of the board shall be appointed from the full-time faculty of any
university, college, or other educational institution.
   (d) All members shall be residents of California at the time of their
appointment. The occupational therapist and occupational therapy
assistant members shall have been engaged in rendering occupational
therapy services to the public, teaching, or research in occupational
therapy for at least five years preceding their appointments.
   (e) The public members may not be or have ever been occupational
therapists or occupational therapy assistants or in training to become
occupational therapists or occupational therapy assistants. The public
members may not be related to or have a household member who is an
occupational therapist or an occupational therapy assistant and may not
have had within two years of the appointment a substantial financial
interest in a person regulated by the board.
[Ch. 697 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4617

   (f) The Governor shall appoint two board members for a term of one
year, two board members for a term of two years, and one board member
for a term of three years. Appointments made thereafter shall be for
four-year terms, but no person shall be appointed to serve more than two
consecutive terms. Terms shall begin on the first day of the calendar year
and end on the last day of the calendar year or until successors are
appointed, except for the first appointed members who shall serve
through the last calendar day of the year in which they are appointed,
before commencing the terms prescribed by this section. Vacancies shall
be filled by appointment for the unexpired term. The board shall
annually elect one of its members as president.
   (g) The board shall meet and hold at least one regular meeting
annually in the Cities of Sacramento, Los Angeles, and San Francisco.
The board may convene from time to time until its business is concluded.
Special meetings of the board may be held at any time and place
designated by the board.
   (h) Notice of each meeting of the board shall be given in accordance
with the Bagley-Keene Open Meeting Act (Article 9 (commencing with
Section 11120) of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the
Government Code).
   (i) Members of the board shall receive no compensation for their
services but shall be entitled to reasonable travel and other expenses
incurred in the execution of their powers and duties in accordance with
Section 103.
   (j) The appointing power shall have the power to remove any member
of the board from office for neglect of any duty imposed by state law, for
incompetency, or for unprofessional or dishonorable conduct.
   (k) A loan is hereby authorized from the General Fund to the
Occupational Therapy Fund on or after July 1, 2000, in an amount of up
to one million dollars ($1,000,000) to fund operating, personnel, and
other startup costs of the board. Six hundred ten thousand dollars
($610,000) of this loan amount is hereby appropriated to the board to use
in the 2000-01 fiscal year for the purposes described in this subdivision.
In subsequent years, funds from the Occupational Therapy Fund shall be
available to the board upon appropriation by the Legislature in the
annual Budget Act. The loan shall be repaid to the General Fund over a
period of up to five years, and the amount paid shall also include interest
at the rate accruing to moneys in the Pooled Money Investment Account.
The loan amount and repayment period shall be minimized to the extent
possible based upon actual board financing requirements as determined
by the Department of Finance.
   (l) This section shall become inoperative on July 1, 2006, and, as of
January 1, 2007, is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, which
becomes effective on or before January 1, 2006, deletes or extends the
 4618                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 697 ]
dates on which it becomes inoperative and is repealed. The repeal of this
section renders the board subject to the review required by Division 1.2
(commencing with Section 473).
   2570.20. (a) The board shall administer, coordinate, and enforce
the provisions of this chapter, evaluate the qualifications, and approve
the examinations for licensure under this chapter.
   (b) The board shall adopt rules in accordance with the Administrative
Procedure Act relating to professional conduct to carry out the purpose
of this chapter, including, but not limited to, rules relating to
professional licensure or certification and to the establishment of ethical
standards of practice for persons holding a license to practice
occupational therapy and for persons certified to assist in the practice of
occupational therapy in this state.
   (c) Proceedings under this chapter shall be conducted in accordance
with Section 5102.
   2570.21. Subject to Sections 107 and 154, the board may employ an
executive officer and other officers and employees
   2570.22. All fees collected by the board shall be paid into the State
Treasury and shall be credited to the Occupational Therapy Fund which
is hereby created. The money in the fund shall be available, upon
appropriation by the Legislature, for expenditure by the board to defray
its expenses and to otherwise administer this chapter.
   2570.23. Any person who violates Section 2570.3 is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine
of not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by imprisonment of
not more than one year in a county jail, or by both that fine and
imprisonment.
   2570.24. If any provision of this chapter, or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, that invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of this chapter which can be given
effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end, the
provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable.
   SEC. 4. Except for Section 2 of this act, this act shall become
operative January 1, 2001. Section 2 of this act shall become operative
January 1, 2003.
   SEC. 5. Section 1.1 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section
101 of the Business and Professions Code proposed by both this bill and
SB 2031. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 101 of the Business and Professions Code, and (3) this bill is
enacted after SB 2031, in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not
become operative.
   SEC. 6. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
[Ch. 698 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4619

only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 698

  An act to add Section 8570.5 to the Government Code, relating to
agricultural disasters, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect
immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8570.5 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   8570.5. The Office of Emergency Services shall develop a guidance
document to the state emergency plan to specify the response of the state
and its political subdivisions to agriculture-related disasters. This
document shall be completed by January 2002 and shall include, but not
be limited to, all of the following:
   (a) The roles and responsibilities of the county agricultural
commissioners.
   (b) The roles and responsibilities of the Department of Agriculture
and other relevant state agencies that are involved in the response to
agriculture-related disasters.
   (c) Coordination of initial and ongoing crop damage assessments.
   (d) Disaster assistance between the time of the request for a federal
disaster declaration and issuance of a federal declaration.
   (e) State assistance available if a requested federal declaration is not
issued.
   (f) State assistance under a United States Department of Agriculture
designation rather than a federal declaration.
   (g) State assistance for long-term unemployment in areas with high
unemployment rates prior to an emergency.
   (h) Provision for the removal and elimination of extraordinary
numbers of dead livestock for purposes of protecting public health and
safety.
 4620                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 699 ]
  (i) Strategies to assist in the development of an integrated and
coordinated response by community-based organizations to the victims
of agriculture-related disasters.
  (j) Procedures for the decontamination of individuals who have been
or may have been exposed to hazardous materials, which may vary
depending on the hazards posed by a particular hazardous material. The
report shall specify that individuals shall be assisted in a humanitarian
manner.
  (k) Integration of various local and state emergency response plans,
including, but not limited to, plans that relate to hazardous materials, oil
spills, public health emergencies, and general disasters.
  SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order that farmers affected by natural or quarantine disasters may
receive the benefits of this act at the earliest possible time, it is necessary
for this act to take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 699

  An act to amend Sections 15363.72 and 15363.75 of, and to repeal and
add Section 15363.73 of, the Government Code, relating to economic
development.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 15363.72 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   15363.72. For purposes of this chapter, the following meanings
shall apply:
   (a) ‘‘Agency’’ means the Trade and Commerce Agency, which
includes the California Film Commission.
   (b) ‘‘Film’’ means any commercial production for motion picture,
television, commercial, or still photography.
   (c) ‘‘Film costs’’ means the usual and customary charges by a public
agency connected with the production of a film, limited to any of the
following:
   (1) State employee costs.
   (2) Federal employee costs.
[Ch. 699 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4621

   (3) Federal, state, University of California, and California State
University permits and rental costs.
   (4) Local public entity employee costs for fire services and nonpolice
public safety, including, but not limited to, municipal utilities,
transportation and street maintenance, and recreational agencies.
   (5) Local property use fees.
   (6) Rental costs for equipment mandated and owned by a public
agency in connection with the film.
   (d) ‘‘Fund’’ means the Film California First Fund, established
pursuant to Section 15363.74.
   (e) ‘‘Production company’’ means a company, partnership, or
corporation, engaged in the production of film.
   (f) ‘‘Program’’ means the Film California First Program established
pursuant to this chapter.
   (g) ‘‘Public agency’’ means any of the following:
   (1) The State of California, and any of its agencies, departments,
boards, or commissions.
   (2) The federal government, and any of its agencies, departments,
boards, or commissions.
   (3) The University of California.
   (4) The California State University.
   (5) California local public entities.
   (6) Any nonprofit corporation acting as an agent for the recovery of
costs incurred by any of the entities listed in this subdivision.
   SEC. 2. Section 15363.73 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 15363.73 is added to the Government Code, to read:
   15363.73. (a) The Trade and Commerce Agency may pay and
reimburse the film costs incurred by a public agency, subject to an audit.
The director of the commission shall develop alternate procedures for
the reimbursement of public agency costs incurred by the production
company. The Trade and Commerce Agency shall only reimburse actual
costs incurred and may not reimburse for duplicative costs.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Controller shall
pay any program invoice received from the agency that contains
documentation detailing the film costs, and if the party requesting
payment or reimbursement is a public agency, a certification that the
invoice is not duplicative cost recovery, and an agreement by the public
agency that the Trade and Commerce Agency may audit the public
agency for invoice compliance with the program requirements.
   (c) (1) Not more than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000)
shall be expended to pay or reimburse costs incurred on any one film.
   (2) In developing the procedures and guidelines for the program, the
commission may, in consultation with interested public agencies,
establish limits on per-day film costs that the state will reimbugrse. A
 4622                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 699 ]
consultation and comment period shall begin on January 1, 2001, and
shall end 30 days thereafter.
  (d) (1) Upon receipt of all necessary film costs documentation from
a public agency, the Trade and Commerce Agency shall transmit the
appropriate information to the Controller for payment of the film costs
within 30 days.
  (2) Public agencies shall be entitled to reimbursement for certain
administrative costs, to be determined by the director of the commission,
incurred while participating in the program. The reimbursement for
administrative costs shall not exceed 1 percent of the total amount of the
invoices submitted. Reimbursement shall have an annual cap imposed
of not more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per public agency
participating in the program. Contracted agents working on behalf of
two or more public agencies shall have a cap of not more than twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000) annually.
  (e) The commission shall prepare annual preliminary reports to be
submitted to the Joint Legislative Budget Committee in regard to the
program prior to the adoption of the annual Budget Act. The reports shall
include a list of all entities that received funds from the program, the
amounts they received, and the public services that were reimbursed.
The commission shall prepare and submit a final report to the committee
no later than January 1, 2004.
  (f) The commission shall, in consultation with the Department of
Industrial Relations and the Employment Development Department,
contract with an independent audit firm or qualified academic expert, to
prepare a report to be submitted to the Joint Legislative Budget
Committee no later than January 1, 2004, that identifies the beneficiaries
of expenditures from the Film California First Fund, and determines the
impact of these expenditures on job retention and job creation in
California.
  SEC. 4. Section 15363.75 of the Government Code is amended to
read:
  15363.75. Procedures and guidelines promulgated to clarify and
make specific provisions of the program established pursuant to this
chapter, or of any other film assistance program within the agency, shall
be exempt from the requirements of Chapter 3.5 (commencing with
Section 11340) of Part 1 for a period of 36 months after the effective date
of this chapter. Following the 36-month exemption, the commission
may adopt regulations concerning the implementation of this chapter as
emergency regulations in accordance with Chapter 3.5 (commencing
with Section 11340) of Part 1. The adoption of these regulations is an
emergency and necessary for the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health and safety, or general welfare within the meaning of
subdivision (b) of Section 11346.1. Notwithstanding subdivision (e) of
[Ch. 700 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4623

Section 11346.1, the regulations shall not remain in effect for more than
180 days unless the commission complies with all provisions of Chapter
3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1, as required by
subdivision (e) of Section 11346.1.



                             CHAPTER 700

   An act to add Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 14999.50) to Part
5.7 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, relating to film and
television production.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 14999.50) is
added to Part 5.7 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, to
read:

   CHAPTER 4.      STATE THEATRICAL ARTS RESOURCES PARTNERSHIP

   14999.50. It is the intent of the Legislature to help develop
California’s film industry and thereby further strengthen the state’s
economy by providing surplus government-owned property to film and
television movie production companies at a low cost.
   14999.55. (a) The State Theatrical Arts Resources (STAR)
Partnership is hereby established within the California Film
Commission.
   (b) The commission shall collaborate with the Department of General
Services and other appropriate state agencies in identifying surplus state
properties that may be available for use under the partnership.
   (c) The commission shall list available properties for the use of
filmmakers and location scouts at an interactive web site, with relevant
information about the properties and instructions for contacting the
commission and obtaining use of the properties.
   (d) The state properties identified under the program shall be made
available for film and television production at a nominal fee, as
established by the commission and the Department of General Services
or other appropriate state agency. Production companies shall be
responsible for any additional related costs, such as maintenance or
electrical costs, that the state incurs because of filming at the property.
 4624                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 701 ]
   (e) The commission shall work with the Film Liaisons in California,
Statewide, to establish local STAR partnerships to identify local surplus
or unused government property or assets that may be used for film and
television movie production.



                             CHAPTER 701

 An act to amend Sections 12698, 12705, and 12725 of the Insurance
Code, relating to health insurance, and making an appropriation therefor.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. This act shall be known and may be cited as the
California Indian Health Insurance Purchase Act of 1999.
   SEC. 2. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
   (a) California’s Native American tribes lack access to adequate health
care services and to health care coverage. The rural areas in which tribes
traditionally have resided and the lack of employment relationships of
some tribal members make health care coverage difficult to obtain for
California’s federally recognized Indian tribes and their members.
   (b) At least two licensed health care service plans have agreed to offer
group health care coverage to members of California tribes under certain
conditions, including requirements pertaining to eligibility,
participation, and tribal contributions toward premiums, and have
agreed to file an undertaking with the Department of Managed Care
describing these efforts. These health plans have also agreed to make
affirmative efforts to market this coverage to tribes in California.
   (c) It is the intent of the Legislature that these health care service plans
provide information to the Department of Managed Care, beginning on
or before December 31, 2001, on their marketing efforts to California
tribes, the number of tribes that elect to purchase coverage, the number
of tribal members that are covered pursuant to agreements with these
health plans, and the participation of agents and brokers in this effort. It
is the intent of the Legislature that these reports continue annually until
December 31, 2006.
   SEC. 3. Section 12698 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
   12698. To be eligible to participate in the program, a person shall
meet all of the following requirements:
[Ch. 701 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4625

   (a) Be a resident of the state for at least six continuous months prior
to application. A person who is a member of a federally recognized
California Indian tribe is a resident of the state for these purposes.
   (b) (1) Until the first day of the second month following the effective
date of the amendment made to this subdivision in 1994, have a
household income that does not exceed 250 percent of the official federal
poverty level unless the board determines that the program funds are
adequate to serve households above that level.
   (2) Upon the first day of the second month following the effective
date of the amendment made to this subdivision in 1994, have a
household income that is above 200 percent of the official federal
poverty level but does not exceed 250 percent of the official federal
poverty level unless the board determines that the program funds are
adequate to serve households above the 250 percent of the official federal
poverty level.
   (c) Pay an initial subscriber contribution of not more than fifty dollars
($50), and agree to the payment of the complete subscriber contribution.
A federally recognized California Indian tribal government may make
the initial and complete subscriber contributions on behalf of a member
of the tribe only if a contribution on behalf of members of federally
recognized California Indian tribes does not limit or preclude federal
financial participation under Title XXI of the Social Security Act. If a
federally recognized California Indian tribal government makes a
contribution on behalf of a member of the tribe, the tribal government
shall ensure that the subscriber is made aware of all the health plan
options available in the county where the member resides..
   SEC. 4. Section 12705 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
   12705. For the purposes of this part, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (a) ‘‘Applicant’’ means an individual who applies for major risk
medical coverage through the program.
   (b) ‘‘Board’’ means the Managed Risk Medical Insurance Board.
   (c) ‘‘Fund’’ means the Major Risk Medical Insurance Fund, from
which the program may authorize expenditures to pay for medically
necessary services which exceed subscribers’ contributions, and for
administration of the program.
   (d) ‘‘Major risk medical coverage’’ means the payment for medically
necessary services provided by institutional and professional providers.
   (e) ‘‘Participating health plan’’ means a private insurer (1) holding a
valid outstanding certificate of authority from the Insurance
Commissioner, a nonprofit hospital service plan qualifying under
Chapter 11A (commencing with Section 11491) of Part 2 of Division 2,
a nonprofit membership corporation lawfully operating under the
Nonprofit Corporation Law (Division 2 (commencing with Section
 4626                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 701 ]
5000) of the Corporations Code), or a health care service plan as defined
under subdivision (f) of Section 1345 of the Health and Safety Code,
which is lawfully engaged in providing, arranging, paying for, or
reimbursing the cost of personal health care services under insurance
policies or contracts, medical and hospital service agreements, or
membership contracts, in consideration of premiums or other periodic
charges payable to it, and (2) which contracts with the program to
administer major risk medical coverage to program subscribers.
   (f) ‘‘Plan rates’’ means the total monthly amount charged by a
participating health plan for a category of risk.
   (g) ‘‘Program’’ means the California Major Risk Medical Insurance
Program.
   (h) ‘‘Subscriber’’ means an individual who is eligible for and receives
major risk medical coverage through the program, and includes a
member of a federally recognized California Indian tribe.
   (i) ‘‘Subscriber contribution’’ means the portion of participating
health plan rates paid by the subscriber, or paid on behalf of the
subscriber by a federally recognized California Indian tribal
government. If a federally recognized California Indian tribal
government makes a contribution on behalf of a member of the tribe, the
tribal government shall ensure that the subscriber is made aware of all
the health plan options available in the county where the member
resides.
   SEC. 5. Section 12725 of the Insurance Code is amended to read:
   12725. Each resident of the state meeting the eligibility criteria of
this section and who is unable to secure adequate private health coverage
is eligible to apply for major risk medical coverage through the program.
For these purposes, ‘‘resident’’ includes a member of a federally
recognized California Indian tribe. To be eligible for enrollment in the
program an applicant shall have been rejected for health care coverage
by at least one private health plan. An applicant shall be deemed to have
been rejected if the only private health coverage which the applicant
could secure would (1) impose substantial waivers which the program
determines would leave a subscriber without adequate coverage for
medically necessary services, or (2) would afford such limited coverage,
as the program determines would leave the subscriber without adequate
coverage for medically necessary services, or (3) would afford coverage
only at an excessive price, which the board determines is significantly
above standard average individual coverage rates. Rejection for policies
or certificates of specified disease or policies or certificates of hospital
confinement indemnity, as described in Section 10198.61, shall not be
deemed to be rejection for the purposes of eligibility for enrollment. The
board may permit dependents of eligible subscribers to enroll in major
risk medical coverage through the program if the board determines the
[Ch. 702 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4627

enrollment can be carried out in an actuarially and administratively
sound manner.



                             CHAPTER 702

 An act to amend Sections 17021 and 17055 of the Health and Safety
Code, relating to housing.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 17021 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   17021. (a) Except as provided in Sections 17021.5 and 17021.6,
local use zone requirements, local fire zones, property line, source of
water supply and method of sewage disposal requirements are hereby
specifically and entirely reserved to the local jurisdictions.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, with respect to a
building permit, grading permit, or other approval from a city or county
building department for the rehabilitation of real property improvements
that are or will be employee housing for agricultural employees, or from
a city or county health department for the operation, construction, or
repair of a water system or waste disposal system servicing employee
housing for agricultural employees, all of the following processing
requirements shall apply:
   (1) The local building or health department shall have up to 60
calendar days to approve or deny a complete application or permit
request accompanied by applicable fees, or a shorter time period if
required by the Permit Streamlining Act (Chapter 4.5 (commencing with
Section 65920) of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code). An
application or permit request may be denied on procedural grounds only
if the denial occurs within 30 calendar days and the denial includes an
itemization of the procedural defects. An application or permit request
may be denied on substantive grounds if the denial includes an
itemization of all substantive defects.
   (2) If the application or permit request is not approved or denied by
the local building or health department within the period prescribed by
paragraph (1), then the Department of Housing and Community
Development may approve the application or permit request if it
determines that the plans are consistent with all applicable building
codes and health and safety requirements. At that time, the applicant may
 4628                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 702 ]
initiate any work consistent with the application or permit approved
pursuant to this subdivision. Upon completion of the work, any other
state or local agency shall accept the improvements as if they had been
approved by the local building or health department. However, if that
other local agency identifies any defects that would have resulted in that
agency’s disapproval of the improvements or plans thereto, those defects
may be identified by the agency and shall be corrected by the applicant.
The local building or health department shall inspect the plans and
improvements prior to and during rehabilitation and issue a certificate
of completion if the work is consistent with the plans and all applicable
building codes and health and safety requirements.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt an application
or permit request from complying with the California Environmental
Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the
Public Resources Code).
   (d) For purposes of this section, ‘‘agricultural employee’’ has the
same meaning specified in subdivision (b) of Section 1140.4 of the
Labor Code.
   SEC. 2. Section 17055 of the Health and Safety Code is amended
to read:
   17055. (a) Any person residing in employee housing subject to this
part may file an administrative complaint orally or in writing with the
enforcement agency. The enforcement agency shall deliver a summary
or copy of the complaint, by mail or in person, to the owner or operator,
at the time of filing the complaint.
   (b) If a civil action under this part has not been filed by the
enforcement agency within 21 days after receipt of the complaint, the
complainant may bring a civil action for injunctive or declaratory relief
and appropriate statutory damages, civil penalties, actual damages,
penalties, and other remedies which arise from any violation of this part,
building standards published in the State Building Standards Code
relating to employee housing, regulations adopted pursuant to this part,
or conditions of the permit.
   (c) In any civil action under this section, if the enforcement agency
certifies that the employee housing is in compliance with this part,
building standards published in the State Building Standards Code
relating to employee housing, regulations adopted pursuant to this part,
and conditions of the permit, no injunctive relief related to mandatory
repairs shall be granted with respect to any alleged violation covered by
the certificate.
   (d) In any civil action brought by a private person or entity under this
section, the private person or entity may be granted reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs, in addition to any other remedy granted, if the private
person or entity prevails, and if the trier of fact finds that the violations
[Ch. 703 ]                    STATUTES OF 2000                                      4629

involve retaliation or are so extensive and of such a nature that the
immediate health and safety of residents or the public is endangered or
has been endangered.
   (e) If a complainant alleges, and the court finds, that residents of the
employee housing were in imminent peril as a result of serious violations
of this part, the complainant may immediately proceed with the filing of
a civil action without regard to the 21-day waiting period specified in
subdivision (b).
   SEC. 3. Notwithstanding Section 17610 of the Government Code,
if the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains
costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school
districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing
with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
If the statewide cost of the claim for reimbursement does not exceed one
million dollars ($1,000,000), reimbursement shall be made from the
State Mandates Claims Fund.



                                  CHAPTER 703

  An act to amend Sections 44227, 44253, 44274, 44274.2, and 44275.3
of, to add Sections 44270.3, 44270.4, 44274.1, and 44275.4 to, and to
repeal Section 44274.4 of, the Education Code, relating to teacher
credentialing, making an appropriation therefor, and declaring the
urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
                [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                       Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

   On this date I have signed Assembly Bill No. 877 with a reduction.
   This bill would make specified changes to the requirements governing the issuance of
a California teaching credential to teachers who have been trained in other states, and the
issuance of a professional services credential to school administrators who have been
trained in other states. It would also authorize the Commission on Teacher Credentialing
to contract for studies of teacher and administrator training requirements in other states.
   The appropriation in this bill, however, is in excess of the amount needed for these
studies. Therefore, I am reducing the appropriation contained in this bill by $150,000 to
reflect the actual amount needed to conduct the studies of teacher and administrator
training requirements in other states. The revised appropriation shall be $350,000.
                                                              GRAY DAVIS, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1.           Section 44227 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
 4630                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 703 ]
   44227. (a) The commission may approve any institution of higher
education whose teacher education program meets the standards
prescribed by the commission, to recommend to the commission the
issuance of credentials to persons who have successfully completed
those programs.
   (b) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the
commission may approve for credit any coursework completed for
credential purposes or for step increases in programs offered in
California by out-of-state institutions of higher education that meet the
requirements prescribed by Section 94761 only if the program of courses
is offered by a regionally accredited institution and evidence of
satisfactory evaluation by both that accrediting body and the Western
Association of Schools and Colleges is submitted by the out-of-state
institution to the commission for purposes of seeking approval of the
program and any courses within that program to enable potential
teachers to meet one or more requirements for a teaching credential in
California.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 44227 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   44227. (a) The commission may approve any institution of higher
education whose teacher education program meets the standards
prescribed by the commission, to recommend to the commission the
issuance of credentials to persons who have successfully completed
those programs.
   (b) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the
commission may approve for credit any coursework completed for
credential purposes or for step increases in programs offered in
California by out-of-state institutions of higher education that meet the
requirements prescribed by Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
94700) of Part 59 of Division 10 if the program of courses is offered by
a regionally accredited institution and evidence of satisfactory
evaluation by that accrediting body is submitted by the out-of-state
institution to the commission for purposes of seeking approval of the
program and any courses within that program to enable potential
teachers to meet one or more requirements for a teaching credential in
California.
   SEC. 2. Section 44253 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   44253. (a) The commission may issue a preliminary designated
subjects teaching credential, for a period not to exceed two years,
pending completion of the requirements in subdivisions (b) and (c).
   (b) A course or examination on the provisions and principles of the
United States Constitution.
   (c) The applicant meets the requirements of this state for teacher
fitness pursuant to Sections 44339, 44340, and 44341.
   SEC. 3. Section 44270.3 is added to the Education Code, to read:
[Ch. 703 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                           4631

   44270.3. Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, the
commission shall issue a preliminary services credential with a
specialization in administrative services to an out-of-state trained
administrator who meets all of the following requirements:
   (a) Possesses a baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited
institution of higher education.
   (b) Successfully passed the basic skills proficiency test administered
pursuant to Section 44252.5.
   (c) Completed a teacher preparation program at a regionally
accredited institution of higher education, was issued an elementary,
secondary, or special education teaching credential based upon that
program, and served on that credential for at least three years.
   (d) Completed an administrator preparation program at a regionally
accredited institution of higher education and was issued, or qualified
for, an administrative services credential based upon that program.
   (e) Submitted fingerprint cards and met the requirements of
California for teacher fitness pursuant to Sections 44339, 44340, and
44341.
   SEC. 4. Section 44270.4 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   44270.4. Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, the
commission shall issue a professional services credential with a
specialization in administrative services to an out-of-state trained
administrator who meets all of the following requirements:
   (a) Possesses a baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited
institution of higher education.
   (b) Successfully passed the basic skills proficiency test administered
pursuant to Section 44252.5.
   (c) Completed a teacher preparation program at a regionally
accredited institution of higher education, was issued an elementary,
secondary, or special education teaching credential based upon that
program, and served on that credential for at least three years.
   (d) Completed an administrator preparation program at a regionally
accredited institution of higher education and was issued an
administrative services credential based upon that program.
   (e) Submitted to the commission a minimum of two rigorous
performance evaluations, one in each of the applicant’s two most recent
years of service as an administrator, upon which the applicant received
ratings of satisfactory or better.
   (f) Successfully served as a public school administrator for at least
three years or successfully completed an individual program of
professional development that included intensive mentoring, assistance,
and support as certified by the employing school district.
 4632                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 703 ]
   (g) Submitted fingerprint cards and met the requirements of
California for teacher fitness pursuant to Sections 44339, 44340, and
44341.
   SEC. 5. Section 44274 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   44274. (a) The commission shall conduct periodic reviews,
beginning in 1998, to determine whether any state has established
teacher preparation standards that are at least comparable and equivalent
to teacher preparation standards in California.
   (b) When the commission determines, pursuant to subdivision (a),
that the teacher preparation standards established by any state are at least
comparable and equivalent to teacher preparation standards in
California, the commission shall initiate negotiations with that state to
provide reciprocity in teacher credentialing.
   (c) The commission shall grant an appropriate credential to any
applicant from another state who has completed teacher preparation that
is at least comparable and equivalent to preparation that meets teacher
preparation standards in California, as determined by the commission
pursuant to this section, if the applicant has met the requirements of
California for the basic skills proficiency test pursuant to subdivision (d)
of Section 44275.3 and teacher fitness pursuant to Sections 44339,
44340, and 44341.
   (d) No reciprocity agreement established pursuant to subdivision (b)
shall exempt an out-of-state applicant from submitting an identification
card pursuant to Section 44340 and obtaining a certificate of clearance,
credential, permit, or certificate of eligibility from the commission.
   (e) The commission shall issue credentials to out-of-state prepared
teachers based on all of the following:
   (1) Equivalent preparation received outside of this state.
   (2) Equivalent reading instruction, as determined by the reviews
conducted pursuant to Section 44274.1.
   (3) Equivalent subject matter programs or credential emphasis
programs, as determined by the reviews conducted pursuant to Section
44274.1.
   SEC. 6. Section 44274.1 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   44274.1. To remove unnecessary barriers for entry into teaching for
teachers prepared in other states, the commission shall contract for
reviews of areas of teacher preparation in other states, as specified in
subdivisions (a) to (c), inclusive. The initial reviews shall commence in
2001. Supplemental reviews shall be conducted every three years after
completion of the initial review. The purpose of the review is to maintain
and utilize information to allow teachers prepared in other states to meet
specified California requirements for multiple subject and single subject
teaching credentials based upon out-of-state teacher preparation
determined by the commission to be comparable and equivalent to the
[Ch. 703 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4633

preparation required in California. Reviews shall take place in all of the
following areas of teacher preparation for the purpose of meeting the
credential requirements pursuant to Section 44275.3:
   (a) Subject matter programs or subject matter examinations pursuant
to paragraph (5) of subdivision (b) of Section 44259.
   (b) Reading instruction pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (b)
of Section 44259.
   (c) Credential emphasis programs, including, but not limited to,
emphasis programs to prepare teachers to work with English language
learners.
   SEC. 7. Section 44274.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   44274.2. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, the
commission shall issue a five-year preliminary multiple subject teaching
credential authorizing instruction in a self-contained classroom or a
five-year preliminary single subject teaching credential authorizing
instruction in departmentalized classes to any experienced out-of-state
prepared teacher who meets all of the following requirements:
   (1) Possesses a baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited
institution of higher education.
   (2) Completed a teacher preparation program at a regionally
accredited institution of higher education.
   (3) In the case of an applicant for a five-year preliminary single
subject teaching credential, completed an academic major in the subject
area of the credential sought as determined by the commission.
   (4) Earned a valid corresponding elementary or secondary teaching
credential based upon the out-of-state teacher preparation program.
   (5) Verified a minimum of three years of full-time teaching
experience completed in another state in the subject of the credential
sought.
   (6) Submitted evidence of rigorous performance evaluations on
which the applicant received ratings of satisfactory or better.
   (b) A teacher shall pass the state basic skills proficiency test
administered by the commission pursuant to Section 44252 within one
year of the issuance date of the credential in order to be eligible to
continue teaching pursuant to this section.
   (c) The commission shall issue a professional clear multiple or single
subject teaching credential to any applicant who provide verification of
five or more years of teaching experience to meet the requirement of
subdivision (a), and who documents, in a manner prescribed by the
commission, that he or she fulfills each of the following requirements:
   (1) The commission has issued to the applicant a preliminary
five-year teaching credential pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (2) The applicant has completed 150 clock hours of activities that
contribute to his or her competence, performance, and effectiveness in
 4634                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 703 ]
the education profession, and that assist the applicant in meeting or
exceeding standards for professional preparation established by the
commission.
   (d) The commission shall issue a professional clear multiple or single
subject teaching credential to any applicant who provide verification of
three or four years of teaching experience to meet the requirement of
subdivision (a), and who documents in a manner prescribed by the
commission, that he or she fulfills each of the following requirements:
   (1) The commission has issued to the applicant a preliminary
five-year teaching credential pursuant to subdivision (a).
   (2) The applicant has completed either of the following:
   (A) A program of beginning teacher support and assessment
established pursuant to Article 4.5 (commencing with Section 44279.1)
of Chapter 2 of Part 24.
   (B) An alternative program of beginning teacher induction that the
commission determines, in conjunction with the Superintendent of
Public Instruction, meets state standards for teacher induction.
   (e) The commission shall issue a five-year preliminary specialist
instruction credential authorizing instruction of pupils with disabilities
to any applicant who has not been awarded a credential pursuant to
subdivision (b) of Section 44275.3 and who fulfills all of the following
requirements:
   (1) A baccalaureate or higher degree from a regionally accredited
institution of higher education.
   (2) Completion of a professional preparation program in the
requested education specialist category.
   (3) A valid corresponding special education credential from another
state.
   (4) A minimum of three years of full-time teaching experience in the
subject of the credential sought.
   (5) Submission of evidence of rigorous performance evaluations on
which the applicant received ratings of satisfactory or better.
   (6) Passage of the state basic skills proficiency test, administered by
the commission, pursuant to Section 44252, within one year of the
issuance date of the credential.
   (f) The commission shall issue a professional clear instruction
credential to any applicant who fulfills the requirements for the
professional clear Level II Education Specialist Instruction Credential,
as established by the commission.
   SEC. 8. Section 44274.4 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 9. Section 44275.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:
   44275.3. Notwithstanding any other provision of law:
   (a) It is the intent of the Legislature that both of the following occur:
[Ch. 703 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4635

   (1) That this section provide flexibility to enable school districts to
recruit credentialed out-of-state elementary, secondary, and special
education teachers to relocate to California.
   (2) That any and all teachers hired in California pursuant to this
section fully meet the requirements of the State of California, or
requirements deemed to be equivalent.
   (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the
commission shall issue a five-year preliminary multiple subject or single
subject teaching credential or a five-year preliminary education
specialist credential to any out-of-state prepared teacher who meets all
of the following requirements:
   (1) Possesses a baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited
institution of higher education.
   (2) Completed a teacher preparation program at a regionally
accredited institution of higher education.
   (3) Successfully completes any criminal background check
conducted pursuant to Sections 44339, 44340, and 44341 for
credentialing purposes.
   (4) Earned or qualified for a corresponding elementary, secondary, or
special education teaching credential based upon the out-of-state teacher
preparation program. The area of concentration of the special education
credential program completed out of state shall correspond with the
areas of concentration for the California credential awarded.
   (c) An out-of-state prepared teacher who has been issued a California
five-year preliminary multiple subject, single subject, or education
specialist teaching credential shall pass the state basic skills proficiency
test, administered by the commission pursuant to Section 44252, within
one year of the issuance date of the credential in order to be eligible to
continue teaching pursuant to this section.
   (d) The commission shall issue a professional clear credential to an
out-of-state prepared teacher who has met the requirements in
subdivision (b) and who meets the following requirements:
   (1) Passage of the state basic skills proficiency test administered by
the commission pursuant to Section 44252.
   (2) Demonstration of subject matter competence by completion of
coursework or an examination approved by the commission pursuant to
paragraph (5) of subdivision (b) of Section 44259. Completion of
subject matter in another state that has been determined by the
commission to be comparable or equivalent pursuant to paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) of Section 44274.1 shall meet this requirement.
   (3) Completion of a course, or for multiple subject credentials, a
course or an examination, on the various methods of teaching reading
pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (b) of Section 44259.
Completion of coursework in another state determined by the
 4636                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 703 ]
commission to be comparable and equivalent pursuant to paragraph (2)
of subdivision (a) of Section 44274.1 shall meet this requirement.
   (4) Completion of a course or examination on the provisions and
principles of the United States Constitution pursuant to paragraph (6) of
subdivision (b) of Section 44259. Completion of coursework in another
state determined by the commission to be comparable and equivalent
shall meet this requirement.
   (5) Completion of the study of health education pursuant to
subparagraph (A) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 44259.
Completion of coursework in another state determined by the
commission to be comparable and equivalent shall meet this
requirement.
   (6) Completion of study and field experience in methods of
delivering appropriate educational services to pupils with exceptional
needs in regular education programs. Completion of coursework in
another state determined by the commission to be comparable and
equivalent shall meet this requirement.
   (7) Completion of the study of computer based technology through
demonstration by course or examination of basic competence in the use
of computers in the classroom, and study of advanced computer based
technology, including the uses of technology in educational settings
pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of
Section 44259. Completion of coursework in another state determined
by the commission to be comparable and equivalent shall meet this
requirement.
   (8) Completion of a fifth-year program at a regionally accredited
institution of higher education, except that the commission shall
eliminate this requirement for any candidate who has completed an
induction program for beginning teachers.
   (9) A teacher holding a specialist credential pursuant to this section
shall complete the requirements for nonspecial education pedagogy and
a supervised field experience program in general education pursuant to
Section 44265.
   (10) A teacher holding a specialist credential pursuant to this section
shall complete a program for the Professional Level II credential
accredited by the Committee on Accreditation, established pursuant to
Section 44373, and the requirements specified in this subdivision.
   SEC. 10. Section 44275.4 is added to the Education Code, to read:
   44275.4. Notwithstanding any other provision of law:
   (a) It is the intent of the Legislature that both of the following occur:
   (1) That this section provide flexibility to enable school districts to
recruit credentialed elementary, secondary, and special education
teachers prepared in countries other than the United States to relocate
temporarily or permanently to this state.
[Ch. 703 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4637

   (2) That any and all teachers prepared in countries other than the
United States who are granted a California teaching credential pursuant
to this section fully meet the requirements of this state.
   (b) Coursework, programs, or degrees completed at an institution of
higher education outside of the United States are acceptable toward
certification when the Commission on Teacher Credentialing or an
evaluating agency approved by the commission has determined that the
institution’s coursework, programs, or degrees are equivalent to those
offered by a regionally accredited institution in the United States. The
commission reserves the right to accept or reject an approved evaluating
agency’s determination. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, the commission shall issue a five-year preliminary multiple
subject teaching credential, a five-year preliminary single subject
teaching credential, or a five-year preliminary education specialist
credential to a teacher prepared in a country other than the United States
who meets all of the following requirements:
   (1) The teacher holds or is eligible for a credential from another
country that required a baccalaureate or higher degree determined to be
equivalent to those offered by a regionally accredited institution in the
United States and completion of a professional preparation program
approved by the appropriate agency in the country where the program
was completed that requires the teacher to meet requirements equivalent
to the multiple or single subject teaching credential requirements in
Section 44259 or the special education credential requirements
described in Section 44265. The area of concentration of the special
education credential program completed in a country other than the
United States shall correspond with the areas of concentration for the
California credential awarded.
   (2) The teacher successfully completes a criminal background check
conducted pursuant to Sections 44339, 44340, and 44341 for
credentialing purposes.
   (c) A teacher prepared in a country other than the United States who
has been issued by the commission a five-year preliminary multiple
subject, single subject, or education specialist teaching credential shall
pass the state basic skills proficiency test, administered by the
commission pursuant to Section 44252, within one year of the issuance
date of the credential in order to be eligible to continue teaching pursuant
to this section.
   (d) The commission shall issue a professional clear credential to a
teacher prepared in a country other than the United States who has met
the requirements in subdivisions (b) and (c) and who meets the following
requirements:
 4638                    STATUTES OF 2000                    [Ch. 703 ]
   (1) Demonstration of subject matter competence by completion of
coursework or an examination approved by the commission pursuant to
paragraph (5) of subdivision (b) of Section 44259.
   (2) Completion of a course, or for multiple subject credentials, a
course or an examination, on the various methods of teaching reading
pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (b) of Section 44259.
Completion of coursework in another state or country determined by the
commission to be comparable and equivalent shall meet this
requirement.
   (3) Completion of a course or examination on the provisions and
principles of the United States Constitution pursuant to paragraph (6) of
subdivision (b) of Section 44259. Completion of coursework in another
state or country determined by the commission to be comparable and
equivalent shall meet this requirement.
   (4) Completion of the study of health education pursuant to
subparagraph (A) of paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 44259.
Completion of coursework in another state or country determined by the
commission to be comparable and equivalent shall meet this
requirement.
   (5) Completion of study and field experience in methods of
delivering appropriate educational services to pupils with exceptional
needs in regular education programs. Completion of coursework in
another state or country determined by the commission to be comparable
and equivalent shall meet this requirement.
   (6) Completion of the study of computer-based technology through
demonstration by course or examination of basic competence in the use
of computers in the classroom, and study of advanced computer-based
technology including the uses of technology in educational settings
pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 44259.
Completion of coursework in another state or country determined by the
commission as comparable and equivalent shall meet this requirement.
   (7) Completion of a fifth-year program at an institution of higher
education determined by the commission to offer equivalent programs
and degrees to those offered in the United States, except that the
commission shall eliminate this requirement for any candidate who has
completed an induction program for beginning teachers.
   (8) A teacher holding a specialist credential pursuant to this section
shall complete the requirements for nonspecial education pedagogy and
a supervised field experience program in general education pursuant to
Section 44265.
   (9) A teacher holding a specialist credential pursuant to this section
shall complete a program for the Professional Level II credential
accredited by the Committee on Accreditation, established pursuant to
[Ch. 704 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4639

Section 44373 and the requirements specified in this subdivision and
subdivision (e).
   SEC. 11. The sum of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) is
hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the Commission on
Teacher Credentialing for the purpose of contracting for the periodic
reviews required pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 44274. It is the
intent of the Legislature that funding be provided in the annual Budget
Act to update each of the periodic reviews required pursuant to
subdivision (a) of Section 44274 on a three-year cycle, commencing in
2004.
   SEC. 12. Section 1.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to
Section 44227 of the Education Code proposed by both this bill and AB
2339. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and
become effective on or before January 1, 2001, (2) each bill amends
Section 44227 of the Education Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after
AB 2339, in which case Section 1 of this bill shall not become operative.
   SEC. 13. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
   In order to help address the critical shortage of qualified teachers in
California, it is necessary to qualify out-of-state teachers to teach in this
state, and it is therefore necessary that this act take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 704

  An act relating to child care, and making an appropriation therefor, and
declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. (a) The sum of forty-two million dollars
($42,000,000) is hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the State
Department of Education for the purposes of funding, on a one-time
basis, the following activities related to child care and development
services:
  (1) Expansion of child care facilities in state-subsidized centers
through the purchase of portable facilities or renovation and remodeling
of existing space through the Child Care Facilities Revolving Fund
established pursuant to Section 8278.3.
 4640                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 704 ]
   (2) Grants for repairs and modifications to existing state-subsidized
child care facilities to comply with health and safety and other licensing
requirements and the federal Americans With Disabilities Act, and to
increase inclusion of children with disabilities.
   (3) Grants for equipment and instructional materials for
state-subsidized child care providers, including those necessary to
increase the inclusion of children with disabilities. Any grants for
instructional materials shall be for the purpose of purchasing materials
aligned with either the state’s academic content standards for
kindergarten and grades 1 to 12, inclusive, or the state’s prekindergarten
learning and development guidelines for preschool age children.
   (4) Grants for state-subsidized child care providers to bring
playground equipment into compliance with regulatory requirements.
   (b) It is intended that the State Department of Education not impose
traditional limits on grant amounts or on the number of grants to child
care providers for purposes of paragraphs (2), (3), or (4) of subdivision
(a), in order to maximize service to children where need is demonstrated.
The State Department of Education shall give priority in the allocation
of funds pursuant to subdivision (a) to underserved areas and to
expanding capacity to serve disabled children.
   (c) (1) Funds appropriated pursuant to the act adding this section
shall not be available for expenditure until an allocation plan is
submitted by the State Department of Education to the Department of
Finance and the Department of Finance approves the plan. The
allocation plan shall include, but is not limited to, the amounts of
funding that will be set aside for each of the purposes specified in
subdivision (a), specific criteria for ensuring that priority is given to
underserved areas, and specific criteria for expanding child care capacity
to serve disabled children.
   (2) The State Department of Education shall report to the Legislature
and the Department of Finance on or before September 1 of each fiscal
year, commencing with September 1, 2001, and for three years
thereafter, on the implementation of the allocation plan described in
paragraph (2). The report shall include the numbers of applications and
funding by type of use, the child care capacity generated, and the amount
of funds remaining for allocation.
   (d) (1) The Department of Finance may consider and approve an
amount equal to a maximum of 30 percent of the funds appropriated
pursuant to subdivision (a), as determined by the State Department of
Education, to be granted to local planning councils or resource and
referrals agencies for purposes of increasing the capacity of nonstate
subsidized child care providers to serve disabled children in child care
settings that meet their developmental needs, consistent with the intent
of the Child Care and Development Services Act pursuant to Chapter 2
[Ch. 704 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4641

(commencing with Section 8200) of Part 6. A local planning council or
resource and referral agency may expend funds granted to it pursuant to
this subdivision for any of the following:
   (A) To contract for various purposes that may include, but are not
limited to, providing training and technical assistance to child care and
development providers, developing local plans, and conducting
awareness and outreach, provided that the activities contracted for
further the purposes of this subdivision.
   (B) To purchase or lease portable accessibility enhancements that
may be temporarily loaned or leased to nonstate subsidized child care
and development providers to provide access to disabled children.
   (C) To establish a direct loan program to nonstate subsidized child
care and development providers for purposes that may include
acquisition of physical improvements, equipment, and instructional
materials to increase the providers’ ability to serve disabled children.
   (2) Any proposed allocations subject to this subdivision shall include
a detailed description of and justification for the features of the program
and shall include the specific uses of the funds that may be authorized,
the amount and range of loan amounts, fiscal accountability
requirements for administering agencies including loan repayments, and
loan requirements for child care providers that assure the funds are
utilized to efficiently increase services to children receiving subsidies
through state alternative payment programs, including those serving
CalWORKs populations.
   (e) The Legislature finds and declares that funds allocated for
purposes of subdivision (d) serve an essential educational purpose as a
resource for public elementary and secondary schools and are intended
to the educational mission of school districts and further the education
of public school pupils and others by providing early childhood
development for school readiness. It is, therefore, the intent of the
Legislature that, notwithstanding Section 42102 of the Education Code,
the appropriation made by subdivision (a), for purposes of subdivisions
(a) and (d), shall be counted toward the state minimum funding
obligation of the public school system under Section 8 of Article XVI
of the California Constitution.
   (f) For purposes of making the computations required by Section 8
of Article XVI of the California Constitution, the appropriation made by
subdivision (a) shall be deemed to be ‘‘General Fund revenue
appropriated for school districts,’’ as defined in subdivision (c) of
Section 41202 of the Education Code, for the 2000–01 fiscal year, and
included within the ‘‘total allocations to school districts and community
college from General Fund proceeds of taxes appropriated pursuant to
Article XIII B,’’ as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 41202 of the
Education Code for the 2000–01 fiscal year.
 4642                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 705 ]
  SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to provide necessary funding for child care purposes, it is
necessary that this act take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 705

   An act to amend Sections 25010, 25019, 25102, and 29530 of, and to
add Sections 25023, 25209, and 25508.5 to, the Corporations Code,
relating to securities.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 25010 of the Corporations Code is amended
to read:
   25010. ‘‘Issuer’’ means any person who issues or proposes to issue
any security, except that:
   (a) With respect to certificates of deposit, voting trust certificates or
collateral-trust certificates, or with respect to certificates of interest or
shares in an unincorporated investment trust not having a board of
directors or persons performing similar functions or of the fixed,
restricted management or unit type, ‘‘issuer’’ means the person or
persons performing the acts and assuming the duties of depositor or
manager pursuant to the provisions of the trust or other agreement or
instrument under which the security is issued. However, with respect to
equipment-trust certificates or like securities, ‘‘issuer’’ means the person
by whom the equipment or property is or is to be used.
   (b) With respect to certificates of interest or participation in oil, gas
or mining titles or leases or in payments out of production under those
titles or leases, ‘‘issuer’’ means the person or persons in active control
of the exploration or development of the property who sell those interests
or participations or payments or any person or persons who subdivide
and sell those interests or participations or payments. The determination
of the person or persons in active control of the exploration or
development of the property shall be made on the basis of the actual
relationship of the parties and not on the basis of the legal designation
of a person’s interest.
[Ch. 705 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4643

   (c) With respect to a fractional or pooled interest in a viatical or life
settlement contract, ‘‘issuer’’ means the person who creates, for the
purposes of sale, the fractional or pooled interest. In the case of a viatical
or life settlement contract that is not fractionalized or pooled, ‘‘issuer’’
means the person effecting the transactions with the investors in those
contracts.
   (d) In the case of an unincorporated association which provides by its
articles for limited liability of any or all of its members, or in the case
of a trust, committee, or other legal entity, the trustees or members
thereof shall not be individually liable as issuers of any security issued
by the association, trust, committee, or other legal entity.
   SEC. 2. Section 25019 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   25019. ‘‘Security’’ means any note; stock; treasury stock;
membership in an incorporated or unincorporated association; bond;
debenture; evidence of indebtedness; certificate of interest or
participation in any profit-sharing agreement; collateral trust certificate;
preorganization certificate or subscription; transferable share;
investment contract; viatical settlement contract or a fractionalized or
pooled interest therein; life settlement contract or a fractionalized or
pooled interest therein; voting trust certificate; certificate of deposit for
a security; interest in a limited liability company and any class or series
of those interests (including any fractional or other interest in that
interest), except a membership interest in a limited liability company in
which the person claiming this exception can prove that all of the
members are actively engaged in the management of the limited liability
company; provided that evidence that members vote or have the right to
vote, or the right to information concerning the business and affairs of
the limited liability company, or the right to participate in management,
shall not establish, without more, that all members are actively engaged
in the management of the limited liability company; certificate of
interest or participation in an oil, gas or mining title or lease or in
payments out of production under that title or lease; put, call, straddle,
option, or privilege on any security, certificate of deposit, or group or
index of securities (including any interest therein or based on the value
thereof); or any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege entered into on a
national securities exchange relating to foreign currency; any beneficial
interest or other security issued in connection with a funded employees’
pension, profit sharing, stock bonus, or similar benefit plan; or, in
general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a ‘‘security’’; or
any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim
certificate for, receipt for, guarantee of, or warrant or right to subscribe
to or purchase, any of the foregoing. All of the foregoing are securities
whether or not evidenced by a written document. ‘‘Security’’ does not
include: (1) any beneficial interest in any voluntary inter vivos trust
 4644                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 705 ]
which is not created for the purpose of carrying on any business or solely
for the purpose of voting, or (2) any beneficial interest in any
testamentary trust, or (3) any insurance or endowment policy or annuity
contract under which an insurance company admitted in this state
promises to pay a sum of money (whether or not based upon the
investment performance of a segregated fund) either in a lump sum or
periodically for life or some other specified period, or (4) any franchise
subject to registration under the Franchise Investment Law (Division 5
(commencing with Section 31000)), or exempted from registration by
Section 31100 or 31101.
   SEC. 3. Section 25023 is added to the Corporations Code, to read:
   25023. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), ‘‘viatical
settlement contract’’ means an agreement as defined in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) of Section 10113.1 of the Insurance Code and ‘‘life
settlement contract’’ means an agreement, other than a viatical
settlement contract, for the purchase, sale, assignment, transfer, devise,
or bequest of any portion of the death benefit or ownership of a life
insurance policy or certificate for consideration that is less than the
expected death benefit of the life insurance policy or certificate.
   (b) ‘‘Viatical settlement contract’’ and ‘‘life settlement contract’’ do
not include any of the following:
   (1) The assignment, transfer, sale, devise, or bequest of a death
benefit, life insurance policy, or certificate of insurance by the insured
or the original owner to any person if the assignment, transfer, sale,
devise, or bequest (A) is not accompanied by the publication of any
advertisement and (B) is not effected by or through a broker-dealer
(Section 25004).
   (2) The assignment of a life insurance policy to a bank, savings bank,
savings association, credit union, or other lender (either licensed or not
required to be licensed) as collateral for a loan, or to a stop-loss insurer
or reinsurer.
   (3) The exercise of accelerated benefits pursuant to the terms of a life
insurance policy issued in accordance with the insurance laws of this
state.
   (4) The assignment, transfer, sale, devise or bequest of any undivided
death benefit, life insurance policy, or certificate of insurance by an
entity licensed pursuant to Section 10113.2 of the Insurance Code, or a
viatical or life settlement provider licensed from another state, to one
individual or entity, provided that the individual or entity represents that
the individual or entity is purchasing for its own account (or trust
account, if the entity is a trustee) and not with a view to or for sale in
connection with a distribution of the individual death benefit, life
insurance policy, or certificate of insurance.
   SEC. 4. Section 25102 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
[Ch. 705 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4645

   25102. The following transactions are exempted from the
provisions of Section 25110:
   (a) Any offer (but not a sale) not involving any public offering and the
execution and delivery of any agreement for the sale of securities
pursuant to the offer if (1) the agreement contains substantially the
following provision: ‘‘The sale of the securities that are the subject of
this agreement has not been qualified with the Commissioner of
Corporations of the State of California and the issuance of the securities
or the payment or receipt of any part of the consideration therefor prior
to the qualification is unlawful, unless the sale of securities is exempt
from the qualification by Section 25100, 25102, or 25105 of the
California Corporations Code. The rights of all parties to this agreement
are expressly conditioned upon the qualification being obtained, unless
the sale is so exempt’’; and (2) no part of the purchase price is paid or
received and none of the securities are issued until the sale of the
securities is qualified under this law unless the sale of securities is
exempt from the qualification by this section, Section 25100, or 25105.
   (b) Any offer (but not a sale) of a security for which a registration
statement has been filed under the Securities Act of 1933 but has not yet
become effective, or for which an offering statement under Regulation
A has been filed but has not yet been qualified, if no stop order or refusal
order is in effect and no public proceeding or examination looking
toward such an order is pending under Section 8 of the act and no order
under Section 25140 or subdivision (a) of Section 25143 is in effect
under this law.
   (c) Any offer (but not a sale) and the execution and delivery of any
agreement for the sale of securities pursuant to the offer as may be
permitted by the commissioner upon application. Any negotiating
permit under this subdivision shall be conditioned to the effect that none
of the securities may be issued and none of the consideration therefor
may be received or accepted until the sale of the securities is qualified
under this law.
   (d) Any transaction or agreement between the issuer and an
underwriter or among underwriters if the sale of the securities is
qualified, or exempt from qualification, at the time of distribution
thereof in this state, if any.
   (e) Any offer or sale of any evidence of indebtedness, whether
secured or unsecured, and any guarantee thereof, in a transaction not
involving any public offering.
   (f) Any offer or sale of any security in a transaction (other than an
offer or sale to a pension or profit-sharing trust of the issuer) that meets
each of the following criteria:
   (1) Sales of the security are not made to more than 35 persons,
including persons not in this state.
 4646                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 705 ]
   (2) All purchasers either have a preexisting personal or business
relationship with the offeror or any of its partners, officers, directors or
controlling persons, or managers (as appointed or elected by the
members) if the offeror is a limited liability company, or by reason of
their business or financial experience or the business or financial
experience of their professional advisors who are unaffiliated with and
who are not compensated by the issuer or any affiliate or selling agent
of the issuer, directly or indirectly, could be reasonably assumed to have
the capacity to protect their own interests in connection with the
transaction.
   (3) Each purchaser represents that the purchaser is purchasing for the
purchaser’s own account (or a trust account if the purchaser is a trustee)
and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution of
the security.
   (4) The offer and sale of the security is not accomplished by the
publication of any advertisement. The number of purchasers referred to
above is exclusive of any described in subdivision (i), any officer,
director, or affiliate of the issuer, or manager (as appointed or elected by
the members) if the issuer is a limited liability company, and any other
purchaser who the commissioner designates by rule. For purposes of this
section, a husband and wife (together with any custodian or trustee
acting for the account of their minor children) are counted as one person
and a partnership, corporation, or other organization that was not
specifically formed for the purpose of purchasing the security offered in
reliance upon this exemption, is counted as one person. The
commissioner may by rule require the issuer to file a notice of
transactions under this subdivision. However, the failure to file the
notice or the failure to file the notice within the time specified by the rule
of the commissioner shall not affect the availability of this exemption.
An issuer who fails to file the notice as provided by rule of the
commissioner shall, within 15 business days after demand by the
commissioner, file the notice and pay to the commissioner a fee equal
to the fee payable had the transaction been qualified under Section
25110.
   (g) Any offer or sale of conditional sale agreements, equipment trust
certificates, or certificates of interest or participation therein or partial
assignments thereof, covering the purchase of railroad rolling stock or
equipment or the purchase of motor vehicles, aircraft, or parts thereof,
in a transaction not involving any public offering.
   (h) Any offer or sale of voting common stock by a corporation
incorporated in any state if, immediately after the proposed sale and
issuance, there will be only one class of stock of the corporation
outstanding that is owned beneficially by no more than 35 persons,
provided all of the following requirements have been met:
[Ch. 705 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4647

   (1) The offer and sale of the stock is not accompanied by the
publication of any advertisement, and no selling expenses have been
given, paid, or incurred in connection therewith.
   (2) The consideration to be received by the issuer for the stock to be
issued consists of any of the following:
   (A) Only assets (which may include cash) of an existing business
enterprise transferred to the issuer upon its initial organization, of which
all of the persons who are to receive the stock to be issued pursuant to
this exemption were owners during, and the enterprise was operated for,
a period of not less than one year immediately preceding the proposed
issuance, and the ownership of the enterprise immediately prior to the
proposed issuance was in the same proportions as the shares of stock are
to be issued.
   (B) Only cash or cancellation of indebtedness for money borrowed,
or both, upon the initial organization of the issuer, provided all of the
stock is issued for the same price per share.
   (C) Only cash, provided the sale is approved in writing by each of the
existing shareholders and the purchaser or purchasers are existing
shareholders.
   (D) In a case where after the proposed issuance there will be only one
owner of the stock of the issuer, only any legal consideration.
   (3) No promotional consideration has been given, paid, or incurred
in connection with the issuance. Promotional consideration means any
consideration paid directly or indirectly to a person who, acting alone or
in conjunction with one or more other persons, takes the initiative in
founding and organizing the business or enterprise of an issuer for
services rendered in connection with the founding or organizing.
   (4) A notice in a form prescribed by rule of the commissioner, signed
by an active member of the State Bar of California, is filed with or mailed
for filing to the commissioner not later than 10 business days after
receipt of consideration for the securities by the issuer. That notice shall
contain an opinion of the member of the State Bar of California that the
exemption provided by this subdivision is available for the offer and sale
of the securities. However, the failure to file the notice as required by this
subdivision and the rules of the commissioner shall not affect the
availability of this exemption. An issuer who fails to file the notice
within the time specified by this subdivision shall, within 15 business
days after demand by the commissioner, file the notice and pay to the
commissioner a fee equal to the fee payable had the transaction been
qualified under Section 25110. The notice, except when filed on behalf
of a California corporation, shall be accompanied by an irrevocable
consent, in the form that the commissioner by rule prescribes, appointing
the commissioner or his or her successor in office to be the issuer’s
attorney to receive service of any lawful process in any noncriminal suit,
 4648                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 705 ]
action, or proceeding against it or its successor that arises under this law
or any rule or order hereunder after the consent has been filed, with the
same force and validity as if served personally on the issuer. An issuer
on whose behalf a consent has been filed in connection with a previous
qualification or exemption from qualification under this law (or
application for a permit under any prior law if the application or notice
under this law states that the consent is still effective) need not file
another. Service may be made by leaving a copy of the process in the
office of the commissioner, but it is not effective unless (A) the plaintiff,
who may be the commissioner in a suit, action, or proceeding instituted
by him or her, forthwith sends notice of the service and a copy of the
process by registered or certified mail to the defendant or respondent at
its last address on file with the commissioner, and (B) the plaintiff’s
affidavit of compliance with this section is filed in the case on or before
the return day of the process, if any, or within the further time as the court
allows.
   (5) Each purchaser represents that the purchaser is purchasing for the
purchaser’s own account, or a trust account if the purchaser is a trustee,
and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution of
the stock.
   For the purposes of this subdivision, all securities held by a husband
and wife, whether or not jointly, shall be considered to be owned by one
person, and all securities held by a corporation that has issued stock
pursuant to this exemption shall be considered to be held by the
shareholders to whom it has issued the stock.
   All stock issued by a corporation pursuant to this subdivision as it
existed prior to the effective date of the amendments to this section made
during the 1996 portion of the 1995–96 Regular Session that required the
issuer to have stamped or printed prominently on the face of the stock
certificate a legend in a form prescribed by rule of the commissioner
restricting transfer of the stock in a manner provided for by that rule shall
not be subject to the transfer restriction legend requirement and, by
operation of law, the corporation is authorized to remove that transfer
restriction legend from the certificates of those shares of stock issued by
the corporation pursuant to this subdivision as it existed prior to the
effective date of the amendments to this section made during the 1996
portion of the 1995–96 Regular Session.
   (i) Any offer or sale (1) to a bank, savings and loan association, trust
company, insurance company, investment company registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940, pension or profit-sharing trust (other
than a pension or profit-sharing trust of the issuer, a self-employed
individual retirement plan, or individual retirement account), or other
institutional investor or governmental agency or instrumentality that the
commissioner may designate by rule, whether the purchaser is acting for
[Ch. 705 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4649

itself or as trustee, or (2) to any corporation with outstanding securities
registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or
any wholly owned subsidiary of the corporation that after the offer and
sale will own directly or indirectly 100 percent of the outstanding capital
stock of the issuer, provided the purchaser represents that it is purchasing
for its own account (or for the trust account) for investment and not with
a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution of the security.
   (j) Any offer or sale of any certificate of interest or participation in an
oil or gas title or lease (including subsurface gas storage and payments
out of production) if either of the following apply:
   (1) All of the purchasers meet one of the following requirements:
   (A) Are and have been during the preceding two years engaged
primarily in the business of drilling for, producing, or refining oil or gas
(or whose corporate predecessor, in the case of a corporation, has been
so engaged).
   (B) Are persons described in clause (1) of subdivision (i).
   (C) Have been found by the commissioner upon written application
to be substantially engaged in the business of drilling for, producing, or
refining oil or gas so as not to require the protection provided by this law
(which finding shall be effective until rescinded).
   (2) The security is concurrently hypothecated to a bank in the
ordinary course of business to secure a loan made by the bank, provided
that each purchaser represents that it is purchasing for its own account
for investment and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any
distribution of the security.
   (k) Any offer or sale of any security under, or pursuant to, a plan of
reorganization under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy law that has
been confirmed or is subject to confirmation by the decree or order of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (l) Any offer or sale of an option, warrant, put, call, or straddle, and
any guarantee of any of these securities, by a person who is not the issuer
of the security subject to the right, if the transaction, had it involved an
offer or sale of the security subject to the right by the person, would not
have violated Section 25110 or 25130.
   (m) Any offer or sale of a stock to a pension, profit-sharing, stock
bonus, or employee stock ownership plan, provided that (1) the plan
meets the requirements for qualification under Section 401 of the
Internal Revenue Code, and (2) the employees are not required or
permitted individually to make any contributions to the plan. The
exemption provided by this subdivision shall not be affected by whether
the stock is contributed to the plan, purchased from the issuer with
contributions by the issuer or an affiliate of the issuer, or purchased from
the issuer with funds borrowed from the issuer, an affiliate of the issuer,
or any other lender.
 4650                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 705 ]
   (n) Any offer or sale of any security in a transaction, other than an
offer or sale of a security in a rollup transaction, that meets all of the
following criteria:
   (1) The issuer is (A) a California corporation or foreign corporation
that, at the time of the filing of the notice required under this subdivision,
is subject to Section 2115, or (B) any other form of business entity,
including without limitation a partnership or trust organized under the
laws of this state. The exemption provided by this subdivision is not
available to a ‘‘blind pool’’ issuer, as that term is defined by the
commissioner, or to an investment company subject to the Investment
Company Act of 1940.
   (2) Sales of securities are made only to qualified purchasers or other
persons the issuer reasonably believes, after reasonable inquiry, to be
qualified purchasers. A corporation, partnership, or other organization
specifically formed for the purpose of acquiring the securities offered by
the issuer in reliance upon this exemption may be a qualified purchaser
if each of the equity owners of the corporation, partnership, or other
organization is a qualified purchaser. Qualified purchasers include the
following:
   (A) A person designated in Section 260.102.13 of Title 10 of the
California Code of Regulations.
   (B) A person designated in subdivision (i) or any rule of the
commissioner adopted thereunder.
   (C) A pension or profit-sharing trust of the issuer, a self-employed
individual retirement plan, or an individual retirement account, if the
investment decisions made on behalf of the trust, plan, or account are
made solely by persons who are qualified purchasers.
   (D) An organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code, corporation, Massachusetts or similar business trust, or
partnership, each with total assets in excess of five million dollars
($5,000,000) according to its most recent audited financial statements.
   (E) With respect to the offer and sale of one class of voting common
stock of an issuer or of preferred stock of an issuer entitling the holder
thereof to at least the same voting rights as the issuer’s one class of voting
common stock, provided that the issuer has only one-class voting
common stock outstanding upon consummation of the offer and sale, a
natural person who, either individually or jointly with the person’s
spouse, (i) has a minimum net worth of two hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($250,000) and had, during the immediately preceding tax year,
gross income in excess of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) and
reasonably expects gross income in excess of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) during the current tax year or (ii) has a minimum net
worth of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000). ‘‘Net worth’’ shall
be determined exclusive of home, home furnishings, and automobiles.
[Ch. 705 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4651

Other assets included in the computation of net worth may be valued at
fair market value.
   Each natural person specified above, by reason of his or her business
or financial experience, or the business or financial experience of his or
her professional adviser, who is unaffiliated with and who is not
compensated, directly or indirectly, by the issuer or any affiliate or
selling agent of the issuer, can be reasonably assumed to have the
capacity to protect his or her interests in connection with the transaction.
The amount of the investment of each natural person shall not exceed 10
percent of the net worth, as determined by this subparagraph, of that
natural person.
   (F) Any other purchaser designated as qualified by rule of the
commissioner.
   (3) Each purchaser represents that the purchaser is purchasing for the
purchaser’s own account (or trust account, if the purchaser is a trustee)
and not with a view to or for sale in connection with a distribution of the
security.
   (4) Each natural person purchaser, including a corporation,
partnership, or other organization specifically formed by natural persons
for the purpose of acquiring the securities offered by the issuer, receives,
at least five business days before securities are sold to, or a commitment
to purchase is accepted from, the purchaser, a written offering disclosure
statement that shall meet the disclosure requirements of Regulation D
(17 C.F.R. 230.501 et seq.), and any other information as may be
prescribed by rule of the commissioner, provided that the issuer shall not
be obligated pursuant to this paragraph to provide this disclosure
statement to a natural person qualified under Section 260.102.13 of Title
10 of the California Code of Regulations. The offer or sale of securities
pursuant to a disclosure statement required by this paragraph that is in
violation of Section 25401, or that fails to meet the disclosure
requirements of Regulation D (17 C.F.R. 230.501 et seq.), shall not
render unavailable to the issuer the claim of an exemption from Section
25110 afforded by this subdivision. This paragraph does not impose,
directly or indirectly, any additional disclosure obligation with respect
to any other exemption from qualification available under any other
provision of this section.
   (5) (A) A general announcement of proposed offering may be
published by written document only, provided that the general
announcement of proposed offering sets forth the following required
information:
   (i) The name of the issuer of the securities.
   (ii) The full title of the security to be issued.
   (iii) The anticipated suitability standards for prospective purchasers.
 4652                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 705 ]
   (iv) A statement that (I) no money or other consideration is being
solicited or will be accepted, (II) an indication of interest made by a
prospective purchaser involves no obligation or commitment of any
kind, and, if the issuer is required by paragraph (4) to deliver a disclosure
statement to prospective purchasers, (III) no sales will be made or
commitment to purchase accepted until five business days after delivery
of a disclosure statement and subscription information to the prospective
purchaser in accordance with the requirements of this subdivision.
   (v) Any other information required by rule of the commissioner.
   (vi) The following legend: ‘‘For more complete information about
(Name of Issuer) and (Full Title of Security), send for additional
information from (Name and Address) by sending this coupon or calling
(Telephone Number).’’
   (B) The general announcement of proposed offering referred to in
subparagraph (A) may also set forth the following information:
   (i) A brief description of the business of the issuer.
   (ii) The geographic location of the issuer and its business.
   (iii) The price of the security to be issued, or, if the price is not known,
the method of its determination or the probable price range as specified
by the issuer, and the aggregate offering price.
   (C) The general announcement of proposed offering shall contain
only the information that is set forth in this paragraph.
   (D) Dissemination of the general announcement of proposed offering
to persons who are not qualified purchasers, without more, shall not
disqualify the issuer from claiming the exemption under this
subdivision.
   (6) No telephone solicitation shall be permitted until the issuer has
determined that the prospective purchaser to be solicited is a qualified
purchaser.
   (7) The issuer files a notice of transaction under this subdivision both
(A) concurrent with the publication of a general announcement of
proposed offering or at the time of the initial offer of the securities,
whichever occurs first, accompanied by a filing fee, and (B) within 10
business days following the close or abandonment of the offering, but
in no case more than 210 days from the date of filing the first notice. The
first notice of transaction under subparagraph (A) shall contain an
undertaking, in a form acceptable to the commissioner, to deliver any
disclosure statement required by paragraph (4) to be delivered to
prospective purchasers, and any supplement thereto, to the
commissioner within 10 days of the commissioner’s request for the
information. The exemption from qualification afforded by this
subdivision is unavailable if an issuer fails to file the first notice required
under subparagraph (A) or to pay the filing fee. The commissioner has
the authority to assess an administrative penalty of up to one thousand
[Ch. 705 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4653

dollars ($1,000) against an issuer that fails to deliver the disclosure
statement required to be delivered to the commissioner upon the
commissioner’s request within the time period set forth above. Neither
the filing of the disclosure statement nor the failure by the commissioner
to comment thereon precludes the commissioner from taking any action
deemed necessary or appropriate under this division with respect to the
offer and sale of the securities.
   (o) An offer or sale of any security issued by a corporation or limited
liability company pursuant to a purchase plan or agreement, or issued
pursuant to an option plan or agreement, where the security at the time
of issuance or grant is exempt from registration under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, pursuant to Rule 701 adopted pursuant to that act
(17 C.F.R. 230.701), the provisions of which are hereby incorporated by
reference into this section, provided that (1) the terms of any purchase
plan or agreement shall comply with Sections 260.140.42, 260.140.45,
and 260.140.46 of Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations, (2) the
terms of any option plan or agreement shall comply with Sections
260.140.41, 260.140.45, and 260.140.46 of Title 10 of the California
Code of Regulations, and (3) the issuer files a notice of transaction in
accordance with rules adopted by the commissioner no later than 30 days
after the initial issuance of any security under that plan, accompanied by
a filing fee as prescribed by subdivision (y) of Section 25608.
   Offers and sales exempt pursuant to this subdivision shall be deemed
to be part of a single, discrete offering and are not subject to integration
with any other offering or sale, whether qualified under Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 25110), or otherwise exempt, or not subject
to qualification.
   (p) An offer or sale of nonredeemable securities to accredited
investors (Section 28031) by a person licensed under the Capital Access
Company Law (Division 3 (commencing with Section 28000) of Title
4). All nonredeemable securities shall be evidenced by certificates that
shall have stamped or printed prominently on their face a legend in a
form to be prescribed by rule or order of the commissioner restricting
transfer of the securities in the manner as the rule or order provides.
   (q) Any offer or sale of any viatical or life settlement contract or
fractionalized or pooled interest therein in a transaction that meets all of
the following criteria:
   (1) Sales of securities described in this subdivision are made only to
qualified purchasers or other persons the issuer reasonably believes,
after reasonable inquiry, to be qualified purchasers. A corporation,
partnership, or other organization specifically formed for the purpose of
acquiring the securities offered by the issuer in reliance upon this
exemption may be a qualified purchaser only if each of the equity owners
 4654                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 705 ]
of the corporation, partnership, or other organization is a qualified
purchaser. Qualified purchasers include the following:
   (A) A person designated in Section 260.102.13 of Title 10 of the
California Code of Regulations.
   (B) A person designated in subdivision (i) or any rule of the
commissioner adopted thereunder.
   (C) A pension or profit-sharing trust of the issuer, a self-employed
individual retirement plan, or an individual retirement account, if the
investment decisions made on behalf of the trust, plan, or account are
made solely by persons who are qualified purchasers.
   (D) An organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code, corporation, Massachusetts or similar business trust, or
partnership, each with total assets in excess of five million dollars
($5,000,000) according to its most recent audited financial statements.
   (E) A natural person who, either individually or jointly with the
person’s spouse, (i) has a minimum net worth of one hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000) and had, during the immediately preceding
tax year, gross income in excess of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) and reasonably expects gross income in excess of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) during the current tax year or (ii)
has a minimum net worth of two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000). ‘‘Net worth’’ shall be determined exclusive of home, home
furnishings, and automobiles. Other assets included in the computation
of net worth may be valued at fair market value.
   Each natural person specified above, by reason of his or her business
or financial experience, or the business or financial experience of his or
her professional advisor, who is unaffiliated with and who is not
compensated, directly or indirectly, by the issuer or any affiliate or
selling agent of the issuer, can be reasonably assumed to have the
capacity to protect his or her interests in connection with the transaction.
   The amount of the investment of each natural person shall not exceed
10 percent of the net worth, as determined by this subdivision, of that
natural person.
   (F) Any other purchaser designated as qualified by rule of the
commissioner.
   (2) Each purchaser represents that the purchaser is purchasing for the
purchaser’s own account (or trust account, if the purchaser is a trustee)
and not with a view to or for sale in connection with a distribution of the
security.
   (3) Each natural person purchaser, including a corporation,
partnership, or other organization specifically formed by natural persons
for the purpose of acquiring the securities offered by the issuer, receives,
at least five business days before securities described in this subdivision
[Ch. 705 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4655

are sold to, or a commitment to purchase is accepted from, the purchaser,
the following information in writing:
   (A) The name, principal business and mailing address, and telephone
number of the issuer.
   (B) The suitability standards for prospective purchasers as set forth
in paragraph (1) of this subdivision.
   (C) A description of the issuer’s type of business organization and the
state in which the issuer is organized or incorporated.
   (D) A brief description of the business of the issuer.
   (E) If the issuer retains ownership or becomes the beneficiary of the
insurance policy, an audit report of an independent certified public
accountant together with a balance sheet and related statements of
income, retained earnings, and cash-flows that reflect the issuer’s
financial position, the results of the issuer’s operations, and the issuer’s
cash-flows as of a date within 15 months before the date of the initial
issuance of the securities described in this subdivision. The financial
statements listed in this subparagraph shall be prepared in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles. If the date of the audit
report is more than 120 days before the date of the initial issuance of the
securities described in this subdivision, the issuer shall provide
unaudited interim financial statements.
   (F) The names of all directors, officers, partners, members, or trustees
of the issuer.
   (G) A description of any order, judgment, or decree that is final as to
the issuing entity of any state, federal, or foreign country governmental
agency or administrator, or of any state, federal or foreign country court
of competent jurisdiction (i) revoking, suspending, denying, or
censuring for cause any license, permit, or other authority of the issuer
or of any director, officer, partner, member, trustee, or person owning or
controlling, directly or indirectly, 10 percent or more of the outstanding
interest or equity securities of the issuer, to engage in the securities,
commodities, franchise, insurance, real estate, or lending business or in
the offer or sale of securities, commodities, franchises, insurance, real
estate, or loans, (ii) permanently restraining, enjoining, barring,
suspending, or censuring any such person from engaging in or
continuing any conduct, practice, or employment in connection with the
offer or sale of securities, commodities, franchises, insurance, real
estate, or loans, (iii) convicting any such person of, or pleading nolo
contendere by any such person to, any felony or misdemeanor involving
a security, commodity, franchise, insurance, real estate, or loan, or any
aspect of the securities, commodities, franchise, insurance, real estate,
or lending business, or involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit,
embezzlement, fraudulent conversion, or misappropriation of property,
or (iv) holding any such person liable in a civil action involving breach
 4656                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 705 ]
of a fiduciary duty, fraud, deceit, embezzlement, fraudulent conversion,
or misappropriation of property. This subparagraph does not apply to
any order, judgment, or decree that has been vacated, overturned, or is
more than 10 years old.
   (H) Notice of the purchaser’s right to rescind or cancel the investment
and receive a refund pursuant to Section 25508.5.
   (I) The name, address, and telephone number of the issuing insurance
company, and the name, address, and telephone number of the state or
foreign country regulator of the insurance company.
   (J) The total face value of the insurance policy and the percentage of
the insurance policy the purchaser will own.
   (K) The insurance policy number, issue date, and type.
   (L) If a group insurance policy, the name, address, and telephone
number of the group, and, if applicable, the material terms and
conditions of converting the policy to an individual policy, including the
amount of increased premiums.
   (M) If a term insurance policy, the term and the name, address, and
telephone number of the person who will be responsible for renewing the
policy if necessary.
   (N) That the insurance policy is beyond the state statute for
contestability and the reason therefor.
   (O) The insurance policy premiums and terms of premium payments.
   (P) The amount of the purchaser’s moneys that will be set aside to pay
premiums.
   (Q) The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will
be the insurance policy owner and the person who will be responsible for
paying premiums.
   (R) The date on which the purchaser will be required to pay premiums
and the amount of the premium, if known.
   (S) A statement to the effect that any projected rate of return to the
purchaser from the purchase of a viatical or life settlement contract or a
fractionalized or pooled interest therein is based on an estimated life
expectancy for the person insured under the life insurance policy; that
the return on the purchase may vary substantially from the expected rate
of return based upon the actual life expectancy of the insured that may
be less than, equal to, or may greatly exceed the estimated life
expectancy; and that the rate of return would be higher if the actual life
expectancy were less than, and lower if the actual life expectancy were
greater than the estimated life expectancy of the insured at the time the
viatical or life settlement contract was closed.
   (T) A statement that the purchaser should consult with his or her tax
advisor regarding the tax consequences of the purchase of the viatical or
life settlement contract or fractionalized or pooled interest therein and,
if the purchaser is using retirement funds or accounts for that purchase,
[Ch. 705 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4657

whether or not any adverse tax consequences might result from the use
of those funds for the purchase of that investment.
   (U) Any other information as may be prescribed by rule of the
commissioner.
   SEC. 5. Section 25209 is added to the Corporations Code, to read:
   25209. Section 25210 shall not apply to an agent of an issuer when
engaged in transactions exempted by subdivision (q) of Section 25102,
provided that the agent is a life agent licensed in California or in the state
of domicile of the purchaser.
   SEC. 6. Section 25508.5 is added to the Corporations Code, to read:
   25508.5. In addition to any other rights provided for under this
division, including, but not limited to, Sections 25501 and 25506, or
otherwise, a person who purchases a viatical or life settlement contract
or a fractionalized or pooled interest therein may rescind or cancel the
purchase for any reason. The person may rescind or cancel the purchase
at any time before seven calendar days after the date the person remits
the required consideration to the issuer or the issuer’s agent by giving
written notice of rescission or cancellation to the issuer or the issuer’s
agent. No specific form is required for the rescission or cancellation. The
notice is effective when personally delivered, deposited in the United
States mail, or deposited with a commercial courier or delivery service.
The issuer shall refund all the person’s money within seven calendar
days after receiving the notice of rescission or cancellation.
   SEC. 7. Section 29530 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
   29530. (a) The prohibitions in Section 29520 shall not apply to any
transaction offered by and in which any of the following persons (or any
employee, officer, or director thereof acting solely in that capacity) is the
purchaser or seller:
   (1) A person registered with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission as a futures commission merchant or as a leverage
transaction merchant whose activities require registration.
   (2) A person affiliated with, and whose obligations and liabilities
under the transaction are guaranteed by, a person referred to in
subdivision (a).
   (3) A person who is a member of a contract market designated by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (or any clearinghouse
thereof) when the transaction at issue requires membership in and is
subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of that contract market.
   (4) A financial institution.
   (5) A broker-dealer licensed under Section 25211, or exempt from
licensure under Section 25200, when engaging in activities subject to the
exclusive regulatory jurisdiction of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.
 4658                      STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 706 ]
   (6) A person licensed pursuant to Chapter 14 (commencing with
Section 1800) of Division 1 of the Financial Code to receive money for
transmittal to foreign countries if (A) the license has not expired or been
surrendered, suspended, or revoked, (B) the licensed person has a
tangible net worth of at least 3 million dollars ($3,000,000) according
to its audited financial statements prepared by an independent certified
public accountant for each of the immediately preceding three fiscal
years, and (C) pursuant to the provisions of subdivision (b) of Section
29531, the licensed person issues and a purchaser receives a certificate,
document of title, confirmation, or other instrument evidencing that the
purchased quantity of precious metals or foreign currencies has been
delivered to a depository which is a financial institution located in a state
of the United States.
   (b) The exemption provided by subdivision (a) shall not apply to any
transaction or activity which is prohibited by the Commodity Exchange
Act or CFTC Rule.



                             CHAPTER 706

  An act to add Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 1358.1) to
Chapter 2.2 of Division 2 of, and to repeal Article 3.5 (commencing with
Section 1358) of Chapter 2.2 of Division 2 of, the Health and Safety
Code, and to add Article 6 (commencing with Section 10192.1) to
Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 2 of, and to repeal Article 6 (commencing
with Section 10192.05) of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 2 of, the
Insurance Code, relating to Medicare supplement insurance.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

 SECTION 1. Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 1358) of
Chapter 2.2 of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
 SEC. 2. Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 1358.1) is added to
Chapter 2.2 of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:

  Article 3.5.    Additional Requirements for Medicare Supplement
                               Contracts

  1358.1. Every health care service plan that offers any contract that
primarily or solely supplements Medicare or that is advertised or
represented as a supplement to Medicare, shall, in addition to complying
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4659

with this chapter and rules of the director, comply with this article. The
basic health care services required to be provided pursuant to Sections
1345 and 1367 shall not be included in Medicare supplement contracts
subject to this article, to the extent that California is required to disallow
coverage for these health care services under the federal Medicare
supplement standardization requirements set forth in Section 1882 of the
federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.A. Sec. 1395ss).
   1358.2. The purpose of this article is to provide for the reasonable
standardization of coverage and simplification of terms and benefits of
Medicare supplement contracts, to facilitate public understanding and
comparison of those contracts, to eliminate provisions contained in
those contracts that may be misleading or confusing in connection with
the purchase of the contracts or with the settlement of claims, and to
provide for full disclosures in the sale of Medicare supplement contracts
to persons eligible for Medicare.
   1358.3. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section or in
Sections 1358.7, 1358.12, 1358.13, 1358.16, and 1358.21, this article
shall apply to all group and individual Medicare supplement contracts
advertised, solicited, or issued for delivery in this state on or after
January 1, 2001.
   (b) This article shall not apply to a contract of one or more employers
or labor organizations, or of the trustees of a fund established by one or
more employers or labor organizations, or combination thereof, for
employees or former employees, or a combination thereof, or for
members or former members, or a combination thereof, of the labor
organizations.
   (c) This article shall not apply to Medicare supplement policies or
certificates subject to Article 6 (commencing with Section 10192.1) of
Chapter 1 of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Insurance Code.
   1358.4. For the purposes of this article, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   (a) ‘‘Applicant’’ means:
   (1) An individual enrollee who seeks to contract for health coverage,
in the case of an individual Medicare supplement contract.
   (2) An enrollee who seeks to obtain health coverage through a group,
in the case of a group Medicare supplement contract.
   (b) ‘‘Bankruptcy’’ means that situation in which a Medicare+Choice
organization that is not an issuer has filed, or has had filed against it, a
petition for declaration of bankruptcy and has ceased doing business in
the state.
   (c) ‘‘Continuous period of creditable coverage’’ means the period
during which an individual was covered by creditable coverage, if during
the period of the coverage the individual had no breaks in coverage
greater than 63 days.
 4660                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (d) (1) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ means, with respect to an individual,
coverage of the individual provided under any of the following:
   (A) Any individual or group contract, policy, certificate, or program
that is written or administered by a health care service plan, disability
insurer, fraternal benefits society, self-insured employer plan, or any
other entity, in this state or elsewhere, and that arranges or provides
medical, hospital, and surgical coverage not designed to supplement
other private or governmental plans. The term includes continuation or
conversion coverage.
   (B) Part A or B of Title XVIII of the federal Social Security Act
(Medicare).
   (C) Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act (medicaid), other
than coverage consisting solely of benefits under Section 1928 of that
act.
   (D) Chapter 55 of Title 10 of the United States Code (CHAMPUS).
   (E) A medical care program of the Indian Health Service or of a tribal
organization.
   (F) A state health benefits risk pool.
   (G) A health plan offered under Chapter 89 of Title 5 of the United
States Code (Federal Employees Health Benefits Program).
   (H) A public health plan as defined in federal regulations authorized
by Section 2701(c)(1)(I) of the federal Public Health Service Act, as
amended by Public Law 104-191, the federal Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.
   (I) A health benefit plan under Section 5(e) of the federal Peace Corps
Act (Section 2504(e) of Title 22 of the United States Code).
   (J) Any other publicly sponsored program, provided in this state or
elsewhere, of medical, hospital, and surgical care.
   (K) Any other creditable coverage as defined by subsection (c) of
Section 2701 of Title XXVII of the federal Public Health Services Act
(42 U.S.C. Sec. 300gg(c)).
   (2) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ shall not include one or more, or any
combination of, the following:
   (A) Coverage for accident-only or disability income insurance, or any
combination thereof.
  (B) Coverage issued as a supplement to liability insurance.
  (C) Liability insurance, including general liability insurance and
automobile liability insurance.
  (D) Workers’ compensation or similar insurance.
  (E) Automobile medical payment insurance.
  (F) Credit-only insurance.
  (G) Coverage for onsite medical clinics.
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4661

  (H) Other similar insurance coverage, specified in federal
regulations, under which benefits for medical care are secondary or
incidental to other insurance benefits.
  (3) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ shall not include the following benefits if
they are provided under a separate policy, certificate, or contract or are
otherwise not an integral part of the plan:
  (A) Limited scope dental or vision benefits.
  (B) Benefits for long-term care, nursing home care, home health care,
community-based care, or any combination thereof.
  (C) Other similar, limited benefits as are specified in federal
regulations.
  (4) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ shall not include the following benefits if
offered as independent, noncoordinated benefits:
  (A) Coverage only for a specified disease or illness.
  (B) Hospital indemnity or other fixed indemnity insurance.
  (5) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ shall not include the following if offered
as a separate policy, certificate, or contract:
  (A) Medicare supplemental health insurance as defined under
Section 1882(g)(1) of the federal Social Security Act.
  (B) Coverage supplemental to the coverage provided under Chapter
55 of Title 10 of the United States Code.
  (C) Similar supplemental coverage provided to coverage under a
group health plan.
  (e) ‘‘Employee welfare benefit plan’’ means a plan, fund, or program
of employee benefits as defined in Section 1002 of Title 29 of the United
States Code (Employee Retirement Income Security Act).
  (f) ‘‘Insolvency’’ means when an issuer, licensed to transact the
business of a health care service plan in this state, has had a final order
of liquidation entered against it with a finding of insolvency by a court
of competent jurisdiction in the issuer’s state of domicile.
  (g) ‘‘Issuer’’ means a health care service plan delivering, or issuing
for delivery, Medicare supplement contracts in this state, but does not
include entities subject to Article 6 (commencing with Section 10192.1)
of Chapter 1 of Division 2 of the Insurance Code.
  (h) ‘‘Medicare’’ means the federal Health Insurance for the Aged Act,
Title XVIII of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, as amended.
  (i) ‘‘Medicare+Choice Plan’’ means a plan of coverage for health
benefits under Medicare Part C and includes:
  (1) Coordinated care plans that provide health care services,
including, but not limited to, health care service plans (with or without
a point-of-service option), plans offered by provider-sponsored
organizations, and preferred provider organizations plans.
  (2) Medical savings account plans coupled with a contribution into
a Medicare+Choice medical savings account.
 4662                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (3) Medicare+Choice private fee-for-service plans.
   (j) ‘‘Medicare supplement contract’’ means a group or individual plan
contract of hospital and medical service associations or health care
service plans, other than a contract issued pursuant to a contract under
Section 1876 of the federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.A. Section
1395mm) or an issued contract under a demonstration project specified
in Section 1395ss(g)(1) of Title 42 of the United States Code, which is
advertised, marketed, or designed primarily as a supplement to
reimbursements under Medicare for the hospital, medical, or surgical
expenses of persons eligible for Medicare. ‘‘Contract’’ means
‘‘Medicare supplement contract,’’ unless the context requires otherwise.
   (k) ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary of the United States Department
of Health and Human Services.
   1358.5. (a) A contract shall not be advertised, solicited, or issued
for delivery as a Medicare supplement contract unless the contract
contains definitions or terms that conform to the requirements of this
section.
   (1) (A) ‘‘Accident,’’ ‘‘accidental injury,’’ or ‘‘accidental means’’
shall be defined to employ ‘‘result’’ language and shall not include
words that establish an accidental means test or use words such as
‘‘external, violent, visible wounds’’ or other similar words of description
or characterization.
   (B) The definition shall not be more restrictive than the following:
‘‘injury or injuries for which benefits are provided means accidental
bodily injury sustained by the covered person that is the direct result of
an accident, independent of disease or bodily infirmity or any other
cause, and occurs while coverage is in force.’’
   (C) The definition may provide that injuries shall not include injuries
for which benefits are provided or available under any workers’
compensation, employer’s liability, or similar law, unless prohibited by
law.
   (2) ‘‘Benefit period’’ or ‘‘Medicare benefit period’’ shall not be
defined more restrictively than as defined in the Medicare program.
   (3) ‘‘Convalescent nursing home,’’ ‘‘extended care facility,’’ or
‘‘skilled nursing facility’’ shall not be defined more restrictively than as
defined in the Medicare program.
   (4) (A) ‘‘Health care expenses’’ means expenses of health care
service plans associated with the delivery of health care services, which
expenses are analogous to incurred losses of insurers.
   (B) ‘‘Health care expenses’’ shall not include any of the following:
   (i) Home office and overhead costs.
   (ii) Advertising costs.
   (iii) Commissions and other acquisition costs.
   (iv) Taxes.
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4663

   (v) Capital costs.
   (vi) Administrative costs.
   (vii) Claims processing costs.
   (5) ‘‘Hospital’’ may be defined in relation to its status, facilities, and
available services or to reflect its accreditation by the Joint Commission
on Accreditation of Hospitals, but not more restrictively than as defined
in the Medicare program.
   (6) ‘‘Medicare’’ shall be defined in the contract. ‘‘Medicare’’ may be
substantially defined as ‘‘The Health Insurance for the Aged Act, Title
XVIII of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, as amended,’’ or
‘‘Title I, Part I of Public Law 89-97, as enacted by the 89th Congress and
popularly known as the Health Insurance for the Aged Act, as
amended,’’ or words of similar import.
   (7) ‘‘Medicare eligible expenses’’ shall mean expenses of the kinds
covered by Medicare, to the extent recognized as reasonable and
medically necessary by Medicare.
   (8) ‘‘Physician’’ shall not be defined more restrictively than as
defined in the Medicare program.
   (9) (A) ‘‘Sickness’’ shall not be defined more restrictively than as
follows: ‘‘sickness means illness or disease of an insured person that first
manifests itself after the effective date of insurance and while the
insurance is in force.’’
   (B) The definition may be further modified to exclude sicknesses or
diseases for which benefits are provided under any workers’
compensation, occupational disease, employer’s liability, or similar law.
   (b) Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting any
contract, by definitions or express provisions, from limiting or
restricting any or all of the benefits provided under the contract, except
in-area and out-of-area emergency services, to those health care services
that are delivered by issuer, employed, owned, or contracting providers,
and provider facilities, so long as the contract complies with the
provisions of Sections 1358.14 and 1367 and with Section 1300.67 of
the California Code of Regulations.
   (c) Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting any
contract that limits or restricts any or all of the benefits provided under
the contract in the manner contemplated in subdivision (b) from limiting
its obligation to deliver services, and disclaiming any liability from any
delay or failure to provide those services (1) in the event of a major
disaster or epidemic or (2) in the event of circumstances not reasonably
within the control of the issuer, such as the partial or total destruction of
facilities, war, riot, civil insurrection, disability of a significant part of
its health personnel, or similar circumstances so long as the provisions
comply with the provisions of subdivision (h) of Section 1367.
 4664                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   1358.6. (a) (1) Except for permitted preexisting condition clauses
as described in Sections 1358.7 and 1358.8, a contract shall not be
advertised, solicited, or issued for delivery as a Medicare supplement
contract if the contract contains definitions, limitations, exclusions,
conditions, reductions, or other provisions that are more restrictive or
limiting than that term as officially used in Medicare, except as expressly
authorized by this article.
   (2) No issuer may advertise, solicit, or issue for delivery any
Medicare supplement contract with hospital or medical coverage if the
contract contains any of the prohibited provisions described in
subdivision (b).
   (b) The following provisions shall be deemed to be unfair,
unreasonable, and inconsistent with the objectives of this chapter and
shall not be contained in any Medicare supplement contract:
   (1) Any waiver, exclusion, limitation, or reduction based on or
relating to a preexisting disease or physical condition, unless that waiver,
exclusion, limitation, or reduction (A) applies only to coverage for
specified services rendered not more than six months from the effective
date of coverage, (B) is based on or relates only to a preexisting disease
or physical condition defined no more restrictively than a condition for
which medical advice was given or treatment was recommended by or
received from a physician within six months before the effective date of
coverage, (C) does not apply to any coverage under any group contract,
and (D) is approved in advance by the director. Any limitations with
respect to a preexisting condition shall appear as a separate paragraph of
the contract and be labeled ‘‘Preexisting Condition Limitations.’’
   (2) Except with respect to a group contract subject to, and in
compliance with, Section 1399.62, any provision denying coverage,
after termination of the contract, for services provided continuously
beginning while the contract was in effect, during the continuous total
disability of the subscriber or enrollee, except that the coverage may be
limited to a reasonable period of time not less than the duration of the
contract benefit period, if any, and may be limited to the maximum
benefits provided under the contract.
   (c) A Medicare supplement contract in force shall not contain benefits
that duplicate benefits provided by Medicare.
   1358.7. A contract shall not be advertised, solicited, or issued for
delivery as a Medicare supplement contract prior to January 1, 2001,
unless it meets or exceeds requirements applicable pursuant to this code
that were in effect prior to that date.
   1358.8. The following standards are applicable to all Medicare
supplement contracts advertised, solicited, or issued for delivery on or
after January 1, 2001. A contract shall not be advertised, solicited, or
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4665

issued for delivery as a Medicare supplement contract unless it complies
with these benefit standards.
   (a) The following general standards apply to Medicare supplement
contracts and are in addition to all other requirements of this article:
   (1) A Medicare supplement contract shall not exclude or limit
benefits for losses incurred more than six months from the effective date
of coverage because it involved a preexisting condition. The contract
shall not define a preexisting condition more restrictively than a
condition for which medical advice was given or treatment was
recommended by or received from a physician within six months before
the effective date of coverage.
   (2) A Medicare supplement contract shall not indemnify against
losses resulting from sickness on a different basis than losses resulting
from accidents.
   (3) A Medicare supplement contract shall provide that benefits
designed to cover cost-sharing amounts under Medicare will be changed
automatically to coincide with any changes in the applicable Medicare
deductible amount and copayment percentage factors. Prepaid or
periodic charges may be modified to correspond with those changes.
   (4) A Medicare supplement contract shall not provide for termination
of coverage of a spouse solely because of the occurrence of an event
specified for termination of coverage of the covered person, other than
the nonpayment of the prepaid or periodic charge.
   (5) Each Medicare supplement contract shall be guaranteed
renewable.
   (A) The issuer shall not cancel or nonrenew the contract solely on the
ground of health status of the individual.
   (B) The issuer shall not cancel or nonrenew the contract for any
reason other than nonpayment of the prepaid or periodic charge or
misrepresentation of the risk by the applicant that is shown by the plan
to be material to the acceptance for coverage. The contestability period
for Medicare supplement contracts shall be two years.
   (C) If a group Medicare supplement contract is terminated by the
subscriber and is not replaced as provided under subparagraph (E), the
issuer shall offer enrollees an individual Medicare supplement contract
that, at the option of the enrollee, either provides for continuation of the
benefits contained in the terminated contract or provides for benefits that
otherwise meet the requirements of this subsection.
   (D) If an individual is an enrollee in a group Medicare supplement
contract and the individual membership in the group is terminated, the
issuer shall either offer the enrollee the conversion opportunity
described in subparagraph (C) or, at the option of the subscriber, shall
offer the enrollee continuation of coverage under the group contract.
 4666                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
   (E) If a group Medicare supplement contract is replaced by another
group Medicare supplement contract purchased by the same subscriber,
the issuer of the replacement contract shall offer coverage to all persons
covered under the old group contract on its date of termination. Coverage
under the new contract shall not result in any exclusion for preexisting
conditions that would have been covered under the group contract being
replaced.
   (6) Termination of a Medicare supplement contract shall be without
prejudice to any continuous loss that commenced while the contract was
in force, but the extension of benefits beyond the period during which
the contract was in force may be predicated upon the continuous total
disability of the covered person, limited to the duration of the contract
benefit period, if any, or to payment of the maximum benefits.
   (7) (A) A Medicare supplement contract shall provide that benefits
and prepaid or periodic charges under the contract shall be suspended at
the request of the enrollee for the period, not to exceed 24 months, in
which the enrollee has applied for and is determined to be entitled to
medical assistance under Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act,
but only if the enrollee notifies the issuer of the contract within 90 days
after the date the individual becomes entitled to assistance.
   (B) If suspension occurs and if the enrollee loses entitlement to
medical assistance, the contract shall be automatically reinstituted,
effective as of the date of termination of entitlement, as of the
termination of entitlement if the enrollee provides notice of loss of
entitlement within 90 days after the date of loss and pays the prepaid or
periodic charge attributable to the period, effective as of the date of
termination of entitlement.
   (C) Reinstitution of coverages:
   (i) Shall not provide for any waiting period with respect to treatment
of preexisting conditions.
   (ii) Shall provide for coverage which is substantially equivalent to
coverage in effect before the date of suspension.
   (iii) Shall provide for classification of prepaid or periodic charges on
terms at least as favorable to the enrollee as the prepaid or periodic charge
classification terms that would have applied to the enrollee had the
coverage not been suspended.
   (8) A Medicare supplement contract shall not be limited to coverage
for a single disease or affliction.
   (9) A Medicare supplement contract shall provide an examination
period of 30 days after the receipt of the contract by the applicant for
purposes of review, during which time the applicant may return the
contract as described in subdivision (e) of Section 1358.17.
   (10) A Medicare supplement contract shall additionally meet any
other minimum benefit standards as established by the director.
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4667

   (11) Within 30 days prior to the effective date of any Medicare benefit
changes, an issuer shall file with the director, and notify its subscribers
and enrollees of, modifications it has made to Medicare supplement
contracts.
   (A) The notice shall include a description of revisions to the Medicare
program and a description of each modification made to the coverage
provided under the Medicare supplement contract.
   (B) The notice shall inform each subscriber and enrollee as to when
any adjustment in the prepaid or periodic charges will be made due to
changes in Medicare benefits.
   (C) The notice of benefit modifications and any adjustments to the
prepaid or periodic charges shall be in outline form and in clear and
simple terms so as to facilitate comprehension. The notice shall not
contain or be accompanied by any solicitation.
   (12) No modifications to existing Medicare supplement coverage
shall be made at the time of, or in connection with, the notice
requirements of this article except to the extent necessary to eliminate
duplication of Medicare benefits and any modifications necessary under
the contract to provide indexed benefit adjustment.
   (b) With respect to the standards for basic (core) benefits common to
all benefit plans, every issuer shall make available a contract including
only the following basic ‘‘core’’ package of benefits to each prospective
applicant. This ‘‘core’’ package of benefits shall be referred to as
standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan ‘‘A’’. An issuer may
make available to prospective applicants any of the other Medicare
supplement insurance benefit plans in addition to the basic core package,
but not in lieu of it.
   (1) Coverage of Part A Medicare eligible expenses for hospitalization
to the extent not covered by Medicare from the 61st day to the 90th day,
inclusive, in any Medicare benefit period.
   (2) Coverage of Part A Medicare eligible expenses incurred for
hospitalization to the extent not covered by Medicare for each Medicare
lifetime inpatient reserve day used.
   (3) Upon exhaustion of the Medicare hospital inpatient coverage
including the lifetime reserve days, coverage of the Medicare Part A
eligible expenses for hospitalization paid at the Medicare diagnostic
related group (DRG) day outlier per diem or other appropriate standard
of payment, subject to a lifetime maximum benefit of an additional 365
days. The provider shall accept the issuer’s payment as payment in full
and may not bill the enrollee or subscriber for any balance.
   (4) Coverage under Medicare Parts A and B for the reasonable cost
of the first three pints of blood, or equivalent quantities of packed red
blood cells, as defined under federal regulations, unless replaced in
accordance with federal regulations.
 4668                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (5) Coverage for the coinsurance amount, or in the case of hospital
outpatient services, the copayment amount, of Medicare eligible
expenses under Part B regardless of hospital confinement, subject to the
Medicare Part B deductible.
   (c) The following additional benefits shall be included in Medicare
supplement benefit plans B to J, inclusive, only as provided by Section
1358.9.
   (1) With respect to the Medicare Part A deductible, coverage for all
of the Medicare Part A inpatient hospital deductible amount per benefit
period.
   (2) With respect to skilled nursing facility care, coverage for the
actual billed charges up to the coinsurance amount from the 21st day to
the 100th day, inclusive, in a Medicare benefit period for posthospital
skilled nursing facility care eligible under Medicare Part A.
   (3) With respect to the Medicare Part B deductible, coverage for all
of the Medicare Part B deductible amount per calendar year regardless
of hospital confinement.
   (4) With respect to 80 percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges,
coverage for 80 percent of the difference between the actual Medicare
Part B charge as billed, not to exceed any charge limitation established
by the Medicare program or state law, and the Medicare-approved Part
B charge.
   (5) With respect to 100 percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges,
coverage for all of the difference between the actual Medicare Part B
charge as billed, not to exceed any charge limitation established by the
Medicare program or state law, and the Medicare-approved Part B
charge.
   (6) With respect to the basic outpatient prescription drug benefit,
coverage for 50 percent of outpatient prescription drug charges, after a
two hundred fifty dollar ($250) calendar year deductible, to a maximum
of one thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250) in benefits received
by the insured per calendar year, to the extent not covered by Medicare.
   (7) With respect to the extended outpatient prescription drug benefit,
coverage for 50 percent of outpatient prescription drug charges, after a
two hundred fifty dollar ($250) calendar year deductible, to a maximum
of three thousand dollars ($3,000) in benefits received by the insured per
calendar year, to the extent not covered by Medicare.
   (8) With respect to medically necessary emergency care in a foreign
country, coverage to the extent not covered by Medicare for 80 percent
of the billed charges for Medicare-eligible expenses for medically
necessary emergency hospital, physician, and medical care received in
a foreign country, which care would have been covered by Medicare if
provided in the United States and which care began during the first 60
consecutive days of each trip outside the United States, subject to a
[Ch. 706 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4669

calendar year deductible of two hundred fifty dollars ($250), and a
lifetime maximum benefit of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). For
purposes of this benefit, ‘‘emergency care’’ shall mean care needed
immediately because of an injury or an illness of sudden and unexpected
onset.
   (9) With respect to the preventive medical care benefit, coverage for
the following preventive health services:
   (A) An annual clinical preventive medical history and physical
examination that may include tests and services from subparagraph (B)
and patient education to address preventive health care measures.
   (B) Any one or a combination of the following preventive screening
tests or preventive services, the frequency of which is considered
medically appropriate:
   (i) Fecal occult blood test or digital rectal examination, or both.
   (ii) Mammogram.
   (iii) Dipstick urinalysis for hematuria, bacteriuria, and proteinuria.
   (iv) Pure tone, air only, hearing screening test, administered or
ordered by a physician.
   (v) Serum cholesterol screening every five years.
   (vi) Thyroid function test.
   (vii) Diabetes screening.
   (C) Influenza vaccine administered at any appropriate time during the
year and tetanus and diphtheria booster every 10 years.
   (D) Any other tests or preventive measures determined appropriate
by the attending physician.
   Reimbursement shall be for the actual charges up to 100 percent of the
Medicare-approved amount for each service, as if Medicare were to
cover the service as identified in American Medical Association Current
Procedural Terminology (AMA CPT) codes, to a maximum of one
hundred twenty dollars ($120) annually under this benefit. This benefit
shall not include payment for any procedure covered by Medicare.
   (10) With respect to the at-home recovery benefit, coverage for
services to provide short-term, at-home assistance with activities of
daily living for those recovering from an illness, injury, or surgery.
   (A) For purposes of this benefit, the following definitions shall apply:
   (i) ‘‘Activities of daily living’’ include, but are not limited to, bathing,
dressing, personal hygiene, transferring, eating, ambulating, assistance
with drugs that are normally self-administered, and changing bandages
or other dressings.
   (ii) ‘‘Care provider’’ means a duly qualified or licensed home health
aide or homemaker, or a personal care aide or nurse provided through a
licensed home health care agency or referred by a licensed referral
agency or licensed nurses registry.
 4670                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (iii) ‘‘Home’’ shall mean any place used by the insured as a place of
residence, provided that the place would qualify as a residence for home
health care services covered by Medicare. A hospital or skilled nursing
facility shall not be considered the insured’s place of residence.
   (iv) ‘‘At-home recovery visit’’ means the period of a visit required to
provide at-home recovery care, without any limit on the duration of the
visit, except that each consecutive four hours in a 24-hour period of
services provided by a care provider is one visit.
   (B) With respect to coverage requirements and limitations, the
following shall apply:
   (i) At-home recovery services provided shall be primarily services
that assist in activities of daily living.
   (ii) The covered person’s attending physician shall certify that the
specific type and frequency of at-home recovery services are necessary
because of a condition for which a home care plan of treatment was
approved by Medicare.
   (iii) Coverage is limited to the following:
   (I) No more than the number and type of at-home recovery visits
certified as necessary by the covered person’s attending physician. The
total number of at-home recovery visits shall not exceed the number of
Medicare-approved home health care visits under a Medicare-approved
home care plan of treatment.
   (II) The actual charges for each visit up to a maximum reimbursement
of forty dollars ($40) per visit.
   (III) One thousand six hundred dollars ($1,600) per calendar year.
   (IV) Seven visits in any one week.
   (V) Care furnished on a visiting basis in the insured’s home.
   (VI) Services provided by a care provider as defined in subparagraph
(A).
   (VII) At-home recovery visits while the covered person is covered
under the policy or certificate and not otherwise excluded.
   (VIII) At-home recovery visits received during the period the covered
person is receiving Medicare-approved home care services or no more
than eight weeks after the service date of the last Medicare-approved
home health care visit.
   (C) Coverage is excluded for the following:
   (i) Home care visits paid for by Medicare or other government
programs.
   (ii) Care provided by family members, unpaid volunteers, or
providers who are not care providers.
   (11) With respect to new or innovative benefits, an issuer may, with
the prior approval of the director, offer contracts with new or innovative
benefits in addition to the benefits provided in a contract that otherwise
complies with the applicable standards. The new or innovative benefits
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4671

may include benefits that are appropriate to Medicare supplement
contracts, new or innovative, not otherwise available, cost-effective, and
offered in a manner which is consistent with the goal of simplification
of Medicare supplement contracts.
   (d) A contract shall not contain any provision delaying the effective
date of coverage beyond the first day of the month following the date of
receipt by the issuer of the applicant’s properly completed application,
except that the effective date of coverage may be delayed until the 65th
birthday of an applicant who is to become eligible for Medicare by
reason of age if the application is received any time during the three
months immediately preceding the applicant’s 65th birthday.
   1358.9. (a) An issuer shall make available to each prospective
enrollee a contract form containing only the basic (core) benefits, as
defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1358.8.
   (b) No groups, packages, or combinations of Medicare supplement
benefits other than those listed in this section shall be offered for sale in
this state, except as may be permitted by paragraph (11) of subdivision
(c) of Section 1358.8 and by Section 1358.10.
   (c) Benefit plans shall be uniform in structure, language, designation
and format to the standard benefit plans A to J, inclusive, listed in
subdivision (e), and shall conform to the definitions in Section 1358.4.
Each benefit shall be structured in accordance with the format provided
in subdivisions (b) and (c) of Section 1358.8 and list the benefits in the
order listed in subdivision (e). For purposes of this section, ‘‘structure,
language, and format’’ means style, arrangement, and overall content of
a benefit.
   (d) An issuer may use, in addition to the benefit plan designations
required in subdivision (c), other designations to the extent permitted by
law.
   (e) With respect to the makeup of benefit plans, the following shall
apply:
   (1) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan A shall be limited
to the basic (core) benefit common to all benefit plans, as defined in
subdivision (b) of Section 1358.8.
   (2) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan B shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible
as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of Section 1358.8.
   (3) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan C shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
skilled nursing facility care, Medicare Part B deductible, and medically
necessary emergency care in a foreign country as defined in paragraphs
(1), (2), (3), and (8) of subdivision (c) of Section 1358.8, respectively.
   (4) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan D shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
 4672                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
skilled nursing facility care, medically necessary emergency care in a
foreign country, and the at-home recovery benefit as defined in
paragraphs (1), (2), (8), and (10) of subdivision (c) of Section 1358.8,
respectively.
   (5) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan E shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
skilled nursing facility care, medically necessary emergency care in a
foreign country, and preventive medical care as defined in paragraphs
(1), (2), (8), and (9) of subdivision (c) of Section 1358.8, respectively.
   (6) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan F shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
the skilled nursing facility care, the Medicare Part B deductible, 100
percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges, and medically necessary
emergency care in a foreign country as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (3),
(5), and (8) of subdivision (c) of Section 1358.8, respectively.
   (7) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit high deductible plan
F shall include only the following: 100 percent of covered expenses
following the payment of the annual high deductible plan F deductible.
The covered expenses include the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part
A deductible, skilled nursing facility care, the Medicare Part B
deductible, 100 percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges, and
medically necessary emergency care in a foreign country as defined in
paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (5), and (8) of subdivision (c) of Section 1358.8,
respectively. The annual high deductible plan F deductible shall consist
of out-of-pocket expenses, other than premiums, for services covered by
the Medicare supplement plan F policy, and shall be in addition to any
other specific benefit deductibles. The annual high deductible Plan F
deductible shall be one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500) for 1998
and 1999, and shall be based on the calendar year, as adjusted annually
thereafter by the secretary to reflect the change in the Consumer Price
Index for all urban consumers for the 12-month period ending with
August of the preceding year, and rounded to the nearest multiple of ten
dollars ($10).
   (8) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan G shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
skilled nursing facility care, 80 percent of the Medicare Part B excess
charges, medically necessary emergency care in a foreign country, and
the at-home recovery benefit as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (4), (8),
and (10) of Section 1358.8, respectively.
   (9) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan H shall consist of
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
skilled nursing facility care, basic outpatient prescription drug benefit,
and medically necessary emergency care in a foreign country as defined
in paragraphs (1), (2), (6), and (8) of Section 1358.8, respectively.
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4673

   (10) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan I shall consist
of only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A
deductible, skilled nursing facility care, 100 percent of the Medicare Part
B excess charges, basic outpatient prescription drug benefit, medically
necessary emergency care in a foreign country, and at-home recovery
benefit as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (5), (6), (8), and (10) of
subdivision (c) of Section 1358.8, respectively.
   (11) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan J shall consist
of only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A
deductible, skilled nursing facility care, Medicare Part B deductible, 100
percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges, extended outpatient
prescription drug benefit, medically necessary emergency care in a
foreign country, preventive medical care, and at-home recovery benefit
as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (5), (7), (8), (9), and (10) of
subdivision (c) of Section 1358.8, respectively.
   (12) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit high deductible plan
J shall consist of only the following: 100 percent of covered expenses
following the payment of the annual high deductible plan J deductible.
The covered expenses include the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part
A deductible, skilled nursing facility care, Medicare Part B deductible,
100 percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges, extended outpatient
prescription drug benefit, medically necessary emergency care in a
foreign country, preventive medical care benefit, and at-home recovery
benefit as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (5), (7), (8), (9), and (10)
of subdivision (c) of Section 1358.8, respectively. The annual high
deductible plan J deductible shall consist of out-of-pocket expenses,
other than premiums, for services covered by the Medicare supplement
plan J policy, and shall be in addition to any other specific benefit
deductibles. The annual deductible shall be one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500) for 1998 and 1999, and shall be based on a calendar year,
as adjusted annually thereafter by the secretary to reflect the change in
the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers for the 12-month
period ending with August of the preceding year, and rounded to the
nearest multiple of ten dollars ($10).
   1358.10. (a) (1) This section shall apply to Medicare Select
contracts, as defined in this section.
   (2) A contract shall not be advertised as a Medicare Select contract
unless it meets the requirements of this section.
   (b) For the purposes of this section:
   (1) ‘‘Complaint’’ means any dissatisfaction expressed by an
individual concerning a Medicare Select issuer or its network providers.
   (2) ‘‘Grievance’’ means dissatisfaction expressed in writing by an
individual covered by a Medicare Select contract with the
 4674                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
administration, claims practices, or provision of services concerning a
Medicare Select issuer or its network providers.
   (3) ‘‘Medicare Select issuer’’ means an issuer offering, or seeking to
offer, a Medicare Select contract.
  (4) ‘‘Medicare Select contract’’ means a Medicare supplement
contract that contains restricted network provisions.
  (5) ‘‘Network provider’’ means a provider of health care, or a group
of providers of health care, which has entered into a written agreement
with the issuer to provide benefits covered under a Medicare Select
contract. ‘‘Provider network’’ means a grouping of network providers.
  (6) ‘‘Restricted network provision’’ means any provision which
conditions the payment of benefits, in whole or in part, on the use of
network providers.
  (7) ‘‘Service area’’ means the geographic area approved by the
director within which an issuer is authorized to offer a Medicare Select
contract.
  (c) The director may authorize an issuer to offer a Medicare Select
contract pursuant to Section 4358 of the federal Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act (OBRA) of 1990 if the director finds that the issuer’s
Medicare Select contracts are in compliance with this chapter and if the
director finds that the issuer has satisfied all of the requirements of this
section.
  (d) A Medicare Select issuer shall not issue a Medicare Select
contract in this state until its plan of operation has been approved by the
director.
  (e) A Medicare Select issuer shall file a proposed plan of operation
with the director in a format prescribed by the director. The plan of
operation shall contain at least the following information:
  (1) Evidence that all covered services that are subject to restricted
network provisions are available and accessible through network
providers, including a demonstration of all of the following:
  (A) That services can be provided by network providers with
reasonable promptness with respect to geographic location, hours of
operation, and afterhour care. The hours of operation and availability of
afterhour care shall reflect usual practice in the local area. Geographic
availability shall reflect the usual travel times within the community.
  (B) That the number of network providers in the service area is
sufficient, with respect to current and expected enrollees, as to either of
the following:
  (i) To deliver adequately all services that are subject to a restricted
network provision.
  (ii) To make appropriate referrals.
  (C) There are written agreements with network providers describing
specific responsibilities.
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4675

   (D) Emergency care is available 24 hours per day and seven days per
week.
   (E) In the case of covered services that are subject to a restricted
network provision and are provided on a prepaid basis, that there are
written agreements with network providers prohibiting the providers
from billing or otherwise seeking reimbursement from or recourse
against any individual covered under a Medicare Select contract.
   This subparagraph shall not apply to supplemental charges or
coinsurance amounts as stated in the Medicare Select contract.
   (2) A statement or map providing a clear description of the service
area.
   (3) A description of the grievance procedure to be utilized.
   (4) A description of the quality assurance program, including all of
the following:
   (A) The formal organizational structure.
   (B) The written criteria for selection, retention, and removal of
network providers.
   (C) The procedures for evaluating quality of care provided by
network providers, and the process to initiate corrective action when
warranted.
   (5) A list and description, by specialty, of the network providers.
   (6) Copies of the written information proposed to be used by the
issuer to comply with subdivision (i).
   (7) Any other information requested by the director.
   (f) (1) A Medicare Select issuer shall file any proposed changes to
the plan of operation, except for changes to the list of network providers,
with the director prior to implementing the changes. Changes shall be
considered approved by the director after 30 days unless specifically
disapproved.
   (2) An updated list of network providers shall be filed with the
director at least quarterly.
   (g) A Medicare Select contract shall not restrict payment for covered
services provided by nonnetwork providers if:
   (1) The services are for symptoms requiring emergency care or are
immediately required for an unforeseen illness, injury, or condition.
   (2) It is not reasonable to obtain services through a network provider.
   (h) A Medicare Select contract shall provide payment for full
coverage under the contract for covered services that are not available
through network providers.
   (i) A Medicare Select issuer shall make full and fair disclosure in
writing of the provisions, restrictions, and limitations of the Medicare
Select contract to each applicant. This disclosure shall include at least
the following:
 4676                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (1) An outline of coverage sufficient to permit the applicant to
compare the coverage and charges of the Medicare Select contract with
both of the following:
   (A) Other Medicare supplement contracts offered by the issuer.
   (B) Other Medicare Select contracts.
   (2) A description, including address, telephone number, and hours of
operation, of the network providers, including primary care physicians,
specialty physicians, hospitals, and other providers.
   (3) A description of the restricted network provisions, including
payments for coinsurance and deductibles when providers other than
network providers are utilized.
   (4) A description of coverage for emergency and urgently needed care
and other out-of-service area coverage.
   (5) A description of limitations on referrals to restricted network
providers and to other providers.
   (6) A description of the enrollee’s rights to purchase any other
Medicare supplement contract otherwise offered by the issuer.
   (7) A description of the Medicare Select issuer’s quality assurance
program and grievance procedure.
   (j) Prior to the sale of a Medicare Select contract, a Medicare Select
issuer shall obtain from the applicant a signed and dated form stating that
the applicant has received the information provided pursuant to
subdivision (i) and that the applicant understands the restrictions of the
Medicare Select contract.
   (k) A Medicare Select issuer shall have and use procedures for
hearing complaints and resolving written grievances from the enrollees.
The procedures shall be aimed at mutual agreement for settlement and
may include arbitration procedures.
   (1) The grievance procedure shall be described in the contract and in
the outline of coverage.
   (2) At the time the contract is issued, the issuer shall provide detailed
information to the enrollee describing how a grievance may be registered
with the issuer.
   (3) Grievances shall be considered in a timely manner and shall be
transmitted to appropriate decisionmakers who have authority to fully
investigate the issue and take corrective action.
   (4) If a grievance is found to be valid, corrective action shall be taken
promptly.
   (5) All concerned parties shall be notified about the results of a
grievance.
   (6) The issuer shall report no later than each March 31st to the director
regarding its grievance procedure. The report shall be in a format
prescribed by the director and shall contain the number of grievances
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4677

filed in the past year and a summary of the subject, nature, and resolution
of those grievances.
   (l) At the time of initial purchase, a Medicare Select issuer shall make
available to each applicant for a Medicare Select contract the opportunity
to purchase any Medicare supplement contract otherwise offered by the
issuer.
   (m) (1) At the request of an enrollee under a Medicare Select
contract, a Medicare Select issuer shall make available to the enrollee the
opportunity to purchase a Medicare supplement contract offered by the
issuer that has comparable or lesser benefits and that does not contain a
restricted network provision, if a Medicare supplement contract of that
nature is offered by the issuer. The issuer shall make the contracts
available without regard to the health status of the enrollee and without
requiring evidence of insurability after the Medicare Select contract has
been in force for six months.
   (2) For the purposes of this subdivision, a Medicare supplement
contract will be considered to have comparable or lesser benefits unless
it contains one or more significant benefits not included in the Medicare
Select contract being replaced. For the purposes of this paragraph, a
significant benefit means coverage for the Medicare Part A deductible,
coverage for prescription drugs, coverage for at-home recovery services,
or coverage for Medicare Part B excess charges.
   (n) Medicare Select contracts shall provide for continuation of
coverage in the event the secretary determines that Medicare Select
contracts issued pursuant to this section should be discontinued due to
either the failure of the Medicare Select program to be reauthorized
under law or its substantial amendment.
   (1) Each Medicare Select issuer shall make available to each enrollee
covered by a Medicare Select contract the opportunity to purchase any
Medicare supplement contract offered by the issuer that has comparable
or lesser benefits and that does not contain a restricted provider network
provision, if a Medicare supplement contract of that nature is offered by
the issuer. The issuer shall make the contracts available without regard
to the health status of the enrollee and without requiring evidence of
insurability after the Medicare Select contract has been in force for six
months.
   (2) For the purposes of this subdivision, a Medicare supplement
contract will be considered to have comparable or lesser benefits unless
it contains one or more significant benefits not included in the Medicare
Select contract being replaced. For the purposes of this paragraph, a
significant benefit means coverage for the Medicare Part A deductible,
coverage for prescription drugs, coverage for at-home recovery services,
or coverage for Medicare Part B excess charges.
 4678                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (o) An issuer offering Medicare Select contracts shall comply with
reasonable requests for data made by state or federal agencies, including
the United States Department of Health and Human Services, for the
purpose of evaluating the Medicare Select program. An issuer shall not
issue a Medicare Select contract in this state until the contract has been
approved by the director.
   1358.11. (a) An issuer shall not deny or condition the offering or
effectiveness of any Medicare supplement contract available for sale in
this state, nor discriminate in the pricing of a contract because of the
health status, claims experience, receipt of health care, or medical
condition of an applicant in the case of an application for a contract that
is submitted prior to or during the six-month period beginning with the
first day of the first month in which an individual is both 65 years of age
or older and is enrolled for benefits under Medicare Part B. Each
Medicare supplement contract currently available from an issuer shall be
made available to all applicants who qualify under this subdivision
without regard to age.
   (b) (1) If an applicant qualifies under subdivision (a) and submits an
application during the time period referenced in subdivision (a) and, as
of the date of application, has had a continuous period of creditable
coverage of at least six months, the issuer shall not exclude benefits
based on a preexisting condition.
   (2) If the applicant qualifies under subdivision (a) and submits an
application during the time period referenced in subdivision (a) and, as
of the date of application, has had a continuous period of creditable
coverage that is less than six months, the issuer shall reduce the period
of any preexisting condition exclusion by the aggregate of the period of
creditable coverage applicable to the applicant as of the enrollment date.
The manner of the reduction under this subdivision shall be as specified
by the director.
   (c) Except as provided in subdivision (b) and Section 1358.23,
subdivision (a) shall not be construed as preventing the exclusion of
benefits under a contract, during the first six months, based on a
preexisting condition for which the enrollee received treatment or was
otherwise diagnosed during the six months before the coverage became
effective.
   (d) An individual enrolled in Medicare Part B by reason of disability
shall be entitled to open enrollment described in this section for six
months after he or she reaches age 65. Sales during the open enrollment
period shall not be discouraged by any means, including the altering of
the commission structure.
   (e) An individual who is 65 years of age or older and enrolled in
Medicare Part B is entitled to open enrollment described in this section
for six months following:
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4679

   (1) Receipt of a notice of termination or, if no notice is received, the
effective date of termination, from any employer-sponsored health plan
including an employer-sponsored retiree health plan. For purposes of
this section, ‘‘employer-sponsored retiree health plan’’ includes any
coverage for medical expenses that is directly or indirectly sponsored or
established by an employer for employees or retirees, their spouses,
dependents, or other included covered persons.
   (2) Termination of health care services for a military retiree or the
retiree’s Medicare eligible spouse or dependent as a result of a military
base closure.
   (f) An individual who is 65 years of age or older and enrolled in
Medicare Part B is entitled to open enrollment described in this section
if the individual was covered under a policy, certificate, or contract
providing Medicare supplement coverage but that coverage terminated
because the individual established residence at a location not served by
the issuer.
   (g) (1) An individual who was previously enrolled in, but whose
coverage was terminated between September 1, 1998, and December 31,
1998, by a Medicare managed care plan shall be entitled to a new 60-day
open enrollment period in addition to any open enrollment authorized by
federal law or regulations, for any and all Medicare supplement coverage
available on a guaranteed basis under state and federal law or regulation
for persons terminated by their Medicare managed care plan.
   (2) The new open enrollment period specified in paragraph (1) shall
commence 90 days after January 1, 2000. Within 30 days of January 1,
2000, health plans shall notify their former Medicare enrollees who were
terminated during the period specified in paragraph (1) of the new open
enrollment period. Health plan notices shall inform the terminated
enrollees of the opportunity to secure advice and assistance from the
Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy Program (HICAP) in their
area, along with the toll-free telephone number for HICAP.
   (3) An individual who was previously enrolled in but whose coverage
was terminated after January 1, 1999, by a Medicare managed care plan
shall be entitled to an additional 60-day open enrollment period to be
added on to and run consecutively after any open enrollment period
authorized by federal law or regulations, for any and all Medicare
supplement coverage available on a guaranteed basis under state and
federal law or regulations for persons terminated by their Medicare
managed care plan.
   (4) Health plans that terminate Medicare enrollees shall notify those
enrollees in the termination notice of the additional open enrollment
period authorized by this subdivision. Health plan notices shall inform
enrollees of the opportunity to secure advice and assistance from the
 4680                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
Health Insurance Counseling Advocacy Program (HICAP) in their area,
along with the toll-free telephone number for HICAP.
   (h) An individual shall be entitled to an annual open enrollment
period lasting 30 days or more, commencing with the individual’s
birthday, during which time that person may purchase any Medicare
supplement coverage, with the exception of a Medicare Select contract,
that offers benefits equal to or lesser than those provided by the previous
coverage. During this open enrollment period, no issuer that falls under
this provision shall deny or condition the issuance or effectiveness of
Medicare supplement coverage, nor discriminate in the pricing of
coverage, because of health status, claims experience, receipt of health
care, or medical condition of the individual if, at the time of the open
enrollment period, the individual is covered under another Medicare
supplement policy, certificate, or contract. An issuer that offers
Medicare supplement contracts shall notify an enrollee of his or her
rights under this subdivision at least 30 and no more than 60 days before
the beginning of the open enrollment period.
   1358.12. (a) (1) With respect to the guaranteed issue of a Medicare
supplement contract, eligible persons are those individuals described in
subdivision (b) who apply to enroll under the contract not later than 63
days after the date of the termination of enrollment described in
subdivision (b), and who submit evidence of the date of termination or
disenrollment with the application for a Medicare supplement contract.
   (2) With respect to eligible persons, an issuer shall not deny or
condition the issuance or effectiveness of a Medicare supplement
contract described in subdivision (c) that is offered and is available for
issuance to new enrollees by the issuer, shall not discriminate in the
pricing of the Medicare supplement contract because of health status,
claims experience, receipt of health care, or medical condition, and shall
not impose an exclusion of benefits based on a preexisting condition
under the Medicare supplement contract.
   (b) An eligible person is an individual described in any of the
following paragraphs:
   (1) The individual is enrolled under an employee welfare benefit plan
that provides health benefits that supplement the benefits under
Medicare, and the plan terminates, or the plan ceases to provide all of
those supplemental health benefits to the individual.
   (2) The individual is enrolled with a Medicare+Choice organization
under a Medicare+Choice plan under Medicare Part C, and any of the
following apply:
   (A) The organization’s or plan’s certification, under this part, has
been terminated or the organization has terminated or otherwise
discontinued providing the plan in the area in which the individual
resides.
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4681

   (B) The individual is no longer eligible to elect the plan because of
a change in the individual’s place of residence or other change in
circumstances specified by the secretary, but not including termination
of the individual’s enrollment on the basis described in Section
1851(g)(3)(B) of the federal Social Security Act, where the individual
has not paid premiums on a timely basis or has engaged in disruptive
behavior as specified in standards under Section 1856 of that act, or the
plan is terminated for all individuals within a residence area.
   (C) The individual demonstrates, in accordance with guidelines
established by the director, either of the following:
   (i) The organization offering the plan substantially violated a material
provision of the organization’s contract under this article in relation to
the individual, including the failure to provide an enrollee on a timely
basis medically necessary care for which benefits are available under the
plan or the failure to provide the covered care in accordance with
applicable quality standards.
   (ii) The organization, or agent or other entity acting on the
organization’s behalf, materially misrepresented the plan’s provisions in
marketing the plan to the individual.
   (D) The individual meets other exceptional conditions as the director
may provide.
   (3) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual is enrolled with any of the following:
   (i) An eligible organization under a contract under Section 1876 of
the federal Social Security Act (Medicare risk or cost).
   (ii) A similar organization operating under demonstration project
authority, effective for periods before April 1, 1999.
   (iii) An organization under an agreement under Section
1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health care prepayment
plan).
   (iv) An organization under a Medicare Select policy.
   (B) The individual’s enrollment ceases under the same circumstances
that would permit discontinuance of an individual’s election of coverage
under the first sentence of Section 1851(e)(4) of the federal Social
Security Act as delineated in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
   (4) The individual is enrolled under a Medicare supplement contract
and the enrollment ceases because of the following: the insolvency of the
issuer or bankruptcy of the nonissuer organization; the involuntary
termination of coverage or enrollment under the contract; the issuer of
the contract substantially violated a material provision of the contract;
or the issuer, or an agent or other entity acting on the issuer’s behalf,
materially misrepresented the contract’s provisions in marketing the
contract to the individual.
   (5) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
 4682                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
   (A) The individual was enrolled under a Medicare supplement
contract and terminates enrollment and subsequently enrolls, for the first
time, with any Medicare+Choice organization under a
Medicare+Choice plan under Medicare Part C, any eligible organization
under a contract under Section 1876 of the federal Social Security Act
(Medicare risk or cost), any similar organization operating under
demonstration project authority, an organization under an agreement
under Section 1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health
care prepayment plan), or a Medicare Select contract.
   (B) The subsequent enrollment under subparagraph (A) is terminated
by the enrollee during any period within the first 12 months of the
subsequent enrollment (during which the enrollee is permitted to
terminate the subsequent enrollment under Section 1851(e) of the
federal Social Security Act).
   (6) The individual, upon first becoming eligible for benefits under
Medicare Part A at age 65 years, enrolls in a Medicare+Choice plan
under Medicare Part C, and disenrolls from the plan by not later than 12
months after the effective date of enrollment.
   (c) (1) Under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subdivision (b),
eligible persons are entitled to a Medicare supplement contract that has
a benefit package classified as plan A, B, C, or F offered by any issuer.
   (2) Under paragraph (5) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to the same Medicare supplement contract in which they were
most recently previously enrolled, if available from the same issuer, or,
if not so available, a contract described in paragraph (1) of subdivision
(c).
   (3) Under paragraph (6) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to any Medicare supplement contract offered by any issuer.
   (d) (1) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because
of which an individual loses coverage or benefits due to the termination
of a contract or agreement, policy, or plan, the organization that
terminates the contract or agreement, the issuer terminating the contract,
or the administrator of the plan being terminated, respectively, shall
notify the individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the
obligations of issuers of Medicare supplement contracts under
subdivision (a). That notice shall be communicated contemporaneously
with the notification of termination.
   (2) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because of
which an individual ceases enrollment under a contract or agreement,
policy, or plan, the organization that offers the contract or agreement,
regardless of the basis for the cessation of enrollment, the issuer offering
the contract, or the administrator of the plan, respectively, shall notify
the individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the
obligations of issuers of Medicare supplement contracts under
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4683

subdivision (a). That notice shall be communicated within ten working
days of the issuer receiving notification of disenrollment.
   1358.13. (a) An issuer shall comply with Section 1882(c)(3) of the
federal Social Security Act (as enacted by Section 4081(b)(2)(C) of the
federal Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 (OBRA), Public
Law 100-203) by doing all of the following:
   (1) Accepting a notice from a Medicare carrier on dually assigned
claims submitted by participating physicians and suppliers as a claim for
benefits in place of any other claim form otherwise required and making
a payment determination on the basis of the information contained in
that notice.
   (2) Notifying the participating physician or supplier and the
beneficiary of the payment determination.
   (3) Paying the participating physician or supplier directly.
   (4) Furnishing, at the time of enrollment, each enrollee with a card
listing the contract name, number, and a central mailing address to which
notices respecting coverage from a Medicare carrier may be sent.
   (5) Paying user fees established under Section 1395u(h)(3)(B) of
Title 42 of the United States Code, for claim notices that are transmitted
electronically or otherwise.
   (6) Providing to the secretary, at least annually, a central mailing
address to which all claims may be sent by Medicare carriers.
   (b) Compliance with the requirements set forth in subdivision (a)
shall be certified on the Medicare supplement insurance experience
reporting form provided by the director.
   1358.14. (a) (1) (A) With respect to loss ratio standards, a
Medicare supplement contract shall not be advertised, solicited, or
issued for delivery unless the contract can be expected, as estimated for
the entire period for which prepaid or periodic charges are computed to
provide coverage, to return to subscribers and enrollees in the form of
aggregate benefits under the contract, not including anticipated refunds
or credits provided under the contract, at least 75 percent of the aggregate
amount of charges earned in the case of group contracts, or at least 65
percent of the aggregate amount of charges earned in the case of
individual contracts, on the basis of incurred claims or costs of health
care services experience and earned prepaid or periodic charges for that
period and in accordance with accepted actuarial principles and
practices.
   (B) Loss ratio standards shall be calculated on the basis of incurred
health care expenses where coverage is provided by a health care service
plan on a service rather than reimbursement basis, and earned prepaid or
periodic charges shall be calculated for the period and in accordance with
accepted actuarial principles and practices.
 4684                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
   (2) All filings of rates and rating schedules shall demonstrate that
expected claims in relation to prepaid or periodic charges comply with
the requirements of this section when combined with actual experience
to date. Filings of rate revisions shall also demonstrate that the
anticipated loss ratio over the entire future period for which the revised
rates are computed to provide coverage can be expected to meet the
appropriate loss ratio standards.
   (3) For purposes of applying paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) and
paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 1358.15 only, contracts
issued as a result of solicitations of individuals through the mail or by
mass media advertising, including both print and broadcast advertising,
shall be deemed to be individual contracts.
   (b) (1) With respect to refund or credit calculations, an issuer shall
collect and file with the director by May 31 of each year the data
contained in the applicable reporting form required by the director
(NAIC Appendix A) for each type of coverage in a standard Medicare
supplement benefit plan.
   (2) If on the basis of the experience as reported the benchmark ratio
since inception (ratio 1) exceeds the adjusted experience ratio since
inception (ratio 3), then a refund or credit calculation is required. The
refund calculation shall be done on a statewide basis for each type of
contract offered by the issuer. For purposes of the refund or credit
calculation, experience on contracts issued within the reporting year
shall be excluded.
   (3) For the purposes of this section, with respect to contracts
advertised, solicited, or issued for delivery prior to January 1, 2001, the
issuer shall make the refund or credit calculation separately for all
individual contracts, including all group contracts subject to an
individual loss ratio standard when issued, combined and all other group
contracts combined for experience after January 1, 2001. The first report
pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be due by May 31, 2003.
   (4) A refund or credit shall be made only when the benchmark loss
ratio exceeds the adjusted experience loss ratio and the amount to be
refunded or credited exceeds ten dollars ($10). The refund shall include
interest from the end of the calendar year to the date of the refund or
credit at a rate specified by the secretary, but in no event shall it be less
than the average rate of interest for 13-week Treasury notes. A refund or
credit against prepaid or periodic charges due shall be made by
September 30 following the experience year upon which the refund or
credit is based.
   (c) An issuer of Medicare supplement contracts shall file annually its
prepaid or periodic charges and supporting documentation including
ratios of incurred losses to earned prepaid or periodic charges by contract
duration for approval by the director in accordance with the filing
[Ch. 706 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                                4685

requirements and procedures prescribed by the director. The supporting
documentation shall also demonstrate in accordance with actuarial
standards of practice using reasonable assumptions that the appropriate
loss ratio standards can be expected to be met over the entire period for
which charges are computed. The demonstration shall exclude active life
reserves. An expected third-year loss ratio that is greater than or equal
to the applicable percentage shall be demonstrated for contracts in force
less than three years.
   As soon as practicable, but prior to the effective date of enhancements
in Medicare benefits, every issuer of Medicare supplement contracts
shall file with the director, in accordance with applicable filing
procedures, all of the following:
   (1) (A) Appropriate prepaid or periodic charge adjustments
necessary to produce loss ratios as anticipated for the current charge for
the applicable contracts. The supporting documents necessary to justify
the adjustment shall accompany the filing.
   (B) An issuer shall make prepaid or periodic charge adjustments
necessary to produce an expected loss ratio under the contract to conform
to minimum loss ratio standards for Medicare supplement contracts and
that are expected to result in a loss ratio at least as great as that originally
anticipated in the rates used to produce current charges by the issuer for
the Medicare supplement contracts. No charge adjustment that would
modify the loss ratio experience under the contract other than the
adjustments described in this section shall be made with respect to a
contract at any time other than upon its renewal date or anniversary date.
   (C) If an issuer fails to make prepaid or periodic charge adjustments
acceptable to the director, the director may order charge adjustments,
refunds, or credits deemed necessary to achieve the loss ratio required
by this section.
   (2) Any appropriate contract amendments needed to accomplish the
Medicare supplement contract modifications necessary to eliminate
benefit duplications with Medicare. The contract amendments shall
provide a clear description of the Medicare supplement benefits
provided by the contract.
   (d) (1) The director may conduct a public hearing to gather
information concerning a request by an issuer for an increase in a rate for
a contract form issued before or after the effective date of January 1,
2001, if the experience of the form for the previous reporting period is
not in compliance with the applicable loss ratio standard. The
determination of compliance is made without consideration of any
refund or credit for the reporting period. Public notice of the hearing
shall be furnished in a manner deemed appropriate by the director.
   (2) The director may conduct a public hearing to gather information
if the experience of the form filed under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b)
 4686                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
for the previous reporting period is not in compliance with the applicable
loss ratio standard.
   The determination of compliance is made without consideration of
any refund or credit for the reporting period. Public notice of the hearing
shall be furnished in a manner deemed appropriate by the director.
   1358.145. (a) The calculation of actual or expected loss ratios shall
be pursuant to the formula in subdivision (a) of Section 1358.14, and
pursuant to definitions, procedures, and other provisions as may be
deemed by the director, with due consideration of the circumstances of
the particular issuer, to be fair, reasonable, and consistent with the
objectives of this chapter.
   (b) Each issuer shall submit to the department a copy of the
calculations for the actual or expected loss ratio as required by Section
1358.14. The calculations shall include the following data: the actual
loss ratio for the entire period in which the contract has been in force, as
well as for the immediate past three years and for each year in which the
contract has been in force, the scale of prepaid or periodic charges for the
loss ratio calculation period, a description of all assumptions, the
formula used to calculate gross prepaid or periodic charges, the expected
level of earned prepaid or periodic charges in the loss ratio calculation
period, and the expected level of incurred claims for reimbursement,
including paid claims and incurred but not paid claims, in the loss ratio
calculation period. The calculations shall be accompanied by an
actuarial certification, consisting of a signed declaration of an actuary
who is a member in good standing of the American Academy of
Actuaries in which the actuary states that the assumptions used in
calculating the expected loss ratio are appropriate and reasonable, taking
into account that the calculations are in accordance with the provisions
of subdivision (a) and the provisions referred to therein. In addition, the
director may require the issuer to submit actuarial certification, as
described above, by one or more unaffiliated actuaries acceptable to the
director.
   (c) Notwithstanding the calculations required by subdivision (b),
contracts shall be deemed to comply with the loss ratio standards if, and
shall be deemed not to comply with the loss standards unless: (1) for the
most recent year, the ratio of the incurred losses to earned prepaid
charges for contracts that have been in force for three years or more is
greater than or equal to the applicable percentages contained in this
section; and (2) the expected losses in relation to charges over the entire
period for which the contract is rated comply with the requirements of
this section. An expected third-year loss ratio that is greater than or equal
to the applicable percentage shall be demonstrated for contracts in force
less than three years.
[Ch. 706 ]             STATUTES OF 2000                          4687

   1358.146. The following format shall be used for reporting loss
ratio experience:

MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT
HEALTH CARE SERVICE PLAN
CONTRACT EXPERIENCE EXHIBIT

For the year ended December 31, 20__.
For the State of California.

Of the ____ health care service plan.
Address (City, State, and Zip Code) ____
Person Completing this Exhibit ____
To be filed by June 30th following the filing under Section 1358.14 of
the Health and Safety Code.

                                      Costs for Health Care Services

                       Prepaid or                     Percentage
                        Periodic                      of Prepaid
                        Charges                       or Periodic
Classification          Earned        Amount        Charges Earned

Experience on
Individual Plan
Contracts

1. Contracts issued
   through 20__

   Reporting State
   Nationwide

2. Contracts issued
   after 20__

   Reporting State
   Nationwide

Experience on Group
Plan Contracts
 4688                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]

1. Contracts Issued
   through 20__

   Reporting State
   Nationwide

2. Contracts Issued
   after 20__

   Reporting State
   Nationwide

The undersigned officer hereby certifies that the company named above has
complied with the requirements contained in the federal Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1987, Section 4081.
  Signature
  Title and name (please type)


      INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING MEDICARE
  SUPPLEMENT HEALTH CARE SERVICE PLAN CONTRACT
                EXPERIENCE EXHIBIT

   1. Experience on plan contracts issued more than three years prior to
the reporting year should be shown separately as indicated on the form.
For example, for the reporting year ended 12/31/88 (filed on June 30,
1989), experience on plan contracts issued in 1985 and prior should be
shown separately from that of plan contracts issued in 1986 and later. For
group coverage, the year of issue should be based on when the contract
was issued if available; otherwise use the master plan contract year of
issue.
   2. Allocation of reserves on a state-by-state basis should be on sound
actuarial principles and be consistent from year to year.
   3. Membership or plan contract fees, if any, constitute, and should be
included with, prepaid or periodic charges earned. Earned prepaid or
periodic charges may be shown on an annual basis net of loadings for
nonannual modes.
   4. Mass marketing group coverage subject to individual loss ratio
standards should be included with individual plan contracts.
   5. Any dividends paid to subscribers should be included with costs
for health care.
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4689

  6. Neither costs for health care services nor earned prepaid or periodic
charges should be adjusted for changes in plan contract (additional)
reserves.

                             DEFINITIONS

   For purposes of this form:
  1. ‘‘Costs for health care services’’ means payment for health care
services plus the increase in claim reserves. Claim reserves include only
those unpaid liabilities for claims that have already been incurred. Costs
for health care services in this exhibit do not include plan contract
additional reserves.

   1358.15. (a) An issuer shall not advertise, solicit, or issue for
delivery a Medicare supplement contract to a resident of this state unless
the contract has been filed with and approved by the director in
accordance with filing requirements and procedures prescribed by the
director. Until January 1, 2001, or 90 days after approval of Medicare
supplement contracts submitted for approval pursuant to this section,
whichever is later, issuers may continue to offer and market previously
approved Medicare supplement contracts.
   (b) An issuer shall not use or change prepaid or periodic charges for
a Medicare supplement contract unless the charges and supporting
documentation have been filed with and approved by the director in
accordance with the filing requirements and procedures prescribed by
the director.
   (c) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), an issuer shall not file for
approval more than one contract of each type for each standard Medicare
supplement benefit plan.
   (2) An issuer may offer, with the approval of the director, up to four
additional contracts of the same type for the same standard Medicare
supplement benefit plan, one for each of the following cases:
   (A) The inclusion of new or innovative benefits.
   (B) The addition of either direct response or agent marketing
methods.
   (C) The addition of either guaranteed issue or underwritten coverage.
   (D) The offering of coverage to individuals eligible for Medicare by
reason of disability.
   (3) For the purposes of this section, a ‘‘type’’ means an individual
contract, a group contract, an individual Medicare Select contract, or a
group Medicare Select contract.
   (d) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (a), an issuer shall continue
to make available for purchase any contract issued after January 1, 2001,
that has been approved by the director. A contract shall not be considered
 4690                      STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
to be available for purchase unless the issuer has actively offered it for
sale in the previous 12 months.
   (A) An issuer may discontinue the availability of a contract if the
issuer provides to the director in writing its decision at least 30 days prior
to discontinuing the availability of the form of the contract. After receipt
of the notice by the director, the issuer shall no longer offer for sale the
contract in this state.
   (B) An issuer that discontinues the availability of a contract pursuant
to subparagraph (A) shall not file for approval a new contract of the same
type for the same standard Medicare supplement benefit plan as the
discontinued contract for a period of five years after the issuer provides
notice to the director of the discontinuance. The period of
discontinuance may be reduced if the director determines that a shorter
period is appropriate.
   (2) The sale or other transfer of Medicare supplement business to
another issuer shall be considered a discontinuance for the purposes of
this section.
   (3) A change in the rating structure or methodology shall be
considered a discontinuance under paragraph (1) unless the issuer
complies with the following requirements:
   (A) The issuer provides an actuarial memorandum, in a form and
manner prescribed by the director, describing the manner in which the
revised rating methodology and resultant rates differ from the existing
rating methodology and existing rates.
   (B) The issuer does not subsequently put into effect a change of rates
or rating factors that would cause the percentage differential between the
discontinued and subsequent rates as described in the actuarial
memorandum to change. The director may approve a change to the
differential which is in the public interest.
   (e) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the experience of all
contracts of the same type in a standard Medicare supplement benefit
plan shall be combined for purposes of the refund or credit calculation
prescribed in Section 1358.13.
   (2) Contracts assumed under an assumption reinsurance agreement
shall not be combined with the experience of other contracts for purposes
of the refund or credit calculation.
   (f) A Medicare supplement contract shall be deemed not to be fair,
just, or consistent with the objectives of the this chapter at all times, and
shall not be advertised, solicited, or issued for delivery at any time,
except during that period of time, if any, beginning with the date of
receipt by the plan of notification by the director that the provisions of
the contract are deemed to be fair, just, and consistent with the objectives
of this chapter, and ending with the earlier to occur of the events
indicated in subdivision (g).
[Ch. 706 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4691

   (g) The period of time indicated in subdivision (f) shall terminate at
the earlier to occur of (1) receipt by the plan of written revocation by the
director of the immediate past notification referred to in subdivision (f)
specifying the basis for the revocation, (2) the last day of the prepaid or
periodic charge calculation period, that in no event may exceed one year,
or (3) June 30, of the next succeeding calendar year.
   (h) An issuer shall secure the director’s review of a contract subject
to this article by submitting, not less than 30 days prior to any proposed
advertising or other use of the contract not already protected by a
currently effective notice under subdivision (f), the following for the
director’s review:
   (1) A copy of the contract.
   (2) A copy of the disclosure form.
   (3) A representation that the contract complies with the provisions of
this chapter and the rules adopted thereunder.
   (4) A completed copy of the ‘‘Medicare Supplement Health Care
Service Plan Contract Experience Exhibit’’ set forth in Section
1358.145.
   (5) A copy of the calculations for the actual or expected loss ratio.
   (6) Supporting data used in calculating the actual or expected loss
ratio as indicated in Section 1358.14.
   (7) An actuarial certification, as specified in Section 1358.14, of the
loss ratio computations.
   (8) If required by the director, actuarial certification, as specified in
Section 1358.14, of the loss ratio computations by one or more
unaffiliated actuaries acceptable to the director.
   (9) An undertaking by the issuer to notify the subscribers in writing
within 60 days of decertification, if the contract is identified as a certified
contract at the time of sale and later decertified.
   (10) A signed statement of the president of the issuer or other officer
of the issuer designated by that person attesting that the information
submitted for review is accurate and complete and does not misrepresent
any material fact.
   (i) An issuer that submits information pursuant to subdivision (h)
shall provide any additional information as may be requested by the
director to enable the director to conclude that the contract complies with
the provisions of this chapter and rules adopted thereunder.
   (j) For the purposes of this section, the term ‘‘decertified,’’ as applied
to a contract, means that the director by written notice has found that the
contract no longer complies with the provisions of this chapter and the
rules adopted thereunder and has revoked the prior authorization to
display on the contract the emblem indicating certification.
   (k) Benefits designed to cover cost-sharing amounts under Medicare
will be changed automatically to coincide with any changes in the
 4692                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 706 ]
applicable Medicare deductible amount and copayment percentage
factors and the amount of prepaid charges may be modified, as indicated
in paragraph (6) of subdivision (a) of Section 1300.67.4 of the California
Code of Regulations, to correspond with those changes.
   1358.16. (a) An issuer or other entity may provide commission or
other compensation to a solicitor or other representative for the sale of
a Medicare supplement contract only if the first year commission or
other first year compensation is no more than 200 percent of the
commission or other compensation paid for selling or servicing the
contract in the second year or period.
   (b) The commission or other compensation provided in subsequent
renewal years shall be the same as that provided in the second year or
period and shall be provided for no fewer than five renewal years.
   (c) If coverage is replaced, no issuer shall provide compensation to
a solicitor or solicitor firm, and no solicitor or solicitor firm shall receive
compensation, in a greater amount than the renewal compensation for
the replaced coverage.
   (d) For purposes of this section, ‘‘commission’’ or ‘‘compensation’’
includes pecuniary or nonpecuniary remuneration of any kind relating
to the sale or renewal of the contract, including, but not limited to,
bonuses, gifts, prizes, awards, and finders’ fees.
   1358.17. (a) (1) Medicare supplement contracts shall include a
renewal or continuation provision. The language or specifications of the
provision shall be consistent with subdivision (a) of Section 1365 and
the rules adopted thereunder. The provision shall be appropriately
captioned and shall appear on the first page of the contract, and shall
include any reservation by the issuer of the right to change prepaid or
periodic charges and any automatic renewal increases based on the
enrollee’s age.
   (2) The contract shall contain the provisions required to be set forth
by Section 1300.67.4 of the California Code of Regulations.
   (b) (1) Except for contract amendments by which the issuer
effectuates a request made in writing by the enrollee, exercises a
specifically reserved right under a Medicare supplement contract, or is
required to reduce or eliminate benefits to avoid duplication of Medicare
benefits, all amendments to a Medicare supplement contract after the
date of issue or upon reinstatement or renewal that reduce or eliminate
benefits or coverage in the contract shall require a signed acceptance by
the subscriber. After the date of contract issue, any amendment that
increases benefits or coverage with a concomitant increase in prepaid or
periodic charges during the contract term shall be agreed to in writing
signed by the subscriber, unless the benefits are required by the
minimum standards for Medicare supplement contracts, or if the
increased benefits or coverage is required by law. Where a separate
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4693

additional charge is made for benefits provided in connection with
contract amendments, the charge shall be set forth in the contract.
   (2) An issuer shall not in any way reduce or eliminate any benefit or
coverage under a Medicare supplement contract at any time after the date
of entering the contract, including dates of reinstatement or renewal,
unless and until the change is voluntarily agreed to in writing signed by
the subscriber or enrollee, or is required to reduce or eliminate benefits
to avoid duplication of Medicare benefits. The issuer shall not increase
benefits or coverage with a concomitant increase in prepaid or periodic
charges during the term of the contract unless and until the change is
voluntarily agreed to in writing signed by the subscriber or enrollee or
unless the increased benefits or coverage is required by law or
regulation.
   (c) Medicare supplement contracts shall not provide for the payment
of benefits based on standards described as ‘‘usual and customary,’’
‘‘reasonable and customary,’’ or words of similar import.
   (d) If a Medicare supplement contract contains any limitations with
respect to preexisting conditions, those limitations shall appear as a
separate paragraph of the contract and be labeled as ‘‘Preexisting
Condition Limitations.’’
   (e) (1) Medicare supplement contracts shall have a notice
prominently printed in no less than 10-point uppercase type, on the cover
page of the contract or attached thereto stating that the applicant shall
have the right to return the contract within 30 days of its receipt via
regular mail, and to have any charges refunded in a timely manner if,
after examination of the contract, the covered person is not satisfied for
any reason. The return shall void the contract from the beginning, and
the parties shall be in the same position as if no contract had been issued.
   (2) For purposes of this section, a timely manner shall be no later than
30 days after the issuer receives the returned contract.
   (3) If the issuer fails to refund all prepaid or periodic charges paid in
a timely manner, then the applicant shall receive interest on the paid
charges at the legal rate of interest on judgments as provided in Section
685.010 of the Code of Civil Procedure. The interest shall be paid from
the date the issuer received the returned contract.
   (f) (1) Issuers of health care service plan contracts that provide
hospital or medical expense coverage on an expense incurred or
indemnity basis to persons eligible for Medicare shall provide to those
applicants a guide to health insurance for people with Medicare in the
form developed jointly by the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners and the Health Care Financing Administration and in a
type size no smaller than 12-point type. Delivery of the guide shall be
made whether or not the contracts are advertised, solicited, or issued for
delivery as Medicare supplement contracts as defined in this article.
 4694                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
Except in the case of direct response issuers, delivery of the guide shall
be made to the applicant at the time of application, and acknowledgment
of receipt of the guide shall be obtained by the issuer. Direct response
issuers shall deliver the guide to the applicant upon request, but not later
than at the time the contract is delivered.
   (2) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘form’’ means the language,
format, type size, type proportional spacing, bold character, and line
spacing.
   (g) As soon as practicable, but no later than 30 days prior to the annual
effective date of any Medicare benefit changes, an issuer shall notify its
enrollees and subscribers of modifications it has made to Medicare
supplement contracts in a format acceptable to the director. The notice
shall include both of the following:
   (1) A description of revisions to the Medicare program and a
description of each modification made to the coverage provided under
the Medicare supplement contract.
   (2) Inform each enrollee as to when any adjustment in prepaid or
periodic charges is to be made due to changes in Medicare.
   (h) The notice of benefit modifications and any adjustments of
prepaid or periodic charges shall be in outline form and in clear and
simple terms so as to facilitate comprehension.
   (i) The notices shall not contain or be accompanied by any
solicitation.
   (j) (1) Issuers shall provide an outline of coverage to all applicants
at the time application is presented to the prospective applicant and,
except for direct response policies, shall obtain an acknowledgment of
receipt of the outline from the applicant. If an outline of coverage is
provided at the time of application and the Medicare supplement
contract is issued on a basis which would require revision of the outline,
a substitute outline of coverage properly describing the contract shall
accompany the contract when it is delivered and contain the following
statement, in no less than 12-point type, immediately above the
company name:

  ‘‘NOTICE: Read this outline of coverage carefully. It is not identical
to the outline of coverage provided upon application and the coverage
originally applied for has not been issued.’’

  (2) The outline of coverage provided to applicants pursuant to this
section consists of four parts: a cover page, information about prepaid
or periodic charges, disclosure pages, and charts displaying the features
of each benefit plan offered by the issuer. The outline of coverage shall
be in the language and format prescribed below in no less than 12-point
type. All benefit plans A-J shall be shown on the cover page, and the
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4695

plans that are offered by the issuer shall be prominently identified.
Information about prepaid or periodic charges for plans that are offered
shall be shown on the cover page or immediately following the cover
page and shall be prominently displayed. The charge and mode shall be
stated for all plans that are offered to the prospective applicant. All
possible charges for the prospective applicant shall be illustrated.
   (3) The disclosure pages shall be in the language and format
described below in no less than 12-point type.

  INFORMATION ABOUT PREPAID OR PERIODIC CHARGES

  [Insert plan’s name] can only raise your charges if it raises the charge
for all contracts like yours in this state. [If the charge is based on the
increasing age of the enrollee, include information specifying when
charges will change.]

                             DISCLOSURES

  Use this outline to compare benefits and charges among policies.

             READ YOUR POLICY VERY CAREFULLY

   This is only an outline describing the most important features of your
Medicare supplement plan contract. This is not the plan contract and
only the actual contract provisions will control. You must read the
contract itself to understand all of the rights and duties of both you and
[insert the health care service plan’s name].

                     RIGHT TO RETURN POLICY

   If you find that you are not satisfied with your contract, you may return
it to [insert plan’s address]. If you send the contract back to us within 30
days after you receive it, we will treat the contract as if it had never been
issued and return all of your payments.

                       POLICY REPLACEMENT

    If you are replacing other health coverage, do NOT cancel it until you
have actually received your new contract and are sure you want to keep
it.
 4696                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
                                 NOTICE

   This contract may not fully cover all of your medical costs. Neither
[insert the health care service plan’s name] nor its agents are connected
with Medicare.
   This outline of coverage does not give all the details of Medicare
coverage. Contact your local social security office or consult ‘‘The
Medicare Handbook’’ for further details and limitations applicable to
Medicare.

         COMPLETE ANSWERS ARE VERY IMPORTANT

   When you fill out the application for the new contract, be sure to
answer truthfully and completely all questions about your medical and
health history. The company may cancel your contract and refuse to pay
any claims if you leave out or falsify important medical information. [If
the contract is guaranteed issue, this paragraph need not appear.] Review
the application carefully before you sign it. Be certain that all
information has been properly recorded. [The charts displaying the
features of each benefit plan offered by the issuer shall use the uniform
format and language shown in the charts set forth in Section 17 of the
Model Regulation to Implement the NAIC Medicare Supplement
Insurance Minimum Standards Model Act, as most recently adopted by
the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. No more than
four benefit plans may be shown on one chart. For purposes of
illustration, charts for each benefit plan are set forth below. An issuer
may use additional benefit plan designations on these charts.]
   [Include an explanation of any innovative benefits on the cover page
and in the chart, in a manner approved by the director.]

   (k) Notwithstanding Section 1300.63.2 of Title 10 of the California
Code of Regulations, no issuer shall combine the evidence of coverage
and disclosure form into a single document relating to a contract that
supplements Medicare, or is advertised or represented as a supplement
to Medicare, with hospital or medical coverage.
   (l) The director may adopt regulations to implement this article,
including, but not limited to, regulations that specify the required
information to be contained in the outline of coverage provided to
applicants pursuant to this section, including the format of tables, charts,
and other information.
   (m) (1) Any health care service plan contract, other than a Medicare
supplement contract, a contract issued pursuant to a contract under
Section 1876 of the federal Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.A. Sec. 1395
et seq.), a disability income policy, or any other contract identified in
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4697

subdivision (b) of Section 1358.3, issued for delivery in this state to
persons eligible for Medicare, shall notify enrollees under the contract
that the contract is not a Medicare supplement contract. The notice shall
either be printed or attached to the first page of the outline of coverage
delivered to enrollees under the contract, or if no outline of coverage is
delivered, to the first page of the contract delivered to enrollees. The
notice shall be in no less than 12-point type and shall contain the
following language:

  ‘‘THIS CONTRACT IS NOT A MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT. If you
are eligible for Medicare, review the Guide to Health Insurance for
People with Medicare available from the company.’’

   (2) Applications provided to persons eligible for Medicare for the
health insurance contracts described in paragraph (1) shall disclose the
extent to which the contract duplicates Medicare in a manner required
by the director. The disclosure statement shall be provided as a part of,
or together with, the application for the contract.
   (n) A Medicare supplement contract that does not cover custodial
care shall, on the cover page of the outline of coverages, contain the
following statement in uppercase type: ‘‘THIS POLICY DOES NOT
COVER CUSTODIAL CARE IN A SKILLED NURSING CARE
FACILITY.’’
   1358.18. In the interest of full and fair disclosure, and to assure the
availability of necessary consumer information to potential subscribers
or enrollees not possessing a special knowledge of Medicare, health care
service plans, or Medicare supplement contracts, an issuer shall comply
with the following provisions:
   (a) Application forms shall include the following questions designed
to elicit information as to whether, as of the date of the application, the
applicant has another Medicare supplement or other health insurance
policy or certificate or plan contract in force or whether a Medicare
supplement contract is intended to replace any other disability policy or
certificate, or plan contract, presently in force. A supplementary
application or other form to be signed by the applicant and solicitor
containing those questions and statements may be used.

                             ‘‘(Statements)

  (1) You do not need more than one Medicare supplement policy or
contract.
  (2) If you purchase this contract, you may want to evaluate your
existing health coverage and decide if you need multiple coverages.
 4698                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
  (3) You may be eligible for benefits under Medi-Cal or medicaid and
may not need a Medicare supplement contract.
  (4) The benefits and premiums under your Medicare supplement
contract can be suspended, if requested, during your entitlement to
benefits under Medi-Cal or medicaid for 24 months. You must request
this suspension within 90 days of becoming eligible for Medi-Cal or
medicaid. If you are no longer entitled to Medi-Cal or medicaid, your
contract will be reinstituted if requested within 90 days of losing
Medi-Cal or medicaid eligibility.
  (5) Counseling services are available in your state to provide advice
concerning your purchase of Medicare supplement coverage and
concerning medical assistance through the Medi-Cal or medicaid
program, including benefits as a qualified Medicare beneficiary (QMB)
and a specified low-income Medicare beneficiary (SLMB). Information
regarding counseling services may be obtained from the California
Department of Aging.

                              (Questions)

  To the best of your knowledge,
  (1) Do you have another Medicare supplement policy or certificate,
or contract, in force?
  (a) If so, with which company?
  (b) If so, do you intend to replace your current Medicare supplement
policy or contract with this contract?
  (2) Do you have any other health insurance coverage that provides
benefits similar to this Medicare supplement contract?
  (a) If so, with which company?
  (b) What kind of coverage?
  (3) Are you covered for medical assistance through the Medi-Cal or
medicaid program:
  (a) As a specified low-income Medicare beneficiary (SLMB)?
  (b) As a qualified Medicare beneficiary (QMB)?
  (c) For other Medi-Cal or medicaid medical benefits?’’

  (b) Solicitors shall list any other health insurance policies or plan
contracts they have sold to the applicant as follows:
  (1) List policies and contracts sold that are still in force.
  (2) List policies and contracts sold in the past five years that are no
longer in force.
  (c) An issuer issuing Medicare supplement contracts without a
solicitor or solicitor firm (a direct response issuer) shall return to the
applicant, upon delivery of the contract, a copy of the application or
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4699

supplemental forms, signed by the applicant and acknowledged by the
issuer.
   (d) Upon determining that a sale will involve replacement of
Medicare supplement coverage, any issuer, other than a direct response
issuer, or its agent, shall furnish the applicant, prior to issuance for
delivery of the Medicare supplement contract, a notice regarding
replacement of Medicare supplement coverage. One copy of the notice
signed by the applicant and the agent, except where the coverage is sold
without an agent, shall be provided to the applicant and an additional
signed copy shall be retained by the issuer. A direct response issuer shall
deliver to the applicant at the time of the issuance of the contract the
notice regarding replacement of Medicare supplement coverage.
   (e) The notice required by subdivision (d) for an issuer shall be
provided in substantially the following form in no less than 10-point
type:

  NOTICE TO APPLICANT REGARDING REPLACEMENT OF
         MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT COVERAGE

                     (Company name and address)

SAVE THIS NOTICE! IT MAY BE IMPORTANT TO YOU IN THE
                       FUTURE

  According to [your application] [information you have furnished],
you intend to lapse or otherwise terminate an existing Medicare
supplement policy or contract and replace it with a contract to be issued
by [Plan Name]. Your contract to be issued by [Plan Name] will provide
30 days within which you may decide without cost whether you desire
to keep the contract. You should review this new coverage carefully.
Compare it with all accident and sickness coverage you now have.
Terminate your present policy or contract only if, after due
consideration, you find that purchase of this Medicare supplement
coverage is a wise decision.

STATEMENT TO APPLICANT BY PLAN, SOLICITOR,
SOLICITOR FIRM, OR OTHER REPRESENTATIVE:

  (1) I have reviewed your current medical or health coverage. The
replacement of coverage involved in this transaction does not duplicate
coverage, to the best of my knowledge. The replacement contract is
being purchased for the following reason (check one):
__ Additional benefits.
__ No change in benefits, but lower premiums or charges.
 4700                     STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 706 ]
__ Fewer benefits and lower premiums or charges.
__ Other. (please specify) ________

   (2) You may not be immediately eligible for full coverage under the
new contract. This could result in denial or delay of a claim for benefits
under the new contract, whereas a similar claim might have been payable
under your present policy or contract.
   (3) State law provides that your replacement Medicare supplement
contract may not contain new preexisting conditions, waiting periods,
elimination periods, or probationary periods. The plan will waive any
time periods applicable to preexisting conditions, waiting periods,
elimination periods, or probationary periods in the new coverage for
similar benefits to the extent that time was spent (depleted) under the
original contract.
   (4) If you still wish to terminate your present policy or contract and
replace it with new coverage, be certain to truthfully and completely
answer any and all questions on the application concerning your medical
and health history. Failure to include all material medical information on
an application requesting that information may provide a basis for the
plan to deny any future claims and to refund your prepaid or periodic
payment as though your contract had never been in force. After the
application has been completed and before you sign it, review it carefully
to be certain that all information has been properly recorded.
   (5) Do not cancel your present Medicare supplement coverage until
you have received your new contract and are sure you want to keep it.
   CD


      (Signature of Solicitor, Solicitor Firm, or Other Representative)
      [Typed Name and Address of Plan, Solicitor, or Solicitor Firm]

                          (Applicant’s Signature)

                                   (Date)

   (f) The application form or other consumer information for persons
eligible for Medicare and used by an issuer shall contain as an attachment
a Medicare supplement buyer’s guide in the form approved by the
director. The application or other consumer information, containing as
an attachment the buyer’s guide, shall be mailed or delivered to each
applicant applying for that coverage at or before the time of application
and, to establish compliance with this subdivision, the issuer shall obtain
an acknowledgment of receipt of the attached buyer’s guide from each
applicant. No issuer shall make use of or otherwise disseminate any
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4701

buyer’s guide that does not accurately outline current Medicare
supplement benefits. No issuer shall be required to provide more than
one copy of the buyer’s guide to any applicant.
   (g) An issuer may comply with the requirement of this section in the
case of group contracts by causing the subscriber (1) to disseminate
copies of the disclosure form containing as an attachment the buyer’s
guide to all persons eligible under the group contract at the time those
persons are offered the Medicare supplement plan, and (2) collecting and
forwarding to the issuer an acknowledgment of receipt of the disclosure
form containing as an attachment the buyer’s guide from each enrollee.
   1358.19. An issuer shall provide a copy of any Medicare
supplement advertisement intended for use in this state whether through
written, radio, or television medium to the director for review or
approval.
   1358.20. (a) An issuer, directly or through solicitors or other
representatives, shall do each of the following:
   (1) Establish marketing procedures to ensure that any comparison of
Medicare supplement coverage by its solicitors or other representatives
will be fair and accurate.
   (2) Establish marketing procedures to ensure that excessive coverage
is not sold or issued.
   (3) Display prominently by type, stamp, or other appropriate means,
on the first page of the outline of coverage and contract, the following:

   ‘‘Notice to buyer: This Medicare supplement contract may not cover
all of your medical expenses.’’

   (4) Inquire and otherwise make every reasonable effort to identify
whether a prospective applicant for a Medicare supplement contract
already has health care coverage and the types and amounts of that
coverage.
   (5) Establish auditable procedures for verifying compliance with this
subdivision.
   (b) In addition to the practices prohibited by this code or any other
law, the following acts and practices are prohibited:
   (1) Twisting, which means knowingly making any misleading
representation or incomplete or fraudulent comparison of any coverages
or issuers for the purpose of inducing or tending to induce, any person
to lapse, forfeit, surrender, terminate, retain, pledge, assign, borrow on,
or convert any coverage or to take out coverage with another plan or
insurer.
   (2) High pressure tactics, which means employing any method of
marketing having the effect of or tending to induce the purchase of
 4702                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
coverage through force, fright, threat, whether explicit or implied, or
undue pressure to purchase or recommend the purchase of coverage.
   (3) Cold lead advertising, which means making use directly or
indirectly of any method of marketing which fails to disclose in a
conspicuous manner that a purpose of the method of marketing is the
solicitation of coverage and that contact will be made by a health care
service plan or its representative.
   (c) The terms ‘‘Medicare supplement,’’ ‘‘Medicare Wrap-Around’’
and words of similar import shall not be used unless the contract is issued
in compliance with this article. The term ‘‘Medigap’’ shall not be used.
   1358.21. (a) In recommending the purchase or replacement of any
Medicare supplement coverage, an issuer or its representative shall make
reasonable efforts to determine the appropriateness of a recommended
purchase or replacement.
   (b) Any sale of a Medicare supplement contract that will provide an
individual more than one Medicare supplement policy or certificate, or
contract, is prohibited.
   1358.22. (a) On or before March 1 of each year, an issuer shall
report the following information for every individual resident of this
state for which the issuer has in force more than one Medicare
supplement contract:
   (1) Contract number.
   (2) Date of issuance.
   (b) The items set forth above shall be grouped by enrollee.
   1358.225. (a) Every issuer shall, by June 30 of each year, file with
the director a list of its Medicare supplement contracts offered or issued
or outstanding in this state as of the end of the previous calendar year.
   (b) The list shall identify the filing issuer by name and address, shall
identify each type of contract it offers by name and form number, if one
is used, and shall differentiate between contracts filed with and approved
by the director in years prior to the previous calendar year, and those
filed and approved in the previous calendar year.
   (c) The list shall specifically identify all of the following:
   (1) Contracts that are issued and outstanding in this state but are no
longer offered for sale.
   (2) Contracts that, for any reason, were not filed and approved by the
director.
   (3) Contracts for which the director’s approval was withdrawn within
the previous calendar year.
   (d) The director shall, on or before the first day of September of each
year provide the secretary with a list identifying each contract by name
and address and the information required to be submitted by this section.
   1358.23. (a) If a Medicare supplement contract replaces another
Medicare supplement policy or certificate, or contract, the replacing
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4703

issuer shall waive any time periods applicable to preexisting conditions,
waiting periods, elimination periods, and probationary periods in the
new Medicare supplement contract for similar benefits to the extent that
time was spent under the original policy or certificate, or contract.
   (b) If a Medicare supplement contract replaces another Medicare
supplement policy or certificate, or contract, that has been in effect for
at least six months, the replacing contract shall not provide any time
period applicable to preexisting conditions, waiting periods, elimination
periods and probationary periods for benefits similar to those contained
in the original policy or certificate, or contract.
   SEC. 3. Article 6 (commencing with Section 10192.05) of Chapter
1 of Part 2 of Division 2 of the Insurance Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Article 6 (commencing with Section 10192.1) is added to
Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 2 of the Insurance Code, to read:

               Article 6.   Medicare Supplement Policies

   10192.1. All Medicare supplement policies and certificates shall
comply with the provisions of subdivision (b) of Section 10291.5 and
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 10600) of Part 2 of Division 2,
regardless of the situs of the contract.
   10192.2. The purpose of this article is to provide for the reasonable
standardization of coverage and simplification of terms and benefits of
Medicare supplement policies, to facilitate public understanding and
comparison of those policies, to eliminate provisions contained in those
policies that may be misleading or confusing in connection with the
purchase of the policies or with the settlement of claims, and to provide
for full disclosures in the sale of Medicare supplement insurance policies
to persons eligible for Medicare.
   10192.3. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section or in
Sections 10192.7, 10192.12, 10192.13, 10192.16, and 10192.21, this
article shall apply to all Medicare supplement policies advertised,
solicited, or issued for delivery in this state on or after January 1, 2001,
and to all certificates delivered in this state under a group Medicare
supplement master policy agreement that have been advertised,
solicited, or issued for delivery in this state on or after that date.
   (b) This article shall not apply to a policy or contract of one or more
employers or labor organizations, or of the trustees of a fund established
by one or more employers or labor organizations, or combination
thereof, for employees or former employees, or a combination thereof,
or for members or former members, or a combination thereof, of the
labor organizations.
 4704                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (c) This article shall not apply to Medicare supplement policies
subject to Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 1358.1) of Chapter 2.2
of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (d) The commissioner may, from time to time, promulgate
regulations to implement this article.
   10192.4. For the purposes of this article, the following terms have
the following meanings:
   (a) ‘‘Applicant’’ means:
   (1) The person who seeks to contract for insurance benefits, in the
case of an individual Medicare supplement policy.
   (2) The proposed certificate holder, in the case of a group Medicare
supplement policy.
   (b) ‘‘Bankruptcy’’ means that situation in which a Medicare+Choice
organization that is not an issuer has filed, or has had filed against it, a
petition for declaration of bankruptcy and has ceased doing business in
the state.
   (c) ‘‘Certificate’’ means a certificate issued for delivery in this state
under a group Medicare supplement policy.
   (d) ‘‘Certificate form’’ means the form on which the certificate is
issued for delivery by the issuer.
   (e) ‘‘Continuous period of creditable coverage’’ means the period
during which an individual was covered by creditable coverage, if during
the period of the coverage the individual had no breaks in coverage
greater than 63 days.
   (f) (1) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ means, with respect to an individual,
coverage of the individual provided under any of the following:
   (A) Any individual or group contract, policy, certificate, or program
that is written or administered by a health care service plan, disability
insurer, fraternal benefits society, self-insured employer plan, or any
other entity, in this state or elsewhere, and that arranges or provides
medical, hospital, and surgical coverage not designed to supplement
other private or governmental plans. The term includes continuation or
conversion coverage.
   (B) Part A or B of Title XVIII of the federal Social Security Act
(Medicare).
   (C) Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act (medicaid), other
than coverage consisting solely of benefits under Section 1928 of that
act.
   (D) Chapter 55 of Title 10 of the United States Code (CHAMPUS).
   (E) A medical care program of the Indian Health Service or of a tribal
organization.
   (F) A state health benefits risk pool.
   (G) A health plan offered under Chapter 89 of Title 5 of the United
States Code (Federal Employees Health Benefits Program).
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4705

   (H) A public health plan as defined in federal regulations authorized
by Section 2701(c)(1)(I) of the federal Public Health Service Act, as
amended by Public Law 104-191, the federal Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.
   (I) A health benefit plan under Section 5(e) of the federal Peace Corps
Act (Section 2504(e) of Title 22 of the United States Code).
   (J) Any other publicly sponsored program, provided in this state or
elsewhere, of medical, hospital, and surgical care.
   (K) Any other creditable coverage as defined by subsection (c) of
Section 2701 of Title XXVII of the federal Public Health Services Act
(42 U.S.C. Sec. 300gg(c)).
   (2) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ shall not include one or more, or any
combination of, the following:
   (A) Coverage only for accident or disability income insurance, or any
combination thereof.
  (B) Coverage issued as a supplement to liability insurance.
  (C) Liability insurance, including general liability insurance and
automobile liability insurance.
  (D) Workers’ compensation or similar insurance.
  (E) Automobile medical payment insurance.
  (F) Credit-only insurance.
  (G) Coverage for onsite medical clinics.
  (H) Other similar insurance coverage, specified in federal
regulations, under which benefits for medical care are secondary or
incidental to other insurance benefits.
  (3) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ shall not include the following benefits if
they are provided under a separate policy, certificate, or contract of
insurance or are otherwise not an integral part of the plan:
  (A) Limited scope dental or vision benefits.
  (B) Benefits for long-term care, nursing home care, home health care,
community-based care, or any combination thereof.
  (C) Other similar, limited benefits as are specified in federal
regulations.
  (4) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ shall not include the following benefits if
offered as independent, noncoordinated benefits:
  (A) Coverage only for a specified disease or illness.
  (B) Hospital indemnity or other fixed indemnity insurance.
  (5) ‘‘Creditable coverage’’ shall not include the following if offered
as a separate policy, certificate, or contract of insurance:
  (A) Medicare supplemental health insurance as defined under
Section 1882(g)(1) of the federal Social Security Act.
  (B) Coverage supplemental to the coverage provided under Chapter
55 of Title 10 of the United States Code.
 4706                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (C) Similar supplemental coverage provided to coverage under a
group health plan.
   (g) ‘‘Employee welfare benefit plan’’ means a plan, fund, or program
of employee benefits as defined in Section 1002 of Title 29 of the United
States Code (Employee Retirement Income Security Act).
   (h) ‘‘Insolvency’’ means when an issuer, licensed to transact the
business of insurance in this state, has had a final order of liquidation
entered against it with a finding of insolvency by a court of competent
jurisdiction in the issuer’s state of domicile.
   (i) ‘‘Issuer’’ includes insurance companies, fraternal benefit
societies, and any other entity delivering, or issuing for delivery,
Medicare supplement policies or certificates in this state, except entities
subject to Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 1358) of Chapter 2.2
of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (j) ‘‘Medicare’’ means the Health Insurance for the Aged Act, Title
XVIII of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, as amended.
   (k) ‘‘Medicare+Choice Plan’’ means a plan of coverage for health
benefits under Medicare Part C and includes:
   (1) Coordinated care plans that provide health care services,
including, but not limited to, health care service plans (with or without
a point-of-service option), plans offered by provider-sponsored
organizations, and preferred provider organizations plans.
   (2) Medical savings account plans coupled with a contribution into
a Medicare+Choice medical savings account.
   (3) Medicare+Choice private fee-for-service plans.
   (l) ‘‘Medicare supplement policy’’ means a group or individual
policy of disability insurance, other than a policy issued pursuant to a
contract under Section 1876 of the federal Social Security Act (42
U.S.C.A. Section 1395mm) or an issued policy under a demonstration
project specified in Section 1395ss(g)(1) of Title 42 of the United States
Code, which is advertised, marketed, or designed primarily as a
supplement to reimbursements under Medicare for the hospital, medical,
or surgical expenses of persons eligible for Medicare.
   (m) ‘‘Policy form’’ means the form on which the policy is issued for
delivery by the issuer.
   (n) ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary of the United States Department
of Health and Human Services.
   10192.5. A policy or certificate shall not be advertised, solicited, or
issued for delivery as a Medicare supplement policy or certificate unless
the policy or certificate contains definitions or terms that conform to the
requirements of this section.
   (a) (1) ‘‘Accident,’’ ‘‘accidental injury,’’ or ‘‘accidental means’’
shall be defined to employ ‘‘result’’ language and shall not include
words that establish an accidental means test or use words such as
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4707

‘‘external, violent, visible wounds’’ or other similar words of description
or characterization.
   (2) The definition shall not be more restrictive than the following:
‘‘injury or injuries for which benefits are provided means accidental
bodily injury sustained by the insured person that is the direct result of
an accident, independent of disease or bodily infirmity or any other
cause, and occurs while insurance coverage is in force.’’
   (3) The definition may provide that injuries shall not include injuries
for which benefits are provided or available under any workers’
compensation, employer’s liability, or similar law, unless prohibited by
law.
   (b) ‘‘Benefit period’’ or ‘‘Medicare benefit period’’ shall not be
defined more restrictively than as defined in the Medicare program.
   (c) ‘‘Convalescent nursing home,’’ ‘‘extended care facility,’’ or
‘‘skilled nursing facility’’ shall not be defined more restrictively than as
defined in the Medicare program.
   (d) (1) ‘‘Health care expenses’’ means expenses of health
maintenance organizations associated with the delivery of health care
services, which expenses are analogous to incurred losses of insurers.
   (2) ‘‘Health care expenses’’ shall not include any of the following:
   (A) Home office and overhead costs.
   (B) Advertising costs.
   (C) Commissions and other acquisition costs.
   (D) Taxes.
   (E) Capital costs.
   (F) Administrative costs.
   (G) Claims processing costs.
   (e) ‘‘Hospital’’ may be defined in relation to its status, facilities, and
available services or to reflect its accreditation by the Joint Commission
on Accreditation of Hospitals, but not more restrictively than as defined
in the Medicare program.
   (f) ‘‘Medicare’’ shall be defined in the policy and certificate.
‘‘Medicare’’ may be substantially defined as ‘‘The Health Insurance for
the Aged Act, Title XVIII of the Social Security Amendments of 1965,
as amended,’’ or ‘‘Title I, Part I of Public Law 89-97, as enacted by the
89th Congress and popularly known as the Health Insurance for the
Aged Act, as amended,’’ or words of similar import.
   (g) ‘‘Medicare eligible expenses’’ shall mean expenses of the kinds
covered by Medicare, to the extent recognized as reasonable and
medically necessary by Medicare.
   (h) ‘‘Physician’’ shall not be defined more restrictively than as
defined in the Medicare program.
   (i) (1) ‘‘Sickness’’ shall not be defined more restrictively than as
follows: ‘‘sickness means illness or disease of an insured person that first
 4708                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
manifests itself after the effective date of insurance and while the
insurance is in force.’’
   (2) The definition may be further modified to exclude sicknesses or
diseases for which benefits are provided under any workers’
compensation, occupational disease, employer’s liability, or similar law.
   10192.55. (a) With regard to Medicare supplement policies, all
insurers, brokers, agents, and others engaged in the business of insurance
owe a policyholder a duty of honesty, and a duty of good faith and fair
dealing.
   (b) Conduct of an insurer, broker, or agent during the offer and sale
of a Medicare supplement policy previous to the purchase is relevant to
any action alleging a breach of the duty of honesty, and a duty of good
faith and fair dealing set forth in subdivision (a).
   10192.6. (a) Except for permitted preexisting condition clauses as
described in Sections 10192.7 and 10192.8, a policy or certificate shall
not be advertised, solicited, or issued for delivery as a Medicare
supplement policy if the policy or certificate contains limitations or
exclusions on coverage that are more restrictive than those of Medicare.
   (b) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall not use waivers
to exclude, limit, or reduce coverage or benefits for specifically named
or described preexisting diseases or physical conditions.
   (c) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate in force shall not
contain benefits that duplicate benefits provided by Medicare.
   10192.7. A policy or certificate shall not be advertised, solicited, or
issued for delivery as a Medicare supplement policy or certificate prior
to January 1, 2001, unless it meets or exceeds requirements applicable
pursuant to this code that were in effect prior to that date.
   10192.8. The following standards are applicable to all Medicare
supplement policies or certificates advertised, solicited, or issued for
delivery on or after January 1, 2001. A policy or certificate shall not be
advertised, solicited, or issued for delivery as a Medicare supplement
policy or certificate unless it complies with these benefit standards.
   (a) The following general standards apply to Medicare supplement
policies and certificates and are in addition to all other requirements of
this article:
   (1) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall not exclude or
limit benefits for losses incurred more than six months from the effective
date of coverage because it involved a preexisting condition. The policy
or certificate shall not define a preexisting condition more restrictively
than a condition for which medical advice was given or treatment was
recommended by or received from a physician within six months before
the effective date of coverage.
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4709

   (2) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall not indemnify
against losses resulting from sickness on a different basis than losses
resulting from accidents.
   (3) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall provide that
benefits designed to cover cost-sharing amounts under Medicare will be
changed automatically to coincide with any changes in the applicable
Medicare deductible amount and copayment percentage factors.
Premiums may be modified to correspond with those changes.
   (4) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall not provide for
termination of coverage of a spouse solely because of the occurrence of
an event specified for termination of coverage of the insured, other than
the nonpayment of premium.
   (5) Each Medicare supplement policy shall be guaranteed renewable
or noncancelable.
   (A) The issuer shall not cancel or nonrenew the policy solely on the
ground of health status of the individual.
   (B) The issuer shall not cancel or nonrenew the policy for any reason
other than nonpayment of premium or misrepresentation which is shown
by the issuer to be material to the acceptance for coverage. The
contestability period for Medicare supplement insurance shall be two
years.
   (C) If the Medicare supplement policy is terminated by the master
policyholder and is not replaced as provided under subparagraph (E), the
issuer shall offer certificate holders an individual Medicare supplement
policy that, at the option of the certificate holder, either provides for
continuation of the benefits contained in the group policy or provides for
benefits that otherwise meet the requirements of one of the standardized
policies defined in this article.
   (D) If an individual is a certificate holder in a group Medicare
supplement policy and membership in the group is terminated, the issuer
shall either offer the certificate holder the conversion opportunity
described in subparagraph (C) or, at the option of the group policyholder,
shall offer the certificate holder continuation of coverage under the
group policy.
   (E) (i) If a group Medicare supplement policy is replaced by another
group Medicare supplement policy purchased by the same policyholder,
the issuer of the replacement policy shall offer coverage to all persons
covered under the old group policy on its date of termination. Coverage
under the new policy shall not result in any exclusion for preexisting
conditions that would have been covered under the group policy being
replaced.
   (ii) If a Medicare supplement policy or certificate replaces another
Medicare supplement policy or certificate that has been in force for six
months or more, the replacing issuer shall not impose an exclusion or
 4710                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
limitation based on a preexisting condition. If the original coverage has
been in force for less than six months, the replacing issuer shall waive
any time period applicable to preexisting conditions, waiting periods,
elimination periods, or probationary periods in the new policy or
certificate to the extent the time was spent under the original coverage.
   (6) Termination of a Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall
be without prejudice to any continuous loss that commenced while the
policy was in force, but the extension of benefits beyond the period
during which the policy was in force may be predicated upon the
continuous total disability of the insured, limited to the duration of the
policy benefit period, if any, or to payment of the maximum benefits.
   (7) (A) A Medicare supplement policy or certificate shall provide
that benefits and premiums under the policy or certificate shall be
suspended at the request of the policyholder or certificate holder for the
period, not to exceed 24 months, in which the policyholder or certificate
holder has applied for and is determined to be entitled to Medi-Cal or
medicaid under Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act, but only if
the policyholder or certificate holder notifies the issuer of the policy or
certificate within 90 days after the date the individual becomes entitled
to assistance. Upon receipt of timely notice, the insurer shall return
directly to the insured that portion of the premium attributable to the
period of Medi-Cal or medicaid eligibility, subject to adjustment for paid
claims.
   (B) If suspension occurs and if the policyholder or certificate holder
loses entitlement to Medi-Cal or medicaid, the policy or certificate shall
be automatically reinstituted, effective as of the date of termination of
entitlement, as of the termination of entitlement if the policyholder or
certificate holder provides notice of loss of entitlement within 90 days
after the date of loss and pays the premium attributable to the period,
effective as of the date of termination of entitlement, or equivalent
coverage shall be provided if the prior form is no longer available.
   (C) Reinstitution of coverages:
   (i) Shall not provide for any waiting period with respect to treatment
of preexisting conditions.
   (ii) Shall provide for coverage which is substantially equivalent to
coverage in effect before the date of suspension.
   (iii) Shall provide for classification of premiums on terms at least as
favorable to the policyholder or certificate holder as the premium
classification terms that would have applied to the policyholder or
certificate holder had the coverage not been suspended.
   (8) No Medicare supplement policy may limit coverage exclusively
to a single disease or affliction.
   (b) With respect to the standards for basic (core) benefits common to
all benefit plans, every issuer shall make available a policy or certificate
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4711

including only the following basic ‘‘core’’ package of benefits to each
prospective insured. An issuer may make available to prospective
insureds any of the other Medicare supplement insurance benefit plans
in addition to the basic core package, but not in lieu of it. However, the
benefits described in paragraphs (6) and (7) shall not be offered so long
as California is required to disallow these benefits for Medicare
beneficiaries by the Health Care Financing Administration or other
agent of the federal government under Section 1395ss of Title 42 of the
United States Code.
   (1) Coverage of Part A Medicare eligible expenses for hospitalization
to the extent not covered by Medicare from the 61st day to the 90th day,
inclusive, in any Medicare benefit period.
   (2) Coverage of Part A Medicare eligible expenses incurred for
hospitalization to the extent not covered by Medicare for each Medicare
lifetime inpatient reserve day used.
   (3) Upon exhaustion of the Medicare hospital inpatient coverage
including the lifetime reserve days, coverage of the Medicare Part A
eligible expenses for hospitalization paid at the Medicare diagnostic
related group (DRG) day outlier per diem or other appropriate standard
of payment, subject to a lifetime maximum benefit of an additional 365
days. The provider shall accept the issuer’s payment as payment in full
and may not bill the insured for any balance.
   (4) Coverage under Medicare Parts A and B for the reasonable cost
of the first three pints of blood, or equivalent quantities of packed red
blood cells, as defined under federal regulations, unless replaced in
accordance with federal regulations.
   (5) Coverage for the coinsurance amount, or in the case of hospital
outpatient department services, the copayment amount, of Medicare
eligible expenses under Part B regardless of hospital confinement,
subject to the Medicare Part B deductible.
   (6) Coverage of the actual cost, up to the legally billed amount, of an
annual mammogram as provided in Section 10123.81, to the extent not
paid by Medicare.
   (7) Coverage of the actual cost, up to the legally billed amount, of an
annual cervical cancer screening test as provided in Section 10123.18,
to the extent not paid by Medicare.
   (c) The following additional benefits shall be included in Medicare
supplement benefit plans B to J, inclusive, only as provided by Section
10192.9.
   (1) With respect to the Medicare Part A deductible, coverage for all
of the Medicare Part A inpatient hospital deductible amount per benefit
period.
   (2) With respect to skilled nursing facility care, coverage for the
actual billed charges up to the coinsurance amount from the 21st day to
 4712                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
the 100th day, inclusive, in a Medicare benefit period for posthospital
skilled nursing facility care eligible under Medicare Part A.
   (3) With respect to the Medicare Part B deductible, coverage for all
of the Medicare Part B deductible amount per calendar year regardless
of hospital confinement.
   (4) With respect to 80 percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges,
coverage for 80 percent of the difference between the actual Medicare
Part B charge as billed, not to exceed any charge limitation established
by the Medicare program or state law, and the Medicare-approved Part
B charge. If the insurer limits payment to a limiting charge, the insurer
has the burden to establish that amount as the legal limit.
   (5) With respect to 100 percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges,
coverage for all of the difference between the actual Medicare Part B
charge as billed, not to exceed any charge limitation established by the
Medicare program or state law, and the Medicare-approved Part B
charge. If the insurer limits payment to a limiting charge, the insurer has
the burden to establish that amount as the legal limit.
   (6) With respect to the basic outpatient prescription drug benefit,
coverage for 50 percent of outpatient prescription drug charges, after a
two hundred fifty dollar ($250) calendar year deductible, to a maximum
of one thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250) in benefits received
by the insured per calendar year, to the extent not covered by Medicare.
   (7) With respect to the extended outpatient prescription drug benefit,
coverage for 50 percent of outpatient prescription drug charges, after a
two hundred fifty dollar ($250) calendar year deductible, to a maximum
of three thousand dollars ($3,000) in benefits received by the insured per
calendar year, to the extent not covered by Medicare.
   (8) With respect to medically necessary emergency care in a foreign
country, coverage to the extent not covered by Medicare for 80 percent
of the billed charges for Medicare-eligible expenses for medically
necessary emergency hospital, physician, and medical care received in
a foreign country, which care would have been covered by Medicare if
provided in the United States and which care began during the first 60
consecutive days of each trip outside the United States, subject to a
calendar year deductible of two hundred fifty dollars ($250), and a
lifetime maximum benefit of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). For
purposes of this benefit, ‘‘emergency care’’ shall mean care needed
immediately because of an injury or an illness of sudden and unexpected
onset.
   (9) With respect to the following, reimbursement shall be for the
actual charges up to 100 percent of the Medicare-approved amount for
each service, as if Medicare were to cover the service as identified in
American Medical Association Current Procedural Terminology (AMA
CPT) codes, up to a maximum of one hundred twenty dollars ($120)
[Ch. 706 ]                STATUTES OF 2000                               4713

annually under this benefit, however, this benefit shall not include
payment for any procedure covered by Medicare:
   (A) An annual clinical preventive medical history and physical
examination that may include tests and services from subparagraph (B)
and patient education to address preventive health care measures.
   (B) Any one or a combination of the following preventive screening
tests or preventive services, the frequency of which is considered
medically appropriate:
   (i) Fecal occult blood test or digital rectal examination, or both.
   (ii) Mammogram.
   (iii) Dipstick urinalysis for hematuria, bacteriuria, and proteinuria.
   (iv) Pure tone, air only, hearing screening test, administered or
ordered by a physician.
   (v) Serum cholesterol screening every five years.
   (vi) Thyroid function test.
   (vii) Diabetes screening.
   (C) Influenza vaccine administered at any appropriate time during the
year and tetanus and diphtheria booster every 10 years.
   (D) Any other tests or preventive measures determined appropriate
by the attending physician.
   (10) With respect to the at-home recovery benefit, coverage for the
actual charges up to forty dollars ($40) per visit and an annual maximum
of one thousand six hundred dollars ($1,600) per year to provide
short-term, at-home assistance with activities of daily living for those
recovering from an illness, injury, or surgery.
   (A) For purposes of this benefit, the following definitions shall apply:
   (i) ‘‘Activities of daily living’’ include, but are not limited to, bathing,
dressing, personal hygiene, transferring, eating, ambulating, assistance
with drugs that are normally self-administered, and changing bandages
or other dressings.
   (ii) ‘‘Care provider’’ means a duly qualified or licensed home health
aide or homemaker, or a personal care aide or nurse provided through a
licensed home health care agency or referred by a licensed referral
agency or licensed nurses registry.
   (iii) ‘‘Home’’ shall mean any place used by the insured as a place of
residence, provided that the place would qualify as a residence for home
health care services covered by Medicare. A hospital or skilled nursing
facility shall not be considered the insured’s place of residence.
   (iv) ‘‘At-home recovery visit’’ means the period of a visit required to
provide at-home recovery care, without any limit on the duration of the
visit, except that each consecutive four hours in a 24-hour period of
services provided by a care provider is one visit.
   (B) With respect to coverage requirements and limitations, the
following shall apply:
 4714                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
   (i) At-home recovery services provided shall be primarily services
that assist in activities of daily living.
   (ii) The insured’s attending physician shall certify that the specific
type and frequency of at-home recovery services are necessary because
of a condition for which a home care plan of treatment was approved by
Medicare.
   (iii) Coverage is limited to the following:
   (I) No more than the number and type of at-home recovery visits
certified as necessary by the insured’s attending physician. The total
number of at-home recovery visits shall not exceed the number of
Medicare-approved home health care visits under a Medicare-approved
home care plan of treatment.
   (II) The actual charges for each visit up to a maximum reimbursement
of forty dollars ($40) per visit.
   (III) One thousand six hundred dollars ($1,600) per calendar year.
   (IV) Seven visits in any one week.
   (V) Care furnished on a visiting basis in the insured’s home.
   (VI) Services provided by a care provider as defined in subparagraph
(A).
   (VII) At-home recovery visits while the insured is covered under the
policy or certificate and not otherwise excluded.
   (VIII) At-home recovery visits received during the period the insured
is receiving Medicare-approved home care services or no more than
eight weeks after the service date of the last Medicare-approved home
health care visit.
   (C) Coverage is excluded for the following:
   (i) Home care visits paid for by Medicare or other government
programs.
   (ii) Care provided by family members, unpaid volunteers, or
providers who are not care providers.
   (11) With respect to new or innovative benefits, an issuer may, with
the prior approval of the commissioner, offer policies or certificates with
new or innovative benefits in addition to the benefits provided in a policy
or certificate that otherwise complies with the applicable standards. The
new or innovative benefits may include benefits that are appropriate to
Medicare supplement policies, new or innovative, not otherwise
available, cost-effective, and offered in a manner which is consistent
with the goal of simplification of Medicare supplement policies.
   10192.9. (a) An issuer shall make available to each prospective
policyholder and certificate holder a policy form or certificate form
containing only the basic (core) benefits, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 10192.8.
   (b) No groups, packages, or combinations of Medicare supplement
benefits other than those listed in this section shall be offered for sale in
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4715

this state, except as may be permitted by paragraph (11) of subdivision
(c) of Section 10192.8 and by Section 10192.10.
   (c) Benefit plans shall be uniform in structure, language, designation
and format to the standard benefit plans A to J, inclusive, listed in
subdivision (e), and shall conform to the definitions in Section 10192.4.
Each benefit shall be structured in accordance with the format provided
in subdivisions (b) and (c) of Section 10192.8 and list the benefits in the
order listed in subdivision (e). For purposes of this section, ‘‘structure,
language, and format’’ means style, arrangement, and overall content of
a benefit.
   (d) An issuer may use, in addition to the benefit plan designations
required in subdivision (c), other designations to the extent permitted by
law.
   (e) With respect to the makeup of benefit plans, the following shall
apply:
   (1) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan A shall be limited
to the basic (core) benefit common to all benefit plans, as defined in
subdivision (b) of Section 10192.8.
   (2) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan B shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible
as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of Section 10192.8.
   (3) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan C shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
skilled nursing facility care, Medicare Part B deductible, and medically
necessary emergency care in a foreign country as defined in paragraphs
(1), (2), (3), and (8) of subdivision (c) of Section 10192.8, respectively.
   (4) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan D shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
skilled nursing facility care, medically necessary emergency care in a
foreign country, and the at-home recovery benefit as defined in
paragraphs (1), (2), (8), and (10) of subdivision (c) of Section 10192.8,
respectively.
   (5) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan E shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
skilled nursing facility care, medically necessary emergency care in a
foreign country, and preventive medical care as defined in paragraphs
(1), (2), (8), and (9) of subdivision (c) of Section 10192.8, respectively.
   (6) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan F shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
the skilled nursing facility care, the Medicare Part B deductible, 100
percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges, and medically necessary
emergency care in a foreign country as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (3),
(5), and (8) of subdivision (c) of Section 10192.8, respectively.
 4716                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (7) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit high deductible plan
F shall include only the following: 100 percent of covered expenses
following the payment of the annual high deductible plan F deductible.
The covered expenses include the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part
A deductible, skilled nursing facility care, the Medicare Part B
deductible, 100 percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges, and
medically necessary emergency care in a foreign country as defined in
paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (5), and (8) of subdivision (c) of Section
10192.8, respectively. The annual high deductible plan F deductible
shall consist of out-of-pocket expenses, other than premiums, for
services covered by the Medicare supplement plan F policy, and shall be
in addition to any other specific benefit deductibles. The annual high
deductible Plan F deductible shall be one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500) for 1998 and 1999, and shall be based on the calendar year, as
adjusted annually thereafter by the secretary to reflect the change in the
Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers for the 12-month period
ending with August of the preceding year, and rounded to the nearest
multiple of ten dollars ($10).
   (8) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan G shall include
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
skilled nursing facility care, 80 percent of the Medicare Part B excess
charges, medically necessary emergency care in a foreign country, and
the at-home recovery benefit as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (4), (8),
and (10) of Section 10192.8, respectively.
   (9) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan H shall consist of
only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A deductible,
skilled nursing facility care, basic outpatient prescription drug benefit,
and medically necessary emergency care in a foreign country as defined
in paragraphs (1), (2), (6), and (8) of Section 10192.8, respectively.
   (10) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan I shall consist
of only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A
deductible, skilled nursing facility care, 100 percent of the Medicare Part
B excess charges, basic outpatient prescription drug benefit, medically
necessary emergency care in a foreign country, and at-home recovery
benefit as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (5), (6), (8), and (10) of
subdivision (c) of Section 10192.8, respectively.
   (11) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit plan J shall consist
of only the following: the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part A
deductible, skilled nursing facility care, Medicare Part B deductible, 100
percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges, extended outpatient
prescription drug benefit, medically necessary emergency care in a
foreign country, preventive medical care, and at-home recovery benefit
as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (5), (7), (8), (9), and (10) of
subdivision (c) of Section 10192.8, respectively.
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4717

   (12) Standardized Medicare supplement benefit high deductible plan
J shall consist of only the following: 100 percent of covered expenses
following the payment of the annual high deductible plan J deductible.
The covered expenses include the core benefit, plus the Medicare Part
A deductible, skilled nursing facility care, Medicare Part B deductible,
100 percent of the Medicare Part B excess charges, extended outpatient
prescription drug benefit, medically necessary emergency care in a
foreign country, preventive medical care benefit, and at-home recovery
benefit as defined in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (5), (7), (8), (9), and (10)
of subdivision (c) of Section 10192.8, respectively. The annual high
deductible plan J deductible shall consist of out-of-pocket expenses,
other than premiums, for services covered by the Medicare supplement
plan J policy, and shall be in addition to any other specific benefit
deductibles. The annual deductible shall be one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500) for 1998 and 1999, and shall be based on a calendar year,
as adjusted annually thereafter by the secretary to reflect the change in
the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers for the 12-month
period ending with August of the preceding year, and rounded to the
nearest multiple of ten dollars ($10).
   10192.10. (a) (1) This section shall apply to Medicare Select
policies and certificates, as defined in this section.
   (2) A policy or certificate shall not be advertised as a Medicare Select
policy or certificate unless it meets the requirements of this section.
   (b) For the purposes of this section:
   (1) ‘‘Appeal’’ means dissatisfaction expressed in writing by an
individual insured under a Medicare Select policy or certificate with the
administration, claims practices, or provision of services concerning a
Medicare Select issuer or its network providers.
   (2) ‘‘Complaint’’ means any dissatisfaction expressed by an
individual concerning a Medicare Select issuer or its network providers.
   (3) ‘‘Medicare Select issuer’’ means an issuer offering, seeking to
offer, advertising, marketing, soliciting, or issuing a Medicare Select
policy or certificate.
   (4) ‘‘Medicare Select policy’’ or ‘‘Medicare Select certificate’’ mean
respectively a Medicare supplement policy or certificate that contains
restricted network provisions.
   (5) ‘‘Network provider’’ means a provider of health care, or a group
of providers of health care, which has entered into a written agreement
with the issuer or other entity to provide benefits insured under a
Medicare Select policy.
   (6) ‘‘Restricted network provision’’ means any provision which
conditions the payment of benefits, in whole or in part, on the use of
network providers.
 4718                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
   (7) ‘‘Service area’’ means the geographic area approved by the
commissioner within which an issuer is authorized to offer a Medicare
Select policy.
   (8) ‘‘Grievance’’ means a written complaint registered by an
individual for resolution under the formal grievance procedure, which
may involve, but is not limited to, the administration, claims practices
or provision of services by the issuer or its network providers.
   (9) ‘‘Medicare Select coverage’’ means Medicare supplement
coverage through a preferred provider organization or any other type of
restricted network, which coverage has been approved by the
commissioner under this section.
   (10) ‘‘Preferred provider organization’’ means a health care provider
or an entity contracting with health care providers that (A) establishes
alternative or discounted rates of payment, (B) offers the insureds certain
advantages for selecting the member providers, or (C) withholds from
the insureds certain advantages if they choose providers other than the
member providers. Organizations regulated as Medicare Select include,
but are not limited to, provider groups, hospital marketing plans, and
organizations that are formed or operated by insurers or third-party
administrators.
   (c) The commissioner may authorize an issuer to offer a Medicare
Select policy or certificate pursuant to this section if the commissioner
finds that the issuer has satisfied all of the requirements of this section.
   (d) A Medicare Select issuer shall not issue a Medicare Select policy
or certificate in this state until its plan of operation has been approved
by the commissioner.
   (e) A Medicare Select issuer shall file a proposed plan of operation
with the commissioner in a format prescribed by the commissioner. The
plan of operation shall contain at least the following information:
   (1) Evidence that all covered services that are subject to restricted
network provisions are available and accessible through network
providers, including a demonstration of all of the following:
   (A) That services can be provided by network providers with
reasonable promptness with respect to geographic location, hours of
operation, and afterhour care. The hours of operation and availability of
afterhour care shall reflect usual practice in the local area. Geographic
availability shall reflect the usual travel times within the community.
   (B) That the number of network providers in the service area is
sufficient, with respect to current and expected policyholders, as to
either of the following:
   (i) To deliver adequately all services that are subject to a restricted
network provision.
   (ii) To make appropriate referrals.
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4719

   (C) There are written agreements with network providers describing
specific responsibilities.
   (D) Emergency care is available 24 hours per day and seven days per
week.
   (E) In the case of covered services that are subject to a restricted
network provision and are provided on a prepaid basis, that there are
written agreements with network providers prohibiting the providers
from billing or otherwise seeking reimbursement from or recourse
against any individual insured under a Medicare Select policy or
certificate.
   This subparagraph shall not apply to supplemental charges or
coinsurance amounts as stated in the Medicare Select policy or
certificate.
   (2) A statement or map providing a clear description of the service
area.
   (3) A description of the appeal or grievance procedure to be utilized.
   (4) A description of the quality assurance program, including all of
the following:
   (A) The formal organizational structure.
   (B) The written criteria for selection, retention, and removal of
network providers.
   (C) The procedures for evaluating quality of care provided by
network providers, and the process to initiate corrective action when
warranted.
   (5) A list and description, by specialty, of the network providers.
   (6) Copies of the written information proposed to be used by the
issuer to comply with subdivision (i).
   (7) Any other information requested by the commissioner.
   (f) (1) A Medicare Select issuer shall file any proposed changes to
the plan of operation, except for changes to the list of network providers,
with the commissioner prior to implementing the changes. Changes
shall be considered approved by the commissioner after 30 days unless
specifically disapproved.
   (2) An updated list of network providers shall be filed at the
commissioner’s request, but at least quarterly.
   (g) A Medicare Select policy or certificate shall not restrict payment
for covered services provided by nonnetwork providers if:
   (1) The services are for symptoms requiring emergency care or are
immediately required for an unforeseen illness, injury, or condition.
   (2) It is not reasonable to obtain services through a network provider.
   (h) A Medicare Select policy or certificate shall provide payment for
full coverage under the policy for covered services that are not available
through network providers.
 4720                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (i) A Medicare Select issuer shall make full and fair disclosure in
writing of the provisions, restrictions, and limitations of the Medicare
Select policy or certificate to each applicant. This disclosure shall
include at least the following:
   (1) An outline of coverage sufficient to permit the applicant to
compare the coverage and premiums of the Medicare Select policy or
certificate with both of the following:
   (A) Other Medicare supplement policies or certificates offered by the
issuer.
   (B) Other Medicare Select policies or certificates.
   (2) A description, including address, telephone number, and hours of
operation, of the network providers, including primary care physicians,
specialty physicians, hospitals, and other providers.
   (3) A description of the restricted network provisions, including
payments for coinsurance and deductibles when providers other than
network providers are utilized.
   (4) A description of coverage for emergency and urgently needed care
and other out-of-service area coverage.
   (5) A description of limitations on referrals to restricted network
providers and to other providers.
   (6) A description of the policyholder’s or certificate holder’s rights to
purchase any other Medicare supplement policy or certificate otherwise
offered by the issuer.
   (7) A description of the Medicare Select issuer’s quality assurance,
grievance, and appeal procedure.
   (j) Prior to the sale of a Medicare Select policy or certificate, a
Medicare Select issuer shall obtain from the applicant a signed and dated
form stating that the applicant has received the information provided
pursuant to subdivision (i) and that the applicant understands the
restrictions of the Medicare Select policy or certificate.
Acknowledgments shall be maintained by the insurer for at least five
years in accordance with Section 10508.
   (k) A Medicare Select issuer shall have and use procedures for
hearing complaints and resolving written appeals and grievances from
the insureds. The procedures shall be aimed at mutual agreement for
settlement and may include arbitration procedures.
   (1) The appeal and grievance procedure shall be described in the
policy and certificates and in the outline of coverage.
   (2) At the time the policy or certificate is issued, the issuer shall
provide detailed information to the policyholder or certificate holder
describing how an appeal or grievance may be registered with the issuer.
   (3) Appeals or grievances shall be considered in a timely manner and
shall be transmitted to appropriate fiduciaries who have authority to
fully investigate the issue and take corrective action.
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4721

   (4) If an appeal or grievance is found to be valid, corrective action
shall be taken promptly.
   (5) All concerned parties shall be notified about the results of an
appeal or grievance.
   (6) The issuer shall report no later than each March 31st to the
commissioner regarding its appeal or grievance procedure. The report
shall be in a format prescribed by the commissioner and shall contain the
number of appeals or grievances filed in the past year and a summary of
the subject, nature, and resolution of those appeals or grievances.
   (7) Detailed information describing in writing how to register an
appeal or grievance shall be provided to the insured prior to, or
simultaneously with, the issuance of the policy or certificate.
   (8) The issuer shall maintain records of each appeal or grievance for
at least five years.
   (l) At the time of initial purchase, a Medicare Select issuer shall make
available to each applicant for a Medicare Select policy or certificate the
opportunity to purchase any Medicare supplement policy or certificate
otherwise offered by the issuer.
   (m) (1) At the request of an individual insured under a Medicare
Select policy or certificate, a Medicare Select issuer shall make available
to the individual insured the opportunity to purchase a Medicare
supplement policy or certificate offered by the issuer that has
comparable or lesser benefits and that does not contain a restricted
network provision. The issuer shall make the policies or certificates
available without requiring evidence of insurability after the Medicare
Select policy or certificate has been in force for six months, unless the
replacement policy or certificate includes prescription drug coverage or
at-home recovery benefits that were not included in the Medicare Select
coverage.
   (2) For the purposes of this subdivision, a Medicare supplement
policy or certificate will be considered to have comparable or lesser
benefits unless it contains one or more significant benefits not included
in the Medicare Select policy or certificate being replaced. For the
purposes of this paragraph, a significant benefit means coverage for the
Medicare Part A deductible, coverage for prescription drugs, coverage
for at-home recovery services, or coverage for Medicare Part B excess
charges.
   (n) Medicare Select policies and certificates shall provide for
continuation of coverage in the event the commissioner determines that
Medicare Select policies and certificates issued pursuant to this section
should be discontinued due to either the failure of the Medicare Select
program to be reauthorized under law or its substantial amendment.
   (1) Each Medicare Select issuer shall make available to each
individual insured under a Medicare Select policy or certificate the
 4722                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
opportunity to purchase any Medicare supplement policy or certificate
offered by the issuer which has comparable or lesser benefits and which
does not contain a restricted network provision. The issuer shall make
the policies and certificates available without requiring evidence of
insurability.
   (2) For the purposes of this subdivision, a Medicare supplement
policy or certificate will be considered to have comparable or lesser
benefits unless it contains one or more significant benefits not included
in the Medicare Select policy or certificate being replaced. For the
purposes of this paragraph, a significant benefit means coverage for the
Medicare Part A deductible, coverage for prescription drugs, coverage
for at-home recovery services, or coverage for Medicare Part B excess
charges.
   (o) A Medicare Select issuer shall comply with reasonable requests
for data made by state or federal agencies, including the United States
Department of Health and Human Services for the purpose of evaluating
the Medicare Select program.
   (p) The commissioner may grant special Medicare Select status to
plans of guaranteed renewable Medicare supplement coverage provided
through a preferred provider organization, which plans were offered to
the public or in force before the effective date of this section, if the
commissioner determines that the applicants will receive benefits and
consumer protections that are substantially equivalent to those in other
Medicare Select plans identified in this section, and if the issuer satisfies
the following requirements:
   (1) The issuer shall apply within one year of the effective date of this
section by submitting to the commissioner the following items:
   (A) The current plan of operation as defined in subdivision (e).
   (B) If the written disclosures of subdivision (i) have not been
delivered to each applicant as required, the issuer’s plan to accomplish
full disclosure to every insured and to achieve substantial compliance
with subdivision (j).
   (C) The issuer’s statement of intent to comply with subdivision (f).
   (D) If the plan of operation does not comply with the standards of
subdivision (g), (h), (k), (l), or (m), the issuer’s plan for achieving
substantial compliance with these subdivisions for every insured.
   (2) The issuer shall alter the plan as requested by the commissioner
in order to bring the plan into substantial compliance with Medicare
Select standards.
   (3) The issuer shall issue disclosures or other notices to its insureds
regarding its status as Medicare Select as ordered by the commissioner.
   (4) The issuer shall provide data as provided in subdivision (o).
   10192.11. (a) An issuer shall not deny or condition the issuance or
effectiveness of any Medicare supplement policy or certificate available
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4723

for sale in this state, nor discriminate in the pricing of a policy or
certificate because of the health status, claims experience, receipt of
health care, or medical condition of an applicant in the case of an
application for a policy or certificate that is submitted prior to or during
the six-month period beginning with the first day of the first month in
which an individual is both 65 years of age or older and is enrolled for
benefits under Medicare Part B. Each Medicare supplement policy and
certificate currently available from an issuer shall be made available to
all applicants who qualify under this subdivision without regard to age.
This section shall not be construed as preventing the exclusion of
benefits for preexisting conditions as defined in paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) of Section 10192.8.
   (b) (1) If an applicant qualifies under subdivision (a) and submits an
application during the time period referenced in subdivision (a) and, as
of the date of application, has had a continuous period of creditable
coverage of at least six months, the issuer shall not exclude benefits
based on a preexisting condition.
   (2) If the applicant qualifies under subdivision (a) and submits an
application during the time period referenced in subdivision (a) and, as
of the date of application, has had a continuous period of creditable
coverage that is less than six months, the issuer shall reduce the period
of any preexisting condition exclusion by the aggregate of the period of
creditable coverage applicable to the applicant as of the enrollment date.
The manner of the reduction under this subdivision shall be as specified
by the commissioner.
   (c) Except as provided in subdivision (b) and Section 10192.23,
subdivision (a) shall not be construed as preventing the exclusion of
benefits under a policy, during the first six months, based on a
preexisting condition for which the policyholder or certificate holder
received treatment or was otherwise diagnosed during the six months
before the coverage became effective.
   (d) An individual enrolled in Medicare Part B by reason of disability
will be entitled to open enrollment described in this section for six
months after he or she reaches age 65. Every issuer shall make available
to every applicant qualified for open enrollment all policies and
certificates offered by that issuer at the time of application. Issuers shall
not discourage sales during the open enrollment period by any means,
including the altering of the commission structure.
   (e) An individual who is 65 years of age or older and enrolled in
Medicare Part B is entitled to open enrollment described in this section
for six months following:
   (1) Receipt of a notice of termination or, if no notice is received, the
effective date of termination, from any employer-sponsored health plan
including an employer-sponsored retiree health plan. For purposes of
 4724                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
this section, ‘‘employer-sponsored retiree health plan’’ includes any
coverage for medical expenses that is directly or indirectly sponsored or
established by an employer for employees or retirees, their spouses,
dependents, or other included insureds.
   (2) Termination of health care services for a military retiree or the
retiree’s Medicare eligible spouse or dependent as a result of a military
base closure.
   (f) An individual who is 65 years of age or older and enrolled in
Medicare Part B is entitled to open enrollment described in this section
if the individual was covered under a policy, certificate, or contract
providing Medicare supplement coverage but that coverage terminated
because the individual established residence at a location not served by
the plan.
   (g) (1) An individual who was previously enrolled in but whose
coverage was terminated between September 1, 1998, and December 31,
1998, by a Medicare managed care plan shall be entitled to a new 60-day
open enrollment period in addition to any open enrollment authorized by
federal law or regulations, for any and all Medicare supplement coverage
provided by Medicare supplement insurers and available on a
guaranteed basis under state and federal law or regulations for persons
terminated by their Medicare managed care plan.
   (2) The new open enrollment period specified in paragraph (1) shall
commence 90 days after January 1, 2000.
   (3) An individual who was previously enrolled in but whose coverage
was terminated after January 1, 1999, by a Medicare managed care plan
shall be entitled to an additional 60-day open enrollment period to be
added on to and run consecutively after any open enrollment period
authorized by federal law or regulations, for any and all Medicare
supplement coverage provided by Medicare supplement insurers and
available on a guaranteed basis under state and federal law or regulations
for persons terminated by their Medicare managed care plan.
   (h) An individual shall be entitled to an annual open enrollment
period lasting 30 days or more, commencing with the individual’s
birthday, during which time that person may purchase any Medicare
supplement policy, with the exception of a Medicare Select policy, that
offers benefits equal to or lesser than those provided by the previous
coverage. During this open enrollment period, no issuer that falls under
this provision shall deny or condition the issuance or effectiveness of
Medicare supplement coverage, nor discriminate in the pricing of
coverage, because of health status, claims experience, receipt of health
care, or medical condition of the individual if, at the time of the open
enrollment period, the individual is covered under another Medicare
supplement policy or contract. An issuer shall notify a policyholder of
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4725

his or her rights under this subdivision at least 30 and no more than 60
days before the beginning of the open enrollment period.
   10192.12. (a) (1) With respect to the guaranteed issue of a
Medicare supplement policy, eligible persons are those individuals
described in subdivision (b) who apply to enroll under the policy not
later than 63 days after the date of the termination of enrollment
described in subdivision (b), and who submit evidence of the date of
termination or disenrollment with the application for a Medicare
supplement policy.
   (2) With respect to eligible persons, an issuer shall not deny or
condition the issuance or effectiveness of a Medicare supplement policy
described in subdivision (c) that is offered and is available for issuance
to new enrollees by the issuer, shall not discriminate in the pricing of
such a Medicare supplement policy because of health status, claims
experience, receipt of health care, or medical condition, and shall not
impose an exclusion of benefits based on a preexisting condition under
such a Medicare supplement policy.
   (b) An eligible person is an individual described in any of the
following paragraphs:
   (1) The individual is enrolled under an employee welfare benefit plan
that provides health benefits that supplement the benefits under
Medicare, and the plan terminates, or the plan ceases to provide all of
those supplemental health benefits to the individual.
   (2) The individual is enrolled with a Medicare+Choice organization
under a Medicare+Choice plan Medicare Part C, and any of the
following apply:
   (A) The organization’s or plan’s certification, under this part, has
been terminated or the organization has terminated or otherwise
discontinued providing the plan in the area in which the individual
resides.
   (B) The individual is no longer eligible to elect the plan because of
a change in the individual’s place of residence or other change in
circumstances specified by the secretary, but not including termination
of the individual’s enrollment on the basis described in Section
1851(g)(3)(B) of the federal Social Security Act, where the individual
has not paid premiums on a timely basis or has engaged in disruptive
behavior as specified in standards under Section 1856 of that act, or the
plan is terminated for all individuals within a residence area.
   (C) The individual demonstrates, in accordance with guidelines
established by the commissioner, either of the following:
   (i) The organization offering the plan substantially violated a material
provision of the organization’s contract under this article in relation to
the individual, including the failure to provide an enrollee on a timely
basis medically necessary care for which benefits are available under the
 4726                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
plan or the failure to provide the covered care in accordance with
applicable quality standards.
   (ii) The organization, or agent or other entity acting on the
organization’s behalf, materially misrepresented the plan’s provisions in
marketing the plan to the individual.
   (D) The individual meets other exceptional conditions as the
commissioner may provide.
   (3) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual is enrolled with any of the following:
   (i) An eligible organization under a contract under Section 1876 of
the federal Social Security Act (Medicare risk or cost).
   (ii) A similar organization operating under demonstration project
authority, effective for periods before April 1, 1999.
   (iii) An organization under an agreement under Section
1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health care prepayment
plan).
   (iv) An organization under a Medicare Select policy.
   (B) The individual’s enrollment ceases under the same circumstances
that would permit discontinuance of an individual’s election of coverage
under the first sentence of Section 1851(e)(4) of the federal Social
Security Act as delineated in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
   (4) The individual is enrolled under a Medicare supplement policy
and the enrollment ceases because of the following: the insolvency of the
issuer or bankruptcy of the nonissuer organization; the involuntary
termination of coverage or enrollment under the policy; the issuer of the
policy substantially violated a material provision of the policy; or the
issuer, or an agent or other entity acting on the issuer’s behalf, materially
misrepresented the policy’s provisions in marketing the policy to the
individual.
   (5) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual was enrolled under a Medicare supplement policy
and terminates enrollment and subsequently enrolls, for the first time,
with any Medicare+Choice organization under a Medicare+Choice plan
under Medicare Part C, any eligible organization under a contract under
Section 1876 of the federal Social Security Act (Medicare risk or cost),
any similar organization operating under demonstration project
authority, an organization under an agreement under Section
1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health care prepayment
plan), or a Medicare Select policy.
   (B) The subsequent enrollment under subparagraph (A) is terminated
by the enrollee during any period within the first 12 months of the
subsequent enrollment (during which the enrollee is permitted to
terminate the subsequent enrollment under Section 1851(e) of the
federal Social Security Act).
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4727

   (6) The individual, upon first becoming eligible for benefits under
Medicare Part A at age 65 years, enrolls in a Medicare+Choice plan
under Medicare Part C, and disenrolls from the plan by not later than 12
months after the effective date of enrollment.
   (c) (1) Under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subdivision (b),
eligible persons are entitled to a Medicare supplement policy that has a
benefit package classified as plan A, B, C, or F offered by any issuer.
   (2) Under paragraph (5) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to the same Medicare supplement policy in which they were
most recently previously enrolled, if available from the same issuer, or,
if not so available, a policy described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).
   (3) Under paragraph (6) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to any Medicare supplement policy offered by any issuer.
   (d) (1) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because
of which an individual loses coverage or benefits due to the termination
of a contract or agreement, policy, or plan, the organization that
terminates the contract or agreement, the issuer terminating the policy,
or the administrator of the plan being terminated, respectively, shall
notify the individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the
obligations of issuers of Medicare supplement policies under
subdivision (a). That notice shall be communicated contemporaneously
with the notification of termination.
   (2) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because of
which an individual ceases enrollment under a contract or agreement,
policy, or plan, the organization that offers the contract or agreement,
regardless of the basis for the cessation of enrollment, the issuer offering
the policy, or the administrator of the plan, respectively, shall notify the
individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the obligations
of issuers of Medicare supplement policies under subdivision (a). That
notice shall be communicated within ten working days of the issuer
receiving notification of disenrollment.
   10192.13. (a) An issuer shall comply with Section 1882(c)(3) of the
federal Social Security Act (as enacted by Section 4081(b)(2)(C) of the
federal Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 (OBRA), Public
Law 100-203) by doing all of the following and by certifying compliance
on the Medicare supplement insurance experience reporting form:
   (1) Accepting a notice from a Medicare carrier on dually assigned
claims submitted by participating physicians and suppliers as a claim for
benefits in place of any other claim form otherwise required and making
a payment determination on the basis of the information contained in
that notice.
   (2) Notifying the participating physician or supplier and the
beneficiary of the payment determination.
   (3) Paying the participating physician or supplier directly.
 4728                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
   (4) Furnishing, at the time of enrollment, each enrollee with a card
listing the policy name, number, and a central mailing address to which
notices from a Medicare carrier may be sent.
   (5) Paying user fees for claim notices that are transmitted
electronically or otherwise.
   (6) Providing to the secretary, at least annually, a central mailing
address to which all claims may be sent by Medicare carriers.
   (7) File, by June 30 of each year, with the commissioner a list of its
Medicare supplement policies and certificates offered or issued or in
force in California as of the end of the previous year.
   (A) The list shall identify the issuer by name and address, shall
identify each type of form it offers by name and form number, and shall
differentiate between forms approved in the previous calendar year and
those approved before the previous calendar year.
   (B) The list shall identify all of the following:
   (i) Forms issued and in force but no longer offered in California.
   (ii) Forms that, for any reason, were not filed and approved by the
commissioner.
   (iii) Forms for which the commissioner’s approval was withdrawn
within the previous calendar year.
   (iv) The number of forms issued in California in the previous calendar
year, and the number of forms in force in California on December 31 of
the previous calendar year.
   (b) (1) Compliance with the requirements set forth in subdivision (a)
shall be certified on the Medicare supplement insurance experience
reporting form provided by the commissioner.
   (2) The commissioner shall, by September 1 of each year, provide the
secretary with a list identifying each issuer by name and address and
provide the information requested in this section.
   (c) No issuer that administers Medicare coverage and federal
employee programs may require that more than one form be submitted
per claim in order to receive payment or reimbursement under any or all
of those policies or programs.
   10192.14. (a) (1) (A) With respect to loss ratio standards, a
Medicare supplement policy form or certificate form shall not be
advertised, solicited, or issued for delivery unless the policy form or
certificate form can be expected, as estimated for the entire period for
which rates are computed to provide coverage, to return to policyholders
and certificate holders in the form of aggregate benefits, not including
anticipated refunds or credits, provided under the policy form or
certificate form at least 75 percent of the aggregate amount of premiums
earned in the case of group policies, or at least 65 percent of the aggregate
amount of premiums earned in the case of individual policies.
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4729

   (B) Loss ratio standards shall be calculated on the basis of incurred
claims experience, and earned premiums shall be calculated for the
period and in accordance with accepted actuarial principles and
practices.
   (2) All filings of rates and rating schedules shall demonstrate that
expected claims in relation to premiums comply with the requirements
of this section when combined with actual experience to date. Filings of
rate revisions shall also demonstrate that the anticipated loss ratio over
the entire future period for which the revised rates are computed to
provide coverage can be expected to meet the appropriate loss ratio
standards.
   (3) For purposes of applying paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) and
paragraph (3) of subdivision (c) of Section 10192.15 only, policies
issued as a result of solicitations of individuals through the mail or by
mass media advertising, including both print and broadcast advertising,
shall be deemed to be individual policies.
   (b) (1) With respect to refund or credit calculations, an issuer shall
collect and file with the commissioner by May 31 of each year the data
contained in the applicable reporting form required by the commissioner
for each type of coverage in a standard Medicare supplement benefit
plan.
   (2) If on the basis of the experience as reported the benchmark ratio
since inception (ratio 1) exceeds the adjusted experience ratio since
inception (ratio 3), then a refund or credit calculation is required. The
refund calculation shall be done on a statewide basis for each type in a
standard Medicare supplement benefit plan. For purposes of the refund
or credit calculation, experience on policies issued within the reporting
year shall be excluded.
   (3) For the purposes of this section, with respect to policies or
certificates advertised, solicited, or issued for delivery prior to January
1, 2001, the issuer shall make the refund or credit calculation separately
for all individual policies, including all group policies subject to an
individual loss ratio standard when issued, combined and all other group
policies combined for experience after January 1, 2001. The first report
pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be due by May 31, 2003.
   (4) A refund or credit shall be made only when the benchmark loss
ratio exceeds the adjusted experience loss ratio and the amount to be
refunded or credited exceeds a de minimis level. The refund shall include
interest from the end of the calendar year to the date of the refund or
credit at a rate specified by the secretary, but in no event shall it be less
than the average rate of interest for 13-week Treasury notes. A refund or
credit against premiums due shall be made by September 30 following
the experience year upon which the refund or credit is based.
 4730                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (c) An issuer of Medicare supplement policies and certificates shall
file annually its rates, rating schedule, and supporting documentation
including ratios of incurred losses to earned premiums by policy
duration for approval by the commissioner in accordance with the filing
requirements and procedures prescribed by the commissioner and this
code. The supporting documentation shall also demonstrate in
accordance with actuarial standards of practice using reasonable
assumptions that the appropriate loss ratio standards can be expected to
be met over the entire period for which rates are computed. The
demonstration shall exclude active life reserves. An expected third-year
loss ratio that is greater than or equal to the applicable percentage shall
be demonstrated for policies or certificates in force less than three years.
   As soon as practicable, but prior to the effective date of enhancements
in Medicare benefits, every issuer of Medicare supplement policies or
certificates shall file with the commissioner, in accordance with
applicable filing procedures, all of the following:
   (1) (A) Appropriate premium adjustments necessary to produce loss
ratios as anticipated for the current premium for the applicable policies
or certificates. The supporting documents necessary to justify the
adjustment shall accompany the filing.
   (B) An issuer shall make premium adjustments necessary to produce
an expected loss ratio under the policy or certificate to conform to
minimum loss ratio standards for Medicare supplement policies and that
are expected to result in a loss ratio at least as great as that originally
anticipated in the rates used to produce current premiums by the issuer
for the Medicare supplement policies or certificates. No premium
adjustment that would modify the loss ratio experience under the policy
other than the adjustments described in this section shall be made with
respect to a policy at any time other than upon its renewal date or
anniversary date.
   (C) If an issuer fails to make premium adjustments acceptable to the
commissioner, the commissioner may order premium adjustments,
refunds, or premium credits deemed necessary to achieve the loss ratio
required by this section.
   (2) Any appropriate riders, endorsements, or policy forms needed to
accomplish the Medicare supplement policy or certificate modifications
necessary to eliminate benefit duplications with Medicare. The riders,
endorsements, or policy forms shall provide a clear description of the
Medicare supplement benefits provided by the policy or certificate.
   (d) The commissioner may conduct a public hearing to gather
information concerning a request by an issuer for an increase in a rate for
a policy form or certificate form issued before or after the effective date
of January 1, 2001, if the experience of the form for the previous
reporting period is not in compliance with the applicable loss ratio
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4731

standard. The determination of compliance is made without
consideration of any refund or credit for the reporting period. Public
notice of the hearing shall be furnished in a manner deemed appropriate
by the commissioner.
   10192.15. (a) An issuer shall not advertise, solicit, or issue for
delivery a policy or certificate to a resident of this state unless the policy
form or certificate form has been filed with and approved by the
commissioner in accordance with filing requirements and procedures
prescribed by the commissioner. Master policies issued outside
California shall be filed for informational purposes along with the
certificates. Until January 1, 2001, or 90 days after approval of Medicare
supplement policies or certificates submitted for approval pursuant to
this section, whichever is later, issuers may continue to offer and market
previously approved Medicare supplement policies or certificates.
   (b) (1) An issuer shall not use or change premium rates for a
Medicare supplement policy or certificate unless the rates, rating
schedule, and supporting documentation have been filed with and
approved by the commissioner in accordance with the filing
requirements and procedures prescribed by the commissioner.
   (2) Paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 10290 shall not apply
to Medicare supplement insurance forms or rates. However, the
commissioner may authorize in writing, for good cause only, the limited
use of a form or rates after that form or the rates have been filed with the
commissioner for 60 days and have not otherwise been acted upon.
   (c) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), an issuer shall not file for
approval more than one form of a policy or certificate of each type for
each standard Medicare supplement benefit plan.
   (2) An issuer may offer, with the approval of the commissioner, up to
four additional policy forms or certificate forms of the same type for the
same standard Medicare supplement benefit plan, one for each of the
following cases:
   (A) The inclusion of new or innovative benefits.
   (B) The addition of either direct response or agent marketing
methods.
   (C) The addition of either guaranteed issue or underwritten coverage.
   (D) The offering of coverage to individuals eligible for Medicare by
reason of disability.
   (3) For the purposes of this section, a ‘‘type’’ means an individual
policy, a group policy, an individual Medicare Select policy, or a group
Medicare Select policy.
   (d) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (a), an issuer shall continue
to make available for purchase any policy form or certificate form issued
after January 1, 2001, that has been approved by the commissioner. A
policy form or certificate form shall not be considered to be available for
 4732                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
purchase unless the issuer has actively offered it for sale in the previous
12 months.
   (A) An issuer may discontinue the availability of a policy form or
certificate form if the issuer provides to the commissioner in writing its
decision at least 60 days prior to discontinuing the availability of the
form of the policy or certificate. After receipt of the notice by the
commissioner, the issuer shall no longer offer for sale the policy form
or certificate form in this state.
   (B) An issuer that discontinues the availability of a policy form or
certificate form pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall not file for approval
a new policy form or certificate form of the same type for the same
standard Medicare supplement benefit plan as the discontinued form for
a period of five years after the issuer provides notice to the commissioner
of the discontinuance. The period of discontinuance may be reduced if
the commissioner determines that a shorter period is appropriate.
   (2) The sale or other transfer of Medicare supplement business to
another issuer shall be considered a discontinuance for the purposes of
this subdivision.
   (3) A change in the rating structure or methodology shall be
considered a discontinuance under paragraph (1) unless the issuer
complies with the following requirements:
   (A) The issuer provides an actuarial memorandum, in a form and
manner prescribed by the commissioner, describing the manner in which
the revised rating methodology and resultant rates differ from the
existing rating methodology and existing rates. The commissioner may
approve the change if it is in the public interest.
   (B) The issuer does not subsequently put into effect a change of rates
or rating factors that would cause the percentage differential between the
discontinued and subsequent rates as described in the actuarial
memorandum to change. The commissioner may approve a change to
the differential which is in the public interest. The commissioner may
approve a change to the differential if it is in the public interest.
   (e) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the experience of all
policy forms or certificate forms of the same type in a standard Medicare
supplement benefit plan shall be combined for purposes of the refund or
credit calculation prescribed in Section 10192.13.
   (2) Forms assumed under an assumption reinsurance agreement shall
not be combined with the experience of other forms for purposes of the
refund or credit calculation.
   10192.16. (a) An issuer or other entity may provide commission or
other compensation to an agent or other representative for the sale of a
Medicare supplement policy or certificate only if the first year
commission or other first year compensation is no more than 200 percent
of the commission or other compensation paid for selling or servicing
[Ch. 706 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4733

the policy or certificate in the second year or period. Every insurer shall
file with the commissioner its commission structure or an explanation
of the insurer’s plan to comply with this provision.
   (b) The commission or other compensation provided in subsequent
renewal years must be the same as that provided in the second year or
period and must be provided for no fewer than five renewal years.
   (c) No issuer or other entity shall provide compensation to its agents
or other producers, and no agent or producer shall receive compensation,
greater than the renewal compensation payable by the replacing issuer
on renewal policies or certificates if an existing policy or certificate is
replaced.
   (d) For purposes of this section, ‘‘commission’’ or ‘‘compensation’’
includes pecuniary or nonpecuniary remuneration of any kind relating
to the sale or renewal of the policy or certificate, including, but not
limited to, bonuses, gifts, prizes, awards, and finders’ fees.
   10192.165. (a) (1) As prescribed in this chapter, the commissioner
shall have the administrative authority to assess penalties against
issuers, brokers, agents, and other entities engaged in the business of
insurance or any other person or entity for violations of this article.
   (2) Upon a showing of a violation of this article in any civil action,
a court may also assess the penalties prescribed in this chapter.
   (3) Whenever the commissioner has reasonable cause to believe or
determines after a public hearing that any issuer, agent, broker, or other
person or entity engaged in the business of insurance, has violated this
article he or she shall make and serve upon the issuer, broker, or other
person or entity a notice of hearing. The notice shall state the
commissioner’s intent to assess the administrative penalties, the time
and place of the hearing, and the conduct, condition, or ground upon
which the commissioner is holding the hearing and assessing the
penalties. The hearing shall occur within 30 days after the notice is
served. Within 30 days after the hearing the commissioner shall issue an
order specifying the amount of penalties to be paid. The penalties
resulting from the hearing shall be paid to the Insurance Fund.
   (4) The powers vested in the commissioner by this section shall be
additional to any and all powers and remedies vested in the
commissioner by law.
   (b) (1) Any broker, agent, or other person or entity engaged in the
business of insurance, other than an issuer, who violates this article is
liable for administrative penalties of no less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250) for the first violation.
   (2) Any broker, agent, other person, or other entity engaged in the
business of insurance, other than an issuer, who engages in practices
prohibited by this chapter a second or subsequent time or who commits
a knowing violation of this article, is liable for administrative penalties
 4734                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
of no less than one thousand dollars ($1,000) and no more than
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) for each violation.
   (3) Any issuer who violates this article is liable for administrative
penalties of no less than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) for
the first violation.
   (4) Any issuer who violates this article with a frequency as to indicate
a general business practice or commits a knowing violation of this
article, is liable for administrative penalties of no less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) and no more than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) for each violation.
   (c) (1) Actions for injunctive relief, penalties in the amounts
specified in subdivision (a), damages, restitution, and all other remedies
provided for in law, may be brought in superior court by the Attorney
General, district attorney, or city attorney on behalf of the people of the
State of California.
   (2) The court shall award reasonable attorney’s fees and costs to a
prevailing plaintiff who establishes a violation of this article.
   (d) In addition to any other applicable penalties, the commissioner
may require issuers, agents, brokers, or other persons or entities
violating any provision of this article or regulations promulgated
pursuant to this article, to cease marketing in this state any Medicare
supplement policy or certificate or may require the issuer, agent, broker,
or other person or entity to take such actions as are necessary to comply
with the provisions of this article, or both.
   (e) Any person who knowingly or intentionally violates any
provision of this article is guilty of a public offense punishable by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year or by
imprisonment in the state prison or by a fine not exceeding ten thousand
dollars ($10,000), or by both that imprisonment and fine.
   (f) (1) The requirements and remedies provided by this article are in
addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (2) If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect
other provisions or applications of the article which can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions of this article are severable.
   10192.17. (a) Medicare supplement policies and certificates shall
include a renewal, continuation, or conversion provision. The language
or specifications of the provision shall be consistent with the type of
contract issued. The provision shall be appropriately captioned and shall
appear on the first page of the policy, and shall include any reservation
by the issuer of the right to change premiums and any automatic renewal
premium increases based on the policyholder’s age.
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4735

   (b) Except for riders or endorsements by which the issuer effectuates
a request made in writing by the insured, exercises a specifically
reserved right under a Medicare supplement policy, or is required to
reduce or eliminate benefits to avoid duplication of Medicare benefits,
all riders or endorsements added to a Medicare supplement policy after
the date of issue or upon reinstatement or renewal that reduce or
eliminate benefits or coverage in the policy shall require a signed
acceptance by the insured. After the date of policy or certificate issue,
any rider or endorsement which increases benefits or coverage with a
concomitant increase in premium during the policy term shall be agreed
to in writing signed by the insured, unless the benefits are required by
the minimum standards for Medicare supplement policies, or if the
increased benefits or coverage is required by law. Where a separate
additional premium is charged for benefits provided in connection with
riders or endorsements, the premium charge shall be set forth in the
policy.
   (c) Medicare supplement policies or certificates shall not provide for
the payment of benefits based on standards described as ‘‘usual and
customary,’’ ‘‘reasonable and customary,’’ or words of similar import.
   (d) If a Medicare supplement policy or certificate contains any
limitations with respect to preexisting conditions, those limitations shall
appear as a separate paragraph of the policy and be labeled as
‘‘Preexisting Condition Limitations.’’
   (e) Medicare supplement policies and certificates shall have a notice
prominently printed on the first page of the policy or certificate, and of
the outline of coverage, or attached thereto, in no less than 10-point
uppercase type, stating in substance that the policyholder or certificate
holder shall have the right to return the policy or certificate, via regular
mail, within 30 days of receiving it, and to have the full premium
refunded if, after examination of the policy or certificate, the insured
person is not satisfied for any reason. The return shall void the contract
from the beginning, and the parties shall be in the same position as if no
contract had been issued.
   (2) For purposes of this section, a timely manner shall be no later than
30 days after the issuer receives the returned contract.
   (3) If the issuer fails to refund all prepaid or periodic charges paid in
a timely manner, then the applicant shall receive interest on the paid
charges at the legal rate of interest on judgments as provided in Section
685.010 of the Code of Civil Procedure. The interest shall be paid from
the date the issuer received the returned contract.
   (f) (1) Issuers of disability insurance policies, certificates, or
contracts that provide hospital or medical expense coverage on an
expense incurred or indemnity basis, other than incidentally, to persons
eligible for Medicare shall provide to those applicants a Guide to Health
 4736                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 706 ]
Insurance for People with Medicare in the form developed jointly by the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners and the Health Care
Financing Administration and in a type size no smaller than 12-point
type. Delivery of the guide shall be made whether or not the policies or
certificates are advertised, solicited, or issued for delivery as Medicare
supplement policies or certificates as defined in this article. Except in the
case of direct response issuers, delivery of the guide shall be made to the
applicant at the time of application, and acknowledgment of receipt of
the guide shall be obtained by the issuer. Direct response issuers shall
deliver the guide to the applicant upon request, but not later than at the
time the policy is delivered.
   (2) For the purposes of this section, ‘‘form’’ means the language,
format, type size, type proportional spacing, bold character, and line
spacing.
   (g) As soon as practicable, but no later than 30 days prior to the annual
effective date of any Medicare benefit changes, an issuer shall notify its
policyholders and certificate holders of modifications it has made to
Medicare supplement policies or certificates in a format acceptable to the
commissioner. The notice shall include both of the following:
   (1) A description of revisions to the Medicare program and a
description of each modification made to the coverage provided under
the Medicare supplement policy or certificate.
   (2) Inform each policyholder or certificate holder as to when any
premium adjustment is to be made due to changes in Medicare.
   (h) The notice of benefit modifications and any premium adjustments
shall be in outline form and in clear and simple terms so as to facilitate
comprehension.
   (i) The notices shall not contain or be accompanied by any
solicitation.
   (j) (1) Issuers shall provide an outline of coverage to all applicants
at the time application is presented to the prospective applicant and,
except for direct response policies, shall obtain an acknowledgment of
receipt of the outline from the applicant. If an outline of coverage is
provided at the time of application and the Medicare supplement policy
or certificate is issued on a basis which would require revision of the
outline, a substitute outline of coverage properly describing the policy
or certificate shall accompany the policy or certificate when it is
delivered and contain the following statement, in no less than 12-point
type, immediately above the company name:

  ‘‘NOTICE: Read this outline of coverage carefully. It is not identical
to the outline of coverage provided upon application and the coverage
originally applied for has not been issued.’’
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4737

   (2) The outline of coverage provided to applicants pursuant to this
section consists of four parts: a cover page, premium information,
disclosure pages, and charts displaying the features of each benefit plan
offered by the issuer. The outline of coverage shall be in the language and
format prescribed below in no less than 12-point type. All plans A-J shall
be shown on the cover page, and the plans that are offered by the issuer
shall be prominently identified. Premium information for plans that are
offered shall be shown on the cover page or immediately following the
cover page and shall be prominently displayed. The premium and mode
shall be stated for all plans that are offered to the prospective applicant.
All possible premiums for the prospective applicant shall be illustrated.
   (3) The commissioner may adopt regulations to implement this
article, including, but not limited to, regulations that specify the required
information to be contained in the outline of coverage provided to
applicants pursuant to this section, including the format of tables, charts,
and other information.
   (k) (1) Any disability insurance policy or certificate, a basic,
catastrophic or major medical expense policy, or single premium
nonrenewal policy or certificate issued to persons eligible for Medicare,
other than a Medicare supplement policy, a policy issued pursuant to a
contract under Section 1876 of the federal Social Security Act (42
U.S.C.A. Sec. 1395 et seq.), a disability income policy, or any other
policy identified in subdivision (b) of Section 10192.3, advertised,
solicited, or issued for delivery in this state to persons eligible for
Medicare, shall notify insureds under the policy that the policy is not a
Medicare supplement policy or certificate. The notice shall either be
printed or attached to the first page of the outline of coverage delivered
to insureds under the policy, or if no outline of coverage is delivered, to
the first page of the policy or certificate delivered to insureds. The notice
shall be in no less than 12-point type and shall contain the following
language:

 ‘‘THIS [POLICY OR CERTIFICATE] IS NOT A MEDICARE
SUPPLEMENT [POLICY OR CONTRACT]. If you are eligible for
Medicare, review the Guide to Health Insurance for People with
Medicare available from the company.’’

  (2) Applications provided to persons eligible for Medicare for the
disability insurance policies or certificates described in paragraph (1)
shall disclose the extent to which the policy duplicates Medicare in a
manner required by the commissioner. The disclosure statement shall be
provided as a part of, or together with, the application for the policy or
certificate.
 4738                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
   (l) (1) Insurers issuing Medicare supplement policies or certificates
for delivery in California shall provide an outline of coverage to all
applicants at the time of presentation for examination or sale as provided
in Section 10605, and in no case later than at the time the application is
made. Except for direct response policies, insurers shall obtain a written
acknowledgment of receipt of the outline from the applicant.
   Any advertisement that is not a presentation for examination or sale
as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 10601 shall contain a notice in
no less than 10-point uppercase type that an outline of coverage is
available upon request. The insurer or agent that receives any request for
an outline of coverage shall provide an outline of coverage to the person
making the request within 14 days of receipt of the request.
   (2) If an outline of coverage is provided at or before the time of
application and the Medicare supplement policy or certificate is issued
on a basis that would require revision of the outline, a substitute outline
of coverage properly describing the policy or certificate shall accompany
the policy or certificate when it is delivered and contain the following
statement, in no less than 12-point type, immediately above the name:

  ‘‘NOTICE: Read this outline of coverage carefully. It is not identical
to the outline of coverage provided upon application and the coverage
originally applied for has not been issued.’’

  (3) The outline of coverage shall be in the language and format
prescribed in this subdivision in no less than 12-point type, and shall
include the following items in the order prescribed below. Titles, as set
forth below in paragraphs (B) to (H), inclusive, shall be capitalized,
centered, and printed in boldface type. The outline of coverage shall
include the items, and in the same order, specified in the chart set forth
in paragraph (4) of subdivision (C) of Section 17 of the Model
Regulation to implement the NAIC Medicare Supplement Insurance
Minimum Standards Model Act, as adopted by the National Association
of Insurance Commissioners on July 30, 1991.
  (A) The cover page shall contain the 10-plan (A through J) chart. The
plans offered by the insurer shall be clearly identified. Innovative
benefits shall be explained in a manner approved by the commissioner.
The text shall read:

  ‘‘Medicare supplement insurance can be sold in only 10 standard
plans. This chart shows the benefits included in each plan. Every
insurance company must offer Plan A. Some plans may not be available.
  The BASIC BENEFITS included in ALL plans are:
  Hospitalization: Medicare Part A coinsurance plus coverage for 365
additional days after Medicare benefits end.
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4739

  Medical expenses: Medicare Part B coinsurance (usually 20 percent
of the Medicare-approved amount).
  Blood: First three pints of blood each year.
  Mammogram: One annual screening to the extent not covered by
Medicare.
  Cervical cancer test: One annual screening.’’

   [Reference to the mammogram and cervical cancer test shall not be
included so long as California is required to disallow them for Medicare
beneficiaries by the Health Care Financing Administration or other
agent of the federal government under 42 U.S.C. Sec. 1395ss.]
   (B) PREMIUM INFORMATION. Premium information for plans
that are offered by the insurer shall be shown on, or immediately
following, the cover page and shall be clearly and prominently
displayed. The premium and mode shall be stated for all offered plans.
All possible premiums for the prospective applicant shall be illustrated
in writing. If the premium is based on the increasing age of the insured,
information specifying when and how premiums will change shall be
clearly illustrated in writing. The text shall state: ‘‘We [the insurer’s
name] can only raise your premium if we raise the premium for all
policies like yours in California.’’
   (C) The text shall state: ‘‘Use this outline to compare benefits and
premiums among policies.’’
   (D) READ YOUR POLICY VERY CAREFULLY. The text shall
state: ‘‘This is only an outline describing your policy’s most important
features. The policy is your insurance contract. You must read the policy
itself to understand all of the rights and duties of both you and your
insurance company.’’
   (E) THIRTY-DAY RIGHT TO RETURN THIS POLICY. The text
shall state: ‘‘If you find that you are not satisfied with your policy, you
may return it to [insert the insurer’s address]. If you send the policy back
to us within 30 days after you receive it, we will treat the policy as if it
has never been issued and return all of your payments.’’
   (F) POLICY REPLACEMENT. The text shall read: ‘‘If you are
replacing another health insurance policy, do NOT cancel it until you
have actually received your new policy and are sure you want to keep it.’’
   (G) DISCLOSURES. The text shall read: ‘‘This policy may not fully
cover all of your medical costs.’’ ‘‘Neither this company nor any of its
agents are connected with Medicare.’’ ‘‘This outline of coverage does
not give all the details of Medicare coverage. Contact your local social
security office or consult ‘‘The Medicare Handbook’’ for more details.’’
‘‘For additional information concerning policy benefits, contact the
Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy Program (HICAP) or your
agent. Call the HICAP toll-free telephone number, 1-800-434-0222, for
 4740                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
a referral to your local HICAP office. HICAP is a service provided free
of charge by the State of California.’’
   The disclosure required by this paragraph, as revised by amendments
made during the 1996 portion of the 1995–96 Regular Session, shall be
included in the required disclosure form no later than January 1, 1998.
   (H) [For policies that are not guaranteed issue] COMPLETE
ANSWERS ARE IMPORTANT. The text shall read: ‘‘When you fill out
the application for a new policy, be sure to answer truthfully and
completely all questions about your medical and health history. The
company may have the right to cancel your policy and refuse to pay any
claims if you leave out or falsify important medical information.
   Review the application carefully before you sign it. Be certain that all
information has been properly recorded.’’
   (I) An example showing a physician’s charge, which is equal to or less
than the allowable limiting charge for the current year, of two thousand
dollars ($2,000), the amount that Medicare would approve, the amount
that Medicare would pay, the amount that the policy or certificate would
pay, and any amount that would be owed by the insured, assuming that
the annual deductible has already been paid. The statement shall be
prominently displayed and in type no smaller than other type on the
page.
   (J) One chart for each benefit plan offered by the insurer showing the
services, Medicare payments, payments under the policy and payments
expected from the insured, using the same uniform format and language.
No more than four plans may be shown on one page. Include an
explanation of any innovative benefits in a manner approved by the
commissioner.
   10192.18. (a) Application forms shall include the following
questions designed to elicit information as to whether, as of the date of
the application, the applicant has another Medicare supplement or other
health insurance policy or certificate in force or whether a Medicare
supplement policy or certificate is intended to replace any other
disability policy or certificate presently in force. A supplementary
application or other form to be signed by the applicant and agent
containing those questions and statements may be used.

                             ‘‘(Statements)

  (1) You do not need more than one Medicare supplement policy.
  (2) If you purchase this policy, you may want to evaluate your
existing health coverage and decide if you need multiple coverages.
  (3) You may be eligible for benefits under Medi-Cal and may not need
a Medicare supplement policy.
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4741

   (4) The benefits and premiums under your Medicare supplement
policy can be suspended, if requested, during your entitlement to
benefits under Medi-Cal for 24 months. You must request this
suspension within 90 days of becoming eligible for Medi-Cal. If you are
no longer entitled to Medi-Cal, your policy will be reinstituted if
requested within 90 days of losing Medi-Cal eligibility.
   (5) Counseling services are available in your state to provide advice
concerning your purchase of Medicare supplement insurance and
concerning medical assistance through the Medi-Cal program, including
benefits as a qualified Medicare beneficiary (QMB) and a specified
low-income Medicare beneficiary (SLMB). If you want to discuss
buying Medicare supplement insurance with a trained insurance
counselor, call the California Department of Insurance’s toll-free
telephone number 1-800-927-HELP, and ask how to contact your local
Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy Program (HICAP) office.
HICAP is a service provided free of charge by the State of California.

                                (Questions)

  To the best of your knowledge,
  (1) Do you have another Medicare supplement policy or certificate in
force, including an HMO contract?
  (a) If so, with which company?
  (b) If so, do you intend to replace your current Medicare supplement
policy with this policy or certificate?
  (2) Do you have any other health insurance coverage that provides
benefits similar to this Medicare supplement policy?
  (a) If so, with which company?
  (b) What kind of policy?
  (c) Would the benefits duplicate the benefits in this Medicare
supplement policy?
  (3) Are you covered for medical assistance through the Medi-Cal
program:
  (a) As a specified low-income Medicare beneficiary (SLMB)?
  (b) As a qualified Medicare beneficiary (QMB)?
  (c) For other Medi-Cal medical benefits?’’

   (b) Agents shall list any other health insurance policies they have sold
to the applicant as follows:
   (1) List policies sold that are still in force.
   (2) List policies sold in the past five years that are no longer in force.
   (c) In the case of a direct response issuer, a copy of the application or
supplemental form, signed by the applicant, and acknowledged by the
 4742                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
issuer, shall be returned to the applicant by the issuer upon delivery of
the policy.
   (d) Upon determining that a sale will involve replacement of
Medicare supplement coverage, any issuer, other than a direct response
issuer, or its agent, shall furnish the applicant, prior to issuance for
delivery of the Medicare supplement policy or certificate, a notice
regarding replacement of Medicare supplement coverage. One copy of
the notice signed by the applicant and the agent, except where the
coverage is sold without an agent, shall be provided to the applicant and
an additional signed copy shall be retained by the issuer as provided in
Section 10508. A direct response issuer shall deliver to the applicant at
the time of the issuance of the policy the notice regarding replacement
of Medicare supplement coverage.
   (e) The notice required by subdivision (d) for an issuer shall be in the
form specified by the commissioner, using, to the extent practicable, a
model notice prepared by the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners for this purpose. The replacement notice shall be printed
in no less than 10-point type in substantially the following form:

                      [Insurer’s name and address]

NOTICE TO APPLICANT PLANNING TO REPLACE MEDICARE
              SUPPLEMENT COVERAGE

 SAVE THIS NOTICE! IT MAY BE IMPORTANT IN THE
FUTURE.

   If you intend to cancel or terminate existing Medicare supplement
insurance and replace it with coverage issued by [company name],
please review the new coverage carefully and replace the existing
coverage ONLY if the new coverage materially improves your position.
DO NOT CANCEL YOUR PRESENT COVERAGE UNTIL YOU
HAVE RECEIVED YOUR NEW POLICY AND ARE SURE THAT
YOU WANT TO KEEP IT.
   If you decide to purchase the new coverage, you will have 30 days after
you receive the policy to return it to the insurer, for any reason, and
receive a refund of your money.
   If you want to discuss buying Medicare supplement insurance with a
trained insurance counselor, call the California Department of
Insurance’s toll-free telephone number 1-800-927-HELP, and ask how
to contact your local Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy
Program (HICAP) office. HICAP is a service provided free of charge by
the State of California.
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4743

   STATEMENT TO APPLICANT FROM THE INSURER AND
AGENT: I have reviewed your current health insurance coverage. To the
best of my knowledge, the replacement of insurance involved in this
transaction does not duplicate coverage. In addition, the replacement
coverage contains benefits that are clearly and substantially greater than
your current benefits for the following reasons:
   __ Additional benefits that are: ______
   __ No change in benefits, but lower premiums.
   __ Fewer benefits and lower premiums.
   __ Other reasons specified here: ______

 DO NOT CANCEL YOUR PRESENT POLICY UNTIL YOU HAVE
RECEIVED YOUR NEW POLICY AND ARE SURE THAT YOU
WANT TO KEEP IT.


           (Signature of Agent, Broker, or Other Representative)

                          (Signature of Applicant)

                                   (Date)

   (f) No issuer, broker, agent, or other person shall cause an insured to
replace a Medicare supplement insurance policy unnecessarily. In
recommending replacement of any Medicare supplement insurance, an
agent shall make reasonable efforts to determine the appropriateness to
the potential insured.
   10192.185. In addition to any other requirements of law, the
following shall apply to a Medicare supplement policy:
   (a) The issuer shall not require an amount greater than one month’s
premium to be submitted with an application for the policy of insurance
if interim coverage is not provided. If interim coverage is provided, the
issuer shall not require an amount greater than two months’ premium for
that purpose. No further premiums may be collected until the policy is
delivered to the applicant.
   (b) The issuer shall notify the applicant within 60 days from the date
the issuer or issuer’s authorized representative or producer receives the
application and the amount as to whether or not the applicant will be
issued a policy of insurance. If the applicant is not so notified, the issuer
or issuer’s authorized representative or producer shall pay interest to the
applicant on the funds that the applicant submitted with the application,
at the legal rate of interest on judgments as provided in Section 685.010
of the Code of Civil Procedure, from the date the issuer or issuer’s
 4744                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
authorized representative or producer received those funds until they are
refunded to the applicant or are applied toward the premium.
   10192.19. (a) An issuer shall provide a copy of any Medicare
supplement advertisement intended for use in this state whether through
written, radio, or television medium to the commissioner for review at
least 30 days before dissemination of the advertisement. The
advertisement shall comply with all applicable laws of California.
   (b) A television, radio, mail, or newspaper advertisement which is
designed to produce leads either by use of a coupon or a request to write
or otherwise contact the issuer, a production agent, or other person or a
subsequent advertisement prior to contact shall include information
disclosing that an agent may contact the applicant if that is the fact. In
addition, an agent who makes contact with a consumer, as a result of
acquiring that consumer’s name from a lead generating device shall
disclose that fact in the initial contact with the consumer.
   (c) No issuer, agent, broker, solicitor, or other person or other entity
shall solicit residents of this state for the purchase of a Medicare
supplement policy through the use of a true or fictitious name which is
deceptive or misleading with regard to the status, character, or
proprietary or representative capacity of the entity or person or the true
purpose of the advertisement.
   (d) For purposes of this section, an advertisement includes envelopes,
stationery, business cards, or other materials designed to describe and
encourage the purchase of a Medicare supplement policy.
   (e) Advertisements may not employ words, letters, initials, symbols,
or other devices which are so similar to those used by governmental
agencies, a nonprofit or charitable institution, senior organization, or
other insurer that they could have the capacity or tendency to mislead the
public. Examples of misleading materials, include, but are not limited
to, those which imply any of the following:
   (1) The advertised coverages are somehow provided by or are
endorsed by the governmental agencies or the other insurer.
   (2) The advertiser is the same as, is connected with, or is endorsed by,
the governmental agencies, other entity, or other insurers.
   (3) That the advertised coverages are somehow provided by or are
endorsed by the governmental agencies, other entity, or other insurers.
   (f) No advertisement shall use the name of a state or political
subdivision thereof in a policy name or description.
   (g) No advertisement may use any name, service mark, slogan,
symbol, or a device in any manner that implies that the issuer or the
Medicare supplement policy advertised, or that any agency who may call
upon the consumer in response to the advertisement is connected with
a governmental agency, such as the Social Security Administration.
[Ch. 706 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4745

   (h) No advertisement shall be used that fails to prominently display
the disclaimer to the effect of ‘‘Not Connected with or endorsed by the
U.S. Government or the federal Medicare program.’’
   (i) No advertisement may imply that the reader may lose a right or
privilege or benefit under federal, state, or local law if he or she fails to
respond to the advertisement.
   (j) An issuer, agent, broker, or other entity may not use an address so
as to mislead or deceive as to the true identity, location, or licensing
status of the issuer, agent, broker, or other entity.
   (k) No issuer may use, in the trade name of its insurance policy, any
terminology or words so similar to the name of a governmental agency
or governmental program as to have the tendency to confuse, deceive,
or mislead a prospective purchaser.
   (l) All advertisements used by agents, producers, brokers, solicitors,
or other persons of an issuer must have prior written approval of the
issuer before they may be used.
   (m) No issuer, agent, broker, or other entity may solicit a particular
class by use of advertisements which state or imply that the occupational
or other status as members of the class entitles them to reduced rates on
a group or other basis when, in fact, the policy being advertised is sold
only on an individual basis at regular rates.
   10192.195. The commissioner may prescribe by regulation a
standard form and the contents of an informational brochure for persons
eligible for Medicare by reason of age which is intended to improve the
buyer’s ability to select the most appropriate coverage and improve the
buyer’s understanding of Medicare. Except in the case of direct response
insurance policies, the commissioner may require by regulation that the
information brochure be provided to any applicant eligible for Medicare
concurrently with delivery of the outline of coverage. With respect to
direct response insurance policies, the commissioner may require by
regulation that the prescribed brochure be provided upon request to any
applicant eligible for Medicare by reason of age, but in no event later
than the time of policy delivery.
   10192.20. (a) An issuer, directly or through its producers, shall do
each of the following:
   (1) Establish marketing procedures to ensure that any comparison of
policies by its agents or other producers will be fair and accurate.
   (2) Establish marketing procedures to ensure that excessive insurance
is not sold or issued.
   (3) Display prominently by type, stamp, or other appropriate means,
on the first page of the policy, the following:
 4746                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 706 ]
  ‘‘Notice to buyer: This policy may not cover all of your medical
expenses.’’

   (4) Inquire and otherwise make every reasonable effort to identify
whether a prospective applicant for a Medicare supplement policy
already has health insurance and the types and amounts of that insurance.
   (5) Establish auditable procedures for verifying compliance with this
subdivision.
   (b) In addition to the practices prohibited by this code or any other
law, the following acts and practices are prohibited:
   (1) Twisting, which means knowingly making any misleading
representation or incomplete or fraudulent comparison of any insurance
policies or insurers for the purpose of inducing or tending to induce, any
person to lapse, forfeit, surrender, terminate, retain, pledge, assign,
borrow on, or convert an insurance policy or to take out a policy of
insurance with another insurer.
   (2) High pressure tactics, which means employing any method of
marketing having the effect of or tending to induce the purchase of
insurance through force, fright, threat, whether explicit or implied, or
undue pressure to purchase or recommend the purchase of insurance.
   (3) Cold lead advertising, which means making use directly or
indirectly of any method of marketing which fails to disclose in a
conspicuous manner that a purpose of the method of marketing is the
solicitation of insurance and that contact will be made by an insurance
agent or insurance company.
   (c) The terms ‘‘Medicare supplement,’’ ‘‘Medicare Wrap-Around’’
and words of similar import shall not be used unless the policy is issued
in compliance with this article. The term ‘‘Medigap’’ shall not be used.
   10192.21. (a) In recommending the purchase or replacement of any
Medicare supplement policy or certificate an agent shall make
reasonable efforts to determine the appropriateness of a recommended
purchase or replacement.
   (b) Any sale of Medicare supplement coverage that will provide an
individual more than one Medicare supplement policy or certificate is
prohibited.
   10192.22. (a) On or before March 1 of each year, an issuer shall
report the following information for every individual resident of this
state for which the issuer has in force more than one Medicare
supplement policy or certificate:
   (1) Policy and certificate number.
   (2) Date of issuance.
   (b) The items set forth above must be grouped by individual
policyholder.
[Ch. 707 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                            4747

   10192.23. (a) If a Medicare supplement policy or certificate
replaces another Medicare supplement policy or certificate, the
replacing issuer shall waive any time periods applicable to preexisting
conditions, waiting periods, elimination periods, and probationary
periods in the new Medicare supplement policy or certificate for similar
benefits to the extent that time was spent under the original policy.
   (b) If a Medicare supplement policy or certificate replaces another
Medicare supplement policy or certificate that has been in effect for at
least six months, the replacing policy shall not provide any time period
applicable to preexisting conditions, waiting periods, elimination
periods and probationary periods for benefits similar to those contained
in the original policy or certificate.
   SEC. 5. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.



                             CHAPTER 707

  An act to amend Sections 1358.11 and 1358.12 of, and to add and
repeal Section 1358.22 of, the Health and Safety Code, and to amend
Sections 10192.11, 10192.12, and 10192.20 of, and to add and repeal
Section 10194.9 of, the Insurance Code, relating to health insurance, and
declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1358.11 of the Health and Safety Code, as
added by Senate Bill 764 of the 1999-2000 Regular Session, is amended
to read:
   1358.11. (a) An issuer shall not deny or condition the offering or
effectiveness of any Medicare supplement contract available for sale in
this state, nor discriminate in the pricing of a contract because of the
health status, claims experience, receipt of health care, or medical
condition of an applicant in the case of an application for a contract that
is submitted prior to or during the six-month period beginning with the
 4748                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 707 ]
first day of the first month in which an individual is both 65 years of age
or older and is enrolled for benefits under Medicare Part B. Each
Medicare supplement contract currently available from an issuer shall be
made available to all applicants who qualify under this subdivision and
are 65 years of age or older. Medicare supplement contracts A, B, C, F,
and at least one letter-designated plan (H, I, or J, at the discretion of the
issuer) that includes coverage for prescription medications, if currently
available from an issuer, shall be made available to any applicant who
qualifies under this subdivision who is 64 years of age or younger and
who does not have End-Stage Renal Disease. This section does not
prohibit an issuer in determining subscriber rates from treating
applicants who are under 65 years of age and are eligible for Medicare
Part B as a separate risk classification.
   (b) (1) If an applicant qualifies under subdivision (a) and submits an
application during the time period referenced in subdivision (a) and, as
of the date of application, has had a continuous period of creditable
coverage of at least six months, the issuer shall not exclude benefits
based on a preexisting condition.
   (2) If the applicant qualifies under subdivision (a) and submits an
application during the time period referenced in subdivision (a) and, as
of the date of application, has had a continuous period of creditable
coverage that is less than six months, the issuer shall reduce the period
of any preexisting condition exclusion by the aggregate of the period of
creditable coverage applicable to the applicant as of the enrollment date.
The manner of the reduction under this subdivision shall be as specified
by the director.
   (c) Except as provided in subdivision (b) and Section 1358.23,
subdivision (a) shall not be construed as preventing the exclusion of
benefits under a contract, during the first six months, based on a
preexisting condition for which the enrollee received treatment or was
otherwise diagnosed during the six months before the coverage became
effective.
   (d) An individual enrolled in Medicare Part B by reason of disability
shall be entitled to open enrollment described in this section for six
months after he or she first becomes eligible for Medicare Part B. Sales
during the open enrollment period shall not be discouraged by any
means, including the altering of the commission structure.
   There shall be a one-time open enrollment period of 120 days
commencing on January 1, 2001, for all individuals eligible for
Medicare by reason of disability who do not have End-Stage Renal
Disease.
   (e) An individual who is 65 years of age or older and enrolled in
Medicare Part B is entitled to open enrollment described in this section
for six months following:
[Ch. 707 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4749

   (1) Receipt of a notice of termination or, if no notice is received, the
effective date of termination, from any employer-sponsored health plan
including an employer-sponsored retiree health plan. For purposes of
this section, ‘‘employer-sponsored retiree health plan’’ includes any
coverage for medical expenses that is directly or indirectly sponsored or
established by an employer for employees or retirees, their spouses,
dependents, or other included covered persons.
   (2) Termination of health care services for a military retiree or the
retiree’s Medicare eligible spouse or dependent as a result of a military
base closure.
   (f) An individual who is 65 years of age or older and enrolled in
Medicare Part B is entitled to open enrollment described in this section
if the individual was covered under a policy, certificate, or contract
providing Medicare supplement coverage but that coverage terminated
because the individual established residence at a location not served by
the issuer.
   (g) (1) An individual who was previously enrolled in, but whose
coverage was terminated between September 1, 1998, and December 31,
1998, by a Medicare managed care plan shall be entitled to a new 60-day
open enrollment period in addition to any open enrollment authorized by
federal law or regulations, for any and all Medicare supplement coverage
available on a guaranteed basis under state and federal law or regulation
for persons terminated by their Medicare managed care plan.
   (2) The new open enrollment period specified in paragraph (1) shall
commence 90 days after January 1, 2000. Within 30 days of January 1,
2000, health plans shall notify their former Medicare enrollees who were
terminated during the period specified in paragraph (1) of the new open
enrollment period. Health plan notices shall inform the terminated
enrollees of the opportunity to secure advice and assistance from the
Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy Program (HICAP) in their
area, along with the toll-free telephone number for HICAP.
   (3) An individual who was previously enrolled in but whose coverage
was terminated after January 1, 1999, by a Medicare managed care plan
shall be entitled to an additional 60-day open enrollment period to be
added on to and run consecutively after any open enrollment period
authorized by federal law or regulations, for any and all Medicare
supplement coverage available on a guaranteed basis under state and
federal law or regulations for persons terminated by their Medicare
managed care plan.
   (4) Health plans that terminate Medicare enrollees shall notify those
enrollees in the termination notice of the additional open enrollment
period authorized by this subdivision. Health plan notices shall inform
enrollees of the opportunity to secure advice and assistance from the
 4750                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 707 ]
Health Insurance Counseling Advocacy Program (HICAP) in their area,
along with the toll-free telephone number for HICAP.
   (h) An individual shall be entitled to an annual open enrollment
period lasting 30 days or more, commencing with the individual’s
birthday, during which time that person may purchase any Medicare
supplement coverage, with the exception of a Medicare Select contract,
that offers benefits equal to or lesser than those provided by the previous
coverage. During this open enrollment period, no issuer that falls under
this provision shall deny or condition the issuance or effectiveness of
Medicare supplement coverage, nor discriminate in the pricing of
coverage, because of health status, claims experience, receipt of health
care, or medical condition of the individual if, at the time of the open
enrollment period, the individual is covered under another Medicare
supplement policy, certificate, or contract. An issuer that offers
Medicare supplement contracts shall notify an enrollee of his or her
rights under this subdivision at least 30 and no more than 60 days before
the beginning of the open enrollment period.
   SEC. 2. Section 1358.12 of the Health and Safety Code, as added by
Senate Bill 764 of the 1999–2000 Regular Session, is amended to read:
   1358.12. (a) (1) With respect to the guaranteed issue of a Medicare
supplement contract, eligible persons are those individuals described in
subdivision (b) who apply to enroll under the contract not later than 63
days after the date of the termination of enrollment described in
subdivision (b), and who submit evidence of the date of termination or
disenrollment with the application for a Medicare supplement contract.
   (2) With respect to eligible persons, an issuer shall not deny or
condition the issuance or effectiveness of a Medicare supplement
contract described in subdivision (c) that is offered and is available for
issuance to new enrollees by the issuer, shall not discriminate in the
pricing of the Medicare supplement contract because of health status,
claims experience, receipt of health care, or medical condition, and shall
not impose an exclusion of benefits based on a preexisting condition
under the Medicare supplement contract.
   (b) An eligible person is an individual described in any of the
following paragraphs:
   (1) The individual is enrolled under an employee welfare benefit plan
that provides health benefits that supplement the benefits under
Medicare, and the plan terminates, or the plan ceases to provide some,
all, or substantially all of those supplemental health benefits to the
individual and the employer no longer provides the individual with
insurance that covers all of the payment for the Part B 20 percent
coinsurance.
[Ch. 707 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4751

   (2) The individual is enrolled with a Medicare+Choice organization
under a Medicare+Choice plan under Medicare Part C, and any of the
following apply:
   (A) The organization’s or plan’s certification, under this part, has
been terminated or the organization has terminated or otherwise
discontinued providing the plan in the area in which the individual
resides.
   (B) The individual is no longer eligible to elect the plan because of
a change in the individual’s place of residence or other change in
circumstances specified by the secretary, but not including termination
of the individual’s enrollment on the basis described in Section
1851(g)(3)(B) of the federal Social Security Act, where the individual
has not paid premiums on a timely basis or has engaged in disruptive
behavior as specified in standards under Section 1856 of that act, or the
plan is terminated for all individuals within a residence area.
   (C) The individual demonstrates, in accordance with guidelines
established by the director, either of the following:
   (i) The organization offering the plan substantially violated a material
provision of the organization’s contract under this article in relation to
the individual, including the failure to provide an enrollee on a timely
basis medically necessary care for which benefits are available under the
plan or the failure to provide the covered care in accordance with
applicable quality standards.
   (ii) The organization, or agent or other entity acting on the
organization’s behalf, materially misrepresented the plan’s provisions in
marketing the plan to the individual.
   (D) The individual meets other exceptional conditions as the director
may provide.
   (3) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual is enrolled with any of the following:
   (i) An eligible organization under a contract under Section 1876 of
the federal Social Security Act (Medicare risk or cost).
   (ii) A similar organization operating under demonstration project
authority, effective for periods before April 1, 1999.
   (iii) An organization under an agreement under Section
1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health care prepayment
plan).
   (iv) An organization under a Medicare Select policy.
   (B) The individual’s enrollment ceases under the same circumstances
that would permit discontinuance of an individual’s election of coverage
under the first sentence of Section 1851(e)(4) of the federal Social
Security Act as delineated in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
   (4) The individual is enrolled under a Medicare supplement contract
and the enrollment ceases because of the following: the insolvency of the
 4752                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 707 ]
issuer or bankruptcy of the nonissuer organization; the involuntary
termination of coverage or enrollment under the contract; the issuer of
the contract substantially violated a material provision of the contract;
or the issuer, or an agent or other entity acting on the issuer’s behalf,
materially misrepresented the contract’s provisions in marketing the
contract to the individual.
   (5) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual was enrolled under a Medicare supplement
contract and terminates enrollment and subsequently enrolls, for the first
time, with any Medicare+Choice organization under a
Medicare+Choice plan under Medicare Part C, any eligible organization
under a contract under Section 1876 of the federal Social Security Act
(Medicare risk or cost), any similar organization operating under
demonstration project authority, an organization under an agreement
under Section 1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health
care prepayment plan), or a Medicare Select contract.
   (B) The subsequent enrollment under subparagraph (A) is terminated
by the enrollee during any period within the first 12 months of the
subsequent enrollment (during which the enrollee is permitted to
terminate the subsequent enrollment under Section 1851(e) of the
federal Social Security Act).
   (6) The individual, upon first becoming eligible for benefits under
Medicare Part A at age 65 years, or who postpones enrollment in
Medicare Part A or Part B while eligible for employer-sponsored
coverage and is older than age 65 years, and enrolls in a
Medicare+Choice plan under Medicare Part C, and disenrolls from the
plan by not later than 12 months after the effective date of enrollment.
   (c) (1) Under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subdivision (b),
eligible persons are entitled to a Medicare supplement contract that has
a benefit package classified as plan A, B, C, F, and at least one
letter-designated plan (H, I, or J, at the discretion of the issuer) that
includes coverage for prescription medications, if currently available
from an issuer.
   (2) Under paragraph (5) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to the same Medicare supplement contract in which they were
most recently previously enrolled, if available from the same issuer, or,
if not so available, a contract described in paragraph (1) of subdivision
(c).
   (3) Under paragraph (6) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to any Medicare supplement contract offered by any issuer.
   (d) (1) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because
of which an individual loses coverage or benefits due to the termination
of a contract or agreement, policy, or plan, the organization that
terminates the contract or agreement, the issuer terminating the contract,
[Ch. 707 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4753

or the administrator of the plan being terminated, respectively, shall
notify the individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the
obligations of issuers of Medicare supplement contracts under
subdivision (a). That notice shall be communicated contemporaneously
with the notification of termination.
   (2) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because of
which an individual ceases enrollment under a contract or agreement,
policy, or plan, the organization that offers the contract or agreement,
regardless of the basis for the cessation of enrollment, the issuer offering
the contract, or the administrator of the plan, respectively, shall notify
the individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the
obligations of issuers of Medicare supplement contracts under
subdivision (a). That notice shall be communicated within ten working
days of the issuer receiving notification of disenrollment.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 1358.22 is added to the Health and Safety Code,
to read:
   1358.22. (a) (1) With respect to the guaranteed issue of a Medicare
supplement contract, eligible persons are those individuals described in
subdivision (b) who apply to enroll under the contract not later than 63
days after the date of the termination of enrollment described in
subdivision (b), and who submit evidence of the date of termination or
disenrollment with the application for a Medicare supplement contract.
   (2) With respect to eligible persons, an issuer shall not deny or
condition the issuance or effectiveness of a Medicare supplement
contract described in subdivision (c) that is offered and is available for
issuance to new enrollees by the issuer, shall not discriminate in the
pricing of the Medicare supplement contract because of health status,
claims experience, receipt of health care, or medical condition, and shall
not impose an exclusion of benefits based on a preexisting condition
under the Medicare supplement contract.
   (b) An eligible person is an individual described in any of the
following paragraphs:
   (1) The individual is enrolled under an employee welfare benefit plan
that provides health benefits that supplement the benefits under
Medicare, and the plan terminates, or the plan ceases to provide some,
all, or substantially all of those supplemental health benefits to the
individual and the employer no longer provides the individual with
insurance that covers all of the payment for the Part B 20-percent
coinsurance.
   (2) The individual is enrolled with a Medicare+Choice organization
under a Medicare+Choice plan under Medicare Part C, and any of the
following apply:
   (A) The organization’s or plan’s certification, under this part, has
been terminated or the organization has terminated or otherwise
 4754                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 707 ]
discontinued providing the plan in the area in which the individual
resides.
   (B) The individual is no longer eligible to elect the plan because of
a change in the individual’s place of residence or other change in
circumstances specified by the secretary, but not including termination
of the individual’s enrollment on the basis described in Section
1851(g)(3)(B) of the federal Social Security Act, where the individual
has not paid premiums on a timely basis or has engaged in disruptive
behavior as specified in standards under Section 1856 of that act, or the
plan is terminated for all individuals within a residence area.
   (C) The individual demonstrates, in accordance with guidelines
established by the director, either of the following:
   (i) The organization offering the plan substantially violated a material
provision of the organization’s contract under this article in relation to
the individual, including the failure to provide an enrollee on a timely
basis medically necessary care for which benefits are available under the
plan or the failure to provide the covered care in accordance with
applicable quality standards.
   (ii) The organization, or agent or other entity acting on the
organization’s behalf, materially misrepresented the plan’s provisions in
marketing the plan to the individual.
   (D) The individual meets other exceptional conditions as the director
may provide.
   (3) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual is enrolled with any of the following:
   (i) An eligible organization under a contract under Section 1876 of
the federal Social Security Act (Medicare risk or cost).
   (ii) A similar organization operating under demonstration project
authority, effective for periods before April 1, 1999.
   (iii) An organization under an agreement under Section
1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health care prepayment
plan).
   (iv) An organization under a Medicare Select policy.
   (B) The individual’s enrollment ceases under the same circumstances
that would permit discontinuance of an individual’s election of coverage
under the first sentence of Section 1851(e)(4) of the federal Social
Security Act as delineated in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
   (4) The individual is enrolled under a Medicare supplement contract
and the enrollment ceases because of the following: the insolvency of the
issuer or bankruptcy of the nonissuer organization; the involuntary
termination of coverage or enrollment under the contract; the issuer of
the contract substantially violated a material provision of the contract;
or the issuer, or an agent or other entity acting on the issuer’s behalf,
[Ch. 707 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4755

materially misrepresented the contract’s provisions in marketing the
contract to the individual.
   (5) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual was enrolled under a Medicare supplement
contract and terminates enrollment and subsequently enrolls, for the first
time, with any Medicare+Choice organization under a
Medicare+Choice plan under Medicare Part C, any eligible organization
under a contract under Section 1876 of the federal Social Security Act
(Medicare risk or cost), any similar organization operating under
demonstration project authority, an organization under an agreement
under Section 1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health
care prepayment plan), or a Medicare Select contract.
   (B) The subsequent enrollment under subparagraph (A) is terminated
by the enrollee during any period within the first 12 months of the
subsequent enrollment (during which the enrollee is permitted to
terminate the subsequent enrollment under Section 1851(e) of the
federal Social Security Act).
   (6) The individual, upon first becoming eligible for benefits under
Medicare Part A at age 65 years, or who postpones enrollment in
Medicare Part A or Part B while eligible for employer-sponsored
coverage and is older than age 65 years, and enrolls in a
Medicare+Choice plan under Medicare Part C, and disenrolls from the
plan by not later than 12 months after the effective date of enrollment.
   (c) (1) Under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subdivision (b),
eligible persons are entitled to a Medicare supplement contract that has
a benefit package classified as plan A, B, C, F, and at least one
letter-designated plan (H, I, or J, at the discretion of the issuer) that
includes coverage for prescription medications, if currently available
from an issuer.
   (2) Under paragraph (5) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to the same Medicare supplement contract in which they were
most recently previously enrolled, if available from the same issuer, or,
if not so available, a contract described in paragraph (1) of subdivision
(c).
   (3) Under paragraph (6) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to any Medicare supplement contract offered by any issuer.
   (d) (1) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because
of which an individual loses coverage or benefits due to the termination
of a contract or agreement, policy, or plan, the organization that
terminates the contract or agreement, the issuer terminating the contract,
or the administrator of the plan being terminated, respectively, shall
notify the individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the
obligations of issuers of Medicare supplement contracts under
subdivision (a). That notice shall be communicated contemporaneously
 4756                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 707 ]
with the notification of termination. Effective September 30, 2000, for
terminations effective January 1, 2001, that notice shall also inform the
individual that issuers are required to offer and allow individuals to
enroll, during the application period following notification, in at least
one letter-designated plan (H, I, or J, at the discretion of the issuer) that
includes coverage for prescription medications, if currently available
from an issuer. That coverage would be effective on January 1, 2001.
   (2) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because of
which an individual ceases enrollment under a contract or agreement,
policy, or plan, the organization that offers the contract or agreement,
regardless of the basis for the cessation of enrollment, the issuer offering
the contract, or the administrator of the plan, respectively, shall notify
the individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the
obligations of issuers of Medicare supplement contracts under
subdivision (a). That notice shall be communicated within 10 working
days of the issuer receiving notification of disenrollment.
   (e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2001, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2001, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 3. Section 10192.11 of the Insurance Code, as added by Senate
Bill 764 of the 1999–2000 Regular Session, is amended to read:
   10192.11. (a) An issuer shall not deny or condition the issuance or
effectiveness of any Medicare supplement policy or certificate available
for sale in this state, nor discriminate in the pricing of a policy or
certificate because of the health status, claims experience, receipt of
health care, or medical condition of an applicant in the case of an
application for a policy or certificate that is submitted prior to or during
the six-month period beginning with the first day of the first month in
which an individual is both 65 years of age or older and is enrolled for
benefits under Medicare Part B. Each Medicare supplement policy and
certificate currently available from an issuer shall be made available to
all applicants who qualify under this subdivision and are 65 years of age
or older. Medicare supplement contracts A, B, C, F, and at least one
letter-designated plan (H, I, or J, at the discretion of the issuer) that
includes coverage for prescription medications, if currently available
from an issuer, shall be made available to any applicant who qualifies
under this subdivision who is 64 years of age or younger and who does
not have End-Stage Renal Disease. This section does not prohibit an
issuer in determining premium rates from treating applicants who are
under 65 years of age and are eligible for Medicare Part B as a separate
risk classification. This section shall not be construed as preventing the
exclusion of benefits for preexisting conditions as defined in paragraph
(1) of subdivision (a) of Section 10192.8.
[Ch. 707 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4757

   (b) (1) If an applicant qualifies under subdivision (a) and submits an
application during the time period referenced in subdivision (a) and, as
of the date of application, has had a continuous period of creditable
coverage of at least six months, the issuer shall not exclude benefits
based on a preexisting condition.
   (2) If the applicant qualifies under subdivision (a) and submits an
application during the time period referenced in subdivision (a) and, as
of the date of application, has had a continuous period of creditable
coverage that is less than six months, the issuer shall reduce the period
of any preexisting condition exclusion by the aggregate of the period of
creditable coverage applicable to the applicant as of the enrollment date.
The manner of the reduction under this subdivision shall be as specified
by the commissioner.
   (c) Except as provided in subdivision (b) and Section 10192.23,
subdivision (a) shall not be construed as preventing the exclusion of
benefits under a policy, during the first six months, based on a
preexisting condition for which the policyholder or certificate holder
received treatment or was otherwise diagnosed during the six months
before the coverage became effective.
   (d) An individual enrolled in Medicare Part B by reason of disability
will be entitled to open enrollment described in this section for six
months after he or she first becomes eligible for Medicare Part B. Every
issuer shall make available to every applicant qualified for open
enrollment all policies and certificates offered by that issuer at the time
of application. Issuers shall not discourage sales during the open
enrollment period by any means, including the altering of the
commission structure.
   There shall be a one-time open enrollment period of 120 days
commencing on January 1, 2001, for all individuals eligible for
Medicare by reason of disability who do not have End-Stage Renal
Disease.
   (e) An individual who is 65 years of age or older and enrolled in
Medicare Part B is entitled to open enrollment described in this section
for six months following:
   (1) Receipt of a notice of termination or, if no notice is received, the
effective date of termination, from any employer-sponsored health plan
including an employer-sponsored retiree health plan. For purposes of
this section, ‘‘employer-sponsored retiree health plan’’ includes any
coverage for medical expenses that is directly or indirectly sponsored or
established by an employer for employees or retirees, their spouses,
dependents, or other included insureds.
   (2) Termination of health care services for a military retiree or the
retiree’s Medicare eligible spouse or dependent as a result of a military
base closure.
 4758                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 707 ]
   (f) An individual who is 65 years of age or older and enrolled in
Medicare Part B is entitled to open enrollment described in this section
if the individual was covered under a policy, certificate, or contract
providing Medicare supplement coverage but that coverage terminated
because the individual established residence at a location not served by
the plan.
   (g) (1) An individual who was previously enrolled in but whose
coverage was terminated between September 1, 1998, and December 31,
1998, by a Medicare managed care plan shall be entitled to a new 60-day
open enrollment period in addition to any open enrollment authorized by
federal law or regulations, for any and all Medicare supplement coverage
provided by Medicare supplement insurers and available on a
guaranteed basis under state and federal law or regulations for persons
terminated by their Medicare managed care plan.
   (2) The new open enrollment period specified in paragraph (1) shall
commence 90 days after January 1, 2000.
   (3) An individual who was previously enrolled in but whose coverage
was terminated after January 1, 1999, by a Medicare managed care plan
shall be entitled to an additional 60-day open enrollment period to be
added on to and run consecutively after any open enrollment period
authorized by federal law or regulations, for any and all Medicare
supplement coverage provided by Medicare supplement insurers and
available on a guaranteed basis under state and federal law or regulations
for persons terminated by their Medicare managed care plan. An
individual shall be entitled to an annual open enrollment period lasting
30 days or more, commencing with the individual’s birthday, during
which time that person may purchase any Medicare supplement policy,
with the exception of a Medicare Select policy, that offers benefits equal
to or lesser than those provided by the previous coverage. During this
open enrollment period, no issuer that falls under this provision shall
deny or condition the issuance or effectiveness of Medicare supplement
coverage, nor discriminate in the pricing of coverage, because of health
status, claims experience, receipt of health care, or medical condition of
the individual if, at the time of the open enrollment period, the individual
is covered under another Medicare supplement policy or contract. An
issuer shall notify a policyholder of his or her rights under this
subdivision at least 30 and no more than 60 days before the beginning
of the open enrollment period.
   SEC. 4. Section 10192.12 of the Insurance Code, as added by Senate
Bill 764 of the 1999–2000 Regular Session, is amended to read:
   10192.12. (a) (1) With respect to the guaranteed issue of a
Medicare supplement policy, eligible persons are those individuals
described in subdivision (b) who apply to enroll under the policy not
later than 63 days after the date of the termination of enrollment
[Ch. 707 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4759

described in subdivision (b), and who submit evidence of the date of
termination or disenrollment with the application for a Medicare
supplement policy.
   (2) With respect to eligible persons, an issuer shall not deny or
condition the issuance or effectiveness of a Medicare supplement policy
described in subdivision (c) that is offered and is available for issuance
to new enrollees by the issuer, shall not discriminate in the pricing of
such a Medicare supplement policy because of health status, claims
experience, receipt of health care, or medical condition, and shall not
impose an exclusion of benefits based on a preexisting condition under
such a Medicare supplement policy.
   (b) An eligible person is an individual described in any of the
following paragraphs:
   (1) The individual is enrolled under an employee welfare benefit plan
that provides health benefits that supplement the benefits under
Medicare, and the plan terminates, or the plan ceases to provide some,
all, or substantially all of those supplemental health benefits to the
individual and the employer no longer provides the individual with
insurance that covers all of the payment for the Part B 20-percent
coinsurance.
   (2) The individual is enrolled with a Medicare+Choice organization
under a Medicare+Choice plan Medicare Part C, and any of the
following apply:
   (A) The organization’s or plan’s certification, under this part, has
been terminated or the organization has terminated or otherwise
discontinued providing the plan in the area in which the individual
resides.
   (B) The individual is no longer eligible to elect the plan because of
a change in the individual’s place of residence or other change in
circumstances specified by the secretary, but not including termination
of the individual’s enrollment on the basis described in Section
1851(g)(3)(B) of the federal Social Security Act, where the individual
has not paid premiums on a timely basis or has engaged in disruptive
behavior as specified in standards under Section 1856 of that act, or the
plan is terminated for all individuals within a residence area.
   (C) The individual demonstrates, in accordance with guidelines
established by the commissioner, either of the following:
   (i) The organization offering the plan substantially violated a material
provision of the organization’s contract under this article in relation to
the individual, including the failure to provide an enrollee on a timely
basis medically necessary care for which benefits are available under the
plan or the failure to provide the covered care in accordance with
applicable quality standards.
 4760                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 707 ]
   (ii) The organization, or agent or other entity acting on the
organization’s behalf, materially misrepresented the plan’s provisions in
marketing the plan to the individual.
   (D) The individual meets other exceptional conditions as the
commissioner may provide.
   (3) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual is enrolled with any of the following:
   (i) An eligible organization under a contract under Section 1876 of
the federal Social Security Act (Medicare risk or cost).
   (ii) A similar organization operating under demonstration project
authority, effective for periods before April 1, 1999.
   (iii) An organization under an agreement under Section
1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health care prepayment
plan).
   (iv) An organization under a Medicare Select policy.
   (B) The individual’s enrollment ceases under the same circumstances
that would permit discontinuance of an individual’s election of coverage
under the first sentence of Section 1851(e)(4) of the federal Social
Security Act as delineated in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
   (4) The individual is enrolled under a Medicare supplement policy
and the enrollment ceases because of the following: the insolvency of the
issuer or bankruptcy of the nonissuer organization; the involuntary
termination of coverage or enrollment under the policy; the issuer of the
policy substantially violated a material provision of the policy; or the
issuer, or an agent or other entity acting on the issuer’s behalf, materially
misrepresented the policy’s provisions in marketing the policy to the
individual.
   (5) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual was enrolled under a Medicare supplement policy
and terminates enrollment and subsequently enrolls, for the first time,
with any Medicare+Choice organization under a Medicare+Choice plan
under Medicare Part C, any eligible organization under a contract under
Section 1876 of the federal Social Security Act (Medicare risk or cost),
any similar organization operating under demonstration project
authority, an organization under an agreement under Section
1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health care prepayment
plan), or a Medicare Select policy.
   (B) The subsequent enrollment under subparagraph (A) is terminated
by the enrollee during any period within the first 12 months of the
subsequent enrollment (during which the enrollee is permitted to
terminate the subsequent enrollment under Section 1851(e) of the
federal Social Security Act).
   (6) The individual, upon first becoming eligible for benefits under
Medicare Part A at age 65 years, or who postpones enrollment in
[Ch. 707 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4761

Medicare Part A or Part B while eligible for employer-sponsored
coverage and is older than age 65 years, and enrolls in a
Medicare+Choice plan under Medicare Part C, and disenrolls from the
plan by not later than 12 months after the effective date of enrollment.
   (c) (1) Under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subdivision (b),
eligible persons are entitled to a Medicare supplement policy that has a
benefit package classified as plan A, B, C, F, and at least one
letter-designated plan (H, I, or J, at the discretion of the issuer) that
includes coverage for prescription medications, if currently available
from an issuer.
   (2) Under paragraph (5) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to the same Medicare supplement policy in which they were
most recently previously enrolled, if available from the same issuer, or,
if not so available, a policy described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).
   (3) Under paragraph (6) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to any Medicare supplement policy offered by any issuer.
   (d) (1) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because
of which an individual loses coverage or benefits due to the termination
of a contract or agreement, policy, or plan, the organization that
terminates the contract or agreement, the issuer terminating the policy,
or the administrator of the plan being terminated, respectively, shall
notify the individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the
obligations of issuers of Medicare supplement policies under
subdivision (a). That notice shall be communicated contemporaneously
with the notification of termination.
   (2) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because of
which an individual ceases enrollment under a contract or agreement,
policy, or plan, the organization that offers the contract or agreement,
regardless of the basis for the cessation of enrollment, the issuer offering
the policy, or the administrator of the plan, respectively, shall notify the
individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the obligations
of issuers of Medicare supplement policies under subdivision (a). That
notice shall be communicated within ten working days of the issuer
receiving notification of disenrollment.
   SEC. 5. Section 10192.20 of the Insurance Code, as added by Senate
Bill 764 of the 1999–2000 Regular Session, is amended to read:
   10192.20. (a) An issuer, directly or through its producers, shall do
each of the following:
   (1) Establish marketing procedures to ensure that any comparison of
policies by its agents or other producers will be fair and accurate.
   (2) Establish marketing procedures to ensure that excessive insurance
is not sold or issued.
 4762                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 707 ]
  (3) Display prominently by type, stamp, or other appropriate means,
on the first page of the policy, the following:

  ‘‘Notice to buyer: This policy may not cover all of your medical
expenses.’’

   (4) Inquire and otherwise make every reasonable effort to identify
whether a prospective applicant for a Medicare supplement policy
already has health insurance and the types and amounts of that insurance.
   (5) Establish auditable procedures for verifying compliance with this
subdivision.
   (b) In addition to the practices prohibited by this code or any other
law, the following acts and practices are prohibited:
   (1) Twisting, which means knowingly making any misleading
representation or incomplete or fraudulent comparison of any insurance
policies or insurers for the purpose of inducing or tending to induce, any
person to lapse, forfeit, surrender, terminate, retain, pledge, assign,
borrow on, or convert an insurance policy or to take out a policy of
insurance with another insurer.
   (2) High pressure tactics, which means employing any method of
marketing having the effect of or tending to induce the purchase of
insurance through force, fright, threat, whether explicit or implied, or
undue pressure to purchase or recommend the purchase of insurance.
   (3) Cold lead advertising, which means making use directly or
indirectly of any method of marketing which fails to disclose in a
conspicuous manner that a purpose of the method of marketing is the
solicitation of insurance and that contact will be made by an insurance
agent or insurance company.
   (c) The terms ‘‘Medicare supplement,’’ ‘‘Medicare Wrap-Around’’
and words of similar import shall not be used unless the policy is issued
in compliance with this article. The term ‘‘medigap’’ shall not be used.
   (d) The commissioner each year shall prepare a rate guide for
Medicare supplement insurance and Medicare supplement contracts.
The commissioner each year shall make the rate guide available on or
before the date of the fall Medicare annual open enrollment. The rate
guide shall include all of the following for each company that sells
Medicare supplemental insurance or Medicare supplement contracts in
California:
   (1) A listing of all the policies, plans A through J, that are available
from the company.
   (2) A listing of all the policies, plans A through J, for Medicare
beneficiaries under the age of 65 that are available from the company.
   (3) The toll-free telephone number of the company that consumers
can use to obtain information from the company.
[Ch. 707 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4763

   (4) Sample rates for each policy listed pursuant to paragraphs (1) and
(2). The sample rates shall be for ages 0-65, 65, 70, 75, and 80.
   (5) The premium rate methodology for each policy listed pursuant to
paragraphs (1) and (2). ‘‘Premium rate methodology’’ means attained
age, issue age, or community rated.
   (6) The waiting period for preexisting conditions for each policy
listed pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2).
   (e) The consumer rate guide prepared pursuant to subdivision (d)
shall be distributed using all of the following methods:
   (1) Through Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy Program
(HICAP) offices.
   (2) By telephone, using the department’s consumer toll-free
telephone number.
   (3) On the department’s Internet web site.
   (4) In addition to the distribution methods described in paragraphs (1)
to (3), inclusive, each insurer that markets Medicare supplement
insurance or Medicare supplement contracts in this state shall provide
on the application form a statement that reads as follows: ‘‘A rate guide
is available that compares the policies sold by different insurers. You can
obtain a copy of this rate guide by calling the Department of Insurance’s
consumer toll-free telephone number (1-800-927-HELP), by calling the
Health Insurance Counseling and Advocacy Program (HICAP) toll-free
telephone number (1-800-434-0222), or by accessing the Department of
Insurance’s Internet web site (www.insurance.ca.gov).’’
   SEC. 5.5. Section 10194.9 is added to the Insurance Code, to read:
   10194.9. (a) (1) With respect to the guaranteed issue of a Medicare
supplement policy, eligible persons are those individuals described in
subdivision (b) who apply to enroll under the policy not later than 63
days after the date of the termination of enrollment described in
subdivision (b), and who submit evidence of the date of termination or
disenrollment with the application for a Medicare supplement policy.
   (2) With respect to eligible persons, an issuer shall not deny or
condition the issuance or effectiveness of a Medicare supplement policy
described in subdivision (c) that is offered and is available for issuance
to new enrollees by the issuer, shall not discriminate in the pricing of
such a Medicare supplement policy because of health status, claims
experience, receipt of health care, or medical condition, and shall not
impose an exclusion of benefits based on a preexisting condition under
such a Medicare supplement policy.
   (b) An eligible person is an individual described in any of the
following paragraphs:
   (1) The individual is enrolled under an employee welfare benefit plan
that provides health benefits that supplement the benefits under
Medicare, and the plan terminates, or the plan ceases to provide some,
 4764                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 707 ]
all, or substantially all of those supplemental health benefits to the
individual and the employer no longer provides the individual with
insurance that covers all of the payment for the Part B 20-percent
coinsurance.
   (2) The individual is enrolled with a Medicare+Choice organization
under a Medicare+Choice plan Medicare Part C, and any of the
following apply:
   (A) The organization’s or plan’s certification, under this part, has
been terminated or the organization has terminated or otherwise
discontinued providing the plan in the area in which the individual
resides.
   (B) The individual is no longer eligible to elect the plan because of
a change in the individual’s place of residence or other change in
circumstances specified by the secretary, but not including termination
of the individual’s enrollment on the basis described in Section
1851(g)(3)(B) of the federal Social Security Act, where the individual
has not paid premiums on a timely basis or has engaged in disruptive
behavior as specified in standards under Section 1856 of that act, or the
plan is terminated for all individuals within a residence area.
   (C) The individual demonstrates, in accordance with guidelines
established by the commissioner, either of the following:
   (i) The organization offering the plan substantially violated a material
provision of the organization’s contract under this article in relation to
the individual, including the failure to provide an enrollee on a timely
basis medically necessary care for which benefits are available under the
plan or the failure to provide the covered care in accordance with
applicable quality standards.
   (ii) The organization, or agent or other entity acting on the
organization’s behalf, materially misrepresented the plan’s provisions in
marketing the plan to the individual.
   (D) The individual meets other exceptional conditions as the
commissioner may provide.
   (3) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual is enrolled with any of the following:
   (i) An eligible organization under a contract under Section 1876 of
the federal Social Security Act (Medicare risk or cost).
   (ii) A similar organization operating under demonstration project
authority, effective for periods before April 1, 1999.
   (iii) An organization under an agreement under Section
1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health care prepayment
plan).
   (iv) An organization under a Medicare Select policy.
   (B) The individual’s enrollment ceases under the same circumstances
that would permit discontinuance of an individual’s election of coverage
[Ch. 707 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                              4765

under the first sentence of Section 1851(e)(4) of the federal Social
Security Act as delineated in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
   (4) The individual is enrolled under a Medicare supplement policy
and the enrollment ceases because of the following: the insolvency of the
issuer or bankruptcy of the nonissuer organization; the involuntary
termination of coverage or enrollment under the policy; the issuer of the
policy substantially violated a material provision of the policy; or the
issuer, or an agent or other entity acting on the issuer’s behalf, materially
misrepresented the policy’s provisions in marketing the policy to the
individual.
   (5) The individual meets both of the following conditions:
   (A) The individual was enrolled under a Medicare supplement policy
and terminates enrollment and subsequently enrolls, for the first time,
with any Medicare+Choice organization under a Medicare+Choice plan
under Medicare Part C, any eligible organization under a contract under
Section 1876 of the federal Social Security Act (Medicare risk or cost),
any similar organization operating under demonstration project
authority, an organization under an agreement under Section
1833(a)(1)(A) of the federal Social Security Act (health care prepayment
plan), or a Medicare Select policy.
   (B) The subsequent enrollment under subparagraph (A) is terminated
by the enrollee during any period within the first 12 months of the
subsequent enrollment (during which the enrollee is permitted to
terminate the subsequent enrollment under Section 1851(e) of the
federal Social Security Act).
   (6) The individual, upon first becoming eligible for benefits under
Medicare Part A at age 65 years, or who postpones enrollment in
Medicare Part A or Part B while eligible for employer-sponsored
coverage and is older than age 65 years, and enrolls in a
Medicare+Choice plan under Medicare Part C, and disenrolls from the
plan by not later than 12 months after the effective date of enrollment.
   (c) (1) Under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subdivision (b),
eligible persons are entitled to a Medicare supplement policy that has a
benefit package classified as plan A, B, C, F, and at least one
letter-designated plan (H, I, or J, at the discretion of the issuer) that
includes coverage for prescription medications, if currently available
from an issuer.
   (2) Under paragraph (5) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to the same Medicare supplement policy in which they were
most recently previously enrolled, if available from the same issuer, or,
if not so available, a policy described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c).
   (3) Under paragraph (6) of subdivision (b), eligible persons are
entitled to any Medicare supplement policy offered by any issuer.
 4766                     STATUTES OF 2000                      [Ch. 707 ]
   (d) (1) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because
of which an individual loses coverage or benefits due to the termination
of a contract or agreement, policy, or plan, the organization that
terminates the contract or agreement, the issuer terminating the policy,
or the administrator of the plan being terminated, respectively, shall
notify the individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the
obligations of issuers of Medicare supplement policies under
subdivision (a). That notice shall be communicated contemporaneously
with the notification of termination. Effective September 30, 2000, for
terminations effective January 1, 2001, that notification shall also
inform the individual that issuers must offer and allow individuals to
enroll, during the application period following notification, in at least
one letter-designated plan (H, I, or J, at the discretion of the issuer) that
includes coverage for prescription medications, if currently available
from an issuer. That coverage would be effective January 1, 2001.
   (2) At the time of an event described in subdivision (b) because of
which an individual ceases enrollment under a contract or agreement,
policy, or plan, the organization that offers the contract or agreement,
regardless of the basis for the cessation of enrollment, the issuer offering
the policy, or the administrator of the plan, respectively, shall notify the
individual of his or her rights under this section, and of the obligations
of issuers of Medicare supplement policies under subdivision (a). That
notice shall be communicated within 10 working days of the issuer
receiving notification of disenrollment.
   (e) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2001, and
as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted
before January 1, 2001, deletes or extends that date.
   SEC. 6. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the
only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will
be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates
a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction,
within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or
changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution.
   SEC. 7. Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 of this act shall not become
operative unless Senate Bill 764 of the 1999–2000 Regular Session is
enacted and becomes operative, and this act is chaptered after Senate Bill
764. In that case, those sections shall become operative on January 1,
2001.
   SEC. 8. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
[Ch. 708 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4767

   In order to require timely notification of certain persons whose health
care coverage may be terminated effective January 1, 2001, relative to
their rights to enroll in Medicare supplement insurance plans that offer
coverage for prescription medications, it is necessary that this act take
effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 708

  An act to amend Section 10750 of, and to add Part 2.78 (commencing
with Section 10795) to Division 6 of, the Water Code, relating to water.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 10750 of the Water Code is amended to read:
  10750. (a) The Legislature finds and declares that groundwater is
a valuable natural resource in California, and should be managed to
ensure both its safe production and its quality. It is the intent of the
Legislature to encourage local agencies to work cooperatively to manage
groundwater resources within their jurisdictions.
  (b) The Legislature also finds and declares that additional study of
groundwater resources is necessary to better understand how to manage
groundwater effectively to ensure the safe production, quality, and
proper storage of groundwater in this state.
  SEC. 2. Part 2.78 (commencing with Section 10795) is added to
Division 6 of the Water Code, to read:

     PART 2.78.     LOCAL GROUNDWATER MANAGEMENT
                     ASSISTANCE ACT OF 2000

  10795. This part shall be known and may be cited as the Local
Groundwater Management Assistance Act of 2000.
  10795.2. There is hereby created the Local Groundwater Assistance
Fund which shall be administered by the department.
  10795.4. Upon appropriation by the Legislature, the money in the
fund may be used by the department to assist local public agencies by
awarding grants to those agencies to conduct groundwater studies or to
carry out groundwater monitoring and management activities in
accordance with Part 2.75 (commencing with Section 10750) or other
authority pursuant to which local public agencies manage groundwater
resources, or both.
 4768                    STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 708 ]
   10795.6. The department, in making grants pursuant to this part,
shall do both of the following:
   (a) Award grants based on the recommendations submitted by the
Technical Advisory Panel. The panel shall give priority to a local public
agency that has adopted a groundwater management plan and submitted
an application that demonstrates collaboration by that local public
agency with other local public agencies with regard to the management
of the affected groundwater basin.
   (b) Ensure that the money in the fund is allocated in a geographically
balanced manner among the regions of the state that are capable of, and
interested in, implementing groundwater management programs.
  10795.8. The department may enter into contracts and may adopt
regulations subject to the advice and review of the Technical Advisory
Panel, to carry out this part. Any grant contract entered into pursuant to
this part may include provisions that the department determines are
necessary.
  10795.10. An application for a grant under this part shall be made
to the department in the form and with the supporting materials
prescribed by the department.
  10795.12. (a) A Technical Advisory Panel shall review
applications for grants based on criteria developed by the panel.
  (b) The Technical Advisory Panel shall review applications and
indicate whether, in its opinion, an application should be given priority
pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (b) of Section 10795.6, and may place
conditions on its recommendation for the funding of a specific project.
These conditions may include requirements for additional clarification
or further explanation of certain aspects of the project.
  10795.14. (a) The Technical Advisory Panel shall be comprised of
individuals appointed by the Secretary of the Resources Agency.
  (b) (1) Panelists shall have background experience, or general
knowledge, in the area of groundwater resources.
  (2) Panelists shall include all of the following:
  (A) At least three individuals who currently serve on the board of
directors of a local public agency that has adopted a groundwater
management plan.
  (B) A licensed civil engineer.
  (C) A licensed geologist.
  (D) A licensed hydrogeologist.
  (E) At least one individual representing each of the hydrologic study
areas shown in Figure 3 of the department’s Bulletin 118-80, entitled
‘‘Ground Water Basins in California: A Report to the Legislature in
Response to Water Code Section 12924.’’
  (c) The number of individuals serving on the Technical Advisory
Panel shall be determined by the Secretary of the Resources Agency.
[Ch. 709 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                             4769

   10795.16. (a) If a member of the Technical Advisory Panel, or a
member of his or her immediate family, is employed by a grant applicant
, the employer of a grant applicant, or a consultant or independent
contractor employed by a grant applicant, the panel member shall make
that disclosure to the other members of the panel and shall not participate
in the review of the grant application of that applicant.
   (b) The Technical Advisory Panel shall operate on principles of
collaboration. Panelists shall be appointed who are committed to
working together with other interests for the long-term benefit of
California groundwater resources and the people who rely on those
resources.
   (c) Panelists shall be residents of the state and have an interest in the
preservation, protection, and enhancement of the state’s groundwater
resources.
   (d) Panelists shall not be employees of any state or federal agency.
   10795.19. A local public agency receiving a grant under this part
shall submit to the department copies of all data collected pursuant to the
grant.
   10795.20. Federal funds may be used for the purposes of this part.
   SEC. 3. (a) Of the funds appropriated in Provision 8 of Item
3860-001-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000 (Chapter 52
of the Statutes of 2000), the Department of Water Resources shall use
five million dollars ($5,000,000) for the purposes of Part 2.78
(commencing with Section 10795) of Division 6 of the Water Code. Of
that amount, not more than two hundred twenty thousand dollars
($220,000) may be used to defray administrative costs.
   (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), the Department of Water
Resources may not expend the funds specified in that subdivision unless
and until the expenditure condition set forth in Provision 8 of Item
3860-001-0001 of Section 2.00 of the Budget Act of 2000 (Chapter 52
of the Statutes of 2000) is satisfied.



                             CHAPTER 709

  An act relating to conservation camps, and declaring the urgency
thereof, to take effect immediately.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1.       The Legislature finds and declares the following:
 4770                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 709 ]
   (a) California has experienced dramatic increases in wildfire and
flood losses, and in the cost to fight these losses during the last decade.
Annual fire losses have doubled in the last five years. Handcrews to fight
wildfires or floods and other emergencies are in short supply. On
average, California has imported 187 paid fire crews each fire season
over the last five years. During the 1999 fire season, the state expended
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) to import and use these crews.
During this period, some low-cost inmate crews in conservation camps
were unable to assist due to lack of tools, transportation, and
supervision.
   (b) Watershed health across the state has declined creating a large
backlog of environmentally sensitive, labor intensive, restoration work
ideally suited for inmate crews and California Conservation Corps
crews.
   (c) Conservation camp inmates provide a very economical way for
the State of California to deal with the foregoing problems while
minimizing organizational buildup. Each inmate provides an annual
return to the state of over twenty-six thousand dollars ($26,000) in
productive work, while costing taxpayers only thirteen thousand dollars
($13,000) per year.
   (d) Conservation camps have provided over 2,000,000 work-hours of
emergency fire and flood assistance to the state and over 4,000,000
work-hours of resource, environmental, and community service in a
single year.
   (e) Lower disciplinary and custodial costs result due to the fact that
the hard-working emergency response team activities curtail
disciplinary problems associated with idle time in prisons.
   (f) Shortened incarceration time helps nonviolent inmates who
reduce their sentence by performing meaningful work.
   (g) Conservation camps provide significant rehabilitation benefits, as
recidivism rates are reduced by the opportunity to learn strong work
ethics, teamwork and job satisfaction, and by assisting communities,
farms, and the state’s natural resources.
   (h) Minimum-security conservation centers cost less to construct
than ‘‘hardwall’’ facilities and considerably less to operate.
   SEC. 2. It is the intent of the Legislature to continue to expand the
conservation camp program to provide additional beds for low-level
inmates and at the same time provide additional capabilities to prevent
and deal with fire, flood, earthquake, and other emergencies in the State
of California in a more cost-effective manner. Therefore, the Secretary
of the Resources Agency, after consultation with the Secretary of the
Youth and Adult Correctional Agency, the California Conservation
Corps, and other benefiting agencies, shall by November 1, 2001, report
[Ch. 710 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                               4771

to the Legislature and the Governor on additional inmate and civilian
conservation camp construction or expansion needs.
  SEC. 3. The Department of Corrections shall maximize the
availability of conservation camp qualified inmates, subject to all of the
following requirements:
  (a) Necessary health and safety requirements shall be met at other
facilities of the department.
  (b) Public safety screening and training conditions and standards
shall be maintained.
  (c) The need for additional inmate positions at existing, expanded, or
new conservation camps shall be considered.
  SEC. 4. Subject to the appropriation of funds for this purpose in the
annual Budget Act, the Department of Forestry and Fire Protection shall
reactivate an additional 20-person crew module at each of the following
17 conservation camps, for the purpose of providing necessary training,
vehicles, and equipment: Baseline, Bautista, Delta, Devils Garden, Eel
River, Fenner Canyon, Gabilian, Growlersburg, McCain Valley, Oak
Glen, Owens Valley, Preston/Pine Grove, Puerta La Cruz, Salt Creek,
Sugar Pine, Trinity River, and Valley View.
  SEC. 5. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to improve the ability of the conservation camp program to
provide emergency services in event of fire, flood, or earthquake at the
earliest possible time, it is necessary that this act take effect immediately.



                             CHAPTER 710

  An act relating to parks and recreation.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. (a) The Safe Neighborhood Parks, Clean Water,
Clean Air, and Coastal Protection Bond Act of 2000 (The
Villaraigosa-Keeley Act) (Proposition 12 of the March 7, 2000, primary
election; Chapter 1.692 (commencing with Section 5096.300) of
Division 5 of the Public Resources Code) provides fifty million dollars
($50,000,000) in supplemental funds to cities and districts with
populations under 200,000 in urbanized counties with populations of
 4772                      STATUTES OF 2000                       [Ch. 710 ]
200,000 or greater pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 5096.310 and
subdivision (b) of Section 5096.336 of the Public Resources Code.
Subdivision (g) of Section 5096.310 of the Public Resources Code
provides two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) in grants to cities,
counties, and districts for the acquisition, development, rehabilitation,
and restoration of park and recreation areas and facilities pursuant to the
Roberti-Z’berg-Harris Urban Open-Space and Recreation Program Act
(Chapter 3.2 (commencing with Section 5620) of Division 5 of the
Public Resources Code).
   (b) Of the 444 cities and districts in urbanized counties throughout the
state, all but five cities and one district (Stockton, Bakersfield, Fremont,
Glendale, and Riverside and the Hayward Area Recreation and Park
District) qualify for supplemental per capita funding, as either ‘‘small
cities’’ and ‘‘districts’’ having a population under 200,000 or heavily
‘‘urbanized areas’’ having a population over 300,000, as eligible cities
under the Roberti-Z’berg-Harris Urban Open-Space and Recreation
Program Act. This inequity was not intended by the drafters of the Safe
Neighborhood Parks, Clean Water, Clean Air, and Coastal Protection
Bond Act of 2000 or by the Legislature.
   (c) It is the intent of the Legislature that the omitted five cities and one
district receive supplemental per capita funding on the same basis as
eligible cities with populations over 300,000 persons under the
Roberti-Z’berg-Harris Urban Open-Space and Recreation Program Act.
   (d) Funds shall be allocated to the Cities of Stockton, Bakersfield,
Fremont, Glendale, and Riverside and the Hayward Area Recreation
District when funds are appropriated to the Department of Parks and
Recreation for that purpose, from a source other than the Safe
Neighborhood Parks, Clean Water, Clean Air, and Coastal Protection
Bond Fund, in the annual Budget Act. The department shall allocate
these funds using the same criteria, dollar rate, and procedures as it
employs to allocate funds to local agencies with populations over
300,000 and eligible for funding under the block grant portion of the
Roberti-Z’berg-Harris Urban Open-Space and Recreation Program Act.
Any amount in excess of the amount necessary to make that allocation
shall revert to the General Fund.
   (e) Funds appropriated for the purposes of subdivision (d) shall be
available for encumbrance for three years after the date upon which
funds first become available for encumbrance or, as allowed under
Section 16304 of the Government Code, whichever period is longer.
   (f) Disbursements in liquidation of encumbrances shall be made
before the expiration of five years following the last day the
appropriation is available for encumbrance pursuant to subdivision (e)
[Ch. 711 ]               STATUTES OF 2000                           4773

or, in accordance with Section 16304.1 of the Government Code,
whichever period is longer.



                             CHAPTER 711

 An act to amend Sections 32603 and 32605 of the Public Resources
Code, relating to the San Gabriel and Lower Los Angeles Rivers and
Mountains Conservancy Act.
             [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 32603 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
   32603. As used in this division, the following terms have the
following meaning:
   (a) ‘‘Board’’ means the governing board of the San Gabriel and
Lower Los Angeles Rivers and Mountains Conservancy.
   (b) ‘‘Conservancy’’ means the San Gabriel and Lower Los Angeles
Rivers and Mountains Conservancy. The conservancy may also be
known as the Rivers and Mountains Conservancy.
   (c) (1) ‘‘Territory’’ means the territory of the conservancy that
consists of those portions of Los Angeles County and Orange County
located within the San Gabriel River and its tributaries, the lower Los
Angeles River and its tributaries, and the San Gabriel Mountains,
including, without limitation, all of the following:
   (A) The hydrologic basin or watershed that coincides with the upper
San Gabriel River watershed, including the Upper Rio Hondo tributary,
but not including any land area within the Santa Monica Mountains
Conservancy as described in Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
33100) and Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 33200) of Division 23.
The hydrologic basin or watershed is bounded by the San Gabriel
Mountains to the north, the San Jose Hills to the east, the Puente Hills
to the south, and by a series of hills and the Raymond Fault to the west.
   (B) The hydrologic basin or watershed that coincides with the lower
San Gabriel River watershed.
   (C) The San Gabriel Mountains, including the Foothills Mountains
Conservancy and the Puente Hills and San Jose Hills area, except any
land area within the Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy as described
in Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 33100) and Chapter 3
(commencing with Section 33200) of Division 23.
 4774                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 711 ]
   (D) The hydrologic basin or watershed that coincides with the lower
Los Angeles River south of the northernmost boundary of the City of
Vernon, as of June 1, 1999, except any land area within the Santa Monica
Mountains Conservancy, as described in Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 33100) and Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 33200) of
Division 23.
   (2) To assist persons in understanding the breadth of the territory
included within the territory described in paragraph (1), the Legislature
declares that that territory includes the territory in all of the following
cities and areas:
   (A) The territory within the city boundaries, as of January 1, 2000, of
the following cities: Alhambra, Anaheim, Arcadia, Artesia, Azusa,
Baldwin Park, Bell, Bell Gardens, Bellflower, Bradbury, Brea, Buena
Park, Cerritos, Claremont, Commerce, Compton, Covina, Cudahy,
Cypress, Diamond Bar, Downey, Duarte, El Monte, Fullerton,
Glendora, Hawaiian Gardens, Huntington Park, Industry, Irwindale, La
Habra, La Habra Heights, La Mirada, La Palma, La Puente, La Verne,
Lakewood, Long Beach, Los Alamitos, Lynwood, Maywood,
Monrovia, Montebello, Monterey Park, Norwalk, Paramount, Pico
Rivera, Placentia, Pomona, Rosemead, San Dimas, San Gabriel, Santa
Fe Springs, Seal Beach, Signal Hill, South El Monte, South Gate,
Temple City, Vernon, Walnut, West Covina, and Whittier.
   (B) The unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County and Orange
County adjacent to the San Gabriel River and its tributaries, the lower
Los Angeles River and its tributaries, the San Gabriel Mountains, the
Foothill Mountains, the Puente Hills, and the San Jose Hills area
including, but not limited to, East Los Angeles.
   (d) Nothing in this section shall affect the jurisdiction of any other
state conservancy.
   SEC. 2. Section 32605 of the Public Resources Code is amended to
read:
   32605. The board shall consist of 13 voting members and seven
nonvoting members, as follows:
   (a) The 13 voting members of the board shall consist of all of the
following:
   (1) One member of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los
Angeles who represents the area or a portion thereof contained within the
territory of the conservancy, appointed by the Governor.
   (2) Two members of the board of directors of the San Gabriel Valley
Council of Governments, one of whom shall be a mayor or city council
member of a city bordering along the San Gabriel River, and one of
whom shall be a mayor or city council member of a city bordering the
San Gabriel Mountains area. One member shall be appointed by a
majority of the membership of that board of directors, and one member
[Ch. 711 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                             4775

shall be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules from a list of two
or more potential members submitted by the board of directors.
   (3) Two members of the board of directors of the Gateway Cities
Council of Governments, one of whom shall be the mayor of the City of
Long Beach or a city council member of the City of Long Beach
appointed by the mayor, and one of whom shall be appointed by the
Speaker of the Assembly from a list of two or more potential members
submitted by the executive committee of the board of directors of the
Gateway Cities Council of Governments. The executive committee shall
submit lists of potential members to the Speaker of the Assembly until
an acceptable member is appointed.
   (4) Two members of the Orange County Division of the League of
California Cities, both of whom shall be a mayor or city council member
of a city bordering along the San Gabriel River or a tributary thereof. One
member shall be appointed by a majority of the membership of the city
selection committee of Orange County, and one member shall be
appointed by the Governor from a list of two or more potential members
submitted by the city selection committee.
   (5) One member shall be a representative of a member of the San
Gabriel Valley Water Association appointed by a majority of the
membership of the board of directors of the San Gabriel Valley Water
Association.
   (6) One member shall be a representative of the Central Basin Water
Association appointed by a majority of the membership of the board of
directors of the Central Basin Water Association.
   (7) One member shall be a resident of Los Angeles County appointed
by the Governor from a list of potential members submitted by local,
state, and national environmental organizations that operate within the
County of Los Angeles and within the territory of the conservancy and
that have participated in planning for river restoration or open space, or
both, or river preservation.
   (8) The Secretary of the Resources Agency, or his or her designee.
   (9) The Secretary for Environmental Protection, or his or her
designee.
   (10) The Director of Finance, or his or her designee.
   (b) The seven ex officio, nonvoting members shall consist of the
following officers or an employee of each agency designated annually
by that officer to represent the office or agency:
   (1) The District Engineer of the United States Army Corps of
Engineers.
   (2) The Regional Forester for the Pacific Southwest Region of the
United States Forest Service.
   (3) The Director of the Los Angeles County Department of Public
Works.
 4776                     STATUTES OF 2000                         [Ch. 712 ]
 (4) The Director of the Orange County Public Facility and Resource
Department.
 (5) A member of the San Gabriel River Watermaster, appointed by a
majority of the members of the San Gabriel River Watermaster.
 (6) The Director of Parks and Recreation.
 (7) The Executive Officer of the Wildlife Conservation Board.



                            CHAPTER 712

  An act to amend Section 10631 of the Water Code, relating to water,
and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 25, 2000. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 27, 2000.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10631 of the Water Code is amended to read:
   10631. A plan shall be adopted in accordance with this chapter and
shall do all of the following:
   (a) Describe the service area of the supplier, including current and
projected population, climate, and other demographic factors affecting
the supplier’s water management planning. The projected population
estimates shall be based upon data from the state, regional, or local
service agency population projections within the service area of the
urban water supplier and shall be in five-year increments to 20 years or
as far as data is available.
   (b) Identify and quantify, to the extent practicable, the existing and
planned sources of water available to the supplier over the same
five-year increments as described in subdivision (a).
   (c) Describe the reliability of the water supply and vulnerability to
seasonal or climatic shortage, to the extent practicable, and provide data
for each of the following:
   (1) An average water year.
   (2) A single dry water year.
   (3) Multiple dry water years.
   For any water source that may not be available at a consistent level of
use, given specific legal, environmental, water quality, or climatic
factors, describe plans to replace that source with alternative sources or
water demand management measures, to the extent practicable.
   (d) Describe the opportunities for exchanges or transfers of water on
a short-term or long-term basis.
[Ch. 712 ]              STATUTES OF 2000                            4777

   (e) (1) Quantify, to the extent records are available, past and current
water use, over the same five-year increments described in subdivision
(a), and projected water use, identifying the uses among water use
sectors including, but not necessarily limited to, all of the following
uses:
   (A) Single-family residential.
   (B) Multifamily.
   (C) Commercial.
   (D) Industrial.
   (E) Institutional and governmental.
   (F) Landscape.
   (G) Sales to other agencies.
   (H) Saline water intrusion barriers, groundwater recharge, or
conjunctive use, or any combination thereof.
   (I) Agricultural.
   (2) The water use projections shall be in the same five-year
increments as described in subdivision (a).
   (f) Provide a description of the supplier’s water demand management
measures. This description shall include all of the following:
   (1) A description of each water demand management measure that is
currently being implemented, or scheduled for implementation,
including the steps necessary to implement any proposed measures,
including, but not limited to, all of the following:
   (A) Water survey programs for single-family residential and
multifamily residential customers.
   (B) Residential plumbing retrofit.
   (C) System water audits, leak detection, and repair.
   (D) Metering with commodity rates for all new connections and
retrofit of existing connections.
   (E) Large landscape conservation programs and incentives.
   (F) High-efficiency washing machine rebate programs.
   (G) Public information programs.
   (H) School education programs.
   (I) Conservation programs for commercial, industrial, and
institutional accounts.
   (J) Wholesale agency programs.
   (K) Conservation pricing.
   (L) Water conservation coordinator.
   (M) Water waste prohibition.
   (N) Residential ultra-low-flush toilet replacement programs.
   (2) A schedule of implementation for all water demand management
measures proposed or described in the plan.
 4778                     STATUTES OF 2000                     [Ch. 712 ]
  (3) A description of the methods, if any, that the supplier will use to
evaluate the effectiveness of water demand management measures
implemented or described under the plan.
  (4) An estimate, if available, of existing conservation savings on
water use within the supplier’s service area, and the effect of such
savings on the supplier’s ability to further reduce demand.
  (g) An evaluation of each water demand management measure listed
in paragraph (1) of subdivision (f) that is not currently being
implemented or scheduled for implementation. In the course of the
evaluation, first consideration shall be given to water demand
management measures, or combination of measures, that offer lower
incremental costs than expanded or additional water supplies. This
evaluation shall do all of the following:
  (1) Take into account economic and noneconomic factors, including
environmental, social, health, customer impact, and technological
factors.
  (2) Include a cost-benefit analysis, identifying total benefits and total
costs.
  (3) Include a description of funding available to implement any
planned water supply project that would provide water at a higher unit
cost.
  (4) Include a description of the water supplier’s legal authority to
implement the measure and efforts to work with other relevant agencies
to ensure the implementation of the measure and to share the cost of
implementation.
  (h) Urban water suppliers that are members of the California Urban
Water Conservation Council and submit annual reports to that council
in accordance with the ‘‘Memorandum of Understanding Regarding
Urban Water Conservation in California,’’ dated September 1991, may
submit the annual reports identifying water demand management
measures currently being implemented, or scheduled for
implementation, to satisfy the requirements of subdivisions (f) and (g).
  SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of
Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The
facts constituting the necessity are:
  In order to identify water demand management measures that are
being implemented by urban water suppliers as soon as possible, it is
necessary that this act take effect immediately.
