SOURCE: https://www.fox13seattle.com/news/seattle-office-conversions-housing-crisis
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Seattle office conversions fail to solve housing crisis | FOX 13 Seattle Live News Weather Sports Good Day Contests More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site Home News Tips Mobile Apps Sign Up for our Newsletters Meet our Team Links You Saw on TV TV Schedule FOX Shows Jobs at FOX 13 Seattle Internships Request a Speaker Advertise with FOX 13 Captioning Info FCC Public File EEO Public File FCC Applications Local and Regional News Seattle News Tonight Seattle and King County News Tacoma and Pierce County News Everett and Snohomish County News Olympia and Thurston County News Bellingham and Whatcom County News WA Coast News San Francisco News - KTVU FOX 2 Los Angeles News - FOX 11 Los Angeles Phoenix News - FOX 10 Phoenix More News Local News WA News Wrap National News Politics Election Entertainment Food and Drink Music and Concerts Consumer Health Healthy Living Environment Good News FOX 13 en Español FOX News Sunday Sitemap Good Day Seattle Watch Live Good Day Seattle Team Vote in MEGAPOLL Pet Tricks Adam at the Movies Things To Do True Northwest Submit Weather Photos School Closures Outdoor Report Links You Saw on Good Day Back2Besa Studio 13 Live Watch Clips Studio 13 Live Team Healthy Living Emerald Eats Seattle Sips Passport to the Northwest Celebrity interviews The Spotlight Latest from The Spotlight Watch Full Episodes Meet David Rose Crime and Public Safety Missing Persons Fentanyl Crisis Submit a Tip to The Spotlight Weather Weather Web Cams Traffic Map Seattle Weather App Weather Alerts Closures and Delays Air Quality Map Outdoor Report Fire Danger and Burn Bans Map Submit Weather Photos FOX Weather Sports Seattle Seahawks Seattle Mariners Seattle Sounders FC Seattle Storm Seattle Kraken Seattle Reign FC Washington Huskies WSU Cougars Washington Sports Wrap Sports Commentary Sports Trivia Blitz Futbol HQ Northwest Fishing Money Personal Finance Consumer Business Economy Savings Podcasts Seattle News Weekly Podcast Seattle Sports Podcast Northwest Weather Podcast Bryan Kohberger: The Podcast Stream on FOX One Watch NFL Games Watch College Football Games Watch MLB Games Watch NASCAR Cup Series Watch IndyCar Series Watch Men's College Basketball Watch Women's College Basketball Watch WNBA Games Watch MLS Games Is apartment conversions the answer to Seattle’s wasteland of vacant offices? By Hana Kim FOX 13 Seattle Seattle Published July 24, 2026 5:06 PM PDT Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit Published July 24, 2026 5:06 PM PDT Seattle office vacancy crisis: An opportunity for housing? Seattle has the highest office vacancy rate in America. But it begs the question, could it be an opportunity in disguise? The Brief A Seattle developer converted vacant South Lake Union office space into apartments, but says most office buildings aren't profitable to convert. Downtown Seattle has the nation's highest office vacancy rate, with about 20 million square feet of empty office space. Developers say high construction costs and city fees are limiting new housing, keeping rents high and investors on the sidelines. SEATTLE - Inside a newly converted apartment at 1075 Lenora St. in South Lake Union, light streams through 10-foot windows framed by 13-foot ceilings. For Ray Connell, managing director at Holland Partner Group, turning three floors of vacant office space inside the building into residential units was an opportunity to create something unique. FOX 13 got a tour of a two-bedroom unit offering views of the Space Needle. The building gives tenants access to two gyms, a doggie playground and spa, a pool and hot tub, massive, shared spaces and additional vistas extending to a rooftop. The office to apartment conversion is rare. For the Holland Partner Group it wasn’t from desire, but desperation. "This was available for five years," Connell said. "We tried marketing it…there was no action. You couldn’t lower the rents low enough." Inside 1075 Lenora Street in South Lake Union. (FOX 13 Seattle) Connell’s dilemma reflects a vacancy crisis across downtown Seattle, where the Downtown Seattle Association estimates roughly 20 million square feet of office space sits empty. Wakefield & Cushman’s latest data says downtown has a nearly 37% vacancy rate. That’s given Seattle the distinction of the highest office vacancy rate in the country, begging the question: could the wasteland of vacant spaces be an opportunity in disguise? The backstory: While converting empty commercial towers into apartments has emerged as a popular talking point among some city leaders seeking solutions, real estate developers caution that office to apartment conversions are far from a silver bullet. "You look at all the office space that's available for lease, most of that space would be so challenging to do a conversion in that it's not worth even looking at," Connell said, comparing the process to "turning a boat into a car." The physical and structural hurdles are steep. Office floor plates often lack the plumbing and mechanical infrastructure needed for residential living, leading to steep costs that does not add up for developers. In the same 1075 Lenora building, a 3,000-square-foot commercial space will remain empty indefinitely because plumbing regulations prevent an apartment conversion in that space. Connell says they managed to convert nearly 55,000 sq ft because his company owned the three floors of office spaces inside 1075 Lenora. The other floors already had residential units and shared spaces. Connell says without those amenities in place they would not have done the conversions. Office buildings in downtown Seattle (FOX 13 Seattle) By the numbers: Even when conversion projects succeed, the financial returns can be slim. Around 40% of the newly converted spaces have been leased out and Connell expects all of the apartments to get snatched up soon. Even with tenants paying rent, Connell says the extra cost it took to convert the space still means a financial loss for the foreseeable future. "Happy ending because we are no longer in the office business," Connell said, "but not necessarily a happy ending financially." Supply constraints and high city fees While office conversions offer niche inventory, Connell says a viable path to reducing rent prices across the Puget Sound is increasing the supply of new, ground-up construction. The Holland Partner Group is building a 45 story apartment tower named Sloane at the intersection of 7th and Battery. That site held the Elephant Car Wash known for the pink elephant. More than 400 units will be up for lease at Sloane next year. Seattle rents expected to spike over construction woes A Seattle developer says if you want to know one reason impacting rent prices, look up. The scarcity of construction cranes is a sign that rent prices for apartments will continue to rise in the coming years. What they're saying: Connell’s company is also behind the construction and management of multiple high rise apartments in Seattle. The problem is not experience, it is investor interest. "Investors are worried," Connell said. "They're sitting on the sideline waiting to see... That’s why you haven’t seen cranes hit the sky. And people wonder why costs are going up—it's because there's no new housing being built." Construction cranes used to abundantly dot the Seattle Skyline but now they are not common. In fact, Sloane, which broke ground in 2024, is one of the last high rise apartment projects to start construction in Seattle. Connell says in the last two years there have been hardly any activity. Among the barriers are Seattle’s Mandatory Housing Affordability (MHA) fees, which require developers to either build affordable housing on-site or pay millions into a municipal housing fund. Connell says MHA fees can vary from $40,000 for a small project to millions for larger ones. "You're taxing housing to build housing," Connell arguing that mandatory fees, combined with stringent local energy codes, directly escalate construction costs. "As the cost of housing goes up, so does the rent to pay for the construction." The Holland Partner Group paid $5 million in MHA fees to get Sloane approved. The cumulative expense has made building in Seattle considerably more expensive than in neighboring Eastside cities like Bellevue, Kirkland, or Redmond, where total development packages yield higher returns. As a result, institutional investors are increasingly looking outside Seattle, leaving project funding on the sidelines. Developers contend that lowering barriers and fees could help attract investors and capital. "The city can't control the Strait of Hormuz or concrete strikes," Connell said. "But they can control the fees that we pay." Office buildings in downtown Seattle (FOX 13 Seattle) MORE NEWS FROM FOX 13 SEATTLE Floatplane crashes near WA's Sucia Islands with 11 on board Washington's heat wave has marine scientists keeping a close eye on Puget Sound VIDEO: Seattle man survives after repeat offender shoots into moving bus Seattle Aurora Avenue sweep: Multiple arrested, victims rescued Bite of Seattle returns as vendors celebrate opportunity, raise concerns WDFW asks for public input on 'endangered' WA frog Here's where fires in Washington state are burning To get the best local news, weather and sports in Seattle for free, sign up for the daily FOX Seattle Newsletter . Download the free FOX LOCAL app for mobile in the Apple App Store or Google Play Store for live Seattle news, top stories, weather updates and more local and national news. The Source: Information in this story came from Holland Partner Group, the Downtown Seattle Association, and original FOX 13 Seattle reporting and interviews. Seattle Housing News On your phone. On your TV. Trending Now Seattle weather: Morning clouds, patchy drizzle and afternoon sunbreaks Wednesday Mike Macdonald says Sean Payton accused Seattle Seahawks of cheating behind scenes after 2024 contest Houston Astros club three home runs as Seattle Mariners lose 7-0 for 15th shutout of season Edmonds waterfront restaurant closes after 45 years, surprising customers Seattle City Council bans AI grocery 'surveillance pricing' Daily Newsletter All the news you need to know, every day By clicking Sign Up, I confirm that I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . Vote in our Poll! Latest News View More 4.2 magnitude earthquake jolts WA. What are the chances of an aftershock? Manassas shooting: Workplace violence suspect dies of self-inflicted gunshot wound, police say When does daylight saving time end? Here's when to 'fall back' in Seattle Residents rattled after 4.2 magnitude earthquake shakes Puget Sound Washington’s shakiest decade: Four earthquakes in 10 years left a deadly toll Latest Videos View More video Earthquake in WA: 9,100 people feel 4.2 magnitude quake video Washington residents rattled after 4.2 earthquake shakes Puget Sound video Man sentenced for shooting at Pierce County precinct video Seattle News Tonight for Tuesday, 9/29 video Washington Sports Wrap for Tuesday, 9/29 Home News Tips Mobile Apps Sign Up for our Newsletters Meet our Team Links You Saw on TV TV Schedule FOX Shows Jobs at FOX 13 Seattle Internships Request a Speaker Advertise with FOX 13 Captioning Info FCC Public File EEO Public File FCC Applications Local and Regional News Seattle News Tonight Seattle and King County News Tacoma and Pierce County News Everett and Snohomish County News Olympia and Thurston County News Bellingham and Whatcom County News WA Coast News San Francisco News - KTVU FOX 2 Los Angeles News - FOX 11 Los Angeles Phoenix News - FOX 10 Phoenix More News Local News WA News Wrap National News Politics Election Entertainment Food and Drink Music and Concerts Consumer Health Healthy Living Environment Good News FOX 13 en Español FOX News Sunday Sitemap Good Day Seattle Watch Live Good Day Seattle Team Vote in MEGAPOLL Pet Tricks Adam at the Movies Things To Do True Northwest Submit Weather Photos School Closures Outdoor Report Links You Saw on Good Day Back2Besa Studio 13 Live Watch Clips Studio 13 Live Team Healthy Living Emerald Eats Seattle Sips Passport to the Northwest Celebrity interviews The Spotlight Latest from The Spotlight Watch Full Episodes Meet David Rose Crime and Public Safety Missing Persons Fentanyl Crisis Submit a Tip to The Spotlight Weather Weather Web Cams Traffic Map Seattle Weather App Weather Alerts Closures and Delays Air Quality Map Outdoor Report Fire Danger and Burn Bans Map Submit Weather Photos FOX Weather Sports Seattle Seahawks Seattle Mariners Seattle Sounders FC Seattle Storm Seattle Kraken Seattle Reign FC Washington Huskies WSU Cougars Washington Sports Wrap Sports Commentary Sports Trivia Blitz Futbol HQ Northwest Fishing Money Personal Finance Consumer Business Economy Savings Podcasts Seattle News Weekly Podcast Seattle Sports Podcast Northwest Weather Podcast Bryan Kohberger: The Podcast Stream on FOX One Watch NFL Games Watch College Football Games Watch MLB Games Watch NASCAR Cup Series Watch IndyCar Series Watch Men's College Basketball Watch Women's College Basketball Watch WNBA Games Watch MLS Games youtube instagram facebook tiktok threads twitter email Privacy Policy Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File EEO Public File FCC Applications About Us Jobs At KCPQ and KZJO Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX Television Stations
