SOURCE: https://www.multifamilybiz.com/pressreleases/697/holland_partner_group_breaks_ground_at_1111_wilshi...
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Holland Partner Group Breaks Ground At 1111 Wilshire | MultifamilyBiz.com 96 MultifamilyBiz Logo × news blogs webcasts the buzz events marketplace about contact Rss feed Login Register news blogs webcasts the buzz events marketplace LOGIN Welcome Back Login With Email Email Password LOGIN Keep me Signed in Forgot Password? Don't have an account? Join Us × Welcome Back Don't have an account? Join Us Sign Up Name Company Email Phone Password Re-enter Password create an account I agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy × SIGN UP Name Company Email Address Phone Password Re-enter Password Create Acount I agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Search Button Searchbar All All News Blogs Buzz Webcasts Events Holland Partner Group Breaks Ground At 1111 Wilshire June 21, 2011 share Facebook LinkedIn Twitter LOS ANGELES, CA - The Holland Partner Group has broken ground at 1111 Wilshire Boulevard, in Downtown L.A. This is the most recent residential development to break ground in Downtown Los Angeles, and signals the recovery of the multi-family market and a surge of activity in the City West district. This mixed-use rental residential development community is the third in a series of five developments by The Holland Partner Group west of the 110 freeway in Downtown L.A. “The unique design of 1111 Wilshire is tailored for the needs of the urban professionals who have selected downtown LA as their home,” says Tom Warren, Chief Operating Officer of Development at the Holland Partner Group. “1111 Wilshire offers functional amenities to provide an urban sanctuary for an active lifestyle, just blocks from the Central Business District’s 450,000 jobs, supreme shopping, unparalleled dining and world-class entertainment. We are excited to be delivering this third installment in a series of dynamic, creatively designed communities connecting City West with the rest of Downtown. ” The groundbreaking for the $60 million, seven-story mid-rise building follows two other successful Holland Partner developments in Central City West : the 201-unit $65 million residential complex named GLO at Wilshire Boulevard and Bixel Street, and the 77-unit Bixel House at 6th St. and Bixel. Adds Warren, “City West is poised to become the next big Downtown Los Angeles residential district, with it’s convenient location and neighborhood character." 1111 Wilshire includes 210 apartments and nearly 8,000 square feet of retail space in one of the most vibrant, revitalized areas in the country, with excellent access to transportation. Amenities include a health club-quality fitness center, poolside resident lounge and adjacent outdoor kitchen, generous roof decks with views of downtown L.A., onsite neighborhood retail/restaurant space. Each residence has been designed to optimize space and functionality and feature granite counters, wood-plank vinyl flooring, stainless-steel appliances, pendant lighting, upgraded cabinets and floor-to-ceiling glass in select units. The inviting, contemporary design is by Nadel Architects, along with a design team that includes Markie Nelson Interior Design, LRM Landscape Design, Hall & Foreman Civil Engineering and Masoud Dejban, Inc., Structural Engineers. MEDIA CONTACTS 1111 Main St Vancouver, WA 98660 (360) 992-7460 jmcdonald@hollandresidential.com http://www.hollandresidential.com --> TRENDING Kerry W. Kirby Explores The Search to Discovery Shift Reshaping Multifamily Marketing Strategies in New Thought-Provoking Podcast Episode NEW ORLEANS, LA - 365 Connect, the multifamily industry’s leading innovator in AI-driven marketing, leasing, and resident engagement platforms, announced today that its CEO, Kerry W. Kirby, has released his latest podcast, Search to Discovery: The Evolving Playbook of The Modern Multifamily... Latest News The NRP Group and Marshall Heights Community Development Open 115-Unit Affordable Housing Community in D.C.’s NoMa Neighborhood Pillar Holds Official Groundbreaking of Kentucky’s First Planned Kelsey Certified Independent Living Community for Adults with Disabilities Alpaca Real Estate and Phoenix Realty Group Complete Acquisition of 269-Unit Bay Pointe Multifamily Community in Miami Submarket Hamilton Zanze Expands Its HZ Evergreen Fund to 12 Properties Across Six States with Contribution of Two Multifamily Apartment Communities Get The Newsletter The latest multifamily industry news delivered to your inbox Enter your Email SIGN UP More Stories WASHINGTON, DC - The NRP Group, a vertically integrated developer, owner, builder and manager of... LOUISVILLE, KY - Pillar, one of Kentucky’s leading social service agencies, unveiled plans... MIAMI, FL - Alpaca Real Estate (“ARE”) and Phoenix Realty Group (“PRG”)... SAN FRANCISCO, CA - Hamilton Zanze, a leading San Francisco-based multifamily real estate... DALLAS, TX - The Bascom Group has acquired the Jasmine Apartments, a 1980-built 370-unit... SEATTLE, WA - Griffis Residential, a vertically integrated multifamily owner and operator based in... COLORADO SPRINGS, CO - Thompson Thrift, a full-service, nationally recognized real estate company... WEST LAFAYETTE, IN - GMH Communities, a vertically integrated real estate company specializing in... Get The Newsletter The latest multifamily industry news delivered to your inbox. SIGN UP NEWS BLOGS WEBCASTS THE BUZZ MARKETPLACE ABOUT CONTACT MY ACCOUNT RSS FEED Stay Connected MultifamilyBiz.com is an information, advertising, and content display platform focused on the multifamily housing industry. This Website features information, materials,products, content, images, links,and services provided by third parties, and we are not responsible for such. We do not own or manage any properties featured on this website, are not a party to, and are not liable for, any transactions with any party featured on this website. Your use of this website is subject to our Terms of Use Agreement. TERMS PRIVACY ACCESSIBILITY © 2026 - MULTIFAMILYBIZ.COM - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
