SOURCE: https://www.ladowntownnews.com/news/holland-partner-group-s-newest-project-brings-more-than-600-new-apartments/article_1a5fa1ee-7b91-11e7-a02f-9b47e401b781.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Holland Partner Group’s Newest Project Brings More than 600 New Apartments | News | ladowntownnews.com Skip to main content You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo Subscribe For Free Support Local Journalism Home News Arts & Culture Sports Business Opinion Obituaries Los Angeles Obituaries Recommended Classifieds About | Contact | Advertise | Employment | Pick Up A Copy | Legals | Digital Editions | Search Facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo Subscribe Search Support Local Journalism 72° South Pasadena, CA (91031) Today Abundant sunshine. High 87F. Winds SSW at 5 to 10 mph.. Tonight Partly cloudy this evening with more clouds for overnight. Low around 65F. Winds light and variable. Updated: September 30, 2026 @ 9:58 am Full Forecast Home News Arts & Culture Sports Business Opinion Obituaries Los Angeles Obituaries Recommended Classifieds Close The 606-unit Sofia development includes two fitness spaces, club rooms and a pair of rooftop decks. Gary Leonard Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save The first phase of Holland Partner Group’s Sofia project in City West brought 190 new apartments online, with amenities including a luxurious club room. The second phase is expected to open in the fall. Gary Leonard Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save The first phase of Holland Partner Group’s Sofia project in City West brought 190 new apartments online, with amenities including a luxurious club room. The second phase is expected to open in the fall. Gary Leonard Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save News Holland Partner Group’s Newest Project Brings More than 600 New Apartments By Nicholas Slayton Aug 8, 2017 Aug 8, 2017 Updated Aug 8, 2017 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email The 606-unit Sofia development includes two fitness spaces, club rooms and a pair of rooftop decks. Gary Leonard Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save DTLA - A decade ago, developer Holland Partner Group launched plans to develop a piece of land previously owned by a City West hospital into a residential hub. At that time, the neighborhood wasn’t considered a big hub for housing. That’s changed in the last few years, with construction sites on the rise in City West. [ Get DTLA stories in our daily email newsletter. ] Few projects, however, offer the scale of Holland Partner’s newest complex. It’s one of the largest housing projects to open in Downtown, featuring 606 apartments. Sofia Los Angeles, which started move-ins for its first phase on June 16, is a seven-story, two-building complex at Sixth and Bixel streets. Designed by Togawa Smith Martin, it is the second Downtown L.A. apartment project from Holland Partner Group to open this summer, following the much smaller Stoa near the Historic Core. The first phase of Holland Partner Group’s Sofia project in City West brought 190 new apartments online, with amenities including a luxurious club room. The second phase is expected to open in the fall. Gary Leonard The residential complex fills out an entire block, and the location in City West allowed the developer to build on a larger scale, according to Brent Schertzer, Holland Partner Group’s development director. “It’s not a high-rise, but even with the mid-rise construction we were able to get a large number of units, just because of the overall size of the lot,” he said. The first phase involves the eastern building, which includes the complex’s 770-stall parking garage as well as approximately 190 apartments. The Sofia is approximately 51% leased for its available apartments in that building. Units in Sofia range from studios to three-bedrooms, with every apartment including gas stoves, quartz countertops, undermounted sinks and an in-unit washer and dryer. Units on the first two floors have polished concrete floors, while the rest have vinyl plank floors. A 488-square-foot studio rents for $2,470, while a 1,328-square-foot three-bedroom apartment rents for $4,149. The project also has a total of 27 units set aside for low-income residents. The Sofia development is next to Holland’s other City West projects, including the 210-unit 1111 Wilshire building. Holland Partner Group purchased the site from the Good Samaritan Hospital in 2007 but the project was put on hold due to the recession. Holland re-entitled the land in 2011 and started construction in 2014. A medical building acquired with the land was converted into a separate project, the 42-unit development The Mint. In total, Holland spent $250 million developing both Sofia and The Mint. The first phase of the Sofia includes a large rooftop deck with seating and a garden, as well a fitness center. It also has a large clubroom with a karaoke room, a bar space and an emphasis on leather couches and dark wood paneling. The building also will hold Grocery Outlet, a 16,500-square-foot discount supermarket. Schertzer said they built the structure with a space set aside for a market before securing a tenant. A Starbucks is also planned for the ground-floor commercial space. Katrina Jensen, a personal assistant who rents a three-bedroom apartment, said she was drawn to the building in part due to the prices, which were cheaper than in Hollywood where she had been living, as well as the amenities such as the incoming grocery store. She said that since moving, she’s taken advantage of the close proximity to the Financial District and started walking more into the heart of Downtown. The Sofia fits the trend with other City West projects, according to Hamid Behdad, head of the Downtown-based Central City Development Group, who has worked on residential buildings in the area. He said the neighborhood has seen a wave of low- or mid-rise development rather than the high-rise towers that continue to go up east of the freeway. He pointed to the cheaper costs in the neighborhood that attracted developers in recent years. “We’ve seen City West as the ideal location. It’s walkable to the Financial District, up on a hill and gets great views,” Schertzer said. “It’s not quite as congested as the core of Downtown.” The first phase of Holland Partner Group’s Sofia project in City West brought 190 new apartments online, with amenities including a luxurious club room. The second phase is expected to open in the fall. Gary Leonard It’s especially smart to build on a large scale in City West because the Downtown core is limited on available development space and has hardly any large parcels, according to Mike Condon Jr., executive managing director with the real estate firm Cushman and Wakefield. Phase two will bring the rest of the units online, plus an additional set of community spaces. Holland Partner Group expects to start move-ins during the fall. The phase-two gym will have a focus on yoga, while the club room will feature a pool and more green space. It is currently 4% pre-leased. Holland also finished the Stoa development next to the St. Vibiana cathedral this summer. The 237-unit project at 222 S. Main St. is currently 30% leased. The company is also working on a 28-story high-rise at Ninth and Figueroa streets plus a pair of towers at Eighth and Spring streets. nicholas@downtownnews.com © Los Angeles Downtown News 2017 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Digital Editions Never miss an issue. Sign up for free today. Subscribe Click below to read this week's issue. Click below to read the DTLA Guide. Click below to read Best of Downtown Los Angeles Sections Home News Arts and Culture Sports Business Opinion Special Sections Recommended Affiliate Content Services About Us Contact Advertise Employment Classifieds Pick Up A Copy Digital Editions Legals Subscribe Letter to the Editor Privacy Policy Contact Information LADowntownNews.com PO Box 1349 South Pasadena, CA 91031 Phone: 626-584-1500 Email: advertise@timeslocalmedia.com Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Vimeo × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 Los Angeles Downtown News PO Box 1349, South Pasadena, CA | Privacy Policy
