SOURCE: https://www.dailybreeze.com/2020/04/22/new-mid-rise-planned-as-san-pedros-commercial-corridors-grow/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

New mid-rise planned as San Pedro’s commercial corridors grow – Daily Breeze Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 71°F Wednesday, September 30th 2026 e-Edition Home Page News News Crime and Public Safety Election Investigative Reporting Politics Health Environment Business Best Reviews Housing Jobs Weather Transportation Local News Local News Harbor Area Beach Cities Torrance Carson Palos Verdes Peninsula Los Angeles Los Angeles County Sports Sports High School Sports Lakers Clippers Dodgers Angels College Sports UCLA Sports USC Sports Rams Chargers Kings Ducks Olympics Boxing/MMA Soccer Horse Racing Things To Do Things To Do Restaurants Food and Drink Movies Amusement Parks Music + Concerts Theater TV and Streaming Home + Garden Travel Comics Events Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columns Commentary Letters to the Editor Editorial Board Endorsements SCNG Premium The T.E.A. The Beach Reporter The Beach Reporter News Sports Things to Do Opinion Open Houses E-Edition Contact Us Palos Verdes Peninsula News Palos Verdes Peninsula News News Sports Campus Beat Opinion Obituaries E-edition Contact Us BestReviews Branded Content Paid Partner Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Daily Breeze Store Log In Logout Get the latest news delivered daily! Sign Up Local News | New mid-rise planned as San Pedro’s… Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get the latest news delivered daily! Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 71°F Wednesday, September 30th 2026 e-Edition Local News Harbor Area Beach Cities Torrance Carson Palos Verdes Peninsula Los Angeles Los Angeles County Trending: Halloween film festivals 🎃 Best things we ate 😋 High school football 🏈 Inside the Lucas Museum Weather news Local News News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. New mid-rise planned as San Pedro’s commercial corridors grow Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print A new mid-rise is proposed by Holland Partner Group, the same developers who completed a similar project at Palos Verdes and Fifth Streets. That building, being called 550 Harborfront, will see its first apartment move-ins this June. By Donna Littlejohn | dlittlejohn@scng.com PUBLISHED: April 22, 2020 at 3:42 PM PDT | UPDATED: April 22, 2020 at 3:58 PM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... A proposed eight-story apartment building, plans for which were submitted to L.A. city last week, would continue a push to polish and remake a nexus between San Pedro’s historic downtown shopping district and the waterfront. It also would undo another piece of the city’s late 1970s and early 1980s-era attempt at replacing what was once the community’s historic waterfront district after those early-1900s buildings were razed. Holland Partner Group has proposed the new mixed-use mid-rise development, for now dubbed 625 Beacon because of its address, as a companion to its 550 Harborfront apartments, nearing completion just across the street. That project is now undergoing final construction work, with leasing underway. A view of Sixth Street looking west, toward the Palos Verdes Peninsula, from Beacon Street. A new mid-rise is planned for the corner on the left in this photo which is undated. The current view from 6th and Beacon looking west where an 8-story apartment complex is proposed to be built across the street from the one finishing up at 550 S. Palos Verdes Street in San Pedro on Wednesday, April 22, 2020. (Photo by Brittany Murray, Press-Telegram/SCNG) The historic view facing east on lower Sixth Street, where a new mid-rise is planned. A view of old Harbor Boulevard near Fifth Street before the Beacon Street district was razed. The current view from 6th and Beacon looking west where an 8-story apartment complex is proposed to be built across the street from the one finishing up at 550 S. Palos Verdes Street in San Pedro on Wednesday, April 22, 2020. (Photo by Brittany Murray, Press-Telegram/SCNG) A new mid-rise is proposed by Holland Partner Group, the same developers who completed a similar project at Palos Verdes and Fifth Streets. That building, being called 550 Harborfront, will see its first apartment move-ins this June. A new mid-rise apartment building planned for 625 Beacon St. in San Pedro would overlook Peppertree Plaza and include 281 apartments with ground-floor retail space. Proposed by Holland Partner Group, the project will have to go through the city’s approval process. Show Caption 1 of 7 A view of Sixth Street looking west, toward the Palos Verdes Peninsula, from Beacon Street. A new mid-rise is planned for the corner on the left in this photo which is undated. Expand “We really like this site because it looks out on Peppertree Plaza,” said Ryan Guthrie, development director for Holland, referring to the park space next to the City Hall. “There are good opportunities with that open space.” A restaurant with outdoor dining looking out onto the park, he said, could be a strong possibility for the building’s ground-floor retail corner just across the street. Holland submitted plans to the city of Los Angeles on April 16, though the project faces at least a two- to three-year approval process, Guthrie said. The other project, called 550 Harborfront — a seven-story building on the east side of Palos Verdes Street, between Fifth and Sixth streets — will be ready for move-ins in June, Guthrie said. Open houses are being conducted online due to restrictions from the coronavirus. The two mid-rise buildings together would significantly alter the landscape and skyline of the town’s commercial district, which lies closest to the waterfront. The scale has already produced some concern, especially with its proximity to the historic City Hall. It could, cautioned Mona Dallas Reddick, president of the San Pedro Bay Historic Society, create a “fortress” effect and disrupt the natural hillside-to-harbor view that defines the port community. “Those glimpses of the hills to the harbor are very inspiring,” she said. But Guthrie promised a better look than what is there now — the low-slung cinder-block redevelopment structures. The architects, Guthrie said, are studying the old City Hall building for design features that will blend with a more historic look, and still characterize significant parts of the downtown and adjacent neighborhoods. The new buildings, Guthrie said, will present a “new, fresh facade” for San Pedro that will lend itself to becoming a new town hub. Because it is located adjacent to Peppertree Plaza and the area that’s now been minted as a new Little Italy, the structures also could lend themselves to becoming cornerstones. The area was once the southern end of San Pedro’s “Beacon Street” area, a district that had become notorious for its bars, sex work and vagrancy. Those buildings are long gone, following a city redevelopment project that leveled the area. It was an action that some now lament, saying the early 1900s structures, once cleaned up and rehabilitated, could have lived on to create a historic waterfront district and distinctive tourist attraction. But while the nondescript, somewhat bland architecture of those redevelopment buildings might not be missed, the businesses and memories they’ve housed, including the popular Green Onion Restaurant, will be, Reddick said. “These are venues that are important to the people who live here now,” Reddick said, “where they’ve celebrated rites of passage.” But she has other concerns as well, including traffic and the existing infrastructure when factoring in thousands more people living in the port enclave. The new project will include a rooftop deck, and units with water views, balconies, a pool deck and outdoor kitchens. It will take out three small commercial buildings; it will be seven stories on the Seventh Street side and eight stories on the Sixth Street side. Related Articles Why data centers are a hot real estate investment Redondo Beach to revitalize Seaside Lagoon by the time the 2028 Olympics arrive San Pedro’s revitalized Warner Grand ready for its initial (if limited) closeup Torrance teen’s Eagle Scout project serves Cancer Support Community Is a wrecking ball in Angel Stadium’s future? It will feature 281 apartments and 2,316 square feet of ground-floor retail space. Parking will be for 505 cars in a subterranean garage. The Harborfront, meanwhile, will feature 375 apartments and 5,000 square feet of ground-floor retail space. Negotiations are ongoing for that portion of the building, Guthrie said, which is set up to accommodate two tenants and comes equipped to house restaurants. Residential units include studios and one-, two-, three- and four-bedroom units, with rents ranging from about $2,000 a month to $5,600 a month. A slew of similar mixed-use development projects are in the planning, approval and building stages that will bring more changes to the downtown and waterfront areas. While San Pedro is becoming more recognized as a “beach town,” Guthrie said, its uniqueness remains. “It’s authentic and charming,” he said, “and that’s an importance we embrace.” Sign up for The Localist, our daily email newsletter with handpicked stories relevant to where you live. Subscribe here . Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Bluesky Print (Opens in new window) Print Most Popular Most Popular Woman dies in two-car crash near 405 Freeway in Torrance Woman dies in two-car crash near 405 Freeway in Torrance Manhattan Beach therapist who recorded clients in bathroom with hidden camera sentenced to 16 years Manhattan Beach therapist who recorded clients in bathroom with hidden camera sentenced to 16 years Redondo Beach moves forward with new Marine Mammal Care treatment center Redondo Beach moves forward with new Marine Mammal Care treatment center See the list of 36 Starbucks closures in Southern California See the list of 36 Starbucks closures in Southern California Infant girl found dead in dumpster in South LA; suspected mother detained Infant girl found dead in dumpster in South LA; suspected mother detained What is a Kelvin wave, what does it have to do with El Niño, and should we be worried? What is a Kelvin wave, what does it have to do with El Niño, and should we be worried? National Coffee Day: Where to find free coffee and deals today National Coffee Day: Where to find free coffee and deals today 127 citations, 38 arrests made in LA County street takeover crackdown 127 citations, 38 arrests made in LA County street takeover crackdown Hermosa Beach to replace Surfers Walk of Fame plaques, install them on aging pier’s railing Hermosa Beach to replace Surfers Walk of Fame plaques, install them on aging pier’s railing Longtime resident’s fruit pie wins Torrance Farmers’ Market’s annual pie contest Longtime resident’s fruit pie wins Torrance Farmers’ Market’s annual pie contest More in Local News South Bay Parkland Conservancy celebrates new greenhouse at Wilderness Park in Redondo Beach Longtime resident’s fruit pie wins Torrance Farmers’ Market’s annual pie contest Hermosa Beach to replace Surfers Walk of Fame plaques, install them on aging pier’s railing Palos Verdes Art Center celebrates 95th anniversary with open house this weekend 2020 April 22 Subscribe e-Edition Digital Subscription FAQ Breaking News Contact Us Corrections Sign Up For Newsletters Daily Breeze Store Advertising Solutions Get in Touch with a Marketing Strategist Request Media Kit Creative Services Content Marketing About Daily Breeze About Southern California News Group MediaNews Group Work With Us Privacy Policy Accessibility News Archive Reader’s Choice Partners Live Traffic Map Newspapers in Education Sponsor a Student Marketplace Classified Legals Obituary Local Job Board Reader Rewards Photo Reprints Sponsored Access Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 Daily Breeze. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close
