SOURCE: https://app.leg.wa.gov/RCW/default.aspx?cite=59.18.720
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

RCW 59.18.720: Menu Website Search Term Search Menu Menu Website Search Term Search Bills, meetings, and session Bills, meetings, and session Bills How to track a bill How to comment on a bill Help with bills Data and statistics Prefiled bills for 2025 Meeting schedules Session How to testify at a committee meeting Session documents Initiatives and referenda State laws and rules State laws and rules Washington State Constitution State laws (RCW) Session laws Past versions of state laws Help with state laws State rules (WAC) Past versions of state rules Washington State Register Rule-making help Rule-making activity Rule Drafting Service (RDS) Learn and participate Learn and participate Civic education programs Page Program Internship Program Legislative Scholar Program How a bill becomes a law How to participate in the lawmaking process Educational resources Classroom and learning materials Legislative documents in alphabetical order Pension education State symbols Civics organizations State budgets (fiscal.wa.gov) Glossary of legislative terms Legislators Legislators District Finder Legislator directories How to send a message to a legislator House and Senate class photos House Class Photos Senate Class Photos About the Legislature About the Legislature House of Representatives House Administration Office of Program Research Senate Senate Committee Services Schedules Leadership Administration Committees Legislative Information Center Legislative agencies Joint Legislative Audit and Review Committee (JLARC) Joint Transportation Committee (JTC) Legislative Ethics Board (LEB) Legislative Evaluation and Accountability Program (LEAP) Committee Legislative Service Center (LEG-TECH) Legislative Support Services (LSS) Office of the Code Reviser (CRO) Office of State Legislative Labor Relations (OSLLR) Office of the State Actuary (OSA) Legislative procedures House rules Senate rules Joint rules Reed's Rules Senate emergency parliamentary rules Senate committee room rules Code Reviser's Office Procedures Ethics Board rules Washington State Constitution Ethics Ethics advisory opinions Ethics complaint opinions Ethics alerts Ethics reports Ethics complaint form History of the Legislature Enabling Act Territorial history Senate Presidents Preserving Capitol furniture Home / State laws and rules / RCWs / Title 59 / Chapter 59.18 / Section 59.18.720 Print 59.18.710 << 59.18.720 >> 59.18.730 PDF RCW 59.18.720 Landlord — Notice of rent increases — Form. (Expires July 1, 2040.) (1)(a) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, a landlord must provide a tenant with notice of rent increases in a form that is substantially the same as the form provided in subsection (3) of this section. (b) Notice under this section must also: (i) Comply with the requirements in RCW 59.18.140 related to the number of days of prior written notice required for a rent increase; and (ii) Be served in accordance with RCW 59.12.040 . (2) The notice of rent increase requirement in this section does not apply if the rental agreement governs a subsidized tenancy where the amount of rent is based on, in whole or in part, a percentage of the income of the tenant or other circumstances specific to the subsidized household. However, for purposes of this section, a subsidized tenancy does not include tenancies where some or all of the rent paid to the landlord comes from a portable tenant-based voucher or similar portable assistance administered through a housing authority or other state or local agency, or tenancies in other types of affordable housing where maximum unit rents are limited by area median income levels and a tenant's base rent does not change as the tenant's income does. (3) "TO TENANT(S): (tenant name(s)) AT ADDRESS: (tenant address) RENT AND FEE INCREASE NOTICE TO TENANTS This notice is required by Washington state law to inform you of your rights regarding rent and fee increases. Your rent or rental amount includes all recurring and periodic charges, sometimes referred to as rent and fees, identified in your rental agreement for the use and occupancy of your rental unit. Washington state limits how much your landlord can raise your rent and any other recurring or periodic charges for the use and occupancy of your rental unit. (1) Your landlord can raise your rent and any other recurring or periodic charges identified in the rental agreement for use and occupancy of your rental unit once every 12 months by up to seven percent plus consumer price index, or 10 percent, whichever is less, as allowed by RCW 59.18.700 . Your landlord is not required to raise the rent or other recurring or periodic charges by any amount. (2) Your landlord may be exempt from the limit on increases for rent and other recurring or periodic charges for the reasons described in RCW 59.18.710 . If your landlord claims an exemption, your landlord is required to include supporting facts with this notice. (3) Your landlord must properly and fully complete the form below to notify you of any increases in rent and other recurring or periodic charges and any exemptions claimed. Your landlord (name) intends to (check one of the following): __ Raise your rent and/or other recurring or periodic charges: Your total increase for rent and other recurring or periodic charges effective (date) will be (percent), which totals an additional $(dollar amount) per month, for a new total amount of $(dollar amount) per month for rent and other recurring or periodic charges. This increase for rent and/or other recurring or periodic charges is allowed by state law and is (check one of the following): __ A lower increase than the maximum allowed by state law. __ The maximum increase allowed by state law. __ Authorized by an exemption under RCW 59.18.710 . If the increase is authorized by an exemption, your landlord must fill out the section of the form below. EXEMPTIONS CLAIMED BY LANDLORD I (landlord name) certify that I am allowed under Washington state law to raise your rent and other recurring or periodic charges by (percent), which is more than the maximum increase otherwise allowed by state law, because I am claiming the following exemption under RCW 59.18.710 (check one of the following): __ The first certificate of occupancy for your dwelling unit was issued on (insert date), which is 12 or less years before the date of this increase notice for rent and other recurring or periodic charges. (The landlord must include facts or attach documents supporting the exemption.) __ You live in a dwelling unit owned by a public housing authority, public development authority, or nonprofit organization where maximum rents are regulated by other laws or local, state, or federal affordable housing program requirements, or a qualified low-income housing development as defined in RCW 82.45.010 , where the property is owned by a public housing authority, public development authority, or nonprofit organization. (The landlord must include facts or attach documents supporting the exemption.) __ You live in a qualified low-income housing development which was allocated federal low-income housing tax credits by the Washington state housing finance commission and there is an enforceable regulatory agreement under the low-income housing tax credit program. (The landlord must include facts or attach documents supporting the exemption.) __ You live in a dwelling unit in which you share a bathroom or kitchen facility with the owner, and the owner maintains a principal residence at the residential real property. (The landlord must include facts or attach documents supporting the exemption.) __ You live in a single-family owner-occupied residence in which the owner-occupant rents or leases no more than two units or bedrooms including, but not limited to, an attached or detached accessory dwelling unit. (The landlord must include facts or attach documents supporting the exemption.) __ You live in a duplex, triplex, or fourplex in which the owner occupied one of the units as the owner's principal place of residence at the beginning of the tenancy, and the owner continues in occupancy. (The landlord must include facts or attach documents supporting the exemption.)" (4) This section expires July 1, 2040. [ 2025 c 209 s 103 .] Notes: Effective date — 2025 c 209: See note following RCW 59.18.700 . Legislative questions or comments Call the Legislative Hotline 1-800-562-6000 TTY for deaf/hard of hearing: 1-800-833-6388 Learn more about the Legislative Hotline Studies, audits, and reports Performance audits Actuarial reporting Transportation studies and reports Reports from outside organizations Investigation reports Accessibility Jobs Public records requests Site help Contact us Email updates (GovDelivery) Disclaimer Privacy Notice Copyright 2025. All Rights Reserved.
