SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/services
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Services | Holland Partner Group ABOUT US SERVICES LEADERSHIP CAREERS SUSTAINABILITY CULTURE PRESS SERVICES INVESTMENT Holland Investments is comprised of two entities, Acquisition and Asset Management, which are charged with securing and executing the most attractive multi-family investment opportunities in each of the primary, Western US target markets. Holland Investments seeks to achieve superior risk-adjusted returns through a process of fundamental, bottom-up analysis. This philosophy allows us to invest across the different multi-family risk spectrum. Investments typically involve the purchase of multifamily assets that we believe offer long-term, predictable, sustainable cash flow or are undervalued or inefficiently managed or financed. Our goal is to create sustainable, socially connected places where people work, live, and enjoy life. We create communities that inspire each person to become their best self. Each opportunity is then enhanced by working within Holland Partner Group 's fully integrated platform: Holland Development, Redevelopment, Construction and Residential to maximize available returns. This combination of efforts allows us to specifically tailor our product focus and deliver on each asset’s individual objectives. With over $3 billion in total acquisition transaction experience and over $4 billion of asset value under management , Holland's acquisition and asset management teams have a proven track record of delivering superior returns in the multi-family investment sector. DEVELOPMENT Holland Development, with $10 billion in total completed development projects, has established itself as a premier developer of core urban infill residential and mixed-use trophy communities with a disciplined focus on high barrier-to-entry markets that appeal to the rising creative class. Within these markets we select locations that are walkable to rapidly expanding employment centers or transit hubs that serve these targeted employment centers. Through a unique combination of entitlement, finance and design expertise, we consistently deliver superior returns to our partners and financial participants. We set ourselves apart as leaders and teammates through creative design, construction expertise, and a detailed approach to the development process. Leveraging our financial acumen with the operational skills of our in-house management company, we optimize project performance by specifically targeting our communities to the changing demands of prospective residents. By balancing the economic demands of each deal with the politics of the entitlement process and a respect for neighboring uses, our unique expertise enables us to find recognized value in exceptional development opportunities. CONSTRUCTION Holland Construction manages all construction activities of Holland Partner Group . On new construction projects, Holland Construction functions hand in hand with Holland Development to manage the entire project development process from conception through completion . This unparalleled collaboration ensures a smooth transition from design development through the construction process to project closeout and transition into property management. Since inception, Holland Construction has facilitated the construction and development of nearly 80 projects representing nearly 20,000 units. RESIDENTIAL Holland Residential, which manages over 60 communities in Arizona, California, Colorado, Oregon, and Washington. We consistently outperform our peers in revenue growth with our fully integrated operating platform that maximizes asset value, drives qualified demand, attracts high rent payers, and elevates tenant retention. This translates to a higher NOI and ultimately a higher asset value. Each regional office is led by a Vice President who is directly supported by Regional Property Managers. The regional teams are directly linked with Holland’s corporate office through dedicated property-specific accountants, multi-layered support divisions and policy-driven processes dedicated to accuracy and accountability. Explore our Communities REDEVELOPMENT Holland Partner Group ’s Redevelopment team has been involved in the acquisition and reposition of nearly 50 assets spanning over 14,000 units. The team has successfully deployed over $150M in capital improvements including roof replacement on over 7,000 units, complete residing of six properties, numerous exterior repaints, and over 60 clubhouse renovations, among other exterior enhancements. In addition, in conjunction with Holland Residential, the group has managed the interior renovation of 10,000 unit interiors. We have refined our interior unit renovation scope to two primary packages based on customer feedback and ROI analysis. By standardizing our approach to interior renovation, we are able to streamline purchasing and installations across five states and allow the team to execute our strategy immediately upon transition. The Holland redevelopment team takes a very active role in the acquisition process. We are able to quickly review the exterior needs of an asset from a cursory review and give our acquisition team necessary and swift feedback on the estimated capital needs of the property for use in underwriting. Once an asset is under contract, the team is involved in a thorough due diligence process that includes an extensive exterior review of the physical plant and a full interior unit evaluation. As needed, destructive testing is conducted when substantial structural or system issues are in question. In many cases, we are able to identify hidden damage that is not easily identified during a cursory review. START BUILDING YOUR FUTURE Holland Partner Group is an equal opportunity employer that is committed to inclusion and diversity. We take affirmative action to ensure equal opportunity for all applicants without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, veteran status, or other legally protected characteristics. Careers LET US HELP YOU! Holland Partner Group is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at [email protected] or [email protected] . You may also call (360) 694-7888 . CONTACT US (360) 694-7888 808 Washington St, #500 Vancouver, WA 98660 Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 SOCIAL Holland Partner Group | All Rights Reserved. equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Privacy Policy ESG Policy Press Transparency in Coverage Happily Made by Razz
