SOURCE: https://ccdmag.com/aec-industry-news/deveraux-newmark/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Newmark's $83.8M Deal, The Deveraux, a new Multifamily Property Skip to content Tuesday, September 29, 2026 CCD Special Report: Impressive Construction Progress at Oaks Ridge at 64th in Denver Construction on The Summit in Avon, Colorado Begins – A Multifamily Real Estate Development Near Vail. BMC Investments, Rockpoint 100% Retail Leasing at Oasis Development Achieved Sterling Ranch’s First Douglas County School District Elementary School Reaches Full Height New Larimer County Emergency Services Facility Opens AEC + CRE Industry News Project Updates VIP News | Pathfinders Have a News Tip? 2027 Media Kit CCD Team Newmark Facilitates $83.8 Million Financing for The Deveraux, a Premier Multifamily Property in Denver’s RiNo Neighborhood multifamily housing , Newmark , The Deveraux The Deveraux, A Trophy Multifamily Community Demonstrates Exceptional Leasing Velocity The Deveraux is a newly constructed, 374-unit trophy multifamily community with 21,000 square feet of Class A retail space located in the vibrant River North (RiNo) neighborhood of Denver, Colorado. The financing was secured through bank lease-up execution on behalf of an undisclosed borrower. Newmark Vice Chairman Lee Redmond and Vice President Nick Schroeder arranged the financing in collaboration with Managing Directors Courtney Crowder and Jack Kachadurian, who provided local market expertise to support the transaction. “The Deveraux’s remarkable leasing success highlights its position as a premier multifamily asset,” said Redmond. “We are proud to have facilitated this significant financing, which reflects the strength of the property and the confidence of the lending community in Denver’s dynamic RiNo neighborhood.” The property, delivered in July 2024, features a mix of studio, one- and two-bedroom floor plans averaging 732 square feet. Despite significant supply in the RiNo submarket, The Deveraux has demonstrated exceptional leasing velocity, underscoring its appeal and strong market demand. According to Newmark Research, Denver remains one of the nation’s most active markets for new multifamily deliveries, with elevated completion levels expected to continue through 2025 as the surge of 2021–2022 starts comes online – particularly across urban-core submarkets like RiNo. Share This Post: You May Also Like MBK Rental Living Unveils Plans for 862 Luxury Residential Units Across Denver and Colorado Springs Real Estate Power Move: Continental Realty Group Acquires 168 Units for $27 Million in Las Vegas! Wayfair to Open 140,000-Square-Foot Flagship Store at Denver’s Shops at Northfield Now in its 18th year, award-winning Colorado Construction & Design® (CCD) is Colorado’s leading construction news and marketing magazine. CCD is the official publisher for AGC Colorado and Media Partner with numerous trade organizations including ASAC, CREW Denver, SMPS Colorado, AIA Colorado, ACEC, CRMCA-CSSGA, CAMPC, RMMI, AISC, IEC-IECRM, HCC, RMSCA, SMACNA, ULI, USGBC, ASEC, and Colorado BUILT . CCD serves as an information sharing resource for architects, engineers and general contractors, and subcontractors (the AEC, CRE, and MEP industry) in Colorado. Sign Up for Our Newsletter Email * Company First Name * Last Name Useful Links 2027 Media Kit Have a News Tip? Featured Stories Project Updates VIP News | Pathfinders Contact Us Digital Magazine Library July/Aug 2026 June 2026 Apr/May 2026 Feb/Mar 2026 Special Edition 2025 RetroSpective 2025 AGC ACE Awards Oct/Nov 2025 Aug/Sept 2025 Copyright © 2026 CCD Magazine . All rights reserved. Website by AECNN, Inc.
