SOURCE: https://www.connectcre.com/stories/holland-ejc-jv-acquires-pair-of-vancouver-mfs-for-63m/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Holland, EJF JV Acquires Pair of Vancouver MF’s for $63M - Connect CRE Menu Filter Stories Get Daily News Advertise Connect Money Search --> Seattle & Northwest US Real Estate News / Seattle & Northwest Real Estate News More Regions and Sectors National Canada Atlanta & Southeast Boston & New England California Chicago & Midwest Florida & Gulf Coast New York & Tri-State Phoenix & Southwest Seattle & Northwest Texas Washington DC & Mid-Atlantic Global Apartments Digital Infrastructure Distressed Assets Finance Healthcare Hospitality Industrial Net Lease Office Opportunity Zones Retail Senior Housing Student Housing Weekender CRE Insider Video Connect News Commercial Real Estate news for every market and every facet, every day. Connect CRE Events Live and virtual events bringing together the best of information and networking. CRE Industry Events Live industry events. Connect Creative A full service marketing and PR agency. Connect Classroom Offering CRE focused continuing education courses on demand. ApartmentBuildings.com Is a dynamic platform to search for, list and promote multifamily listings nationwide. Connect Awards View the A-list of commercial real estate & submit nominations. Connect Media Kit Advertise, Promote, Attend, Create – Work with Connect. Loan tuitive Find the right lender for your loan. About Connect Meet the team behind the machine and taste a little of the secret sauce. States We Cover Cities We Cover Companies We Cover Get RSS Feed Submit a Press Release Terms and Conditions Sitemap Connect News Your source for daily news covering CRE transactions and trends. Stay informed on national, regional and property sector news that matters to your business. Regions National Canada Atlanta & Southeast Boston & New England California Chicago & Midwest Florida & Gulf Coast New York & Tri-State Phoenix & Southwest Seattle & Northwest Texas Washington DC & Mid-Atlantic Global Sectors Apartments Digital Infrastructure Distressed Assets Finance Healthcare Hospitality Industrial Net Lease Office Opportunity Zones Retail Senior Housing Student Housing Other Topics Weekender CRE Insider Video Connect Events View All Connect Events --> --> Connect Classroom Offering on-demand online courses that provide continuing education credits for brokers, attorneys, appraisers and architects. Select from easily accessible video and written courses that cover a variety of CRE topics. Find Your Course Connect Awards View All --> STAY INFORMED News when you need it. All our Breaking News, right to your inbox. 'main-menu')); --> Sub Markets Seattle & Northwest Oregon Pacific Northwest Portland Seattle Washington Property Sectors Apartments CRE Insider Digital Infrastructure Distressed Assets Finance Healthcare Hospitality Industrial Infrastructure Net Lease Office Opportunity Zones Retail Senior Housing Student Housing Weekender Topics Lease Sale/Acquisition Development Financing People Economy Policy/Gov't Recruitment Filter Seattle & Northwest CRE News In Your Inbox. Sign up for Connect emails to stay informed with CRE stories that are 150 words or less. Seattle & Northwest + Apartments | November 13, 2020 By: Dennis Kaiser Holland, EJF JV Acquires Pair of Vancouver MF’s for $63M Vancouver, WA-based Holland Partner Group (HPG) and Washington, DC-based EJF Capital LLC formed a JV to acquire and operate two adjacent six-story multifamily buildings in downtown Vancouver, WA. The assets were acquired for $62.5 million and will be rebranded as Coen & Columbia. The project will consist of 200 multifamily units and roughly 2,200 square feet of retail. The buildings are located on 1.1 acres in a Qualified Opportunity Zone. The first building, Coen, is scheduled to deliver in Q4 2020, and is a 118-unit multifamily community with 2,200 square feet of retail. The second building, Columbia, offers 82 multifamily units. Both buildings sit atop a city-owned 750-space parking garage. KeyBank provided financing for the project. HPG’s Clyde Holland says, “This is another exciting project we have on the books with EJF. Coen & Columbia, coupled with Block 10 , creates a portfolio in close proximity that will add to the vibrancy of downtown Vancouver.” For comments, questions or concerns, please contact Dennis Kaiser *Pictured 601 Columbia St. Connect Inside The Story Connect With HPG’s Holland Connect With EJF Capital About Dennis Kaiser Dennis Kaiser is Vice President of Public Relations and Communications for Connect Creative. Dennis is a communications leader with more than 40 years of experience including as a journalist and in corporate and agency marketing communications roles. He is responsible for Connect Creative’s agency client services and is involved in a range of initiatives ranging from public relations and content strategy, communications and message development, copywriting, media relations, social media and content marketing services. Prior to joining Connect Media in 2015, his most recent corporate communications roles involved leading a regional public relations effort across Southern California for CBRE, playing a key marketing role on JLL’s national retail team, and directing the global public relations effort at ValleyCrest (BrightView), the nation’s largest commercial landscape services company. He has worked on marketing communications assignments for such CRE companies as Blackstone/Equity Office, Carlyle, Caruso, Disney Resorts, GE Capital, Irvine Company, Hines, Howard Hughes Corp., Jeffries, Lennar, MGM, Marcus & Millichap, Prologis, Raleigh Studios, Simon, Starwood, Trammell Crow Company, Transamerica, UBS and Wynn Resorts. Dennis has also worked on communications and launch strategies for a number of consumer electronic, media and tech brands including SlingMedia, Channel Master, Deluxe Media Entertainment, BeIn Sports, EchoStar and Sprint. Dennis’s agency background included firms such as Off Madison Ave., Idea Hall and Macy + Associates. He has earned an outstanding reputation with organization leaders as a trusted advisor, strategic program implementer, consensus builder and exceptional collaborator. Dennis has developed and managed national communications programs for Fortune 500 companies to start-ups, both public and private. He’s successfully worked with journalists across the globe representing clients involved in major-breaking news stories, product launches, media tours, and company news announcements. Dennis has been involved in a host of charitable and community organizations including the American Cancer Society, Easter Seals, Boy Scouts, Chrysalis Foundation, Freedom For Life, HOLA, L.A.’s BEST, Reach Out and Read, Super Bowl Host Committee, and the Thunderbirds Charities. Order Reprints ◦ Sale/Acquisition Apartment buildings for sale Check out the latest properties available on apartmentbuildings.com 1519 N Bell St Spokane Valley, WA Seattle & Northwest + Apartment Buildings Listing Status: Available Listing Type: Call for offers Price: $8,975,000 No. of Units: 24 Year Built: 2023 Lot Size: 1500 Acres Opportunity Zone: No Price per unit: $373,958 Learn More 2465 NE ALBERTA St Portland, OR Seattle & Northwest + Apartment Buildings Listing Status: Available Listing Type: Call for offers Price: $9,499,900 No. of Units: 34 Year Built: 2025 Lot Size: 22241 Acres Opportunity Zone: No Price per unit: $279,408 Learn More View all apartments |Sale/Acquisition Seattle & Northwest Apartments Holland, EJF JV Acquires Pair of Vancouver MF’s for $63M Dennis Kaiser November 13, 2020 Load More
