SOURCE: https://www.woodpartners.com/wood-partners-sells-dimension-seattle/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

WOOD PARTNERS SELLS DIMENSION SEATTLE FOR $144 MILLION - Wood Partners Close Accessibility Tools Invert colors Monochrome Dark contrast Light contrast Low saturation High saturation Highlight links Highlight headings Screen reader Read mode Content scaling 100 % Font size 100 % Line height 100 % Letter spacing 100 % Skip to main content Services Development Construction Portfolio Property Archive Property Map Offices Careers Leadership News Contact Privacy Policy | Digital Accessibility. Services Development Construction Portfolio Find A Property Explore The Map Featured Communities V by Alta Orlando Alta 87 Phoenix Alta Flatirons Denver View All Properties Offices Nationwide Presence Explore our nationwide offices, strategically positioned to serve you better. Find us at these key locations: View All Atlanta Austin Boston California Charlotte Dallas Denver Houston Mid-Atlantic Nashville Orlando Pacific Northwest Phoenix Raleigh-Durham-Chapel Hill Salt Lake City South Florida Tampa Careers Leadership News Wood Partners Breaks Ground on 237-Unit Multifamily Community Near Boston Read More Wood Partners Strengthens South Florida Leadership Team With Key Hire Read More Wood Partners and Marcus Partners Break Ground on 280-Unit Multifamily Community Near Raleigh Read More Wood Partners Breaks Ground on Alta Newnan Crossing in Newnan, Georgia Read More See All Articles Contact WOOD PARTNERS SELLS DIMENSION SEATTLE FOR $144 MILLION Published on: September 22, 2015 Seattle, WA (September 22, 2015) – Wood Partners announced the sale of its high-rise apartment building in downtown Seattle, Dimension, earlier today. The 27-story, 298 unit, luxury property went on the market on in June of this year and sold to Heitman Real Estate Investment Management. “Dimension is another example of an integrated business model that Wood Partners has successfully employed to create a unique and beautiful asset,” said Brian Hansen, Western Region Development Director for Wood Partners. “Connecting residents to the true Seattle culture and creating a backdrop to foster culture was a main focus of this development and its success within the community is a testament to those efforts.” Dimension is located on the corner of Cedar and 3rd in Seattle’s popular Belltown neighborhood and was designed by Hewitt Architects of Seattle. The building is comprised of European-style studio, one- and two-bedroom apartments and is in close proximity to conveniences, transit, nightlife and major technology employers Amazon.com and Microsoft. “Through an extensive research process involving marketing, design and operations, our team worked in a powerfully collaboratively environment while developing Dimension to ultimately produce an exceptional building,” said Steve Yoon, Wood Partners’ Development Director for the Pacific Northwest. “A highly thoughtful design process resulted in modern units and amenities that clearly matched the desires of our target demographic.” Dimension also featured The Ground Floor Project – a design and programming concept located on the first floor of the building – which was created to provide a functional backdrop for cultural activities featuring local musicians, artists, and Dimension’s residents. This concept debuted at Wood Partners’ project in downtown Los Angeles, and is planned to be featured at other projects in the coming months, as well. For more information about Dimension, visit DimensionSeattle.com . About Wood Partners Wood Partners is a national real estate company that acquires, develops, constructs and property manages high density and mixed-use communities. It ranks consistently among the top five multifamily developers in the country. Through quality construction, responsible land development and intelligent design, our communities reflect the aesthetic and social fabric of the community and provide a luxurious living experience at a fair price. The company has been involved in the acquisition and development of more than 53,000 homes with a combined value of more than $8.3 billion nationwide. The company currently owns more than 75 properties with a combined total of 21,000+ units. Wood Partners has offices in 18 major markets nationwide including Atlanta, Austin, Baltimore, Delray Beach/South Florida, Boston, Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, New York, Southern California, Orlando, Phoenix, Raleigh-Durham, San Francisco, Seattle, and Washington, D.C. To learn more about Wood Partners, please visit our website, WoodPartners.com . Previous Next Latest Articles September 15, 2015 WOOD PARTNERS WELCOMES RESIDENTS TO ALTA BELMONT, NEW MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT IN SMYRNA Read More September 30, 2015 WOOD PARTNERS ANNOUNCES NEW DEVELOPMENT IN SANTA ANA Read More Local Office 91 Hartwell Ave. Lexington, Massachusetts 02421 Company Careers Leadership News #GOOD2BWOOD We strive to go beyond giving people a better place to live. We create distinctive communities of lasting value. Learn More Services Development Construction Portfolio Offices Contact © Wood Partners. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Digital Accessibility.
