SOURCE: https://www.aoarchitects.com/wp-content/uploads/12.20.22_Rentv_Esperanza-at-Duarte-Station.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

NEW APARTMENT COMMUNITY IN DUARTE OFFERS A RANGE OF
RENTAL OPTIONS IN THE SAN GABRIEL VALLEY
December 20, 2022

Esperanza at Duarte Station, a new Class A 344-unit, five-story apartment community in the
San Gabriel Valley city of Duarte, has been completed and is now open to the public. The
project is a development of MBK Rental Living and Haseko Corporation.




The project contains a mix of studio, one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartment homes, situated
11 miles from downtown Pasadena and 22 miles from downtown Los Angeles along the vibrant
Interstate I-210 corridor. Located on 4.3 acres at the intersection of Fasana Rd and Highland
Ave, Esperanza is adjacent to the Duarte/City of Hope Metro Gold Line Station and offers
residents luxury living with 12 floor plans ranging from 514 sf to 1.1k sf, as well as a seven-and-
a-half story parking structure.


Residents can enjoy unique rooftop amenities with dramatic views of the San Gabriel
mountains, including a resort-style pool and spa; an indoor/outdoor casita with a living room
lounge, fireplace, open dining room, and entertainers-style kitchen; a landscaped roof deck with
poolside cabanas, outdoor TVs with entertainers’ bar, grilling stations, fire pit and lounge area;
and a rooftop gymnasium with free weights, cardio and HIIT zones, and outdoor yoga.
Esperanza’s first-level amenities, which will open in February 2023, include the leasing area and
café bar, a co-working area with open seating, and a cantina with lounge and counter seating
with direct access to Food Truck Alley. Currently all leasing is being held on the rooftop in the
Casita. Other common area community amenities include outdoor entertainment, BBQ spaces,
and multiple open spaces including a linear park that runs the entire length of the community.
The future “casa de perro” will consist of an interior pet wash and dry station as well as an
exterior dog park with seating.


Esperanza is located within walking distance of the world-renowned City of Hope, a 120-acre
comprehensive cancer treatment center and major area employer that is currently expanding.
Residents will have easy access to Trader Joe’s, Target, Starbucks, Walmart, and other major
retail and entertainment options as well as dining offerings. The apartment community is also
situated near historic Route 66, the historic towns of Monrovia and Bradbury, and numerous
hiking trails along the San Gabriel Mountains. With the Metro L Line (Gold Line) within a five-
minute walk, it is a great opportunity to miss the freeway traffic and commute to downtown Los
Angeles within 30 minutes of home.


Esperanza at Duarte Station is a joint venture of MBK Rental Living and Haseko Corporation
with construction financing provided by Principal Real Estate Investors. The project partners are
construction manager R.D. Olson Construction, Architects Orange, PBA Structural Engineers,
MJS Landscape, and property manager Greystar.

