SOURCE: https://la.streetsblog.org/2024/09/13/duarte-station-area-is-adding-transit-oriented-multi-generational-housing-plus-walk-improvements
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

localStorage.setItem('darkMode', val)); } }" x-bind:class="{ 'dark': darkMode }"> Duarte Station Area is Adding Transit-Oriented Multi-Generational Housing, plus Walk Improvements - Streetsblog Los Angeles Skip to content Log In MENU DONATE HERE USA CAL SF SD Search Search Contact Us About Us Who We Are Donate Streetsblog Los Angeles Editorial Independence Policy Our Funders Donor Transparency Policy Pedestrian Safety Buses Bicycling Freeways Legacy of Redlining Transit Oriented Development Metro LADOT LAPD LASD Log In Sponsored SGV Duarte Station Area is Adding Transit-Oriented Multi-Generational Housing, plus Walk Improvements Just north of Duarte's light rail station, 600+ luxury apartments are under construction - some completed - and 100+ affordable units are on the horizon By Chris Greenspon 10:58 AM PDT on September 13, 2024 a:first-child]:rounded-l-3xl [&>a:last-child]:rounded-r-3xl [&>a:not(:first-child)]:border-l-0"> Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky A rendering for the Highland Village affordable housing apartments included in the Duarte Station Specific Plan. The 2013 Duarte Station Specific Plan for transit oriented development is moving closer to fruition. The Specific Plan is focused at and around a 19-acre site adjacent to Metro’s Duarte/City of Hope Station. Its stated goal is to boost transit ridership by transforming the station area from “simply a train stop into an exciting multi-use public gathering place.” What this actually means is that there are mixed-use apartment buildings in the works: 100-120 units of multi-generational affordable housing in the development process, plus 636 luxury housing units with all the trimmings. The latter project is already under construction and more than halfway done. Alongside all that, there will be some nice pedestrian promenades and paseos connecting these residents to the Metro A Line, just a block away. The affordable units – called Highland Village – will be built on much of the current station parking lot. Future residents will have to earn between 30 and 60 percent of area median income to live at the building on Fasana Road and Highland Avenue. Metro awarded the contract for the project to Jamboree Housing in May of 2024. No development schedule has been announced yet. An area map for the Highland Village affordable housing project, part of the Duarte Station Specific Plan. Immediately across the parking lot, luxury housing developer MBK Rental Living is getting closer to finishing its twin towers: Esperanza and Solana . The unfinished Solana luxury apartment tower, part of the Duarte Station Specific Plan. Credit: Chris Greenspon/SBLA These two buildings will be fully stocked with pools, linear parks, clubhouses, game lawns, “foodie lounges,” playgrounds, firepits, courtyards, gyms, and over 1,000 parking spaces in their garages. Reviews of the finished Esperanza building are somewhat mixed . A facility map for Esperanza and Solana luxury apartment towers. For all other light rail riders and Duarte locals, the immediate area leading to the Metro station will have widened sidewalks, shade, passenger loading, enhanced bus stops, street furniture, and even outdoor games. The surrounding land uses here are single-family residences to the north and to the west, City of Hope’s medical research campus and the Santa Fe Dam to the South, and a business park to the east. Streetsblog’s San Gabriel Valley coverage is supported by Foothill Transit, offering car-free travel throughout the San Gabriel Valley with connections to the Gold Line Stations across the Foothills and Commuter Express lines traveling into the heart of downtown L.A. To plan your trip, visit Foothill Transit . “Foothill Transit. Going Good Places.” Sign-up for our SGV Connect Newsletter, coming to your inbox on Fridays! a:first-child]:rounded-l-3xl [&>a:last-child]:rounded-r-3xl [&>a:not(:first-child)]:border-l-0"> Share on Facebook Share on Bluesky Chris Greenspon Chris Greenspon is the San Gabriel Valley Reporter for Streetsblog L.A. and co-host for SGV Connect. Read More: affordable housing | affordable housing | Housing | pedestrian | Pedestrian Infrastructure | SGV | SGV Connect Stay in touch Sign up for our free newsletter Leave this field blank Email Thanks for subscribing! Streetsblog has migrated to a new comment system. New commenters can register directly in the comments section of any article. Returning commenters: your previous comments and display name have been preserved, but you'll need to reclaim your account by clicking "Forgot your password?" on the sign-in form, entering your email, and following the verification link to set a new password — this is required because passwords could not be carried over during the migration. For questions, contact tips@streetsblog.org. More from Streetsblog Los Angeles Today's Headlines Wednesday’s Headlines ICE, delays on B/D Lines, LAPD, Beverly Hills speed limits, Wilshire/Crenshaw, Malibu, LPIs, Santa Clarita, Santa Monica, car-nage, and more Joe Linton September 30, 2026 Today's Headlines Tuesday’s Headlines Speed cameras, takeovers, student pass, South Pasadena, Metro LAX station, DUI laws, car-nage, and more Joe Linton September 29, 2026 The Week In... This Week In Livable Streets Transit Month, Metro board selection, project delivery, Anaheim Street, Culver City debate, PSAC and more Joe Linton September 28, 2026 Today's Headlines Monday’s Headlines DIY crosswalks, ULA, bike lanes, bike path, elections, Glendale, East Hollywood, hydrogen, Brightline, car-nage, and more Joe Linton September 28, 2026 Bike Walk Paths L.A. City to Greenlight West Valley River Bike/Walk Path Construction The $84 million Los Angeles Riverway West San Fernando Valley project will extend 2.9 miles from Vanalden Avenue to Balboa Boulevard - across the L.A. City neighborhood of Reseda Joe Linton September 25, 2026 See all posts Covering Los Angeles's livable streets movement Sign up for our free newsletter Leave this field blank Email Thanks for subscribing! DONATE HERE USA CAL SF SD © Copyright 2026
