SOURCE: https://www.mbkrentalliving.com/news/mbk-rental-living-announces-kickoff-of-leasing-at-344-unit-new-apartment-community-in-l-a-county/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

MBK RENTAL LIVING ANNOUNCES KICKOFF OF LEASING AT 344-UNIT NEW APARTMENT COMMUNITY IN L.A. COUNTY - MBK Rental Living Skip to content Home About MRL MBK Rental Living Leadership Team Featured Portfolio Contact Us Careers In The News With Our World Communities Click for Portfolio Vida – Morgan Hill, CA Solana – Duarte, CA The Haven – Petaluma, CA Las Brisas – Santa Maria, CA Vintage Farms – Murrieta, CA The Sanctuary – Thousand Oaks, CA Ona – Natomas, CA The Aven – Colorado Springs, CO Aurum – Fremont, CA Alexan Pena Station – Denver, CO Contact Us Home About MRL MBK Rental Living Leadership Team Featured Portfolio Contact Us Careers In The News With Our World Communities Click for Portfolio Vida – Morgan Hill, CA Solana – Duarte, CA The Haven – Petaluma, CA Las Brisas – Santa Maria, CA Vintage Farms – Murrieta, CA The Sanctuary – Thousand Oaks, CA Ona – Natomas, CA The Aven – Colorado Springs, CO Aurum – Fremont, CA Alexan Pena Station – Denver, CO Contact Us Menu Make an Inquiry In The News Search Results Home » MBK RENTAL LIVING ANNOUNCES KICKOFF OF LEASING AT 344-UNIT NEW APARTMENT COMMUNITY IN L.A. COUNTY Back Esperanza at Duarte Station offers next-level amenities and great access to countless L.A. metro attractions IRVINE, Calif. (October 13, 2022) – MBK Rental Living, one of California’s most successful and innovative private developers, announced today that pre-leasing is underway at Esperanza at Duarte Station, a new Class A 344-unit, five-story apartment community located in the Los Angeles County submarket of Duarte. Model tours are being held by appointment for those on the interest list before being opened to the public. These studio, one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartment homes are 11 miles from downtown Pasadena and 22 miles from downtown Los Angeles along the vibrant Interstate I-210 corridor. Located on 4.3 acres at the intersection of Fasana and Highland Avenue, Esperanza is adjacent to the Duarte/City of Hope Metro Gold Line Station and will offer residents luxury living with 12 floor plans ranging from 514 to 1,090 square feet, as well as a seven-and-a-half story parking structure. “As our growth continues throughout California, we are excited to extend our presence once more in Los Angeles County in the area of Duarte where MBK Rental Living will offer high-quality, luxury flats with expansive amenities that were designed for how our residents live,” said Ken McCarren, President of MBK Rental Living. “We look forward to providing additional opportunities for renters to live in our sustainably designed homes.” Residents will enjoy unique rooftop amenities with dramatic views of the San Gabriel mountains, including a resort-style pool and spa; an indoor/outdoor casita with a living room lounge, fireplace, open dining room, and entertainers-style kitchen; a landscaped roof deck with poolside cabanas, outdoor TVs with entertainers’ bar, grilling stations, fire pit and lounge area; and a rooftop gimnasio with free weights, cardio and HIIT zones, and outdoor yoga. Esperanza’s first-level amenities include the leasing area and café bar, a co-working area with open seating, and a cantina with lounge and counter seating with direct access to Food Truck Alley. Other common area community amenities will include outdoor entertainment, BBQ spaces, and multiple open spaces including a linear park that runs the entire length of the community. The future “casa de perro” will consist of an interior pet wash and dry station as well as an exterior dog park with seating. Esperanza is located within walking distance of the world-renowned City of Hope, a 120-acre comprehensive cancer treatment center and major area employer that is currently expanding. Residents will have easy access to Trader Joe’s, Target, Starbucks, Walmart, and other major retail and entertainment options as well as dining offerings. The apartment community is also situated near historic Route 66, the historic towns of Monrovia and Bradbury, and numerous hiking trails along the San Gabriel Mountains. “We have elevated the amenities with this community to mirror the lifestyles of its residents by designing high-end facilities including pocket parks in the courtyards, a landscaped rooftop, and open floor plan designs that will attract a diverse array of residents, from professionals and families to empty nesters and students along with a special emphasis on frontline workers at the City of Hope,” said McCarren. “At the same time, there are even more reasons to rent given the current macro-economic environment of rising interest rates.” Esperanza at Duarte Station is a joint venture of MBK Rental Living and Haseko Corporation with construction financing provided by Principal Real Estate Investors. The project partners are construction manager R.D. Olson Construction, Architects Orange, PBA Structural Engineers, MJS Landscape, and property manager Greystar. The community’s first move-ins are anticipated to take place late Fall 2022. The Grand Opening is scheduled for Jan./Feb. 2023. For more information, please visit www.liveesperanza.com . About MBK Rental Living MBK Rental Living is active in the acquisition and development of apartment communities. The company’s mission is to be the preeminent lifestyle developer focusing on creating communities that deliver value for their residents, partners, and investors. Throughout its more than 30-year history, MBK has earned a reputation for delivering award-winning customer satisfaction in housing that is innovative in design, comfort, sustainability, and craftsmanship, all at an excellent value. MBK Rental Living is a division of MBK Real Estate Ltd., the U.S. real estate development arm of Mitsui & Co., Ltd., a global trading and investment company with a diversified business portfolio. MBK Real Estate’s companies span a wide spectrum of real estate development including apartments, industrial, and their senior housing divisions. MBK Rental Living is headquartered in Irvine, California. Corporate offices are located at 4 Park Plaza Suite 1700, Irvine, CA 92614; or visit their website at www.MBKRentalLiving.com . Related posts: MBK Rental Living Announces the Sale of Zia in Anaheim, California MBK Rental Living Announces the Sale of Zia in Anaheim, California MBK Rental Living Sells LA County Luxury Apartment Community Esperanza MBK Rental Living Sells LA County Luxury Apartment Community Esperanza First Residents Move into MBK Rental Living’s Solana at Duarte Station First Residents Move into MBK Rental Living’s Solana at Duarte Station About MBK Rental Living’s integrated team of real estate professionals possesses a wealth of experience in the development and management of all product types in the rental housing market. MBK Rental Living is a wholly owned subsidiary of MBK Real Estate. fb in Contact 949-789-8300 rentalliving@mbk.com 4 Park Pl #1700, Irvine, CA 92614, United States Useful Links About MRL Our Communities Contact Us Add Your Heading Text Here Instagram Some places deserve a future that honors their pas The successful sale of Zia, our 315-unit Class A c The successful sale of Zia, our 315-unit Class A c Proud to share that leasing has officially begun a Copyrights © 2026 All Rights Reserved. MBK Rental Living Powered by WebPixel Pro Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Statement Cookies Policy Back to Top Home About MRL + MBK Rental Living Leadership Team Featured Portfolio Contact Us Careers In The News With Our World Communities + Click for Portfolio Esperanza - Duarte, CA Now Leasing Vida - Morgan Hill, CA Now Leasing Solana - Duarte, CA Now Leasing The Haven - Petaluma, CA Now Leasing Las Brisas - Santa Maria, CA Now Leasing Vintage Farms - Murrieta, CA Now Leasing The Sanctuary - Thousand Oaks, CA Now Pre-Leasing Ona - Natomas, CA Now Leasing The Aven - Colorado Springs, CO Now Leasing Aurum – Fremont, CA Coming Soon Alexan Pena Station - Denver, CO Now Leasing Contact Us rentalliving@mbk.com 4 Park Pl #1700, Irvine, CA 92614, United States fb in Please connect us We would love to hear from you Name Email Phone Subject REFERRAL -- Select One -- Search Engine Partner/Investor Trade/Industry Magazine Other Message SEND MESSAGE 949-789-8300 rentalliving@mbk.com 4 Park Pl #1700, Irvine, CA 92614, United States fb in
