SOURCE: https://www.latimes.com/b2b/commercial-real-estate/story/2026-03-05/mbk-rental-living-sells-esperanza-duarte
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

MBK Sells Esperanza at Duarte Station Class A Apartments - Los Angeles Times News Home Page California Election 2024 Housing & Homelessness Politics Science & Medicine World & Nation Business Artificial Intelligence Autos Jobs, Labor & Workplace Real Estate Technology & the Internet California California Politics Earthquakes Education Housing & Homelessness L.A. Influential L.A. Politics Mental Health Climate & Environment Climate Change Water & Drought Entertainment & Arts Arts Books Stand-Up Comedy Hollywood Inc. The Envelope (Awards) Movies Music Television Things to Do De Los En Español Food 101 Best Restaurants in L.A. Recipes Image Art & Culture Conversations Drip Index: Event Guides Fashion Shopping Guides Styling Myself Lifestyle Health & Wellness Home Design L.A. Affairs Plants Travel & Experiences Weekend Things to Do in L.A. Obituaries Voices Editorials Letters to the Editor Contributors Short Docs Sports Angels Angel City FC Chargers Clippers Dodgers Ducks Galaxy High School Sports Kings Lakers Olympics USC UCLA Rams Sparks World & Nation Immigration & the Border Mexico & the Americas Middle East Ukraine Times Everywhere 404 by L.A. Times Facebook Instagram LA Times Today Newsletters Photography Podcasts Short Docs TikTok Threads Video YouTube X (Twitter) For Subscribers eNewspaper All Sections _________________ LA Times Studios BUSINESS • AI & Tech • Automotive • Banking & Finance • Commercial Real Estate • Entertainment • Goods & Retail • Innovators Unplugged • Healthcare & Science • Law • Sports • Orange County HOT PROPERTY • Decor & Design • Homes For Sale LIVE & WELL • Fitness • Beauty • Body • Longevity TRAVEL • Trip Ideas • Travel Destinations • Travel Themes • Travel Experiences THE HUB: REBUILDING LA DOCTORS & SCIENTISTS DEALS & COUPONS NEWSLETTERS Live Stream Events Screening Series Crossword Games L.A. Times Store Subscriptions Manage Subscription EZPAY Delivery Issue eNewspaper Group Subscriptions Subscribe Subscriber Terms Gift Subscription Terms About Us About Us Archives Company News eNewspaper For the Record Got a Tip? L.A. Times Careers L.A. Times Store LA Times Studios Capabilities News App: Apple IOS News App: Google Play Newsroom Directory Public Affairs Rights, Clearance & Permissions Short Docs Advertising Classifieds Find/Post Jobs Hot Property Sections Local Ads Marketplace L.A. Times Digital Agency Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? Place an Ad Place an Open House Sotheby’s International Realty Special Supplements Healthy Living Higher Education Philanthropy Sections Tap to enable a layout that focuses on the article. Focus mode Show Search Search Query Submit Search EVENTS MAGAZINES TOP COMPANIES VIDEOS View All Advertisement LA Times Studios ‎ Learn more Content produced by LA Times Studios is developed from press releases, announcements and contributor content. Independent of the L.A. Times Newsroom. Questions? Please email studios@latimes.com. Commercial Real Estate MBK and Haseko Close Major Sale of 344-Unit Esperanza Community (Photo by Martin King) By Paul Williams Contributor March 5, 2026 4:05 AM PT 4 min Click here to listen to this article Share via Close extra sharing options Email Facebook X LinkedIn Threads Reddit WhatsApp Copy Link URL Copied! Print 0:00 0:00 1x This is read by an automated voice. Please report any issues or inconsistencies here . 344-unit, Class A property offers the newest luxury apartment in the Upper San Gabriel Valley p]:text-cms-story-body-color-text" data-subscriber-content> Irvine-headquartered MBK Rental Living, a developer of apartment communities , announced today that it has successfully executed the sale of its Esperanza at Duarte Station, a 344-unit new transit-oriented Class A apartment community in Duarte, to an undisclosed buyer. Developed as a joint venture of MBK Rental Living and Haseko Corporation, Esperanza reflects the persistent demand for high‑quality, amenity‑rich communities that align with what today’s residents value most in their living experience. “At MBK Rental Living, we believe great communities are built around people, not just buildings. Esperanza at Duarte Station brings that belief to life through intentional design, dynamic rooftop amenities, inviting courtyards, and immersive, year-round resident programming. The result is more than a place to live – it’s a lifestyle that fosters connection, energy, and a true sense of belonging,” said Ken McCarren, president of MBK Rental Living. “The community’s proximity to the Metro station and the world‑renowned City of Hope makes it especially attractive for those seeking connection, opportunity, and ease. We are seeing this same strong demand at Solana at Duarte Station, reinforcing the long-term appeal of this exceptional market.” Opened in November 2022, Esperanza at Duarte Station is a five-story community with a total of 344 studio, one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartments ranging from 514 to 1,090 square feet with 56 different floor plans. It is located on a 4.3-acre property at the intersection of Highland Avenue and Fasana Road. Advertisement Esperanza is highlighted with rooftop amenities offering dramatic views of the San Gabriel mountains, including a resort-style pool and spa; an indoor/outdoor casita with a living room lounge, fireplace, open dining room and entertainers-style kitchen; a landscaped roof deck with poolside cabanas, outdoor TVs with bar, grilling stations, fire pit and lounge area; and a rooftop gym with free weights, cardio and HIIT zones and outdoor yoga. The community’s first-level amenities include a co-working area with open seating, a cantina with lounge and counter seating with direct access to a “food truck alley, and the popular “Casa de Perro” with an interior pet wash and dry station as well as an exterior dog park with seating. Esperanza is within walking distance of the Duarte/City of Hope Metro Gold Line commuter train station, and City of Hope, a 120-acre comprehensive cancer treatment center and major area employer. The train and freeway access eases transit to nearby Los Angeles, Pasadena and other Southern California business and entertainment destinations. Ryan Fitzpatrick, Chelsea Jervis and CJ Angle from Berkadia brokered the sale and the acquisition financing for the buyer was provided by Kevin Mignogna, Charlie Haggard, Michael Beach, Lee Scott and Joey Guarino also of Berkadia. Advertisement In addition to Esperanza, MBK Rental Living is currently leasing Southern California communities at Solana at Duarte Station and Zia in Anaheim . The company also has several active communities in Northern California and Colorado. Information for this article was sourced from MBK Rental Living . More Business Updates WTE Miami Announces Panel Topics and Featured Speakers for 4th Annual Global Travel Trade Show and Summit PRCP and Conversant Form Joint Venture to Acquire Pacific View Mall in Ventura CIM Group Completes 2535 Alsace Apartment Community in West Adams Donatella Versace Starts a New Chapter With REVOLVE Inside the Summer of poppi: How the Soda Brand Turned Culture Into a Growth Strategy Commercial Real Estate Business by LA Times Studios Goods & Retail Transportation Business by LA Times Studios Learn about opportunities for reaching business leaders across Southern California through leadership awards, forums, magazines and panels. By continuing, you agree to our Terms of Service , which include arbitration and a class action waiver. You agree that we and our third-party vendors may collect and use your information, including through cookies, pixels and similar technologies, for the purposes set forth in our Privacy Policy such as personalizing your experience and ads. Login or register with email Agree & Continue Paul Williams Follow Us Email LinkedIn Paul Williams is a contributor at LA Times Studios. More from Business Entertainment Business How Desert Doghouse Became the Ultimate Joshua Tree Escape for Creatives & Brands Sept. 25, 2026 Commercial Real Estate Northmarq Secures $14.8M Construction Loan for Arcadia Condos Sept. 24, 2026 Banking & Finance Butterfly Equity Acquires Sustainable Food Packaging Leader Sabert Sept. 24, 2026 Commercial Real Estate Hanley Investment Group Facilitates $15M Acquisition of Walgreens-Anchored Center in Lynwood Sept. 24, 2026 Healthcare & Science Saudi Biotech Summit Reports SAR 5.5 Billion in New Deals Sept. 22, 2026 Medical Technology 23 Biotech Companies Pitch for Funding at Saudi Arabia’s LSIF 2026 Sept. 22, 2026 Aerospace, Defense and Space Tech Orbital and Reflex Aerospace Partner to Scale 100,000-Satellite Constellation Sept. 22, 2026 Commercial Real Estate Waterton Plans Value-Add Overhaul for Newly Acquired Reserve at Chino Hills Sept. 22, 2026 Healthcare & Science Paid Program 6 Ways to Manage Your Healthcare Costs Sept. 21, 2026 Banking & Finance Truelink Capital Acquires Industrial Maintenance Leader JT Thorpe Group Sept. 21, 2026 Aerospace, Defense and Space Tech Mach Industries Secures $600M Series C Extension at $3.7B Valuation Sept. 21, 2026 Aerospace, Defense and Space Tech Sophia Space & SLI Set $300M Framework for 10-Satellite Orbital Edge Constellation Sept. 21, 2026 The Latest Deals Halara Promo Codes for September 2026 Iberostar Promo Code Deals for Your Next Getaway in 2026 Score a Nike Promo Code: Best Ways to Save 10% in September 2026 The Best Vrbo Coupons for September 2026 The Best TurboTax Discount Codes - September 2026 Save Up to 50% With a Squarespace Promo Code Make Legal Filings Easy With a LegalZoom Promo Code September 2026 Get 76% Off! Save With These NordVPN Coupon Codes in September 2026 Connect with California Become an L.A. Times subscriber to unlock West Coast news and expert recommendations. Get Started Latest in Real Estate from the Newsroom A $450-million Hollywood studio stacks soundstages, parking and bungalows in the sky Sept. 30, 2026 Mortgage rates climb for fifth week, pushing 30-year home loan above 7% Sept. 25, 2026 For Subscribers The Inland Empire was once a bargain. Now, rising home prices, coastal invasion bring anxiety Sept. 25, 2026 L.A. approves $466 million in affordable housing spending, the largest pool ever Sept. 23, 2026 For Subscribers Why L.A. developers aren’t building more apartments, despite epic housing shortage Sept. 22, 2026 Advertisement Connect with California Become an L.A. Times subscriber to unlock West Coast news and expert recommendations. Get Started Latest in Business from the Newsroom Mattel gets new chief executive as it struggles to turn more of its toys into stars Anthropic warns of AI’s ‘existential risk’ to humans in its IPO filing Voices Hiltzik: No, AI bots won’t extinguish humanity on their own — but you should worry about the humans behind them Sept. 30, 2026 Paramount streaming chief Cindy Holland exits studio, making way for HBO’s Casey Bloys Sept. 29, 2026 Can California stop Trump from drilling off its coast? A new law tries Sept. 29, 2026 Advertisement Advertisement Subscribe for unlimited access Site Map Follow Us X Instagram YouTube Facebook eNewspaper Find/Post Jobs Place an Ad Media Kit: Why the L.A. Times? Invest Now: Own a Part of History MORE FROM THE L.A. TIMES Crossword Obituaries Recipes Guides L.A. Times Store About/Contact For the Record L.A. Times Careers Manage Subscription Reprints and Permissions Copyright © 2026, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Opt-Out Preference Signal Honored
