SOURCE: https://pgadesign.com/projects/forma-apartments/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Forma Apartments - PGAdesign Projects About Team Contact Forma Apartments Location: Oakland, CA Project Type: Housing Partners: Holland Partner Group with Solomon Cordwell Buenz A stone’s throw from the historic Fox Theater, the 223-unit apartment building, designed by Solomon Cordwell Buenz, features multiple, amenity-rich outdoor spaces. Textured stone pavers greet residents at the entry adjacent to a custom mural by artist Squeak Carnwath. On level 3, large built-in planters soften and create privacy from a generous dog exercise area for patios of the adjacent units. Two separate deck areas off the fitness room create areas for outdoor yoga and stretching. A roof terrace outside the level 8 resident amenity room offers a range of activities for residents, including outdoor kitchen space, a fire pit, a custom fireplace, and a lighted trellis structure with areas for gathering. The roof terrace on level 23 takes advantage of sweeping views to the west with seating areas, firepit, and lighted trellis. « Previous project Next project » Location: Oakland, CA Project Type: Housing A stone’s throw from the historic Fox Theater, the 223-unit apartment building, designed by Solomon Cordwell Buenz, features multiple, amenity-rich outdoor spaces. Textured stone pavers greet residents at the entry adjacent to a custom mural by artist Squeak Carnwath. On level 3, large built-in planters soften and create privacy from a generous dog exercise area for patios of the adjacent units. Two separate deck areas off the fitness room create areas for outdoor yoga and stretching. A roof terrace outside the level 8 resident amenity room offers a range of activities for residents, including outdoor kitchen space, a fire pit, a custom fireplace, and a lighted trellis structure with areas for gathering. The roof terrace on level 23 takes advantage of sweeping views to the west with seating areas, firepit, and lighted trellis. « Previous project Next project » --> --> Projects Climate Civic Commercial Education Housing Historic Parks + Recreation Transportation About Team Contact Landscape Architects | 444 17th Street, Oakland, CA 94612, United States | tel: 510-465-1284 | admin@PGAdesign.com © 2026 PGAdesign , All rights reserved. Website: David Kerr Design Scroll Up PGAdesign Projects About Team Contact × Close Panel X PGAdesign merges with MIG!
