SOURCE: https://www.skyscrapercenter.com/building/696-south-new-hampshire-avenue/42124
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Hallasan - The Skyscraper Center Login Visit VerticalUrbanism.org Explore Data Buildings Cities Companies Submit Criteria Hallasan Los Angeles Overview Overview © Harridge Development Group © Harridge Development Group "> "> Facts You must be a CVU Member to view this resource. Metrics Height 130 m / 427 ft Please note that this height is estimated, based on a floor count of 38 floors . The estimation has been arrived at by analyzing 9,931 other buildings of the same Residential function on this database that do have confirmed heights. The user should be aware that non-standard features, such as significant spires or raised entrances / podiums, may affect the accuracy of this estimation. Floors 38 Official Name The current legal building name. Hallasan Other Names Other names the building has commonly been known as, including former names, common informal names, local names, etc. Hallasan Korea Town Type CVU collects data on two major types of tall structures: 'Buildings' and 'Telecommunications / Observation Towers.' A 'Building' is a structure where at least 50% of the height is occupied by usable floor area. A 'Telecommunications / Observation Tower' is a structure where less than 50% of the structure's height is occupied by usable floor area. Only 'Buildings' are eligible for the CVU 'Tallest Buildings' lists. Building Status Completed Architecturally Topped Out Structurally Topped Out Under Construction Proposed On Hold Never Completed Vision Competition Entry Canceled Proposed Renovation Under Renovation Renovated Under Demolition Demolished Completed Completion 2023 Country CVU follows the United Nations's definition of Country, and thus uses the lists and codes established by that organization. United States City CVU follows the United Nations's definition of City, and thus uses the lists and codes established by that organization. Los Angeles Address 696 South New Hampshire Avenue Function A single-function tall building is defined as one where 85% or more of its usable floor area is dedicated to a single usage. Thus a building with 90% office floor area would be said to be an "office" building, irrespective of other minor functions it may also contain. A mixed-use tall building contains two or more functions (or uses), where each of the functions occupy a significant proportion of the tower's total space. Support areas such as car parks and mechanical plant space do not constitute mixed-use functions. Functions are denoted on CVU "Tallest Building" lists in descending order, e.g., "hotel/office" indicates hotel function above office function. Residential Structural Material All-Steel Both the main vertical/lateral structural elements and the floor spanning systems are constructed from steel. Note that a building of steel construction with a floor system of concrete planks or concrete slab on top of steel beams is still considered an “all-steel” structure as the concrete elements are not acting as the primary structure. All-Concrete Both the main vertical/lateral structural elements and the floor spanning systems are constructed from concrete which has been cast in place and utilizes steel reinforcement bars and/or steel reinforced concrete which has been precast as individual components and assembled together on-site. All-Timber Both the main vertical/lateral structural elements and the floor spanning systems are constructed from timber. An all-timber structure may include the use of localized non-timber connections between timber elements. Note that a building of timber construction with a floor system of concrete planks or concrete slab on top of timber beams is still considered an “all-timber” structure as the concrete elements are not acting as the primary structure. Mixed-Structure Utilizes distinct systems (e.g. all-steel, all-concrete, all-timber), one on top of the other. For example, a Steel Over Concrete indicates an all-steel structural system located on top of an all-concrete structural system, with the opposite true of Concrete Over Steel. Composite A combination of materials (e.g. steel, concrete, timber) are used together in the main structural elements. Examples include buildings which utilize: steel columns with a floor system of reinforced concrete beams; a steel frame system with a concrete core; concrete-encased steel columns; concrete-filled steel tubes; etc. Where known, the CVU database breaks out the materials used within a composite building’s primary structural elements. All-Concrete Height Please note that this height is estimated, based on a floor count of 38 floors . The estimation has been arrived at by analyzing 9,931 other buildings of the same Residential function on this database that do have confirmed heights. The user should be aware that non-standard features, such as significant spires or raised entrances / podiums, may affect the accuracy of this estimation. Architectural Height is measured from the level of the lowest, significant, open-air, pedestrian entrance to the architectural top of the building, including spires, but not including antennae, signage, flag poles or other functional-technical equipment. This measurement is the most widely utilized and is employed to define the Council on Vertical Urbanism (CVU) rankings of the "World's Tallest Buildings." 130 m / 427 ft Floors Above Ground The number of floors above ground should include the ground floor level and be the number of main floors above ground, including any significant mezzanine floors and major mechanical plant floors. Mechanical mezzanines should not be included if they have a significantly smaller floor area than the major floors below. Similarly, mechanical penthouses or plant rooms protruding above the general roof area should not be counted. Note: CVU floor counts may differ from published accounts, as it is common in some regions of the world for certain floor levels not to be included (e.g., the level 4, 14, 24, etc. in Hong Kong). 38 # of Apartments Number of Apartments refers to the total number of residential units (including both rental units and condominiums) contained within a particular building. 375 Tower GFA Tower GFA refers to the total gross floor area within the tower footprint, not including adjoining podiums, connected buildings or other towers within the development. 34,291 m² / 369,105 ft² Rankings By Location You must be a CVU Member to view this resource. By function You must be a CVU Member to view this resource. By material # 48 Tallest in Los Angeles Construction Schedule 2020 Construction Start 2023 Completed All Companies Involved Owner Holland Partner Group Developer Harridge Development Group; Holland Partner Group; Sekisui House North America Architect Design Usually involved in the front end design, with a "typical" condition being that of a leadership role through either Schematic Design or Design Development, and then a monitoring role through the CD and CA phases. Archeon Group Architect of Record Usually takes on the balance of the architectural effort not executed by the "Design Architect," typically responsible for the construction documents, conforming to local codes, etc. May often be referred to as "Executive," "Associate," or "Local" Architect, however, for consistency CTBUH uses the term "Architect of Record" exclusively. MVE + Partners Material Supplier Material Supplier refers to organizations which supplied significant systems/materials for a building project (e.g. elevator suppliers, facade suppliers, etc). Construction Hoists Maxim Crane Works, L.P. Crane Maxim Crane Works, L.P.; Potain CVU Member Companies Involved You must be a CVU Member to view this resource. All Companies Involved Owner Holland Partner Group Developer Harridge Development Group; Holland Partner Group; Sekisui House North America Architect Design Usually involved in the front end design, with a "typical" condition being that of a leadership role through either Schematic Design or Design Development, and then a monitoring role through the CD and CA phases. Archeon Group Architect of Record Usually takes on the balance of the architectural effort not executed by the "Design Architect," typically responsible for the construction documents, conforming to local codes, etc. May often be referred to as "Executive," "Associate," or "Local" Architect, however, for consistency CTBUH uses the term "Architect of Record" exclusively. MVE + Partners Material Supplier Material Supplier refers to organizations which supplied significant systems/materials for a building project (e.g. elevator suppliers, facade suppliers, etc). Construction Hoists Maxim Crane Works, L.P. Crane Maxim Crane Works, L.P.; Potain Learn more about the Council on Vertical Urbanism Discover how vertical living is shaping the next generation of urban environments. Explore insights, research, and global leadership in vertical urban development Learn More © 2026 Council on Vertical Urbanism Submit Data & Photos FAQ Privacy Policy We use cookies to improve your experience on our website. Review our Privacy Policy for more information. Allow cookies
