SOURCE: https://la.urbanize.city/post/375-unit-apartment-tower-reaches-its-peak-koreatown
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

375-unit apartment tower reaches its peak in Koreatown | Urbanize LA Skip to main content Los Angeles Los Angeles Neighborhoods Downtown Hollywood Regional Koreatown Santa Monica Westlake Long Beach Pasadena Culver City West Hollywood Orange County East Hollywood View All→ Urbanize Network National Seattle Atlanta Austin Chicago Dallas Washington DC Detroit Los Angeles Miami New York Toronto San Francisco Map Advertise Get Pro Sign In My Account Sign Out Search Advertisement Koreatown 375-unit apartment tower reaches its peak in Koreatown At the intersection of 7th and New Hampshire View Project June 07, 2022, 8:30AM Steven Sharp Comments photos: Hunter Kerhart Architectural Photography Gallery 8 Advertisement One block southwest of the intersection of Wilshire Boulevard and Vermont Avenue in Koreatown , vertical construction is complete for a new apartment tower from Holland Partner Group , and glass is climbing the trunk of the building. Aerial view looking east MVE + Partners Located at the northeast corner of 7th Street and New Hampshire Avenue , the project consists of a 38-story building which will feature 375 residential units on its upper floors. MVE + Partners is designing the contemporary glass-and-steel tower, which places its apartments atop an eight-story parking podium. Architectural plans show amenity decks above both the building's podium and rooftop. According to a landing page on the Holland Partner Group website , the project will be named "Hallasan." Completion of the tower is expected in Spring 2023. Aerial view looking east toward Downtown Hunter Kerhart Architectural Photography Hallasan was originally approved as a component of a larger mixed-use project by Harridge Development Group, which also calls for converting a former I. Magnin department store on Wilshire Boulevard into a 160-room hotel, while construction a low-rise apartment building next door. The tower is the latest in a recent string of high-rise developments along in Koreatown, following the 25-story Kurve on Wilshire and 3033 Wilshire . Other projects in the works include a two-tower complex from Jamison Services near Wilshire/Normandie Station and the 40-story Terrace Block development . Holland Partner Group, in addition to Hallasan, is also building a 185-unit apartment building in East Hollywood , and is behind proposed projects in Echo Park , Mid-Wilshire , and San Pedro . 696 S New Hampshire Avenue Google Maps 696 S New Hampshire Avenue (Urbanize LA) 696 S New Hampshire Avenue Holland Partner Group Wilshire Galleria Archeon Group Hallasan Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Urbanize Network National Seattle Atlanta Austin Chicago Dallas Washington DC Detroit Los Angeles Miami New York Toronto San Francisco For Businesses CRE Financing CRE Consultants Advertise With Us Urbanize Podcasts Apple Spotify Google Stitcher iHeart Radio TuneIn + Alexa Contact Us Leave a Tip Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Copyright © Urbanize Media LLC 2026 Stay informed. All our breaking news, straight to your inbox. Subscribing Atlanta Austin Chicago Dallas Detroit Los Angeles Miami NYC San Francisco Seattle Toronto Washington DC Don't show me this again Welcome back. Sign in to your account. Sign in with LinkedIn Sign in with Google Sign in with Yahoo OR Email Address Password Have a password? Enter it to sign in instantly. Leave it blank and we will email you a one-time login link. Forgot your password? Sign in Don't have an account? Register today. By continuing, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy . Leave this field empty Sign up with LinkedIn Sign up with Google Sign up with Yahoo OR Sign up with your email First Name Last Name Email Address Password (optional) Set a password to sign in instantly next time. Leave it blank to use passwordless email sign-in. At least 8 characters, including at least 3 of: lower-case letters, upper-case letters, numbers, and punctuation. Sign up By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy . Already have an account? Sign in Leave this field empty You have X free articles remaining this month. Get Pro for unlimited access. Get Pro
