SOURCE: https://timesofsandiego.com/business/2022/06/02/nearly-250-units-open-for-leasing-in-new-mission-valley-mid-rise/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Nearly 250 Units Open for Leasing in New Mission Valley Mid-Rise Close DONATE NEWSLETTER Search for: Search All Topics Latest Home Arts Business Health Immigration Politics Events Tiempos Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Beach and Bay Press (Pacific/Mission Beach) Downtown News La Jolla La Mesa Courier Mission Times (Navajo/College Area) Peninsula Beacon (Pt.Loma/Ocean Beach) Uptown News About Staff Contact Media Kit Obituaries Guides Print Editions ASU NEWSWELL Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Close Skip to content About Staff Contact Media Kit Obituaries Guides Print Editions ASU NEWSWELL Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Times of San Diego Local News and Opinion for San Diego DONATE NEWSLETTER Open Search Search for: Search Menu All Topics Latest Home Arts Business Health Immigration Politics Events Tiempos Neighborhood News Open dropdown menu Beach and Bay Press (Pacific/Mission Beach) Downtown News La Jolla La Mesa Courier Mission Times (Navajo/College Area) Peninsula Beacon (Pt.Loma/Ocean Beach) Uptown News Posted in Business Nearly 250 Units Open for Leasing in New Mission Valley Mid-Rise by Editor June 2, 2022, 10:45 p.m. June 3, 2022, 6:45 a.m. Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Print (Opens in new window) Print The Society community in Mission Valley on Del Sol Drive. Photo credit: Courtesy, Holland Partner Group A Mission Valley resort-inspired community has opened leasing for 240 new residences in the community’s third building, developers have announced. The seven-story site, named Margo, is part of the Society community , which opened in 2020. It includes the Felix and Bradbury buildings, all designed in a mid-century style. The Society is leasing units in Margo along with the other two buildings. Margo brings the community’s current unit total to 695, with future plans from the developer, Holland Partner Group , to expand to a fourth mid-rise building in 2023. That would bring the Society’s total number of units to about 840, making it San Diego’s largest multifamily community. Just the essentials, every morning Sign up to get San Diego’s top stories delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . The developers planned the site with “California’s golden era” in mind. The Margo building features a fitness studio, pet spa, clubroom with an outdoor lounge and pool, bike and surfboard storage and private meeting and co-working office spaces. Available units range from one to three bedrooms. Interior highlights include designer finishes such as stainless-steel appliances, quartz countertops, vinyl plank flooring and polished chrome fixtures. Developers call the community “perfect for young professionals looking to experience true resort living in San Diego.” Residents also will have access to amenities at the nearby Town & Country hotel, with discounts at the hotel’s restaurants and bars. “Mission Valley is one of San Diego’s fastest-growing neighborhoods, and The Society is located right in the heart of it all,” said Amber Anderson, president at Holland Partner Group. For more than 20 years, Holland has developed residences in California and the West, including properties in Washington, Arizona, Colorado and Oregon. Tagged: Mission Valley Free neighborhood news in your inbox Join the 20,000+ people who get Times of San Diego in their inbox at 7 a.m. daily – plus breaking news alerts. And we have weekly updates from San Diego neighborhoods – select community news below. Pacific/Mission Beach Downtown La Jolla Uptown Point Loma/OB Navajo/College Area Mission Valley North County South Bay La Mesa Times of San Diego newsletter SIGN UP By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . More Stories California community colleges can offer up to 12 new bachelor’s degrees under laws Newsom signed La Playa Taco Shop closes after owner deported by ICE Trump administration accused of contempt of court over order to resume Green Card lottery Another San Diego-based aircraft carrier departs for the Middle East San Diego County's iconic coastal locations face triple threat from 'Super El Niño' Padres clinch playoff spot, now final weekend of season will determine if Wild Card round is at Petco ABOUT Donate Newsletters Corrections policy Contact us Advertising and sponsorship policies Reader submission guidelines and form Privacy statement Republication guidelines Additional policies and guidelines Terms of use Donor transparency Legal Ads Privacy Manager Support Local News San Diego residents need the truth. Help us report it. Join the growing list of donors investing in our community's long-term future. DONATE Privacy Manager © 2026 NEWSWELL Powered by Newspack Facebook Instagram RSS YouTube TikTok NextDoor Start your day with the essentials Sign up for our daily digest of everything you need to know about San Diego — just the essentials, every morning. Sign up By clicking sign up, you agree to the terms . Gift this article Close Link Copy link Privacy Manager
