SOURCE: https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/2022/06/16/the-society-a-mission-valley-apartment-complex-with-37k-rent-finishes-3rd-tower-with-plans-for-a-4th
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

The Society, a Mission Valley apartment complex with $3.7K rent, finishes 3rd tower with plans for a 4th – San Diego Union-Tribune Skip to content All Sections 73°F Wednesday, September 30th 2026 e-Edition Home Page About Us About Us Our Journalism Community Advisory Board Contact the Newsroom eNewspaper The San Diego Union-Tribune Carmel Valley News Del Mar Times Encinitas Advocate La Jolla Light PB Monthly Point Loma OB Monthly Poway News Chieftain Ramona Sentinel Rancho Bernardo News Rancho Santa Fe Review Solana Beach Sun Columnists Nick Canepa Lisa Deaderick Tom Krasovic Bryce Miller Michael Smolens News Local News Border & Baja California Crime and Public Safety Courts Education Environment Health Immigration Local Politics Military National Politics National News Politics Science Transportation Watchdog World News Local News San Diego County San Diego North County East County South County Handpicked by Locals Business Business Biotech Growth & Development Economy Energy Real Estate Restaurants, Food and Drink Technology Tourism Best Reviews Opinion Opinion Community Voices Commentary Editorials Letters to the Editor Editorial Board Sports Sports SDSU Aztecs San Diego Padres San Diego FC San Diego Wave FC High School Sports Chargers/Rams Toreros San Diego Gulls Golf Fantasy Sports Things to do Things to do Amusement Parks Arts Books Casinos Recipes Home and Garden Movies Music and Concerts Restaurants, Food and Drink Theater Travel TV and Streaming UT Store Weather U-T En Español Del Mar Times Encinitas Advocate La Jolla Light Pacific San Diego PB Monthly Point Loma OB Monthly Pomerado News Rancho Santa Fe Review Ramona Sentinel U-T Community Press Del Mar Times Encinitas Advocate La Jolla Light PB Monthly Point Loma OB Monthly Pomerado News Ramona Sentinel Rancho Santa Fe Review Pacific San Diego Together San Diego Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Comics and Games Subscriber Services Manage Subscription EZ Pay Vacation Stop Delivery Issue BestReviews Branded Content Paid Partner Content Advertising by Ascend Paid Content by Brandpoint The T.E.A. Advertise with Us Get the latest news in your inbox! Sign Up Business | The Society, a Mission Valley apartment complex… Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Subscribe Login Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get the latest news in your inbox! Sign Up Subscribe Login Search 73°F Wednesday, September 30th 2026 e-Edition Business Biotech Development Economy Energy Real Estate Restaurants Technology Tourism Trending: ⚾ Padres vs. Cubs ⚓ USS Theodore Roosevelt 🛩️ MCAS Miramar Air Show 🏈 Friday night scores 🗳️ Sign up for our election newsletter 🦴 Ancient fossils unearthed Business The Society, a Mission Valley apartment complex with $3.7K rent, finishes 3rd tower with plans for a 4th The amenity-heavy project features an “influencer station” for selfies, a surfboard cleaning room and even its own apartment fragrance. Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit For The San Diego Union-Tribune The Society, a luxury apartment complex part of the Town and Country redevelopment, will have 840 units when construction is complete. Pictured is the recently completed Margo complex. By Phillip Molnar | phillip.molnar@sduniontribune.com PUBLISHED: June 16, 2022 at 6:30 PM PDT | UPDATED: June 18, 2022 at 12:20 AM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... You might not need a surfboard storage room, or even have a surfboard, but a new Mission Valley apartment complex has just about every amenity you can think of. The Society, San Diego’s largest new apartment project — and one of its most expensive — just completed its 240-room third tower and has started work on a fourth, due to open in April. It has rents averaging $3,700 a month and features some of the highest number of amenities ever seen in a regional project, including an “influencer station” for selfies, a surfboard room and an electric fireplace in the mailroom. The $487 million project will have 840 apartments, the most of any San Diego County apartment complex in seven years, at final buildout. Developer Holland Partner Group said it is having no trouble getting renters at the project, despite charging higher rent than much of the area. Ryan Trainor, senior regional property manager for Holland, said the majority of renters are 25 to 40 years old and are fans of the vast amenities. He said many are drawn to the building as their first place after moving to San Diego. “They see this as a great opportunity,” Trainor said. The Society’s buildout comes at a good time for the developer as the number of available apartments in San Diego County hits its lowest level in years. The countywide vacancy rate is 2.6 percent, said real estate firm CoStar. That’s one of the lowest rates in the last 20 years, and it’s been dropping every quarter since the end of 2019 when it was 5.22 percent. With limited options and a countywide average rent of $2,306 a month, the sticker shock at The Society seems like more of a sign of the times. Average rent at The Society for a studio is $2,252 a month, said CoStar. Average rent goes up from there: It’s $3,305 for a one-bedroom, $4,157 for a two-bedroom and $5,059 for a three-bedroom. The Society Amenities are broad and might help a renter avoid having to get a gym membership, among other things. There is a pet spa, a 3,257-square-foot gym (and smaller ones in the other buildings), yoga rooms, bike storage room, pool and a hot tub, lounge areas, barbecues, electric vehicle charging stations, co-working space and conference rooms, coffee stations and — almost like a fancy hotel — concierge services. Adding to the ambiance is a green moss and bamboo fragrance — described as a “green leafy smell” with a hint of lime and cucumber — that permeates every building. Holland said the idea is the smell will create a continuity between the four separate buildings. The newly completed building, called Margo, features a 1,845-square-foot club room with a large magnetic Scrabble board, kitchen, air hockey table, jukebox and an “influencer station,” where a renter could put their phone in a ringed light stand for the perfect Instagram photo. Residents at The Society will have to pay for parking, but it is cheaper than most downtown projects. It costs $25 for a single spot and $100 for a tandem spot for two cars. This is becoming more common across the city as officials have pressed developers to de-couple parking costs in order to benefit renters who elect to go car-free. With vacancy rates so low, it might seem that so many amenities are unnecessary, but that’s not the case, said J. Kevin Mulhern, senior vice president at real estate firm CBRE in San Diego. He said the cost to make up for ever-increasing construction and land acquisition costs needs to be covered by high rents — and one way you do that is by enticing renters with extensive amenities. “Amenities are your draw,” he said. “That’s how you get residents in the front door. “ He said amenities are similar to gym memberships, where people sign up but never go. If people aren’t using the selfie station, for example, there’s some thinking that it might be more cost-effective to search for another place. Rental website ApartmentAdvisor released a study in late 2021, using more than 250,000 apartment listings, that said many features drive up rents: On-site gyms add 10 percent, 8 percent for a washer-dryer and 8 percent for a pool. Mulhern said another big reason for developers to go all-in on amenities: A lot of people are still working from home. That means many residents will be spending a significant amount of time at the property, as opposed to a few years ago when most apartment complexes cleared out in the morning. “Residents need more amenities and distractions because they are spending way more time at home,” he said. Vancouver, Wash.-based Holland Partner Group bought the 10-acre site from the owners of the Town & Country Resort for $82 million in 2018 . It came at the same time as the more than 60-year-old hotel and conference center was preparing its own $70 million makeover. As surprising as The Society’s rents are, the complex is not the most expensive in San Diego County. That distinction belongs to La Jolla’s Ocean House on Prospect. The 53-unit complex has an average rent of $6,678 a month. It is also a short walk to the beach and features ocean views, something few San Diego County apartments have. Holland Partner Group did not include any subsidized housing in The Society project. The company had to pay the city $9.8 million in fees for not including rent-restricted units. San Diego can use the funds to construct their own subsidized building, but housing officials often say they prefer a developer put affordable housing in their project because it is less expensive for the city. Despite Holland calling The Society “San Diego’s largest multifamily community” in press releases, it isn’t. The biggest remains Casa Mira View in Mira Mesa with 1,848 units. Other big complexes are La Jolla Crossroads with 1,500 units, Costa Verde Village in University Village with 1,263 units and the Promenade Rio Vista in Mission Valley with 970 units. Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Reddit Most Popular Most Popular Padres unveil postseason roster — and Joe Musgrove is on it Padres unveil postseason roster — and Joe Musgrove is on it Padres rout Cubs in Game 1 of NL Wild Card Series Padres rout Cubs in Game 1 of NL Wild Card Series Philanthropist Irwin Jacobs donates $50 million to build homeless center downtown Philanthropist Irwin Jacobs donates $50 million to build homeless center downtown San Diego’s home prices rise at fastest rate in nearly 1.5 years San Diego’s home prices rise at fastest rate in nearly 1.5 years Gov. Newsom signs bills to speed up San Diego’s massive Midway Rising development Gov. Newsom signs bills to speed up San Diego’s massive Midway Rising development Is your Starbucks closing? A list of closures in San Diego County Is your Starbucks closing? A list of closures in San Diego County Padres notes: Joe Musgrove returns to ‘humbling’ ovation, Nick Pivetta’s next step Padres notes: Joe Musgrove returns to ‘humbling’ ovation, Nick Pivetta’s next step In growing trash billing snafu, San Diego undercharged nearly as many people as it overcharged In growing trash billing snafu, San Diego undercharged nearly as many people as it overcharged Hundreds attend memorial for San Diego parents, daughter killed in suspected murder-suicide Hundreds attend memorial for San Diego parents, daughter killed in suspected murder-suicide San Diego County transit fares jump this week. Here’s what to expect. San Diego County transit fares jump this week. Here’s what to expect. More in Business A change at the top of San Diego Community Power but no reason given for CEO’s departure Is your Starbucks closing? A list of closures in San Diego County How inflation eats up your household’s income San Diego to extend Midway Rising team’s lease of current arena Events 2022 June 16 Subscribe Sign Up For Newsletters E-Edition Breaking News Marketplace Classifieds Obituaries Legals Local Job Board About The San Diego Union-Tribune Digital Subscription FAQ About Southern California News Group MediaNews Group Work with us Privacy Policy Accessibility News Archive Advertising Solutions Get in Touch with a Marketing Strategist Partners Sponsor a Student Contact Us Corrections Contact Newsroom Photo reprints SDUT Store Reader rewards Sponsored Access Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright 2026 San Diego Union-Tribune. All rights reserved. The use of any content on this website for the purpose of training artificial intelligence systems, algorithms, machine learning models, text and data mining, or similar use is strictly prohibited without explicit written consent. Close
