SOURCE: https://www.aptamigo.com/CO/Englewood/Apartment/flats-at-inverness
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

AptAmigo Start Your Search Move-in Specials Atlanta Specials Austin Specials Chicago Specials Dallas Specials Denver Specials Houston Specials Miami Specials Nashville Specials San Antonio Specials Neighborhood Guides Atlanta Neighborhoods Austin Neighborhoods Chicago Neighborhoods Dallas Neighborhoods Denver Neighborhoods Houston Neighborhoods Miami Neighborhoods Nashville Neighborhoods San Antonio Neighborhoods About Us Who we are Careers Blog Sign In View all 19 Photos Englewood > Denver Tech Center Apartments > Flats at Inverness Flats at Inverness 10200 E Dry Creek Rd , Englewood, CO Denver Tech Center Add to favorites Favorite Flats at Inverness Apartments 0 Apartments available | Updated Sep 29, 2026 3:21 AM Overview Flats at Inverness, located at 10200 E Dry Creek Rd in Denver's Denver Tech Center neighborhood, has convenient access to many of the city's top attractions. The building offers units in a variety of floor plans. Address 10200 E Dry Creek Rd , Englewood, CO Building Type Rental Year Built 2009 Amenities Cats Dogs Parking Fitness Center Outdoor Pool Storage Room Bike Room Business Center Event Room Common Wifi Communal Grill Concierge Package Locker Sun Deck View All 14 Amenities 4.0 Rating based on 1 review Derek 1 Bedroom Moved In Aug 2023 living here at the flats at inverness has so far been a great experience. the office staff know me by name and are immediate in addressing any concerns i may have What did you like most? Space for the price is amazing. What did you like least? the switch from a controlled package room to trying to use fetch package delivery services + Detailed Review In-unit experience Wifi connection 5.0 Water pressure 5.0 Sound insulation 3.0 Temperature control 5.0 Building Amenities Communal space 4.0 Gym quality 4.0 Management Building management 5.0 Helpful doorstaff 5.0 Building security 5.0 Neighborhood Neighborhood nightlife 4.0 Neighborhood pet-friendliness 5.0 Public transportation access 5.0 Flats at Inverness Available Listings 0 Apartments available | Studio 1 Bed 2 Bed Check back soon for upcoming availability Frequently Asked Questions What neighborhood is Flats at Inverness in? Flats at Inverness is located in the Denver Tech Center neighborhood of Denver. When were prices and availability last updated? Prices & availability for Flats at Inverness were updated 1 day ago. Does Flats at Inverness have in-unit laundry? Yes, apartments at Flats at Inverness come equipped with in-unit washers & dryers. Can I see a model or tour Flats at Inverness? Yes! You can reach out here to get in touch with a locator and see virtual tours, videos of specific units, and get more information on individual units. Does Flats at Inverness have good reviews? Flats at Inverness has 1 review on our site, with a total score of 5 / 5 stars. Does Flats at Inverness allow cats? Yes, Flats at Inverness allows cats. Does Flats at Inverness allow dogs? Yes, Flats at Inverness allows dogs. Please note that breed and size restrictions may apply. Location & Neighborhood Denver Tech Center Denver Tech Center, more commonly referred to as DTC, is a growing neighborhood just southeast of downtown Denver . Built and planned in the 1970s by architect Carl A. Worthington, this neighborhood was originally home to cable networks and has grown to accommodate many of Denver’s major tech headquarters. This bustling neighborhood is the perfect spot for professionals looking for an easy commute. DTC hosts many booming start-ups and large companies in the high-rises that are sprinkled throughout the area. As the name suggests, this area is home to many tech businesses, but it is also filled with plenty of entertainment and dining options. The Denver Tech Center neighborhood welcomes all walks of life and provides a bustling hub for professionals seeking a change from Denver’s concrete jungle. Denver Tech Center has been flourishing in recent years. With new construction popping up overnight, this neighborhood is officially “on the map.” Read more about Denver Tech Center From The Blog Disclaimer Pricing, availability, and concessions are subject to change at any time and without notice. Photos may be of various model units and apartment availability and lease terms may vary. Information is believed to be accurate, however is subject to errors and omissions. The accuracy of all information, regardless of source, including but not limited to square footages and lot sizes, is deemed reliable but not guaranteed and should be personally verified through personal inspection by and/or with the appropriate professionals. Cities Atlanta Austin Chicago Dallas Denver Houston Miami Nashville San Antonio Neighborhood Guides Atlanta Neighborhood Guide Austin Neighborhood Guide Chicago Neighborhood Guide Dallas Neighborhood Guide Denver Neighborhood Guide Houston Neighborhood Guide Miami Neighborhood Guide Nashville Neighborhood Guide San Antonio Neighborhood Guide Company About Us Careers Blog Support Accessibilty Terms & Conditions Privacy TREC Information About Brokerage Services TREC Consumer Protection Notice Sitemap LLM Context LLM Context (Full) Do not sell or share my personal info 1101 W Lake St Chicago , IL 60607 (312) 598-0010 © 2026 AptAmigo Inc., a licensed IL brokerage corporation. All rights reserved.
