SOURCE: https://meridianmidtown.com/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

San Jose apartments for rent | Meridian at Midtown Skip to main content × Pet Policy Meridian at Midtown is a pet-friendly community! We love pets and animals and want them to be happy in their new home. We do have breed restrictions for pets, which include full and mixed canines of the following breeds: Rottweilers, Dobermans, Chow Chows, Akitas, Pit Bull terriers, German Shepherds, Presa Canarios, Wolf-hybrids, Mastiffs, Cane Corso, Great Danes, Alaskan Malamutes, and Staffordshire Terriers. Exotic pets are not permitted, and illegal pets are not allowed. Assistance animals for persons with disabilities are not considered to be pets but do require advance written approval. We will handle all requests for accommodation, including requests for assistance animals, in accordance with fair housing laws. Home Amenities Floor Plans Gallery Neighborhood Residents Contact Find Your Home Book a Tour Home Amenities Floor Plans Gallery Neighborhood Residents Contact Find Your Home 1432 W San Carlos St | San Jose, CA 95126 Call us at (669) 365-9309 Book a Tour Find Your Home Meridian at Midtown Welcome to Midtown Modern apartment living in one of San Jose's most walkable neighborhoods Book a Tour Find Your Home Thoughtfully designed studio, one- & two-bedroom residences with modern finishes and everyday conveniences View Floor Plans Live Well Every Day Inviting Spaces to work, unwind, and connect with neighborhoods View Amenities Everything Within Reach Steps from local dining, shopping, and the energy of Midtown Explore the Neighborhood Room to Recharge Choose Your Floor Plans Designed to Enjoy Discover Amenities See Life at Meridian Browse Our Gallery Refresh Your Lifestyle Premier amenities at your fingertips. View Amenities Connected to Everything That Matters At Meridian at Midtown, home is more than a place to live—it's your connection to the best of San Jose. Offering thoughtfully designed studio, one-, and two-bedroom apartment homes, our community is located in the vibrant Midtown district, placing local restaurants, entertainment venues, shopping destinations, and Silicon Valley employers within easy reach. Whether you're commuting across the Bay Area, exploring downtown, or relaxing by the pool, Meridian at Midtown offers the convenience, comfort, and flexibility to fit your lifestyle. Book a Tour Trend-Setting Spaces A new standard of living. View Gallery Your Next Home Awaits Check Availability Book a Tour Find Your Home Book a Tour Meridian at Midtown 1432 W San Carlos St San Jose, CA 95126 Call us at (669) 365-9309 Pet Policy Home Amenities Floor Plans Gallery Neighborhood Residents Contact © Copyright 2026 Meridian at Midtown. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Site Map CA DRE #01983707 This site uses cookies to improve your browsing experience. By using our site you agree to our use of cookies. I Agree How We Use Your Data Contact Us
