SOURCE: https://djcoregon.com/news/2014/04/04/naming-names-at-orenco-stations-platform-district
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Naming names at Orenco Station’s Platform District – Daily Journal of Commerce Skip to content Select Region or Brand Business Colorado Idaho Lehigh Valley Long Island Maryland Virginia Business Massachusetts Mecklenburg, NC Michigan Minnesota Missouri New Jersey New Orleans, LA New York North Carolina Oklahoma City, OK Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island Rochester South Carolina Virginia Wisconsin Legal Maryland Massachussetts Michigan Minnesota Missouri New York North Carolina South Carolina Wisconsin Rhode Island Virginia Construction Milwaukee, WI Oregon Home Furnishings Designers Today Furniture Today Gifts & Decorative Accessories Home Accents Today Home Furnishings News Home Textiles Today Pet Age WF-Vision Manage Account Manage Print or Online Subscription Manage Your Email Subscriptions Sign In Sign Out Upcoming Event Women of Vision Free Newsletter Subscribe News Events Phenoms & Icons Women of Vision Construction All-Stars Top Projects DJC Event Photos Community Calendar Builder Breakfast Videos Project Center Sub-Bid Requests Search Projects My Projects My Preferences Results Post-a-Project Log In Help Subscribe Member Directory Public Notices About Council Calendar FAQ Publish Public Record Subscribe Leads & Data Center About Construction Almanac Public Records Building Permits Bankruptcies Law Suits Estates Get on the List Oregon 250 Press Releases DJC People Submissions BTM Business Connect Behind The Deal Advertising Advertising Plaques & Permissions News First 100 Days Construction Architecture & Engineering Real Estate Development Building Blocks Employment Building Permits & Land Use Review Intakes Sections Oregon 250 Nominations Milestones 2025 Women Who Lead Behind the Deal Commentary Contributor Content DJC People Digital Edition Photo Archive Subscribe Group Subscription Press Releases DJC People Submissions BTM Business Connect Submissions Behind The Deal Contributor Content Data & Information Project Center Leads & Data Center Public Notices About Council Calendar FAQ Publish Public Record Subscribe Calendars DJC Event Community Calendar Council Calendar Events Events Women of Vision Construction All-Stars Top Projects Builder Breakfast Builder Breakfast Videos DJC Event Photos Community Calendar Special Publications Construction Almanac ACEC Milestones Skilled Magazine NAMC Oregon NWUCA About & Contact About Us Contact Us Email Alerts Accessibility Statement Plaques & Permissions Reprints Advertising Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Category: - Date: - Author: Naming names at Orenco Station’s Platform District By: Jeff McDonald // April 4, 2014 // Home > Real Estate and Development > Naming names at Orenco Station’s Platform District Naming names at Orenco Station’s Platform District Jeff McDonald // April 4, 2014 // --> --> --> Listen to this article Holland Construction is building a “wrap-style” design at The Platform District at Orenco Station in Hillsboro, which has three six-story mixed-use apartment complexes surrounding an above-ground parking garage and a public plaza. (Holland Partners Group) The developer of The Platform District at Orenco Station in Hillsboro has released the names of three buildings that will be a key part of the project. Holland Partners Group, which is developing the project, has named its central, east and west buildings Hub 9 at the Platform District, The Rowlock at the Platform District and The Edge at the Platform District, respectively, said Gary Vance, development director for the Vancouver, Wash.-based developer. Hub 9 was named for its central location in the $120 million project, which will be north of the Orenco light-rail station and west of Northwest 231st Avenue. A public plaza, retail and a one-way loop road will surround Hub 9, Vance said. Nine is short for 1909, the year of construction of the Orenco Mercantile in the area, Vance said. “We are located very close to that site,” Vance said. “It is the central building and is very central to activity at Orenco.” The Rowlock is named for masonry term and gives a nod to the warehouse style of the east building. The Edge is a building that is more on the outskirts of the development and will push the limits with a modern and edgy style, Vance said. The project’s first phase, Platform 14, opened in Jan. 2013. Its second phase, Tessera, opened this past January. In total, the five phases will have 1,090 apartment units, about 25,000 square feet of ground floor retail space and two levels of above-ground parking. “The ground floors are concrete; the top four floors are wood construction,” Vance said. “That is unique for suburban construction. Usually, we do not see concrete levels in the suburbs. This will be unique for Hillsboro.” The project’s retail and apartment buildings will essentially “wrap” around the above-ground parking, creating what is called a “Texas-style donut” for the parking area in the middle, Vance said. The parking connects residents and shoppers to their apartments and stores. “Essentially, we have finished the hole of the donut,” he said. “What’s unique about this style of building is that it allows residents to park above ground and walk right onto the floor of their unit without getting wet (in the rain).” Holland also has reached a disposition and development agreement with TriMet for building 125 public parking stalls in the west-side parking garage area, Vance said. In return, TriMet will sell the land for The Edge, the westernmost building of the project, for market price, he said. Holland Construction, which is building the project, expects to start on construction of the building, including the stalls, in the fall, Vance said. Share this! Related Content Three-story treatment facility in Portland land use review intakes | Sept. 29, 2026 Early assistance is pending for a proposal to create a three-story, 15-bedroom secure residential treatment fa[...] September 29, 2026 Swickard Group acquires nearly all of Portland’s Park Avenue West Park Avenue West, shown in August 2025, is west of Pioneer Courthouse Square in downtown Portland. Swickard G[...] September 25, 2026 Fieldstone multifamily property in Fairview sells for $27.3 million A Los Angeles investment firm has purchased a 154-unit apartment complex from Affordable Housing Associates of[...] September 25, 2026 Potential creation of Oregon park near Salem a ‘daunting task’ The Oregon State Parks and Recreation Commission has approved plans to purchase two properties, including one [...] September 25, 2026 Report: Oregon data centers’ substantial power use is growing Oregon data centers accounted for nearly a quarter of the state's electricity use in 2025, with consumption ex[...] September 24, 2026 Morrison Bridge electrical work in Portland land use review intakes | Sept. 21, 2026 Early assistance is pending for a project involving construction on a parcel owned by Portland Parks & Recreat[...] September 21, 2026 DJC Oregon Daily Newsletter Sign up for your daily digest of DJC Oregon Daily News. By signing up you agree to our Privacy Policy News Survey: Oregonians want ODOT to fix roads first Park-related projects’ design and construction honored by ORPA $13.8 million Union Station project in Portland building permits | Sept. 29, 2026 Three-story treatment facility in Portland land use review intakes | Sept. 29, 2026 Swickard Group acquires nearly all of Portland’s Park Avenue West Fieldstone multifamily property in Fairview sells for $27.3 million Design Beyond Borders: Shaver Hall Pacific Northwest projects totaling $25.7 million in top bidders | Sept. 25, 2026 Potential creation of Oregon park near Salem a ‘daunting task’ Report: Oregon data centers’ substantial power use is growing Man pleads guilty to construction fraud scheme in Oregon Contractors invited to seek eligibility for home upgrades See All News DJC People Jeff Hofmann | Perlo Construction Perlo Construction senior project manager Jeff Hofmann has earned his Associate DBIA certification a[...] Gabriel Betit | Perlo Construction Gabriel Betit has joined Perlo Construction as mission critical division lead. He has more than 25 y[...] Amy Otis | Perlo Construction Amy Otis is now a Perlo Construction project manager. She joined the company in 2023. Austin Herd | Perlo Construction Perlo Construction senior project manager Austin Herd has earned his Associate DBIA certification. Taylor Regier | Perlo Construction Taylor Regier is now a Perlo Construction senior project manager. He joined the company in 2018. Sarah Oeftering | Bora Architecture & Interiors Bora Architecture & Interiors has promoted Sarah Oeftering to associate principal. She has served as[...] Scott Mooney | Bora Architecture & Interiors Bora Architecture & Interiors has elevated Scott Mooney to principal. He has built a 20-year career [...] Abel Wright | Whitaker/Ellis Whitaker/Ellis has promoted Abel Wright to safety director. He has demonstrated outstanding leadersh[...] Commentary How will Oregon’s prosperity agenda work for women? | Opinion DOL’s Wage and Hour Division launches holiday blitz | Opinion Why connection matters — and how to cultivate it | Opinion Managing construction risk through cost transparency | Opinion Jackson Hole, forward guidance and a fidgety August | Opinion Adapting to a world where anyone could be phishin’ | Opinion Oregon’s performative housing ploy: LCDC rulemaking | Opinion Streamlined, but not simple: Oregon’s House Bill 4037 | Opinion Can private employers restrict their employees’ speech? | Opinion Friction in the workplace: Is it a friend or a foe? | Opinion The transition from opportunity zone 1.0 to 2.0 | Opinion How AI automation is transforming construction site safety | Opinion See All Commentary COMMUNITY CALENDAR News Events Phenoms & Icons Women of Vision Construction All-Stars Top Projects DJC Event Photos Community Calendar Builder Breakfast Videos Project Center Sub-Bid Requests Search Projects My Projects My Preferences Results Post-a-Project Log In Help Subscribe Member Directory Public Notices About Council Calendar FAQ Publish Public Record Subscribe Leads & Data Center About Construction Almanac Public Records Building Permits Bankruptcies Law Suits Estates Get on the List Oregon 250 Press Releases DJC People Submissions BTM Business Connect Behind The Deal Advertising Advertising Plaques & Permissions ABOUT DJC Oregon provides 24/7 construction news coverage and events honoring top construction professionals. MY ACCOUNT Login Logout Subscribe Manage Account Group Subscription Subscriber Agreement Contact About DJC Oregon Contact DJC Oregon Accessibility Statement Advertising Advertising Solutions Editorial Calendar Marketing Guide Newsletter Media Kit CONNECT NEWSLETTER Get our free DJC Oregon Daily News & breaking news notifications! DIGITAL EDITIONS Subscribe for access to the latest digital and special editions. © 2026 BridgeTower Media. All rights reserved. Use of this website is subject to its Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Your California Privacy Rights/Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info/Cookie Policy Manage Consent This website uses cookies, web beacons, pixels, tags, software development kits, and related tracking technologies, as described in our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy , for purposes that may include website operation, analytics, analyzing site usage, enhancing site navigation optimizing a user's experience, and third-party advertising or marketing purposes. Through these technologies, we and certain third parties may automatically collect information about your interactions with our website, such as your browsing behavior and page views. We also may share this information about your activity on our website with our social media, advertising, analytics, and other business partners. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of these technologies and that we can share information about your activity on our website with third parties in accordance with our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy . If you do not agree with our use of non-essential tracking technologies, please click “Reject All.” You may opt out of certain non-essential technologies by clicking “Cookie Settings.” Functional Functional Always active The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network. Preferences Preferences The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user. Statistics Statistics The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes. The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you. Advertisement Advertisement The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes. Manage options Manage services Manage {vendor_count} vendors Read more about these purposes Accept All Reject All Cookies Settings Save preferences Cookies Settings {title} {title} {title} Manage consent
