SOURCE: https://www.walkerdunlop.com/news/walker-dunlop-arranges-2nd-largest-sale-in-san-diego-2024
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Walker & Dunlop Arranges 2nd Largest Sale in San Diego in 2024 | Walker & Dunlop Investors Careers Contact Us LOGIN LOGIN Login Services VIEW ALL Capital Markets Access our comprehensive suite of services in investment sales and real estate finance, from small balance to affordable to conventional. investment MANAGEMENT Capitalize on opportunities through Walker & Dunlop Investment Partners, LIHTC equity, & affordable capital advisors research Stay ahead of the curve with our data-rich proprietary research INVESTMENT BANKING Explore our comprehensive advisory & capital markets solutions valuations Unlock our data-driven valuation and advisory services LOAN SERVICING Experience certainty of execution with dedicated, trusted advisors throughout the life of your loan VIEW ALL CONTACT US FIND AN EXPERT Navbar - Dropdown Close Specialties & Sectors VIEW ALL Conventional Multifamily Industrial Affordable Housing Self Storage Small Balance Multifamily Retail BTR/SFR Hospitality Advisory Manufactured Housing Communities Office Seniors Housing & Healthcare Condominiums Student Housing Life Sciences Mixed Use Data Centers Advisory Land Studios VIEW ALL Contact Us find an expert Subscribe Navbar - Dropdown Close Specialties & Sectors VIEW ALL Affordable Housing Manufactured Housing Communities BTR/SFR Mixed Use Condominiums Office Conventional Multifamily Retail Data Centers Self Storage Hospitality Seniors Housing & Healthcare Industrial Small Balance Multifamily Land Student Housing Life Sciences Studios VIEW ALL Contact Us find an expert Navbar - Dropdown Close Insights Articles Market Reports Outlooks Case Studies VIEW ALL In The News Press Releases Closed Deals Glossary Read Navbar - Dropdown Close Our Company ABOUT US Mission & Values People Mission Statement Leadership Culture Board of Directors Technology Our Team Corporate Responsibility Careers Offices About Us Contact us TRY IT NOW Insight Commercial real estate valuation is moving upstream Insight AI is changing the work. Now organizations have to change, too. Insight The bridge to normal: Why transitional multifamily lending is compelling today Navbar - Dropdown Close Walker Webcast VIEW ALL By Category Finance & Economy Real Estate Leadership Government & Policy Sports & Health Arts & Entertainment VIEW ALL Subscribe Media Kit Book List Subscribe Recent episode Housing’s Next Chapter with Sean Dobson September 23, 2026 Up Next What’s Next for CRE? with Chris Lee September 30, 2026 Navbar - Dropdown Close Investors Careers Newsroom Contact Us Find An Expert Walker & Dunlop All news Press release December 10, 2024 Walker & Dunlop Arranges 2nd Largest Sale in San Diego in 2024 Share: Walker & Dunlop, Inc. announced today that it arranged the $185,000,000 sale of Preserve at Melrose, a suburban multifamily community built in 2015 that comprises 410 units in Vista, one of San Diego's most sought-after north county neighborhoods. This sale represents the 2nd largest single-asset transaction in San Diego and the fifth largest in California year-to-date in 2024. The Walker & Dunlop Investment Sales team, led by Hunter Combs , represented the seller, a local San Diego based group, and buyer, Mesirow. "San Diego remains a top target nationally for investors, making up 10% of all U.S. multifamily transactions over $150 million and 23% of those in California, year-to-date since 2023," said Hunter Combs, managing director of Investment Sales at Walker & Dunlop. "San Diego's market strength is propelled by its historically consistent rent growth, strong fundamentals and high barriers to entry. The influx of life science surrounding UCSD and big tech companies establishing their presence here, in addition to the long-standing defense industry underscores San Diego's exceptional market resilience and attractiveness for investors." "We were pleased to collaborate with Walker & Dunlop in the purchase of the Preserve at Melrose,” stated Alasdair Cripps , chief executive officer of Mesirow Institutional Real Estate Direct Investments. “The Preserve’s expansive amenity set, transit-oriented location and proximity to key employment centers make it one of north county San Diego’s most attractive multifamily properties, and we look forward to serving this community.” Located in the Vista submarket of San Diego, Preserve at Melrose is minutes from downtown Vista and transit oriented being adjacent to the light rail stations. The property is located off State Route 78, providing residents with direct access to major employment hubs along the 78 corridor, including Vista, Oceanside, Carlsbad, San Marcos, and Escondido. The multifamily community offers one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartments with resort-style amenities, all set within a serene, low-density garden-style setting. Walker & Dunlop is a leader in multifamily property sales, having completed over $51 billion in property sales volume since 2021. The firm is also one of the top providers of capital to the U.S. multifamily market. In 2023, Walker & Dunlop originated over $24 billion in debt financing volume, including lending over $20 billion for multifamily properties. To learn more about our capabilities and financing options, visit our website . This transaction was appraised by Apprise , Walker & Dunlop’s independent third-party appraisal platform for valuation, data, risk mitigation, and advisory services. About Walker & Dunlop Walker & Dunlop (NYSE: WD) is one of the largest commercial real estate finance and advisory services firms in the United States. Our ideas and capital create communities where people live, work, shop, and play. The diversity of our people, breadth of our brand and technological capabilities make us one of the most insightful and client-focused firms in the commercial real estate industry. About Mesirow Mesirow is an independent, employee-owned financial services firm founded in 1937. Headquartered in Chicago, with offices around the world, we serve clients through a personal, custom approach to reaching financial goals and acting as a force for social good. With capabilities spanning Global Investment Management, Capital Markets & Investment Banking, and Advisory Services, we invest in what matters: our clients, our communities and our culture. To learn more, visit mesirow.com , follow us on LinkedIn and subscribe to Spark , our quarterly newsletter. Mesirow has been named one of the Best Places to Work in Chicago by Crain’s Chicago Business multiple times and is one of Barron’s Top 100 RIA firms. This transaction was appraised by Apprise, Walker & Dunlop’s independent third-party appraisal platform for valuation, data, risk mitigation, and advisory services. Walker & Dunlop, Inc. announced today that it arranged the $185,000,000 sale of Preserve at Melrose, a suburban multifamily community built in 2015 that comprises 410 units in Vista, one of San Diego's most sought-after north county neighborhoods. Go to article Services Our comprehensive CRE platform offers you both entity-level and property-level finance and advisory services. Learn more Specialties & Sectors Affordable, multifamily, industrial, and more…you name it and we have the skills and expertise to handle it. Learn more Stay updated on market insights Subscribe to receive the latest news, insights, and future Outlook releases from Walker & Dunlop. SUBSCRIBE Country* Select one... United States Afghanistan Albania Algeria Andorra Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cabo Verde Cambodia Cameroon Canada Central African Republic Chad Chile China Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czechia Democratic Republic of the Congo Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Eswatini Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria North Korea North Macedonia Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Sweden Switzerland Syria Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Vatican City Venezuela Vietnam Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe By submitting this form, you accept Walker & Dunlop's terms & conditions and Privacy Policy . Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form. 7272 Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 1300 Bethesda, Maryland 20814 301.215.5500 Follow Us LinkedIn icon Follow us on Linkedin Follow us on Facebook YouTube icon Follow us on YouTube Instagram icon Follow us on Instagram Follow us on X About News Careers Contact us Licensing Disclosure Privacy Policy Terms of Use Manage Cookie Preferences Copyright © 2017- 2026 Walker & Dunlop, Inc.
