SOURCE: https://sdbj.com/real-estate/vista-apartment-sale-among-highest-in-ca/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Vista Apartment Sale Among Highest in CA - San Diego Business Journal Facebook Instagram Linkedin X Youtube Sign in Lists Finance Life Science Real Estate Manufacturing Video Library Podcast Events & Nominations NOMINATIONS SDBJ EVENTS Calendars Business Calendar San Diego Entertainment Calendar Special Editions Branded Content Special Editions Leaders of Influence Women of Influence Industry Roundtables On The Move Special Editions Archive Advertise With Us Sign in Welcome! Log into your account your username your password Forgot your password? Privacy Policy Password recovery Recover your password your email Search 72.1 F San Diego Wednesday, Sep 30, 2026 Facebook Instagram Linkedin X Youtube Login Subscribe Here THE COMMUNITY OF BUSINESS™ Lists Finance Life Science Real Estate Manufacturing Video Library Podcast Events & Nominations NOMINATIONS SDBJ EVENTS Calendars Business Calendar San Diego Entertainment Calendar Special Editions Branded Content Special Editions Leaders of Influence Women of Influence Industry Roundtables On The Move Special Editions Archive Advertise With Us -Advertisement- Home Real Estate enews Real Estate Vista Apartment Sale Among Highest in CA REAL ESTATE: Preserve at Melrose Sold to Chicago Firm for $185M By Donald Bloodworth December 27, 2024 Facebook X Linkedin Email Print VISTA – A Vista apartment complex, Preserve at Melrose, has been sold for $185 million in one of the biggest apartment sales in California in 2024 and the second largest of the year in San Diego County. Built in 2015 with 410 apartments at 1401 Melrose Drive, Preserve at Melrose was sold by MG Properties Group based in Sorrento Valley to Mesirow Institutional Real Estate Direct Investments, a Chicago investment firm. Hunter Combs Managing Director of Investment Sales Walker & Dunlop “San Diego (County) remains a top target nationally for investors, making up 10% of all U.S. multifamily transactions and 23% of those in California, year to date,” said Hunter Combs, managing director of investment sales at Walker & Dunlop. Walker & Dunlop brokered the deal on behalf of MG Properties. “Suburban, low-density apartments seem to be the most attractive today, especially of this vintage, so there’s not much you have to do to it,” Combs said. “The capital that wants to be in San Diego (County) has a preference for some of these suburban locations, like Vista, especially with the growth that’s occurring in Vista.” Combs said that Mesirow will make some minor improvements to the property to make it more competitive with other nearby apartment complexes, but is not planning any major renovation work. “They don’t need to do any heavy lifting on this one,” Combs said. Alasdair Cripps, CEO of Mesirow, said that the Preserve was “one of North County San Diego’s most attractive multifamily properties,” partly because of its proximity to mass transit and employment centers. Although 2024 was a slow year for apartment building sales, Combs said that the market shows signs of improving. “What we haven’t seen is the ‘70s and ‘80s vintage product selling. I think we’re going to start seeing more of that come back and that will lead to significantly more transactions,” Combs said. Investors have been reluctant to buy older apartment projects while interest rates are high and financing is tight because renovating them can be expensive, and investors don’t want to wind up paying out of pocket for the work. “Hence, it’s not as appealing,” Combs said. Rents Flatten The sale of Preserve came as apartment rental rates are closing out 2024 with little movement from a year ago and are expected to remain relatively flat for the early part of 2025, according to an apartment listing service, Zumper. “I don’t expect to see any crazy spikes in San Diego next year,” said Crystal Chen, Zumper associate director of communications. Crystal Chen Associate Director of Communications Zumper San Diego median monthly rental rates peaked in Sept 22 at $2,620 for one-bedroom apartments and $3,420 for two-bedroom apartments, according to Chen. “Both have come down about $300 since then,” Chen said. Even so, Zumper in December ranked San Diego as the 10th most expensive rental market in the nation. “Even though San Diego rents are pretty much flat or down, they’re still much more expensive than the national median,” Chen said, which was $1,500 for a one-bedroom apartment and $1,900 for a two-bedroom apartment. Donald Bloodworth + posts Bio ⮌ Donald Bloodworth SDBJ Extra: Inside the Longball Cocktail Club Donald Bloodworth The Music Company Strikes a Chord with Local Artists Donald Bloodworth SDBJ Extra: Look Inside Airgain’s Go-Kit Pro Donald Bloodworth SDBJ Extra: Essential Steps to Maintaining a Data Center Cleanliness Share Facebook X Linkedin Email Print Previous article Apartments Go to New Heights in Bankers Hill Next article StartBlue Accelerates with Major Funding Donald Bloodworth -Advertisement- Featured Articles Technology Nuvve Launches AI-Powered Grid Demand Forecasting Platform Public Relations Getting Public Relations ‘Wright’ in AI Era Life Science WinSanTor Aiming to Get Neuropathy Drug into Patients’ Hands – And Other Extremities -Advertisement- -Advertisement- Related Articles Technology Nuvve Launches AI-Powered Grid Demand Forecasting Platform Public Relations Getting Public Relations ‘Wright’ in AI Era Life Science WinSanTor Aiming to Get Neuropathy Drug into Patients’ Hands – And Other Extremities Law/Legal San Diego Cooley Office Settles for Gold Uncategorized Why Agentic AI Policy Starts With Data Classification -Advertisement- -Advertisement- -Advertisement- Facebook Instagram Linkedin X Youtube THE COMMUNITY OF BUSINESS™ A Southern Southern California ® Publication 4909 Murphy Canyon Rd., Suite 200 San Diego, CA 92123 858-277-6359 (Local) Browse More SDBJ Marketplace SDBJ Book of Lists Learn More About San Diego Business Journal Editorial Calendar SDBJ Staff Contact Us Advertise with Us Services Join Our Membership Newsletter Sign-Up Reset Your Password Forgot Your password Renewals Event Calendar Digital Marketing Dashboard – Staff Only Other Journals Los Angeles Business Journal Orange County Business Journal Inside the Valley Privacy Policy © San Diego Business Journal
