SOURCE: https://longbeachize.com/articles/wooden-frame-begins-to-go-up-on-271-unit-development-at-3rd-pacific-in-dtlb/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

271-unit Resa Long Beach development to open soon at 3rd & Pacific in DTLB | Longbeachize Search Discover LB Food Urbanism Culture Events Quick Links About Longbeachize & Advertising Privacy Policy Terms of Service Support Support Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Discover LB Food Urbanism Culture Events Quick Links About Longbeachize & Advertising Privacy Policy Terms of Service Support Support Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Wednesday, September 30, 2026 Food Urbanism Culture Events Search Support Us Urbanism & Development 271-unit Resa Long Beach development to open soon at 3rd & Pacific in DTLB January 2, 2025 Written by Brian Addison The Resa Long Beach development in DTLB. Photo. by Brian Addison. Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest ReddIt Email Copy URL In the last major update since its wooden frame went up back in September , the Resa Long Beach development is nearing completion. Most scaffolding has been removed minus its northern portion. Located at the northeast corner of 3rd Street and Pacific Avenue, we are likely to see the entirety of the scaffolding come down in the coming weeks. So what is the Resa Long Beach development in DTLB? Holland Partner Group is the same group behind the Volta in DTLB. (That opened in 2021 just north of this project on Pacific at 7th Street.) And they are bringing with it 271 new housing units and 12,000 square feet of retail space to the Downtown area when the project is expected to open next year. Plans for the Pacific Avenue-facing of the Resa Long Beach development. Photo by Brian Addison. Plans for a 23-story and an eight-story building were originally proposed pre-pandemic. It was set for 350 Pacific Ave. and 131 W. 3rd St. after the City was forced to sell all of its redevelopment properties following the dissolution of the State’s Redevelopment Agency. Then, 345 units were proposed with some 14,000 square feet of retail space. Come April 2021, the original developer Ensemble—before they sold the property to Holland—downsized. And downsized significantly to a singular, eight-story building spanning both properties. The Resa Long Beach development in DTLB encompasses 3rd and 4th Streets and Pacific Avenue and Tribune Court. Photo. by Brian Addison. Standing from the southwest corner of 3rd Street and Pacific Avenue toward the Resa Long Beach development. Photo by Brian Addison. Rendering courtesy of Holland. Construction crews began excavation of the previous flat lot in January in order to prep for foundation construction and development of the 395 car stalls to be built for the complex. The skyline and built environment of Long Beach has changed at a rate quicker than the last three decades combined The past decade has seen its largest physical transformation in our history. This is something not to be taken lightly or ignored in terms of our history and our future. And the one ahead? Even more dramatic. The skyline has changed. The Shoreline Gateway towers as our tallest building while ONNI East Village stands tall at 3rd Street and Long Beach Boulevard . And that skyline will continue to change. A 21-story building taking over the former Long Beach Cafe spot has been approved. The Alexan East End tower has scored capital to begin. And the 31-story Hard Rock Hotel is going to actually become a reality. There have been more buildings erected in the last five years than the previous twenty with plenty in the pipeline. Downtown Long Beach has seen two smaller residential projects— the Inkwell on the Promenade and the Aster on Broadway —while another at 3rd and Pacific continues to build up and Mosaic sold their entitled residential project . Wrigley is getting a six-story senior housing development . Pacific Coast Highway’s southern entry into Long Beach will look vastly different with its multitude of developments. One of the first hotels on the sand to be built in California in decades has broken ground … Historic or older buildings have seen outright demolition—like the Country Courthouse building or the former City Hall —while others have seen massive renovations or restorations—the soon-to-open Breakers hotel . Even public projects are grand enough in scale it entirely alter built environment: Whether it’s the now-complete Lincoln Park in Downtown Long Beach or now-under-construction altering of the Colorado Lagoon or the soon-to-be-under-construction Shoemaker Bridge . We’re even getting a roller rink on the beach . More renderings of Resa Long Beach The project as viewed from the northwest corner of 4th Street and Pacific Avenue toward the Resa Long Beach development. Renderings courtesy of Holland. More below. Tags DTLB Housing & Residential Development Renderings Brian Addison http://www.longbeachize.com Brian Addison has been a writer, editor, and photographer for more than 15 years, covering everything from food and culture to transportation and housing. In 2015, he was named Journalist of the Year by the Los Angeles Press Club and has since garnered 33 nominations and three additional wins. In 2019, he was awarded the Food/Culture Critic of the Year across any platform at the National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards. He has since been nominated in that category every year since, joining fellow food writers from the Los Angeles Times, the New York Times, Eater, the Orange County Register, and more. Beyond his writing, he oversees multiple Long Beach food events, including: Long Beach Food Scene Week, his annual restaurant week; Long Beach Last Call, a 10-day celebration of our city's bar and cocktail culture; Long Beach Grand Prix Fixe, a chef's competition where patrons decide the winner; and an annual collaboration with Vans Warped Tour that partners restaurants with bands to create affordable dishes prior to Long Beach Food Scene Week. Previous article Dishes that defined Long Beach’s food scene in 2024 Next article Taking over Rosemallows in DTLB, Midnight Oil will bring late night dim sum and rotating speakeasy LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply Comment: Please enter your comment! Name:* Please enter your name here Email:* You have entered an incorrect email address! Please enter your email address here Website: Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Subscribe to The Insider Get weekly updates on Long Beach's evolving culture, urban development, and food scene. Become a Longbeachize Insider today Subscribe By clicking "Subscribe," you agree to receive weekly newsletters from Longbeachize and accept our Privacy Policy posted on our website. Read more Culture & Commentary Fairmont Breakers in Downtown Long Beach scores coveted Michelin Key status Long Beach Food Scene Pickle Banh Mi in Long Beach harbors the spirit of its Vietnamese women founders Long Beach Food Scene Born Wild Sporting Club wants Long Beach to see the sports bar differently Long Beach Food Scene Long Beach torta and sandwich legend Sliced & Diced returns for one day only Events & Festivals Chef Danny Le of Chez Bacchus wins 2026 Long Beach Grand Prix Fixe competition Popular Tags DTLB 497 Restaurant Openings 266 Menu Updates 251 Alamitos Beach & 4th Street 245 Bars & Cocktails 224 Food Events 207 Restaurant Features 194 Mexican Cuisine 160 Long Beach Food Scene Intel 146 Californian Cuisine 143 More From Long Beach Culture & Commentary Fairmont Breakers in Downtown Long Beach scores coveted Michelin Key status Long Beach Food Scene Pickle Banh Mi in Long Beach harbors the spirit of its Vietnamese women founders Long Beach Food Scene Born Wild Sporting Club wants Long Beach to see the sports bar differently Long Beach Food Scene Long Beach torta and sandwich legend Sliced & Diced returns for one day only Longbeachize is your essential guide to Long Beach culture, covering subjects like food, arts, music, development, and more. We're committed to delivering compelling stories that come from the community itself while also letting people know of things that might directly affect that very community. Quick Links About Longbeachize & Advertising Privacy Policy Terms of Service Support Topics Long Beach Food Scene 1072 Culture & Commentary 242 Events & Festivals 198 Urbanism & Development 186 SUPPORT Longbeachize is part of the Streetsblog family, a network of nonprofit publications that provide community-centric information—and never a paywall. Your donation is tax deductible. © Longbeachize. All Rights Reserved. . Facebook Instagram Linkedin Twitter The owner of this website has made a commitment to accessibility and inclusion, please report any problems that you encounter using the contact form on this website. This site uses the WP ADA Compliance Check plugin to enhance accessibility.
