SOURCE: https://www.weberthompson.com/thought/sloane-high-rise-milestone/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Seattle’s skyline expands with Sloane high-rise milestone | Weber Thompson Design Projects Services Awards Philosophy Our Values EDI Sustainability People Our Team Culture Careers Perspectives News Feed Thoughts Contact Seattle’s skyline expands with Sloane high-rise milestone By Amanda Keating Senior Principal Amanda Keating bridges the gap between aesthetic judgment and technical understanding. At Weber Thompson, she manages the design, documentation and construction administration of large-scale, mixed use projects with the firm’s mid-rise and high-rise groups. Amanda is renowned for her thoughtful, even-keeled approach and calm management style. Thoughts Sustainability Research + Innovation Advocacy News News Community Video Sloane team members at the groundbreaking. (Photo courtesy Holland Partner Group / Brent Smith Photography) At a time when all eyes—and most investment dollars—are focused on the Eastside, it’s refreshing to see a bold new development happening right here in Seattle. The Sloane marks two celebrations. For our team, it is a testament to a collaborative process honed over the years and through six high-rise towers with Holland Partner Group. For Seattle, Sloane is the only high-rise multifamily tower to break ground on the West Coast this year, marking an exciting milestone for the city. The significance of the occasion was clear as Seattle Mayor Bruce Harrell wielded a shovel at the groundbreaking, alongside Sloane ’s development team, Holland Partners, and the design team, including Weber Thompson. The tower’s design is inspired by the folding grids and urban fabric that defines the area. Rising 440 feet into the Seattle skyline, Sloane will provide 442 new residential units, 90 of which are designated to serve residents between 60% and 85% AMI, addressing the city’s desperate need for more affordable housing. Standing on the former site of the iconic Pink Elephant Car Wash, I joined team members, shovel in hand, at the street grid shift that connects Belltown, Uptown, and South Lake Union. It was evident how well-connected this site is to the greater downtown Seattle, and it became clear that this groundbreaking wasn’t just about starting construction; it felt like a vital piece of something much bigger – a signal that Seattle is rebuilding. Weber Thompson Sloane team members: (left) John Stout, Todd Mayne, Mariah Marshall, Amanda Keating, Brian Steinburg, Burton Yuen As the shovels met the dirt, I couldn’t help but think about the risk it takes to push forward with a project of this scale in the current climate, with high interest rates, limited construction loans, and plateaued rents. But Holland’s optimism and commitment to Seattle’s economic future will undoubtedly pay off, with the project poised to bear fruit just as the market bounces back, around the time Sloane is completed in late 2026 or early 2027. Filed under Research + Innovation Tagged with High Rise , Seattle , Sloane Related Articles Thoughts — Sustainability, Research + Innovation Ten high-rise office building design trends By Blaine Weber Thoughts — Advocacy Pain of entitlement politics eased by design review board By Blaine Weber Thoughts — Advocacy Urban streets need proper care and feeding By Blaine Weber 900 N 34th Street, Suite 200 Seattle, WA 98103 206.344.5700 Get Directions Subscribe To Our Newsletter! View Past Newsletters Info + Projects info@weberthompson.com Press press@weberthompson.com Careers View Current Openings Weber Thompson is a majority women-owned business and a JUST organization. © Weber Thompson, 2026 | Policies & Privacy
