SOURCE: https://beverlypress.com/2025/10/retail-and-housing-rise-at-third-and-fairfax/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Retail and housing rise at Third and Fairfax - Beverly Press & Park Labrea NewsBeverly Press & Park Labrea News Advertising Subscribe Mail Delivery Manage Account Contact About Archives News Crime Dining & Entertainment Life, Style & Art Schools Calendar Letters Advertising Subscribe Mail Delivery Manage Account Contact About Archives Download Latest Issue Download Latest Issue (PDF) News Crime Dining & Entertainment Life, Style & Art Schools Calendar Letters By Edwin Folven / October 29, 2025 Retail and housing rise at Third and Fairfax A new building on the south side of Third Street near Fairfax Avenue will include apartments above a Whole Foods Market. (photo by Edwin Folven) An eight-story building with luxury apartments and a new Whole Foods Market near Third Street and Fairfax Avenue is scheduled to open mid-spring in 2026. The residential component, which is called The Daphne and is being constructed by the Holland Partner Group atop the retail space, contains 311 apartments and luxury amenities including an athletic club, theater and outdoor terrace. The ground-level retail component, called Bloom on Third, includes a new two-level Whole Foods Market in 65,000 square feet of space, as well as three levels of parking. It is being developed by Regency Centers in a joint partnership with the Arba Group. Whole Foods Market will move from its existing 41,000-square-foot store at Third and Fairfax into the new space in the second half of 2026. Regency Centers is in the process of leasing the space where the Whole Foods Market is currently located to a “national retailer,” but a spokesman for Regency Centers said they are not ready to announce the company’s name. A CVS pharmacy at the site is being remodeled and will stay on the property, and the parking lot and driveways are being renovated. “We are extremely excited for Whole Foods’ flagship store to be a retail tenant,” said Ray Kayacan, vice president of investments for Regency Centers. Leasing for residences in The Daphne is expected to begin in December or January. George Elum, a managing director for Holland Partner Group, said the building is nearly finished. New crosswalks will also be installed across Third Street at Ogden Drive and across Fairfax Avenue near the rear of the CVS store before the project opens in 2026. “We started the entitlements in 2018. It’s ultimately been an eight-year process,” Elum said. “We are very excited to see this one open.” Previous Post Anger builds over long waits to fix streetlights Next Post Beverly Hills rolls out red carpet for Golden Globes You might also like Whole Foods donates to Project Angel Food to help vulnerable October 8, 2020 0 Comment Leave a Reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Δ This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed . Popular Articles Beverly Hills considers microtransit program 198 views BHPD Chief announces retirement 155 views Victims in West Hollywood assault awarded $72 million 37 views Park Labrea News celebrates 80th anniversary 36 views BHHS guest speaker outrages community 30 views Anti-Black racist incident reported at Beverly Hills post office 30 views Serving the Park Labrea, Miracle Mile, Hancock Park and West Hollywood communities since 1946. © 2021 Beverly Press and Park Labrea News, All Rights Reserved. Back to top
