SOURCE: https://www.prlog.org/12092402-princeton-enterprises-acquires-the-preserve-at-cedar-river-and-courtyard-on-the-green-apartments.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Princeton Enterprises Acquires The Preserve at Cedar River and Courtyard on the Green Apartments -- Princeton Enterprises | PRLog Press Release Distribution PR Home Latest News News Feeds Subscribe Submit Free Press Release For Bloggers PR Newswire Distribution News By Tag * Princeton Enterprises * Matthew B. Lester * Real Estate * Preserve Cedar River * Courtyard On Green * More Tags... Industry News * Financial * Real Estate * More Industries... News By Location * Bloomfield Hills Michigan United States * More Locations... Country(s) United States Australia India Hong Kong England China - - - More Countries Industry News September 2026 We Tu Mo Su Sa Fr Th 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 Princeton Enterprises Acquires The Preserve at Cedar River and Courtyard on the Green Apartments Princeton Enterprises, a privately held real estate investment company based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. is pleased to announce the purchase of two multifamily apartment communities in Florida on March 1, 2013. By: Princeton Enterprises March 5, 2013 - PRLog -- Princeton Enterprises, a privately held real estate investment company based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. is pleased to announce the purchase of two multifamily apartment communities in Florida on March 1, 2013. In a joint transaction, Princeton Enterprises acquired The Preserve at Cedar River Apartments in Jacksonville, Fla. and Courtyard on the Green Apartments in Melbourne, Fla. on March 1, 2013. Princeton acquired the properties from a private seller with the assistance of Matt Wilcox and Kevin Judd, brokers with the Central Florida office of ARA Real Estate Investment Services. Archetype Mortgage Capital provided the permanent financing for the two assets. The Preserve at Cedar River Apartments is situated on the banks of the Cedar River in the southwest suburbs of Jacksonville. The 464 unit property is nestled among oak lined courtyards with waterfront views and features two swimming pools, sand volleyball courts, a waterfront boardwalk, boat docks, fitness center, and gated entrance. Individual apartments complement the lavish community with studio, one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartments complete with spacious floorplans, gourmet kitchens, and private patios and balconies. Unique to specific apartments are washer and dryer connections, wood burning fireplaces, sunken living rooms and lofts, walk in closets, and multiple bathrooms. Courtyard on the Green Apartments is a beautifully landscaped property featuring unique apartment amenities such as washer and dryer in each apartment, cathedral ceiling, screened in patio or balcony, and two bathrooms in the two bedroom unit. The community, which consists of 166 one and two bedroom units, offers a private courtyard lake, swimming pool, tennis courts, fitness center, playground, and clubhouse. Located along the Space Coast, Courtyard on the Green adjoins the Harbor City Country Club and is just minutes from Cocoa Beach, Cape Canaveral, Melbourne International Airport, Interstate 95, and Highway A1A, which runs almost the entire length of Florida along the Atlantic Ocean. "The Preserve at Cedar River and Courtyard on the Green Apartments are two stable properties that we are pleased to add to our growing Florida portfolio," commented Matt Lester, Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Princeton Enterprises. "Both properties are beautifully landscaped and situated along waterways offering their residents an enjoyable and serene environment, similar to living in a private nature preserve." For additional information on this announcement or Princeton Enterprises, please contact Michele Dreer at (248) 683-2500 or m.dreer@prinmgmt.com . Princeton Enterprises, L.L.C. located in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is a premier real estate acquisition, development, and property management company that enjoys one of the finest reputations for successfully acquiring, repositioning and operating a diverse portfolio of real estate assets. Founded in 1994 by Matthew B. Lester, the company has grown to 475 employees, overseeing nearly 90 properties and more than 16,000 individual apartment units in eight states including Florida, Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky, Georgia, North Carolina and South Carolina. End Google News Source : Princeton Enterprises » Follow Email : ***@prinmgmt.com Zip : 48302 Tags : Princeton Enterprises , Matthew B. Lester , Real Estate , Preserve Cedar River , Courtyard On Green Industry : Financial , Real Estate Location : Bloomfield Hills - Michigan - United States Account Email Address Account Phone Number Disclaimer Report Abuse Page Updated Last on: Mar 06, 2013 Princeton Enterprises News Princeton Enterprises Acquires Drummond Island Resort And Conference Center Princeton Enterprises Acquires Chestnut Court Apartments Princeton Enterprises Acquires Oak Tree Village Apartments Princeton Enterprises Acquires Rivercrest Arms Apartments Princeton Enterprises Acquires Cityside Apartments Trending PsychPros Expands Federal Healthcare Staffing Access Through VA Federal Supply Schedule Contract Pregis to Highlight EPR Expertise, Sustainable Packaging Solutions and Live Automation Demonstrations at Pack Expo International 2026 $11.18 Million DARPA Award Ignites a Major New Catalyst as FDA, Robotic TMS and Commercialization Milestones Converge for NRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc Sepsis Survivor Turned Patient Advocate Christina A. Cole Marks Sepsis Awareness Month by Sharing Memoir & Launching Two Patient-Centered Platforms HuskyTail Digital Puts AI to Work Behind the Scenes to Cut Client Turnaround Time Most Viewed Home2 Suites by Hilton Lee's Summit, MO Opens to Guests - 1136 views Biophysical Therapeutics brings longevity science to skincare with its new IF1 brand - 1012 views Visible Ventures Acquires dcdx, a Leading Gen Z Research and Strategy Firm, to Build a New Kind of Human Intelligence Company - 949 views Constitution Party of West Virginia Marks 2026 Candidate Recruitment Milestone - 918 views GiftingNetwork's Donor Portal Live at Foundation for the Carolinas - 798 views Daily News Provisio Insights Named an OpenAI Select Partner to Advance Secure AI Delivery - 404 views Who Is the King of Bounce Houses? Jamie Schluckebier - 351 views Top 100 Golf Coach Daniel Guest and Imagen Golf Announce Partnership with Remo Golf at Fairways Golf Club - 335 views Episcopal Free Fellowship of America Announces Incardination of Trinity North Shore Clergy and Appointment of Rev. Tim Clayton as Canon Missioner - 323 views Pop Artist Maria Raquel Releases Two Halloween Singles Oct. 1 - 295 views Most Viewed Home2 Suites by Hilton Lee's Summit, MO Opens to Guests - 1136 views Biophysical Therapeutics brings longevity science to skincare with its new IF1 brand - 1012 views Visible Ventures Acquires dcdx, a Leading Gen Z Research and Strategy Firm, to Build a New Kind of Human Intelligence Company - 949 views Constitution Party of West Virginia Marks 2026 Candidate Recruitment Milestone - 918 views GiftingNetwork's Donor Portal Live at Foundation for the Carolinas - 798 views Daily News Provisio Insights Named an OpenAI Select Partner to Advance Secure AI Delivery - 404 views Who Is the King of Bounce Houses? Jamie Schluckebier - 351 views Top 100 Golf Coach Daniel Guest and Imagen Golf Announce Partnership with Remo Golf at Fairways Golf Club - 335 views Episcopal Free Fellowship of America Announces Incardination of Trinity North Shore Clergy and Appointment of Rev. Tim Clayton as Canon Missioner - 323 views Pop Artist Maria Raquel Releases Two Halloween Singles Oct. 1 - 295 views Mar 05, 2013 News SiteMap Privacy Policy Terms of Service Copyright Notice About Advertise Like PRLog ? 9K 2K 1K
