SOURCE: https://www.mapquest.com/us/california/the-lark-uptown-696280001
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

The Lark Uptown, 269 24th Street, Oakland, CA 94612, US - MapQuest Plans Get directions My saved places MapQuest Travel Lighthouse Family Safety Route Planner Get help Search the web Send feedback Learn more about our mobile apps. Merch Claim your business Developer resources Jobs Advertise with us Terms of use Privacy policy Data and licenses About our ads Do not sell Advertisement Advertisement Search places or paste a link The Lark Uptown Open ( 23 ) Save Call Web Share Directions Advertisement Advertisement Photos Yelp Entrance Yelp Lobby Yelp Clubhouse Yelp Bayview and city view Yelp Yelp Yelp Yelp Yelp Yelp Top review “ My move in went really great, thanks to July and Marcus. They have been accommodating in every single way they can, even with my personal circumstances. The maintenance team is fast and super... ” Jonathan L. See all 269 24th Street, Oakland, CA, 94612 Welcome to The Lark Uptown, a premier apartment complex located on 24th Street in the vibrant city of Oakland. Our property offers stunning views of Lake Merritt and the Oakland Hills, providing a serene backdrop to your urban lifestyle. Residents enjoy spacious, modern apartments equipped with top-of-the-line amenities, including a state-of-the-art fitness center, rooftop lounge, and a coworking lounge. Experience the perfect blend of comfort and convenience in a community designed to meet your needs. Visit us today to explore your new home or schedule a tour to see all that The Lark Uptown has to offer. Hours Open Sun Closed Mon Closed Tue 10 am - 6 pm Wed 10 am - 6 pm Thu 10 am - 6 pm Fri 10 am - 6 pm Sat 10 am - 6 pm Advertisement Reviews ( 23 ) My move in went really great, thanks to July and Marcus. They have been accommodating in every single way they can, even with my personal circumstances. The maintenance team is fast and super... 3 months ago Jonathan L. Read more on Yelp This place is amazing! Central location, close to bart, close to the lake and insane views. Absolutely love the security, the vibes and the lifestyle being offered. 8 months ago Asal B. Read more on Yelp So far so good. It's apartment living so you know quality of life depends alot on your neighbors. Everyone is pleasant and no one is overly loud/ inconsiderate. Office staff is always helpful... 11 months ago Chad M. Read more on Yelp Great apartment building that's brand new, well maintained, clean with solid amenities. Love the rooftop with views of the lake. 1 year ago Ashley C. Read more on Yelp Dijah gave us a thorough tour without ever making it feel rushed. Every question we threw at her, she had clear and honest answers. You can tell she really knows the property and cares about... 11 months ago Kyle C. Read more on Yelp You might also like H & H Builders & Remodelers Real estate brokers and agents " Was looking for a reliable company to remodel my bathroom and H & H Builders did not disappoint. Not only did they show up on-time and ready to go each morning but they were quick and nothing... " David J. ( 3 ) Corbin Building Inc Real estate brokers and agents " l am writing this letter as a thank you to you Joseph and your company for the outstanding jobs everyone did in our home. We love the bathroom and closet a lot, also our new window. We really... " Theresa R. ( 4 ) Moving Plus Real estate brokers and agents Bashland Builders Real estate brokers and agents Chipman Relocation & Logistics Real estate brokers and agents Moving Plus Real estate brokers and agents Top Collections Near Oakland Woman-Owned Restaurants in San Francisco, CA 7 places Free Things to Do in San Francisco, CA 9 places Free Museums in San Francisco, CA 9 places Best Restaurants in Fremont 3 places Top Things to Do in Fremont 4 places Best Family-Friendly Activities in Fremont 7 places Best Neighborhoods in Fremont 9 places Best Day Trips from Fremont 10 places Advertisement Advertisement Own this business? Claim it See a problem? Let us know United States › California › Alameda County › Oakland › 94612 › The Lark Uptown Partial Data by Foursquare. See more Similar places H & H Builders & Remodelers ( 3 ) Similar places Corbin Building Inc ( 4 ) Similar places Moving Plus
