SOURCE: https://www.jll.com/en-us/newsroom/denver-colorado-multifamily-the-district-by-windsor-sells
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

JLL Capital Markets has arranged the sale of Denver's The District by Windsor Skip to main content JLL Logo JLL Logo United States keyboard_arrow_down search Contact us menu Properties Services Technology People Insights Industries About JLL Client stories Careers News Investor relations search Search menu Menu Home chevron_right Newsroom 14 January 2025 News release 14 January 2025 JLL Capital Markets has arranged the sale of Denver's The District by Windsor Three-building multi-housing community in Colorado’s prime location trades hands Categories: Capital flows Investment sales and advisory Living and multifamily Financial services Authors Gréta Kieras About JLL About GID About Mesirow Looking for more insights? Never miss an update. DENVER, Jan. 14, 2025 – JLL Capital Markets announced today that it has arranged the sale of The District by Windsor, a 276-unit multi-housing community in Denver, Colorado. JLL represented the seller, GID, in facilitating the buyer, Mesirow Financial. The District by Windsor, located at 6300 E Hampden Ave., enjoys a prime position with immediate access to I-25 and close proximity to I-225, offering residents seamless connectivity throughout the Denver metro area. The community’s strategic location near Belleview Station and RTD Southmoor Station provides convenient public transit options, while its proximity to shopping centers and major employment hubs, including the Southeast Business Corridor. Denver is a thriving metro area known for its strong economy, highly educated workforce and exceptional quality of life. The region boasts robust job growth that attracts young professionals with an average of 89 new residents moving to the metro area daily. Within a three-mile radius of The District by Windsor, the average household income is $137,197 and the average home value is $826,899, reflecting the area's affluence and desirability. The District by Windsor, constructed in 2007, is a mid-rise apartment community situated on a spacious 7-acre plot. This well-maintained property offers 247,811 square feet of residential space, complemented by 16,622 square feet of commercial space creating a vibrant mixed-use environment. With a high occupancy rate of 95%, The District caters to a diverse range of residents seeking modern comfortable living spaces. The community boasts an impressive array of amenities including a year-round spa and hot tub, a resort-style swimming pool, a state-of-the-art fitness center and EV charging stations, reflecting its commitment to providing a luxurious and sustainable lifestyle for its residents. "We are pleased to partner with JLL Capital Markets and GID in the purchase of The District by Windsor,” stated Alasdair Cripps , CEO of Mesirow Institutional Real Estate Direct Investments. “Going forward, our vision for the property includes additional capital for modern amenities and enhancements to interior units and the exterior appearance. With these changes, we will be rebranding the property as The District at Hampden South and look forward to serving the community.” JLL Capital Market’s Investment and Sales Advisory team representing the seller was led by Senior Managing Director Jordan Robbins, Managing Director Wick Kirby, Director Alex Possick and Associate Seth Gallman. "The sale of The District by Windsor demonstrates the continued investor appetite for well-located, value-add multi-housing assets in the Denver metro area," said Robbins. "The property's strategic location near major employment centers and its potential for unit interior upgrades made it an attractive investment opportunity in today's market." JLL Capital Markets is a full-service global provider of capital solutions for real estate investors and occupiers. The firm's in-depth local market and global investor knowledge delivers the best-in-class solutions for clients — whether investment sales and advisory, debt advisory, equity advisory or a recapitalization. The firm has more than 3,000 Capital Markets specialists worldwide with offices in nearly 50 countries. For more news, videos and research resources, please visit JLL’s newsroom . About JLL For over 200 years, JLL (NYSE: JLL), a leading global commercial real estate and investment management company, has helped clients buy, build, occupy, manage and invest in a variety of commercial, industrial, hotel, residential and retail properties. A Fortune 500® company with annual revenue of $20.8 billion and operations in over 80 countries around the world, our more than 111,000 employees bring the power of a global platform combined with local expertise. Driven by our purpose to shape the future of real estate for a better world, we help our clients, people and communities SEE A BRIGHTER WAY SM . JLL is the brand name, and a registered trademark, of Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated. For further information, visit jll.com . About GID GID is a privately-held vertically-integrated real estate company with a diverse portfolio spanning multifamily and industrial assets across the United States. With over 60 years of experience and a robust operating platform, GID manages $30.0 billion in assets as of September 30, 2024 including 57,000 apartment units and 28 million square feet of industrial and commercial space while also offering commercial real estate debt solutions through its credit platform. About Mesirow Mesirow is an independent, employee-owned financial services firm founded in 1937. Headquartered in Chicago, with offices around the world, they serve clients through a personal, custom approach to reaching financial goals and acting as a force for social good. With capabilities spanning Global Investment Management, Capital Markets & Investment Banking and Advisory Services, Mesirow invests in what matters: their clients, their communities and their culture. To learn more, visit mesirow.com , follow on LinkedIn and subscribe to Spark , Mesirow’s quarterly newsletter. Mesirow has been named one of the Best Places to Work in Chicago by Crain’s Chicago Business and one of the Top 100 RIA firms by Barron’s multiple times. Looking for more insights? Never miss an update. The latest news, insights and opportunities from global commercial real estate markets straight to your inbox. Subscribe open_in_new JLL Logo JLL Logo arrow_upward There’s the conventional way of doing things. And then, there’s the JLL way. A more innovative, intelligent and human way. Find out how you can see a brighter way with JLL. Subscribe now arrow_forward How can we help? Find and lease space Portfolio management Private investors Hybrid workspace solutions Green building and leasing AI for commercial real estate Contact us Careers Working at JLL View job opportunities Meet our people Join the talent network Corporate Information About JLL Newsroom Sustainability at JLL Investor relations Locations Ethics everywhere Sourcing and procurement JLL Spark There’s the conventional way of doing things. And then, there’s the JLL way. A more innovative, intelligent and human way. Find out how you can see a brighter way with JLL. How can we help? Find and lease space Portfolio management Private investors Hybrid workspace solutions Green building and leasing AI for commercial real estate Contact us Careers Working at JLL View job opportunities Meet our people Join the talent network Corporate Information About JLL Newsroom Sustainability at JLL Investor relations Locations Ethics everywhere Sourcing and procurement JLL Spark Legal Privacy statement Privacy policy Terms of use Cookies Disclosure Responsible AI statement Sitemap Legal expand_more Copyright 2026 Jones Lang LaSalle IP, Inc. United States keyboard_arrow_down
