SOURCE: https://www.weberthompson.com/project/the-ayer/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

The Ayer | Weber Thompson Design Projects Services Awards Philosophy Our Values EDI Sustainability People Our Team Culture Careers Perspectives News Feed Thoughts Contact The Ayer Inspired by tectonics and situated in a dynamic neighborhood, The Ayer is a gleaming residence right in the heart of Denny Triangle. Together, The Ayer and its neighbor The Ivey on Boren are designed to bolster Cornish College of the Arts while providing an unparalleled luxury experience for building tenants. Client Name Holland Partner Group Location Seattle, WA Certifications LEED Silver Certified awards 2024 NAIOP Night of the Stars High-Rise Residential Development of the Year Services Architecture Landscape Architecture Program Overview 575,380 GSF 45 Stories 454 Units 359,412 SF Residential 1,138 SF Retail 245 parking stalls Completion Date 2023 Contacts Amanda Keating Principal in Charge Rachael Meyer Landscape Principal Beauty in the breakdown The design was inspired by natural tectonics found in the Pacific Northwest, where entire blocks have been sheered and fractured to give the tower visual energy. Geometric patterning within the façade fortifies this concept. The seams of the tower contrast its reflective glass shell, revealing the pure, unweathered interior of the project like you might find in natural stone formations. Not your traditional porch At grade, an urban reinterpretation of the porch was created to foster communal connectivity and activation. The Ayer is set far back from the street, thus creating its own porch experience. Offering respite from the rain and sun, this community space paired with a local cafe encourages interaction amongst the residents and between passersby. The Ayer Landscape Architecture Located on a garden street with an expansive front porch, The Ayer is a retreat for urban dwellers looking to reconnect with nature. Forest forward The Ayer’s materials draw on the earthiness of the Pacific Northwest’s native forests – dark, deep green tones and copper accents permeate the color palette. Curved linear benches create a ‘pocket park’ featuring a refined selection of natural stone, wood, precast concrete, and polished bronze accents. A year-round rooftop Rooftop amenities are surrounded by custom-built walls clad in natural stone. These walls continue the forest-inspired materials palette from below while also providing a protective buffer against the elements, increasing comfort for residents and their guests. Lounge areas at all scales The Ayer features a robust mix of intimate spaces and large lounge areas, where groups of various sizes can gather to celebrate, watch games or movies, and more. Nocturnal Flight : A glowing tribute ‘Nocturnal Flight’ honors Weber Thompson Founding Partner Blaine Weber . Showcased at The Ayer for its commitment to art and community, this neon piece by local artist Yale Wolf reflects Blaine’s night owl spirit and love for Seattle. Special thank you to Holland Partner Group for their thoughtful vision, for commissioning this piece, dedicating the space in The Ayer, and for leading the design process. Urban ArtWorks collaborated with Holland to facilitate artist selection, manage design development, and oversee production and installation. project photography by moris moreno, Nocturnal flight photo by weber thompson The Ayer in the News Holland opens 45-story Ayer, with 430 Denny Triangle units Daily Journal of Commerce February 8, 2024 Work continues on 45-story Seattle tower Daily Journal of Commerce May 4, 2021 NASH, Holland pay Cornish $22M for high-rise site in Denny Triangle Daily Journal of Commerce April 5, 2019 Holland buying more of key block from Cornish Daily Journal of Commerce February 26, 2018 Related Projects Project — High Rise The Ivey on Boren Project — High Rise Nexus 900 N 34th Street, Suite 200 Seattle, WA 98103 206.344.5700 Get Directions Subscribe To Our Newsletter! View Past Newsletters Info + Projects info@weberthompson.com Press press@weberthompson.com Careers View Current Openings Weber Thompson is a majority women-owned business and a JUST organization. © Weber Thompson, 2026 | Policies & Privacy
