SOURCE: https://ankrommoisan.com/projects/the-rodney/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

--> The Rodney - Ankrom Moisan Home Explore Explore Contact Careers Search Architecture Interiors Planning Brand Affordable Housing Community Healthcare Higher Education Hospitality Housing Office Renovations Retail Senior Communities Spiritual Student Housing Urban Living On The Boards Our Team Executive Leadership Architecture Architecture Studio Leadership Interiors Interiors Studio Leadership Planning Brand Operational Excellence Culture Blog: Explore Beyond On The Boards Projects People Expertise About Culture Blog: Explore Beyond AM in the News Culture Blog: Explore Beyond AM in the News All Disciplines Architecture Interiors Planning Brand Operational Excellence All Studios Affordable Housing Community Healthcare Higher Education Hospitality Housing Office Retail Senior Communities Spiritual Student Housing Urban Living On the Boards CURRENT SELECTION Our Top Projects Go Contact If you’d like to talk with us—about a project, an opportunity, an insight—contact us with this form. We’re friendly and curious, so we’ll make sure the right person in one of our three offices gets back to you within a few days. Thanks! Portland 38 NW Davis Street, Suite 300, Portland, OR 97209 (206) 245-7100 Dave Heater President Email Alissa Brandt Vice President of Interiors Email Leah Wheary Brown Vice President of Interior Design Strategy Email Murray Jenkins Executive Vice President Email Seattle 1505 5th Avenue, Suite 300, Seattle, WA, 98101 (206) 576-1600 San Francisco 115 Sansome Street, Suite 1005, San Francisco, CA, 94104 (415) 252-7063 Austin 301 Congress Avenue, Suite 1200 Austin, TX 78701 (512) 616-3619 Phone This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Name First Last Email * Subject * I'm interested in... Starting a project Partnering on a project An employment or internship opportunity Sharing my product or service Something else Message * CAPTCHA Search Search © Cheryl McIntosh © Cheryl McIntosh © Cheryl McIntosh © Cheryl McIntosh © Cheryl McIntosh © Cheryl McIntosh The Rodney DISCIPLINES --> Architecture Where Sidewalk Meets Sky Located at the industrial edge of Portland’s Pearl District, between the Willamette River and I-405, The Rodney is a mixed-use apartment building that seamlessly blends modern design with the neighborhood’s industrial heritage. The design reflects a deep understanding of the community's history and character. At street level, the building anchors itself with a robust, ordered base that echoes the district’s legacy of industrial architecture. As it rises, however, The Rodney transforms into a slender, shimmering tower of glass. This juxtaposition of industrial solidity at the base and modern, vertical elegance above bridges the gap between the historical, grounded feel of the industrial district and the contemporary, urban scale of modern architecture. Early in the design process, we engaged with neighborhood associations and the Portland Design Commission, all of whom emphasized the importance of the building blending with the area’s unique character. Situated at the intersection of the Pearl District’s sophisticated charm and its working-class history, the Rodney presents an opportunity to merge these two design traditions. The result is a mixed-use tower that honors its industrial surroundings while asserting itself as a modern residential landmark. The design concept centers on a smooth transition from the historic street-level context to the contemporary tower above. A solid, warehouse-like podium anchors the base, providing a tactile connection to the industrial past, while the tower above lightens and stretches upward, its sleek glass facade gradually thinning as it rises. This thoughtful massing creates a harmonious dialogue between the building and its environment. At 16 stories tall, the Rodney is LEED Platinum certified and crowned with a 360-degree rooftop deck that offers panoramic views of Portland’s West Hills, downtown, the historic brick warehouses along 13th Avenue, the Willamette River, and Mount Hood beyond. Inside, 230 units range from urban studios to expansive penthouses, offering a diverse living experience for a variety of demographics. In response to community needs, the design also includes a new public plaza, which was built on a nearby parking lot and extends the building’s footprint by three additional floors. This outdoor courtyard space provides a vital connection to the neighborhood, enhancing both the building’s functionality and its sense of place. The Rodney is a successful fusion of modernity and history, a building that integrates thoughtfully into its context while making a distinct and memorable statement. ... --> Portland, Oregon LEED Platinum 230 units 16 stories 271,500 sq. ft. Completed in 2019 --> PROGRAM High-Rise PROJECT CONTACT housing@ankrommoisan.com Back Blog: Explore Beyond On The Boards 2025 ESG Report Sustainability Action Plan Careers Health Plans OUR OFFICES Portland Seattle San Francisco Austin Architecture Interiors Planning Brand AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMMUNITY HEALTHCARE HIGHER EDUCATION HOSPITALITY HOUSING OFFICE RENOVATIONS RETAIL SENIOR COMMUNITIES SPIRITUAL STUDENT HOUSING Portland Office Integrated with the Old Town neighborhood along the Willamette River, our Portland headquarters exude warmth, approachability, and quiet sophistication. We designed our mass timber headquarters to embody our firm’s cultural values in wood, brick, and glass, and it’s a joy to be able to work here. 38 NW Davis Street, Suite 300, Portland, OR 97209 (503) 245-7100 Dave Heater President daveh@ankrommoisan.com Alissa Brandt Vice President of Interiors alissab@ankrommoisan.com Leah Wheary Brown Vice President of Interior Design Strategy leahw@ankrommoisan.com Murray Jenkins Executive Vice President murrayj@ankrommoisan.com Seattle Office In the heart of a busy, cosmopolitan downtown, our Seattle office is designed to welcome—clients, visitors, consultants, the wider design community, each other. Raw, exposed structural elements balance reclaimed wood floors, custom metal panels, and an abundance of glass to express the diversity, honesty, and inclusivity that keeps our work human-centered. 1505 5th Avenue, Suite 300, Seattle, WA 98101 (206) 576-1600 Dave Heater President daveh@ankrommoisan.com Rachael Lewis Managing Principal rachaell@ankrommoisan.com David Kelley Executive Vice President davidk@ankrommoisan.com San Francisco Office 115 Sansome Street, Suite 1005, San Francisco, CA 94104 (415) 252-7063 Dave Heater President daveh@ankrommoisan.com Leah Wheary Brown Vice President of Interior Design Strategy leahw@ankrommoisan.com Travis Thockmorton Managing Principal travist@ankrommoisan.com Ⓒ 2026 Ankrom Moisan Architects, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Our website uses cookies to improve your browsing experience. Privacy Policy & Terms of Use .
