SOURCE: https://sdbj.com/real-estate/apartments/the-torrey-apartment-tower-growing-downtown/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

The Torrey Apartment Tower Growing Downtown - San Diego Business Journal Facebook Instagram Linkedin X Youtube Sign in Lists Finance Life Science Real Estate Manufacturing Video Library Podcast Events & Nominations NOMINATIONS SDBJ EVENTS Calendars Business Calendar San Diego Entertainment Calendar Special Editions Branded Content Special Editions Leaders of Influence Women of Influence Industry Roundtables On The Move Special Editions Archive Advertise With Us Sign in Welcome! Log into your account your username your password Forgot your password? Privacy Policy Password recovery Recover your password your email Search 72.1 F San Diego Wednesday, Sep 30, 2026 Facebook Instagram Linkedin X Youtube Login Subscribe Here THE COMMUNITY OF BUSINESS™ Lists Finance Life Science Real Estate Manufacturing Video Library Podcast Events & Nominations NOMINATIONS SDBJ EVENTS Calendars Business Calendar San Diego Entertainment Calendar Special Editions Branded Content Special Editions Leaders of Influence Women of Influence Industry Roundtables On The Move Special Editions Archive Advertise With Us Home Real Estate The Torrey Apartment Tower Growing Downtown Real Estate Apartments News enews The Torrey Apartment Tower Growing Downtown REAL ESTATE: $440M Project Includes Whole Foods Store By Ray Huard - May 13, 2026 Facebook X Linkedin Email Print The Torry’s murals are painted by Darren “Dabs” Mate and Emmelene Mate, working as Dabsmyla. Photo courtesy Holland Partner Group SAN DIEGO – Holland Partner Group is on schedule to finish construction in June of a $440 million downtown apartment tower, The Torrey, with 450 apartments and a Whole Foods market on a site that was once San Diego Superior Court. Still to be determined is what happens to a parcel of land that’s between The Torrey and West, a $510 million residential tower completed by Holland Partners last year with 431 apartments at 1011 Union St., 289,000 square feet of office space, and 10,000 square feet of retail space. “We’re looking at putting in kind of an outdoor landscaped area on the corner that will be another outdoor amenity space,” said Brent Schertzer, managing director of Holland Partner Group. Landscaping plays a significant role in the design of The Torrey, named after the Torrey Pine, a rare tree species that grows only in coastal San Diego and on Santa Rosa Island offshore from Santa Barbara. A nature deck, covering most of the ninth floor, will have mounded planted areas so it doesn’t’ look so flat, with its namesake tree and other vegetation native to San Diego. “It does create this much more natural feel to the space, having the different elevations up on the deck,” Schertzer said, adding that, “It seemed like a real opportunity to make a really special place for residents to go hang out or go work if they’re working from home.” “It turned out to be a really special amenity and place for people,” Schertzer said. “With The Torrey, we set out to create an environment that exudes the authentic landscape of San Diego, introducing spaces that celebrate the local, natural coastline in the very heart of our city.” The Torrey is a $440 million luxury luxury apartment building with 34 floors and 450 units. A Dash of Color The addition of a Whole Foods market is also a feature that separates The Torrey from some of its competitors, according to Schertzer. Set to open toward the end of the year, Whole Foods will take up about 40,000 square feet of the ground floor and mezzanine. “It seemed like a grocer would be the right type of amenity, in terms of a retail tenant, to bring to the area,” Schertzer said. “We turned over the space to Whole Foods at the end of last year. They’re underway on their work right now. We’re kind of at the finish line on the rest of The Torrey.” Whole Foods will have two levels of dedicated parking, with 176 spaces. The building will also have more than 500 other parking spaces for residents and visitors. In addition to the nature deck and market, amenities in The Torrey include a rooftop pool and lounge, an athletic club, pet areas and coworking space. The project will also include murals by the Australian husband and wife team of Darren “Dabs” Mate and Emmelene Mate, working as Dabsmyla. “They’re very saturated in color and they really brighten up and make that area feel so much more alive than it did,” said Vanessa Vincent, luxury lease up community manager. “It’s actually adding something to the community.” The Torrey has been FitWell certified and is targeting LEED Gold certification for its sustainability. As part of the project, Holland Partners has widened sidewalks, added seating and planted trees along Union Street as part of the city’s Green Streets Initiative. View of The Torrey’s deck, landscaped with natural plants and trees. Photos courtesy Holland Partner Group Concessions Holland has already started leasing apartments in The Torrey. The apartments range from 598-square feet studios to 2,297 square-foot penthouse apartments with three bathrooms. To attract renters, Holland Partners is offering eight weeks free rent at The Torrey, according to Vincent. People who sign a lease within 24 hours of touring The Torrey will also receive a $1,000 signing bonus, Vincent said. Other recent apartment projects are offering similar concessions, but Schertzer said he expects that, “the concessions will likely start to taper down as there’s less competition and people jumping from one place to another.” The downtown apartment market has had a rash of new projects over the past few years, but construction has pretty much halted with no new projects slated to open in 2026 aside from The Torrey, according to Schertzer. “We expect that demand will continue to stay strong,” Schertzer said. “In general, downtown San Diego is still a great place to live and has a lot going for it and we’re continuing to see things improve as more residents come in.” Tenants are likely to be “people who live downtown already and they’re looking for a new building or experience and they want to be in a more central location,” Shertzer said. “At West, it’s been a pretty good mix of people across the whole spectrum, a lot of young professionals who want to live downtown for the lifestyle and also people who aren’t working anymore – empty nesters that want to be in an urban, walkable environment,” Schertzer said. “I would expect more of that here.” Carrier Johnson + Culture, based in downtown San Diego, was the architect on The Torrey, and Sixteenfifty, based in La Jolla, was the interior designer. Holland Partner Group FOUNDED: 2000 CEO: Clyde Holland HEADQUARTERS: Vancouver, Washington EMPLOYEES: 750+ WEBSITE: www.hollandpartnergroup.com CONTACT: 360-694-7888 NOTABLE: Holland Partner Group’s investment in multi-family development, redevelopment and mixed-use assets is more than $17 billion Ray Huard + posts Bio ⮌ A native of New England, Ray Huard has been a reporter at newspapers in California, Florida and New England, including The (Jacksonville) Florida Times-Union, the Miami Herald, the Palm Beach Post in West Palm Beach, the San Diego Union-Tribune, the North County Times, and the San Diego Business Journal. He has covered a wide variety of beats including real estate, politics, science, the environment, state and city government and courts. Ray Huard DiamondView Tower Out of Rough Market Ray Huard The Haven Combines Low-income Housing with Community Center Ray Huard San Ysidro Climate Resiliency Center Opens Ray Huard Caritas, Level 3 Building $8.7M Affordable Housing Project Facebook X Linkedin Email Print Previous article What’s Working for San Diego’s Small Business Owners Next article Kratos Defense Diversifies Its Firejet Aircraft Line Ray Huard A native of New England, Ray Huard has been a reporter at newspapers in California, Florida and New England, including The (Jacksonville) Florida Times-Union, the Miami Herald, the Palm Beach Post in West Palm Beach, the San Diego Union-Tribune, the North County Times, and the San Diego Business Journal. He has covered a wide variety of beats including real estate, politics, science, the environment, state and city government and courts. RELATED ARTICLES MORE FROM AUTHOR Nuvve Launches AI-Powered Grid Demand Forecasting Platform Getting Public Relations ‘Wright’ in AI Era WinSanTor Aiming to Get Neuropathy Drug into Patients’ Hands – And Other Extremities -Advertisement- -Advertisement- -Advertisement- -Advertisement- -Advertisement- Facebook Instagram Linkedin X Youtube THE COMMUNITY OF BUSINESS™ A Southern Southern California ® Publication 4909 Murphy Canyon Rd., Suite 200 San Diego, CA 92123 858-277-6359 (Local) Browse More SDBJ Marketplace SDBJ Book of Lists Learn More About San Diego Business Journal Editorial Calendar SDBJ Staff Contact Us Advertise with Us Services Join Our Membership Newsletter Sign-Up Reset Your Password Forgot Your password Renewals Event Calendar Digital Marketing Dashboard – Staff Only Other Journals Los Angeles Business Journal Orange County Business Journal Inside the Valley Privacy Policy © San Diego Business Journal
