SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/holland-partner-group-introduces-the-ayer
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

ABOUT US SERVICES LEADERSHIP CAREERS SUSTAINABILITY CULTURE PRESS Share with friends FEBRUARY 2024 - HOLLAND PARTNER GROUP INTRODUCES THE AYER: LUXURY AND COMMUNITY IN THE HEART OF SEATTLE 02.09.2024 Seattle, Wash. February 9th, 2024 — Holland Partner Group proudly announces the opening of The Ayer, a stunning 46-story residential tower that epitomizes elegance and serenity. Located at 2010 Terry Avenue in Seattle’s South Lake Union neighborhood, The Ayer blends refined warmth with sculptural modernity. The building is rooted in the architectural legacy of Elizabeth Ayer, the first woman to be registered as an architect in the state of Washington. Guided by the natural rock elements of the Pacific Northwest, The Ayer blends refined stonework, sculptural edges, and artisan woodwork to create a living environment that embodies sophistication with a connection to the outdoors. The building features 454 residences ranging from studios to three-bedrooms including unique two-story penthouse homes. Residents and their guests are invited to slow down and take in the captivating views of Mt. Rainier, the Space Needle, and the Puget Sound. “From the moment you enter, you can feel the difference and see the attention to every detail. The Ayer combines architectural sophistication with the raw beauty of natural materials,” said Raymond Connell, Managing Director of the Puget Sound Development team at Holland Partner Group. “This community not only reflects the innovative design and commitment to quality that defines Holland, but also showcases our dedication to creating communities that resonate with the most discerning customers.” Standing tall in the city skyline that Elizabeth Ayer’s work influenced, The Ayer will reflect her strength to a narrative of resilience. Life is a little different up in The Ayer. For leasing inquiries and more information about The Ayer, please visit HollandResidential.com About Holland Partner Group: Founded in 2000, Holland is a fully integrated real estate investment company developing high-quality investment properties in the Western United States, with expertise in development, construction, acquisition, redevelopment, and property management. Holland creates sustainable, socially connected, and vibrant communities to work, live, and enjoy life. The company’s seasoned 750-plus-member team creates innovative, quality, and value-driven residential and commercial projects, championing every phase of development and construction of its mixed-use properties, including residential, office, parking garages, and retail assets. Headquartered in Vancouver, Wash., Holland has offices in Denver, Seattle, Southern California, Northern California, and San Diego. Media Contacts: Dan Tremaine-McCarthy, Holland Partner Group [email protected] | 360-949-3652 Allison McGillivray, Weinstein PR [email protected] |503-509-9719 All Posts LET US HELP YOU! Holland Partner Group is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at [email protected] or [email protected] . You may also call (360) 694-7888 . CONTACT US (360) 694-7888 808 Washington St, #500 Vancouver, WA 98660 Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 SOCIAL Holland Partner Group | All Rights Reserved. equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Privacy Policy ESG Policy Press Transparency in Coverage Happily Made by Razz
