SOURCE: https://larchmontchronicle.com/the-daphne-bloom-on-third-to-open-in-eight-story-complex/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

The Daphne, Bloom on Third to open in eight-story complex : Larchmont Chronicle Home News People Entertainment Real Estate Advertise in the Chronicle Home About Us Letters to the Editor and Contact Hot Tips & Suggestions Demographics Chronicle History Special Editions Advertise in the Chronicle Older Archives Site Map Happy Hours Posts Comments Home About Us Letters to the Editor and Contact Hot Tips & Suggestions Demographics Chronicle History Special Editions Advertise in the Chronicle Older Archives Site Map Happy Hours Posts Comments Sign in / Join 75.4 F Los Angeles HANCOCK PARK • WINDSOR SQUARE • FREMONT PLACE • PARK LABREA • LARCHMONT VILLAGE • MIRACLE MILE Home News People Entertainment Real Estate Advertise in the Chronicle Home About Us Letters to the Editor and Contact Hot Tips & Suggestions Demographics Chronicle History Special Editions Advertise in the Chronicle Older Archives Site Map Happy Hours Posts Comments The Daphne, Bloom on Third to open in eight-story complex Suzan Filipek | February 26, 2026 | 0 Comments An eight-story residential and retail project at Third Street and Fairfax Avenue across from The Grove and the Original Farmers Market is nearing completion. The development, at 6300 W. Third St., includes a ground-floor retail component called Bloom on Third. The upper residential floors, named The Daphne, include 311 studios and one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments as well as an athletic club, theater, and outdoor terrace. There will be parking for nearly 1,000 vehicles in a podium garage. The project, at the former Town & Country site, is developed by Holland Partner Group. MIXED-USE RETAIL and residential complex is nearing completion on Third Street. The eight-story building will include 311 residential units and ground-floor retail space. Apartment prices have yet to be determined at the complex scheduled to open in the late second quarter of this year, said George Elum, managing director for the Los Angeles Region for real estate developer Holland Partner Group. The project will include a pedestrian paseo connecting Odgen Drive to the existing shopping center through the first floor of the project, a new crosswalk at Gilmore Drive and Odgen, and a new crosswalk across Fairfax near Blackburn Avenue, Elum added. Bloom on Third, which has approximately 84,000 square feet of retail space and will include a new two-level Whole Foods Market, is developed by Regency Centers with the Arba Group. The existing Whole Foods Market will move from its longstanding place near the corner of Third and Fairfax and increase from 41,000 to 65,000 square feet. It will include three levels. The move is expected later this year. Regency Centers is leasing the market space to a national retailer expected to open in 2027, according to its website. A CVS pharmacy at the site is being remodeled and will stay on the property, and the existing parking lot and driveways are being renovated, according to reports. MVE + Partners designed the mixed-use complex, which is set to feature setbacks that reduce the scale of the building along adjacent streets and neighboring Hancock Park Elementary School to the south. While the project’s entitlements were approved in 2022, the final design is a far cry from the original proposal for a 26-story tower. It was significantly reduced after community outcry, including from Hancock Park Elementary. In 2020, the owners of the Third and Fairfax property erected a 10-foot masonry block wall between the school and the service areas of Whole Foods Market and CVS Pharmacy to address noise concerns. Demolition of the buildings that were east of the Whole Foods Market occurred during the school’s summer break in 2022. Among the buildings that came down was the one that was the longtime home to Andre’s Italian Restaurant, which has since reopened at 5400 Wilshire Blvd., in the historic Dominguez Building in the Miracle Mile. Tags: 6300 W. Third St. , Andre's Italian Restaurant , Apartments , Arba Group , athletic club , Blackburn Avenue , Bloom on Third , CVS pharmacy , development , Dominguez Building , Fairfax Avenue , Gilmore Drive , Hancock Park Elementary School , Holland Partner Group , Miracle Mile , mixed-use complex , MVE + Partners , Ogden Drive , outdoor terrace , paseo , podium garage , Regency Centers , residential-and-retail project , shopping center , The Daphne , The Grove , The Original Farmers Market , theater , Third Street , Whole Foods Market Category : News Subscribe If you enjoyed this article, subscribe to receive more just like it. Privacy guaranteed. We never share your info. Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ « Ridgewood resident plays violin at Super Bowl halftime show City sucks out asphalt underneath around Hancock Park » Upcoming Events Columbus / Indigenous Peoples' Day October 12, 2026 Mid City West Neighborhood Council board meeting October 13, 2026 Greater Wilshire Neighborhood Council board meeting October 14, 2026 Larchmont Family Fair October 25, 2026 View All Events Sponsored Articles Details 606 N. Larchmont Boulevard, #103 Los Angeles, CA 90004 (323) 462-2241 Letters to the Editor and Contact Special Editions Demographics Advertising Deadlines Advertise with the Chronicle Local Links Site Map © 2025 Larchmont Chronicle. All rights reserved. Publisher: Hutcheson Publishing Group.
