SOURCE: https://www.buildingenclosureonline.com/articles/86156-vitality-with-acclaimed-mixed-use-housing-icon
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Vitality with Acclaimed Mixed-Use Housing Icon | 2016-08-03 | Building Enclosure Building Enclosure logo search Search search close search cart facebook twitter linkedin youtube instagram Sign In Create Account Sign Out My Account Building Enclosure logo NEWS Breaking News SECTIONS Columns Project Profiles Trade Shows Sponsor Insights SYSTEM DESIGNS Low-Slope Roofs Pitched Roofs Metal Roofing Materials Waterproofing Sustainability Insulation Exterior Claddings Wall Systems Building Envelope BLOG The BE Blog MEDIA Podcasts Webinars Quiz Videos Polls Infographics Newsletter Photo Galleries DIRECTORIES Directory: Blue Book Directory: Roofing Resource PRODUCTS TECHNICAL Codes Waterproofing Roofing Details Waterproofing Roofing CONTINUING ED ABOUT Advertise Editorial Calendar Contact eMag Archive Issues SIGN UP! Project Profiles Vitality with Acclaimed Mixed-Use Housing Icon August 3, 2016 Carrier Johnson + CULTURE, the award-winning global architecture, interior design and branding leader, has announced the completion of The Brand, a mixed-use project that recently won a prestigious national design honors. Composed of two buildings, Brand East and Brand West, the retail and housing project has contributed to the reinvigoration of downtown Glendale, and last month won a prestigious Gold Nugget Award of Merit in the Best Multifamily Housing Community (100-250 du/acre) category. Located on a prominent site bounded by Wilson Street at the intersections of Brand and Orange Streets, the project's two buildings include 401 living units, a mix of two-story lofts, one- to three-bedroom apartments, and townhouses. A shared outdoor program of pools and plazas, along with varied recreation amenities, add to a lively mix of ground-floor retail and dining options. “Downtown Glendale has undergone dramatic urban revitalization in the last decade, and we're glad to be a part of it,” says Gordon Carrier, FAIA, founding principal of Carrier Johnson + CULTURE. The memorable design for The Brand has boosted its profile further, say experts: Apartments in The Brand are highly sought after in this busy neighborhood, thanks in part to expanding demographics of students, retirees, millennials, and professionals. Residents of the trendy, walkable neighborhood enjoy proximity to the iconic Alex Theater as well as more recent and highly popular sites such as the Glendale Galleria and the Americana at Brand. David Gonzalez, senior associate designer and lead architect for The Brand, believes that this eclectic mix of old and new is part of what makes Glendale vibrant and relevant. “These two buildings have changed the heart and soul of Glendale,” says Gonzalez, who has worked with Carrier Johnson + CULTUREfor 14 years. "Brand East and Brand West illustrate how architecture can resolve density considerations and complement existing neighborhood character, while creating a welcoming oasis in the heart of an urban community." Gonzalez congratulates the developer, Holland Partner Group, for its vision and creativity in spearheading the venture. The project commenced more than three years ago, with community leaders and Holland Partner Group looking to secure a vibrant future for the formerly sleepy Glendale. For example, one civic mandate was to include the building’s arcade for ground-floor shops and restaurants, which is designed to boost foot traffic. Other design challenges for the project team included the question of how to synthesize contemporary design with neighboring classical features. “To set The Brand apart, we incorporated a series of large chevrons, to create the retail arcade,” says Gonzalez. "The bold chevron symbols became the branding footprint for the building.” The design team also had to grapple with the challenge of scale, being sited next to a major office tower. The approach by Carrier Johnson + CULTUREutilized bold graphics, details, lighting and an exuberant color scheme to attract attention in spite of the neighboring tower. The chevrons and bright orange façade details energize the street and celebrate the new shops and dining spots. While both buildings, Brand East and Brand West, successfully combine Southern California lifestyle and an urban vibe, the two are designed for very different residents. For the more energetic and outgoing residents, Brand East offers easy access to a two-story fitness center, rooftop saline pool and ground-floor retail. Brand West's more relaxed atmosphere boasts intimate common areas, relaxing outdoor spaces, and roomier dwellings. Both buildings, however, offer access to a planted green-roof terrace where residents can admire magnificent sunrises and sunsets, as well as barbeque grills and fire pits. Other shared leisure amenities make The Brand an alluring destination. Residents can use the on-site dog-run, view films in indoor or outdoor screening spaces, watch plasma televisions at the poolside kitchen and bar, or hang out at the outdoor game tables. After a workout in the two-story gym with its yoga studio and FLEX and Core fitness centers, residents can relax in the spa and indoor lounges. The Brand's unique exterior facade, which required 18 months of construction, illustrates Carrier Johnson + CULTURE’s dedication to potent contemporary design. The building loosely models the box-on-box design of the office building next door, but with cubist flourishes that lead the eye into and around the striking facade. Clad in cementitious plaster with vermillion accents — playful reference to Orange Avenue — the colors and massings create a welcome contemporary frontage. The arcade’s chevrons bridge the two buildings aesthetically. “The emphasized frames around the two-story windows attain the status of urban markers,” says Gonzalez. “From inside, those windows offer expansive views of the Verdugo Mountains and the surrounding cityscape.” Initially, developers planned to target students, but Carrier Johnson + CULTURE’s vibrant design has lured millennials, professionals and retirees to The Brand. As a result, demand significantly outpaces availability. But with eclectic dining options such as Tender Greens and PizzaRev, not to mention retail offerings in the arcade, The Brand offers a destination Glendale residents will flock to — for years to come. KEYWORDS: mixed-use project multi-family buildings residential building Share This Story Looking for a reprint of this article? From high-res PDFs to custom plaques, order your copy today ! Recommended Content JOIN TODAY to unlock your recommendations. Already have an account? Sign In When Will LEED v4 / v4.1 and LEED v5 Expire? The latest version of the LEED rating system, LEED v5, is... Sustainability By: Daniel Overbey Celebrating Women in The AEC Industry Part 1 A round-up of women in the design, engineering and... Sustainability By: Lindsay Lewis A Beginner’s Guide to Single-Ply Roofing Membranes While PVC and TPO appear extremely similar, the chemistry... Low-Slope Roofs By: Peter Gross Manage My Account Sign up for the Newsletter Online Registration Manage My Preferences Registration Customer Service More Videos Sponsored Content Sponsored Content is a special paid section where industry companies provide high quality, objective, non-commercial content around topics of interest to the Building Enclosure audience. All Sponsored Content is supplied by the advertising company and any opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily reflect the views of Building Enclosure or its parent company, BNP Media. Interested in participating in our Sponsored Content section? Contact your local rep! close Sponsored by 3M How Does a major U.S. Airport Go Carbon Neutral? The Best Roofing Solution for Energy Savings and Sustainability Sponsored by Building Composites® LLC Pushing the Envelope Popular Stories Federal Judge Rules MasterFormat Numbers, Titles and Taxonomy Are Not Copyright-Protected CSI Shares Statement on the U.S. District Court's September 1, 2026 Ruling Building Enclosure Strategies for Data Centers BE Poll Events April 9, 2026 Strategies for High-Performance Below-Grade Waterproofing Credits: 1 AIA LU/HSW ; 1 IIBEC CEH; 0.1 IACET CEU On-Demand Designing a high-performance building enclosure requires more than just surface-level protection; it demands a rigorous, performance-based mastery of below-grade water and gas mitigation. This discussion will provide an expert-level analysis of below-grade waterproofing within the comprehensive framework of the high-performance building enclosure. April 28, 2026 Roof Design Considerations That Prevent Installation Failures and Change Orders Credit: 1 AIA LU/HSW; 1 IIBEC CEH; 0.1 ICC CEU On-Demand This course provides visual examples of actual field conditions. Some good, some not so good; along with design suggestions that can cut installation costs and reduce construction change orders. Upon completion of this course, you will have a better understanding of the requirements the roofing contractor must meet to provide the specified roofing system warranty, and long-term value to the owner. View All Submit An Event Products Plaster and Drywall Assemblies Manual This is a comprehensive manual that goes beyond codes and standards, providing expert guidance in design, detailing, material selection and troubleshooting for plaster and drywall. See More Products Submit a Request for Proposal (RFP) to suppliers of your choice with details on what you need with a click of a button Start your RFP Browse our Buyers Guide and Sourcebook for equipment, distribution, ingredients, quality control, and much more! Find Suppliers --> Related Articles Mixed-use Housing Development Connects to Nature in a Dynamic Urban Portland Neighborhood See More Vitro Glass Transforms Innovative Mixed-Use Space on San Jose’s Acclaimed Santana Row See More Mixed-use Infill Project Adds Contemporary Feel with Metal Wall Panel See More Related Products See More Products Integrating Building Performance with Design: An Architecture Student’s Guidebook How to Succeed With Your Own Construction Business See More Products × Enhance your expertise with unparalleled insights. Join thousands of building professionals today. Shouldn’t you know what they know? SUBSCRIBE TODAY! RESOURCES Advertise Contact Us Store Want More SIGN UP TODAY Create Account Newsletter Customer Service Manage Preferences SERVICES Marketing Services Reprints Market Research List Rental Survey/Respondent Access STAY CONNECTED LinkedIn Facebook Instagram YouTube X PRIVACY PRIVACY POLICY TERMS & CONDITIONS DO NOT SELL MY PERSONAL INFORMATION PRIVACY REQUEST ACCESSIBILITY Copyright ©2026. All Rights Reserved BNP Media, Inc. and BNP Media II, LLC. Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing
