SOURCE: https://archello.com/project/the-brand
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

The Brand | Carrier Johnson + Culture | Archello Home Projects Products Low-carbon design Firms Brands Awards Podcast News Inspiration Sign in Sign up Toggle navigation Projects Products Low-carbon design Firms Brands Awards Podcast More Podcast Inspiration News Events Sign in Save Projects Residential Apartments Nurse Housing The Brand The Brand Carrier Johnson + Culture • Architects Composed of two buildings, Brand East and Brand West, mixed-use complex The Brand has contributed to the reinvigoration of downtown Glendale, California, and has received a prestigious Gold Nugget Award of Merit in the Best Multifamily Housing Community (100-250 du/acre) category. The project's two buildings include 401 living units, a mix of two-story lofts, one- to three-bedroom apartments, and townhouses. A shared outdoor program of pools and plazas, along with varied recreation amenities, add to a lively mix of ground-floor retail and dining options. Apartments in The Brand are highly sought after in this busy neighborhood, thanks in part to expanding demographics of students, retirees, millennials, and professionals. Residents of the trendy, walkable neighborhood enjoy proximity to the iconic Alex Theater as well as more recent and highly popular sites such as the Glendale Galleria and the Americana at Brand. The project commenced more than three years ago, with community leaders and Holland Partner Group looking to secure a vibrant future for the formerly sleepy Glendale. For example, one civic mandate was to include the building’s arcade for ground-floor shops and restaurants, which is designed to boost foot traffic. Other design challenges for the project team included the question of how to synthesize contemporary design with neighboring classical features. The design team also had to grapple with the challenge of scale, being sited next to a major office tower. The approach by Carrier Johnson + CULTURE utilized bold graphics, details, lighting and an exuberant color scheme to attract attention in spite of the neighboring tower. A series of large chevrons and bright orange façade details energize the street and celebrate the new shops and dining spots. The Brand's unique exterior facade, which required 18 months of construction, illustrates Carrier Johnson + CULTURE’s dedication to potent contemporary design. The building loosely models the box-on-box design of the office building next door, but with cubist flourishes that lead the eye into and around the striking facade. Clad in cementitious plaster with vermillion accents — playful reference to Orange Avenue — the colors and massings create a welcome contemporary frontage. The arcade’s chevrons bridge the two buildings aesthetically. While both buildings, Brand East and Brand West, successfully combine Southern California lifestyle and an urban vibe, the two are designed for very different residents. For the more energetic and outgoing residents, Brand East offers easy access to a two-story fitness center, rooftop saline pool and ground-floor retail. Brand West's more relaxed atmosphere boasts intimate common areas, relaxing outdoor spaces, and roomier dwellings. Both buildings, however, offer access to a planted green-roof terrace where residents can admire magnificent sunrises and sunsets, as well as barbeque grills and fire pits. Image gallery Project credits Architects Carrier Johnson + Culture Developers Holland Partner Group Project data Location Glendale, United States Category Apartments Nurse Housing Featured sustainable Apartments and Nurse Housing CO 2 CO 2 spec CO 2 CO 2 1 Shared Roof 2 GEOpark 3 280 Art Boulevard 4 Mahonia Crossing CO 2 1 Shared Roof CO 2 2 GEOpark spec CO 2 3 280 Art Boulevard CO 2 4 Mahonia Crossing Share or Add The Brand to your Collections Save Project Spotlight Modern biophilic country house Zwarthout l Shou Sugi Ban spec Primary school and childcare KC Meerdijk Zwarthout l Shou Sugi Ban Viseca Payment Services SA Barcol-Air by Swegon Private Residence - Cherry Hills Capoferri Serramenti s.p.a. Archello Awards – Winning Projects 2025 Public Vote Winner Transportation Hub of the Year Ede-Wageningen Train Station Mecanoo Jury Winner Office Interior of the Year - Small and Medium Elements of Nature Source Architecture Jury Winner House of the Year (rural) - Medium Biobased Buiten Huis Zeist ATELIERFRONT Public Vote Winner Museum Building of the Year Shenzhen Science & Technology Museum ZHA Discover Home Projects Products Low-carbon design Firms Brands Awards Podcast News Inspiration Events Archello About For Architects For Manufacturers Brand Resources Contact Connect with us Manufacturers Join Here © 2026 Archello Terms Privacy USA Australia Brazil Canada Germany Spain France United Kingdom Global India Mexico Nederland USA Language: English Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands Português 日本語
