SOURCE: https://www.bisnow.com/news/los-angeles/multifamily/large-residential-community-opens-in-downtown-glendale-nearby-americana-at-brand-52945
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

Why Holland Partner Is Betting on Glendale Cities Atlanta Austin - San-Antonio Boston Charlotte Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Data Center Denver Dublin Houston London Los Angeles National New York Philadelphia Phoenix Raleigh/Durham San Francisco South Florida The Netherlands Washington, D.C. Events Calendar Educational Workshops First Draft Live Elevate Ascent Escape Apply to Speak Sponsor an Event Careers Top Talent Employer SelectLeaders Bisnow Careers Press Releases Subscriptions Newsletters Newsletter Archive About Contact Us Advertise with Us Careers Home Cities Choose your city Atlanta Austin - San-Antonio Boston Charlotte Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Data Center Denver Dublin Houston London Los Angeles National New York Philadelphia Phoenix Raleigh/Durham San Francisco South Florida The Netherlands Washington, D.C. Events Calendar Educational Workshops First Draft Live Elevate Ascent Escape Apply to Speak Sponsor an Event Careers Top Talent Employer SelectLeaders Bisnow Careers Press Releases Subscriptions Newsletters Newsletter Archive About Contact Us Advertise with Us Careers Login Sign Up Go open && $refs.searchInput.focus()); " :class="open ? 'bg-neutral-800' : ''" class="flex cursor-pointer items-center px-5 text-white transition-colors duration-200 hover:bg-neutral-800" aria-label="Search" > Search Sign Up Login Subscribe Atlanta Atlanta Austin - San-Antonio Austin - San-Antonio Boston Boston Charlotte Charlotte Chicago Chicago Dallas-Fort Worth Dallas Data Center Data Center Denver Denver Dublin Dublin Houston Houston London London Los Angeles LA National National New York NY Philadelphia Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix Raleigh/Durham Raleigh/Durham San Francisco San Francisco South Florida Florida The Netherlands Netherlands Washington, D.C. D.C. News Los Angeles Multifamily Why Holland Partner Is Betting on Glendale November 30, 2015 | 7:00 am ET Patricia Kirk The Brand, a new nine-story mixed-use project by Holland Partner Group , has opened in downtown Glendale with a bit of pomp and circumstance. Bisnow caught up with Holland COO Tom Warren last week; he tells us about the company custom to combine an official opening with a resident party once a project has exceeded the halfway point in lease-up. Tom (pictured here with wife Linda and their two daughters Alex and Kate in Tokyo earlier this year), tells us the property is a walkable location to live in Glendale , and there’s lots of employment in the area. With the addition of The Americana at Brand to downtown Glendale, he says the company knew the area would rapidly evolve into a desirable place to live. Still, Tom says the firm has been pleasantly surprised with the demand that materialized, noting the project began leasing in May and is now 50% occupied . Here's a shot of the grand opening and ribbon cutting celebration earlier this month that drew nearly 400 people , including current and prospective tenants and Glendale city officials. This 401-unit project is in the heart of downtown Glendale at 120 W Wilson Ave, just a block from both the Americana on Brand retail complex and Glendale Galleria . Designed by the architectural firm Carrier Johnson, the LEED-Silver targeted complex is designed to appeal to a range of urbanites , including young creative professionals working in Glendale who want a highly amenitized lifestyle within an easy walk of retail and cultural amenities , as well as parks and recreation. The project features a green rooftop with a saltwater pool , BBQ grills, and a terrace that offers spectacular views of Downtown LA and Glendale , Griffith Park and the Verdugo Mountains. There’s a spa and fitness center for each of the two buildings, including a two-story, 24-hour gym, FLEX and Core fitness centers with Fitness on Demand and a yoga studio; indoor and outdoor movie theaters ; lots of gathering places for socializing; free everywhere WiFi; a wine cellar; an on-site pet run ; and bike storage. The podium-style project also has 10k SF of street-level retail that will open in January 2016 with a Tender Greens , quick service dining that offers healthy chef-inspired, locally grown dishes; Chipotle; and PizzaRev. “We are really pleased with the tenant grouping, because these are restaurants people will visit several times a week and makes a great additional amenity for our residents,” Tom says, noting employees from surrounding offices are also expected to frequent these eateries. Parking is available behind the retail and on two below-grade levels. The project offers studio, one-, two- and three-bedroom units and live/work townhouses . Apartments average 850 SF, with the smallest unit being 600 SF , because that's the minimum size allowable in Glendale. Apartments rent for just over $3/SF and feature polished-concrete or vinyl-plank flooring; stainless steel appliances and under-mount sinks; quartz countertops; vented, five-burner gas stoves in kitchens; and front-loading, energy - efficient washer/dryers. Tom says the building offers a range of floor plans, noting that designs optimize every square foot for utility. "The goal is to offer efficient units where the smaller floor plans provide a lower price point and others attract renters at the high end of the market," he says, pointing out that the two- and three-bedroom units are designed to appeal to people looking to lease luxury space or opting for roommate situations . “This gives residents who want access to the location, quality and amenities we offer a lower-cost alternative to a studio, if they’re willing to share." In developing residential projects, Tom says Holland likes to focus on the most walkable neighborhoods , because it believes these are the most desirable and will remain so over time. “We believe that as more people move into this neighborhood it will further energize downtown’s extensive retail and entertainment venues.” Continue reading this story with a free account Log in or register Contact Patricia Kirk at patricia.kirk@bisnow.com Related Topics: Americana at Brand , Glendale , Glendale Galleria , Holland Partner Group , Tom Warren Sign up for more articles like this Subscribe to Bisnow's Los Angeles Newsletters Submit Related Stories Elme Finishes Liquidating With 3 D.C.-Area Sales Boston's High-Rise Multifamily Era Is Over. Developers Don't Expect It To Return Soon Hudson Pacific Sells San Francisco Office Buildings Edens Raises $850M To Fund Retail Purchases, Developments NewRiver Strikes £73.5M Retail Park Deal With Singapore Investors Activist Calls Independence Realty Trust's Centerspace Merger 'Destructive' To REIT GIC, Orange Look For Investment To Grow Housing Portfolio To €10B Newsom Signs Bills Aimed At Cold Storage Post-Boyle Heights Fire Greystar Looks For Dutch Opportunities As Resi Investment Picture Eases Up Dutch Coworking Company Opening First U.S. Location In Downtown LA IRES Set For €727M Takeover By Barings Brixmor Partners With Everview, Sovereign Wealth To Buy Slate Grocery REIT Bisnow LA Newsletters Submit Top Stories Dutch Coworking Company Opening First U.S. Location In Downtown LA Los Angeles Coworking September 28, 2026 50% Of LA Office Sales Closed At A Loss In The Last Year Los Angeles Office September 24, 2026 LA's Strongest Submarkets Offer Rare Stability Amid Splintered Office Recovery Los Angeles Office September 25, 2026 AEW Sells Industrial Park For $61M: The Los Angeles Deal Sheet Los Angeles Deal Sheet September 28, 2026 Newsom Signs Bills Aimed At Cold Storage Post-Boyle Heights Fire Los Angeles Industrial September 28, 2026 More Top Stories SelectLeaders Jobs Asset Manager MJW Investments Los Angeles Posted August 17, 2026 Analyst- Real Estate Acquisitions & Originations PCCP, LLC Los Angeles Posted August 18, 2026 Senior Property Accountant/Controller Commercial Real Estate One Rodeo LLC Beverly Hills Posted August 20, 2026 More Job Opportunities Company Info About Media Kit Submit a Press Release Careers Contact Us Newsletters Archives Manage Subscriptions Subscribe Top Stories Other Stuff Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sitemap Login Manage cookie preferences f X in (202) 684-2034 © Copyright 2026 Bisnow. All Rights Reserved Login to Your Account We're not asking for your money. This is not a step towards a paywall. Our news is free and we intend to keep it that way. Login or register Login Register Sign in Email: Password: Forgot your password? We can help! Login Signing in… Continue with LinkedIn Share Post Share Share Email Copy link
