SOURCE: https://archinect.com/Isaac-Johnson/project/the-rodney
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

The Rodney | Isaac Johnson | Archinect Submit Share/Follow --> Editorial & News Features News Events Competitions Employment Jobs Talent Finder Active Employers Community People Firms Blogs Forum Work Updates Academia Schools School Blogs Forum About About Archinect Advertising Contact Us Newsletters Privacy Policy Shop --> Editorial & News Features News Employment Jobs Talent Finder Community People Firms Blogs Forum Academia Schools School Blogs About About Advertising Contact Newsletters Privacy Search Archinect --> Isaac Johnson Portland, OR, US NEW: Follow your favorite profiles, and see all their activity conveniently gathered in the new Activity Stream !"> Follow 0 Profile / Résumé Projects Contact Profile Edit Options Uploading/managing projects and PDF portfolio can only be handled in desktop mode anchor 9 more images ↓ The Rodney The design of the Rodney mixed-use development was informed by consultations with neighborhood associations and the Portland Design Commission, all of whom emphasized that a successful design for this site should blend with the neighborhood's historic character. Located at the edge of the Pearl District the site presented opportunities to merge different design languages. The resulting design for the Rodney Tower achieves this balance by harmonizing with its historical industrial neighbors while standing out as a modern residential structure. The design transitions from the historical context at ground level to a contemporary tower above through a concept centered on a solid, warehouse-inspired podium at street level. As the building rises, it becomes lighter and more transparent, with tall glass windows that create a slender, modern profile. Standing 16 stories tall, the Rodney tower achieves LEED Platinum certification and features a 360-degree rooftop deck offering panoramic views of Portland’s West Hills, downtown, the historic brick warehouses along 13th Avenue, the Willamette River, and Mount Hood in the distance. Inside, the building offers 230 units, catering to a wide range of demographics, from urban studios to luxurious penthouses. Additionally, a new public plaza designed on a nearby parking lot expands the building by three floors and provides an outdoor courtyard space. Read more Status: Built Location: Portland, OR, US My Role: Principal in Charge Additional Credits: This project was completed at Ankrom Moisan Architects for Holland Partner Group. Back to Top ↑ Other Projects by this Person Verso Alta ART Tower Meridian Gardens Modera Vancouver Hillside Park Phase I Modera Main Coen North and Upland Union on Broadway Coen Dianne Arc Central Crescent Court Alta Peak Willamette View – North... Cedar Commons Amara Songbird Hazel Heights Westline (The Rise Oldtown) Broadstone Infinity The Abigail Levare at Santana Row The Ramona Riva on the Park (now... The Sitka Apartments The Pinnacle Condominiums
