SOURCE: https://www.multifamilybiz.com/pressreleases/15156/cbre_arranges_67_million_in_financing_for_recapita...
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

CBRE Arranges $67 Million in Financing for Recapitalization of 235-Unit Bella Terra Apartment | MultifamilyBiz.com 96 MultifamilyBiz Logo × news blogs webcasts the buzz events marketplace about contact Rss feed Login Register news blogs webcasts the buzz events marketplace LOGIN Welcome Back Login With Email Email Password LOGIN Keep me Signed in Forgot Password? Don't have an account? Join Us × Welcome Back Don't have an account? Join Us Sign Up Name Company Email Phone Password Re-enter Password create an account I agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy × SIGN UP Name Company Email Address Phone Password Re-enter Password Create Acount I agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Search Button Searchbar All All News Blogs Buzz Webcasts Events CBRE Arranges $67 Million in Financing for Recapitalization of 235-Unit Bella Terra Apartment Community in Mukilteo, Washington July 27, 2022 share Facebook LinkedIn Twitter SEATTLE, WA - CBRE has arranged $67 million in financing for the recapitalization of Bella Terra Apartments in Mukilteo, Wash., on behalf of a joint venture between Holland Partners Group and Principal Real Estate Investors, which recently purchased the property. CBRE’s Nick Santangelo, Matt Thorp, and Rick Brody of CBRE Capital Markets’ Debt and Structured Finance team in Portland arranged the five-year, floating-rate, full-term, interest-only bank loan. Located at 12101 Greenhaven, the 235-unit complex was built in 2002, with only nine percent of units having received light renovations. The loan recapitalization will enable ownership to implement a complete premium renovation program, including modernizing common-area amenity space, refreshing the pool area and renovating all units with premium-level finishes. “CBRE was able to source very accretive debt that fit the structure and needs of the sponsor’s investment horizon,” said CBRE’s Santangelo. The complex is comprised of one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments including live-work townhomes. The units feature large floor plans averaging 1,053 sq. ft. with vaulted ceilings, in-home washers and dryers, fireplaces and open-concept kitchens with islands. Select units have wood-style flooring, private garages, stainless steel appliances and private decks and balconies. The complex features various on-site amenities, including a poolside outdoor grilling area, heated outdoor swimming pool and year-round hot tub and sauna. Other amenities include a clubhouse, 24-hour fitness center and business center. The property also includes an on-site retail space. Situated in a sought-after suburban waterfront community with a rapidly growing population, the property is within the Mukilteo School district and provides residents with easy access to multiple local transportation hubs. About CBRE Group, Inc. CBRE Group, Inc. (NYSE: CBRE), a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in Dallas, is the world’s largest commercial real estate services and investment firm (based on 2021 revenue). The company has more than 105,000 employees (excluding Turner & Townsend employees) serving clients in more than 100 countries. CBRE serves a diverse range of clients with an integrated suite of services, including facilities, transaction, and project management; property management; investment management; appraisal and valuation; property leasing; strategic consulting; property sales; mortgage services and development services. Please visit our website at www.cbre.com. MEDIA CONTACTS 1420 5th Avenue Seattle, WA 98101 3032641912 sara.johnston@cbre.com https://www.cbre.us --> TRENDING Kerry W. Kirby Explores The Search to Discovery Shift Reshaping Multifamily Marketing Strategies in New Thought-Provoking Podcast Episode NEW ORLEANS, LA - 365 Connect, the multifamily industry’s leading innovator in AI-driven marketing, leasing, and resident engagement platforms, announced today that its CEO, Kerry W. Kirby, has released his latest podcast, Search to Discovery: The Evolving Playbook of The Modern Multifamily... Latest News The NRP Group and Marshall Heights Community Development Open 115-Unit Affordable Housing Community in D.C.’s NoMa Neighborhood Pillar Holds Official Groundbreaking of Kentucky’s First Planned Kelsey Certified Independent Living Community for Adults with Disabilities Alpaca Real Estate and Phoenix Realty Group Complete Acquisition of 269-Unit Bay Pointe Multifamily Community in Miami Submarket Hamilton Zanze Expands Its HZ Evergreen Fund to 12 Properties Across Six States with Contribution of Two Multifamily Apartment Communities Get The Newsletter The latest multifamily industry news delivered to your inbox Enter your Email SIGN UP More Stories WASHINGTON, DC - The NRP Group, a vertically integrated developer, owner, builder and manager of... LOUISVILLE, KY - Pillar, one of Kentucky’s leading social service agencies, unveiled plans... MIAMI, FL - Alpaca Real Estate (“ARE”) and Phoenix Realty Group (“PRG”)... SAN FRANCISCO, CA - Hamilton Zanze, a leading San Francisco-based multifamily real estate... DALLAS, TX - The Bascom Group has acquired the Jasmine Apartments, a 1980-built 370-unit... SEATTLE, WA - Griffis Residential, a vertically integrated multifamily owner and operator based in... COLORADO SPRINGS, CO - Thompson Thrift, a full-service, nationally recognized real estate company... WEST LAFAYETTE, IN - GMH Communities, a vertically integrated real estate company specializing in... Get The Newsletter The latest multifamily industry news delivered to your inbox. SIGN UP NEWS BLOGS WEBCASTS THE BUZZ MARKETPLACE ABOUT CONTACT MY ACCOUNT RSS FEED Stay Connected MultifamilyBiz.com is an information, advertising, and content display platform focused on the multifamily housing industry. This Website features information, materials,products, content, images, links,and services provided by third parties, and we are not responsible for such. We do not own or manage any properties featured on this website, are not a party to, and are not liable for, any transactions with any party featured on this website. Your use of this website is subject to our Terms of Use Agreement. TERMS PRIVACY ACCESSIBILITY © 2026 - MULTIFAMILYBIZ.COM - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
