SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/holland-partner-group-west-grand-opening
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 (curl; text extracted from HTML/PDF)
HTTP: 200

ABOUT US SERVICES LEADERSHIP CAREERS SUSTAINABILITY CULTURE PRESS Share with friends JULY 2024 - HOLLAND PARTNER GROUP OPENS SAN DIEGO'S FIRST MULTI MIXED-USED TOWER, WEST 07.15.2024 Holland Partner Group Opens San Diego’s First Multi Mixed-Use Tower, WEST Now open for leasing, West offers residential, office, and retail space in the heart of San Diego’s vibrant downtown San Diego, CA (JULY 9, 2024) – Holland Partner Group is thrilled to unveil West , the first-of-its-kind multi mixed-use tower in San Diego. Located at 1011 Union Street, this 37-story landmark is set to redefine urban living and working, with its unprecedented blend of residential, office, and retail spaces. West stands as a testament to San Diego’s modern urban development, featuring 431 residential units, 289,000 sq. ft. of office space, and 10,000 sq. ft. of prime retail space. This represents a new vision for downtown, fostering a walkable, connected community that blends the best of living, working, and leisure, with transit adjacency. West is the first tower completed in a planned three-city-block redevelopment by Holland Partner Group. The second project, The Torrey, is currently under construction and will be home to downtown’s first Whole Foods Market upon completion in mid-2026. The three blocks will be linked by a landscape-enhanced pedestrian “green street” along Union Street at final completion. Situated in the heart of San Diego’s historic downtown, West is conveniently located near major public transportation hubs and local landmarks including Little Italy, the Embarcadero, Waterfront Park, Petco Park, the Gaslamp Quarter, and East Village. This prime location makes it a cornerstone of Holland Partner Group’s mission to enhance San Diego’s walkability and connectivity. “We are excited to officially introduce West to San Diego, a multi mixed-use project that embodies the future of urban living, working, and dining,” said Brent Schertzer, Managing Director at Holland Partner Group. “West is a community that infuses the spirit of San Diego culture into the heart of downtown; a blend of laid-back lifestyle and upscale urban refinement. Our goal is to create an inspiring place that celebrates community, connection, and growth.” West includes a significant residential component, offering a variety of modern floor plans, designer finishes, and resort-style amenities. Residents will enjoy unparalleled facilities on the 9th floor, including a state-of-the-art fitness center, an outdoor fitness terrace, and large outdoor landscaped deck, as well as a luxurious Level 37 clubroom, rooftop pool, and spa with expansive bay views. West also features an impressive art program featuring works from 20 local and regional artists throughout the property, including a large glass sculptural piece suspended from the main lobby ceiling and meant to mimic the crashing waves of the Pacific Ocean, designed by artist Nikolas Weinstein. Of the 431 units at West, the mix will include studios, one-bedrooms, two-bedrooms, three-bedrooms, and penthouse units. Included will be 41 designated low-income units with rents set by the San Diego Housing Commission. All units come complete with floor to ceiling windows throughout, smart thermostats, keyless entry, Samsung appliances, gas stoves, and deep soaking tubs. The penthouse units receive an upgraded appliance package, including a panelized Thermador double wall oven, wine fridge, 36” gas range, and microwave drawer. Other upgrades include waterfall countertops, Dacor smart refrigerator and freezer, free-standing soaking tubs, motorized roller shades, and customized closets with integrated lighting and drawers. West will also be pursuing a LEED and WELL Certification for the property. West offers significant commercial opportunities to San Diego’s downtown. With 289,000 sq. ft. of office space and 10,000 sq. ft. of retail, West is poised to attract businesses looking for a contemporary and sustainable work environment, as well as access to top-of-the-line on-site amenities. Retail spaces fronting W. Broadway offer vibrant, high-traffic locations ideal for restaurants and cafes. The San Diego Association of Governments (SANDAG) is set to move its offices to West and a soon-to-be-announced quick-service restaurant is set to open in Fall 2024. For more information and leasing opportunities, visit www.westsd.com . About Holland Partner Group Founded in 2000, Holland Partner Group is a fully integrated real estate investment company developing high-quality investment properties in the Western United States, with expertise in development, construction, acquisition, redevelopment, and property management. Holland creates sustainable, socially connected, and vibrant communities to work, live, and enjoy life. The company's seasoned 750-plus-member team creates innovative, quality, and value-driven residential and commercial projects, championing every phase of development and construction of its mixed-use properties, including residential, office, parking garages, and retail assets. Headquartered in Vancouver, Wash., Holland has offices in Denver, Seattle, Northern California, Los Angeles and San Diego. For more information, visit www.hollandpartnergroup.com All Posts LET US HELP YOU! Holland Partner Group is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at [email protected] or [email protected] . You may also call (360) 694-7888 . CONTACT US (360) 694-7888 808 Washington St, #500 Vancouver, WA 98660 Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119 SOCIAL Holland Partner Group | All Rights Reserved. equal-housing@2x Created with Sketch. ADA@2x Created with Sketch. Privacy Policy ESG Policy Press Transparency in Coverage Happily Made by Razz
