SOURCE: https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCadmin/0-0-0-60262
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from American Legal Publishing official bulk XML (http://files.amlegal.com/pdffiles/NewYorkCity/Admin/XML.zip, downloaded 2026-09-28/29), XML file 0-0-0-60027.xml; text extracted mechanically by register/tools/aml.py

§ 27-2017.3. Violation for visible mold.

§ 27-2017.3. Violation for visible mold.

a. The presence of visible mold in any room in a dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling shall constitute an indoor mold hazard violation as provided in this section, except when such mold is present on tile or grout: [ALP S-032]

1. The presence of visible mold in an amount measuring in total less than ten square feet in a room within a dwelling unit shall constitute a non-hazardous violation. [ALP S-032]

2. The presence of visible mold in an amount measuring in total between ten square feet and thirty square feet in a room within a dwelling unit shall constitute a hazardous violation. [ALP S-032]

3. In addition, the presence of visible mold as provided in subparagraphs (a) or (b) of this paragraph shall constitute a hazardous violation if: [ALP S-032]

(a) there is an existing non-hazardous violation of paragraph one of this subdivision for which the certification period has expired and the non-hazardous violation has not been certified as corrected within the certification time period, and the mold condition that was the cause of the non-hazardous violation continues to be present in the same room in the dwelling unit; or [ALP S-032]

(b) The owner has submitted a false certification of correction of a non-hazardous violation issued pursuant to paragraph one of this subdivision and the mold condition that was the cause of such non-hazardous violation continues to be present in the same room in the dwelling unit. [ALP S-032]

4. The presence of visible mold in an amount measuring in total greater than or equal to thirty square feet in a room within a dwelling unit, shall constitute an immediately hazardous violation. [ALP S-032]

5. In addition, the presence of visible mold as provided in subparagraphs (a) or (b) of this paragraph shall constitute an immediately hazardous violation if: [ALP S-032]

(a) There is an existing hazardous violation pursuant to paragraph two of this subdivision for which the certification period has expired and such hazardous violation has not been certified as corrected within the certification time period, and the department has reinspected the unit within seventy days of the certification date of such hazardous violation and has found that the mold condition that was the cause of such hazardous violation continues to be present in the same room in the dwelling unit; or [ALP S-032]

(b) The owner has submitted a false certification of correction of a hazardous violation issued pursuant to paragraph two of this subdivision and the mold condition that was the cause of such hazardous violation continues to be present in the same room in the dwelling unit. [ALP S-032]

b. The presence of visible mold in an amount measuring greater than or equal to thirty square feet in any one room or any one level of a hallway of a common area or fifty square feet in the aggregate shall constitute a hazardous violation. The presence of visible mold in an amount measuring less than thirty square feet in any one room or any one level of a hallway of a common area or fifty square feet in the aggregate shall constitute a non-hazardous violation. [ALP S-032]

c. 1. The date for correction of a non-hazardous or hazardous violation pursuant to subdivisions a or b of this section shall be as set forth in subdivision c of section 27-2115. [ALP S-032]

2. The date for correction of an immediately hazardous violation pursuant to subdivision a of this section shall be twenty-one days after service of the notice of violation as provided on such notice. [ALP S-032]

3. The department may postpone the date by which an immediately hazardous violation issued pursuant to subdivision a of this section shall be corrected upon a showing, made within the time set for correction in the notice, that prompt action to correct the violation has been taken but that full correction cannot be completed within the time provided because of serious technical difficulties, inability to obtain necessary materials, funds or labor, inability to gain access to the dwelling unit wherein the violation exists, or such other portion of the building as may be necessary to make the required repair, provided, however, that where such immediately hazardous violation has been issued as a result of a reinspection of a hazardous violation that remained uncorrected, no postponement shall be granted. Such postponement shall not exceed fourteen days from the date of correction set forth in the notice of violation. The department may require such other conditions as are deemed necessary to correct the violation within the time set for the postponement. [ALP S-032]

(L.L. 2018/055, 1/19/2018, eff. 1/19/2019) [ALP S-032]
