SOURCE: https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCadmin/0-0-0-130229
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from American Legal Publishing official bulk XML (http://files.amlegal.com/pdffiles/NewYorkCity/Admin/XML.zip, downloaded 2026-09-28/29), XML file 0-0-0-60027.xml; text extracted mechanically by register/tools/aml.py

§ 27-2046.4 Stovetop protection.

§ 27-2046.4 Stovetop protection.

a. An owner of a unit in a multiple dwelling, other than a dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling owned as a condominium or cooperative and used as the primary residence of such owner, shall provide the tenant the option of either permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers for each knob located on the front of each gas-powered stove to tenants in each dwelling unit in which the owner knows or reasonably should know a child under six years of age resides, except where such owner has documented proof that there is no available permanent stove safety knob with an integrated locking mechanism or stove knob cover that is compatible with such stove. Such permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers shall be made available within 30 days of a request of such tenant upon receiving the notice required in subdivision b of this section. [ALP S-075]

b. 1. Such owner shall provide an annual notice to each tenant of a unit regarding the owner's obligation to provide permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers pursuant to subdivision a of this section. Such notice shall inform the tenant of the tenant's option to request permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers. [ALP S-075]

2. Upon being provided with such notice, a tenant who wants either permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers shall notify such owner, in writing. If the tenant does not notify the owner, in writing, that the tenant requests permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers, the owner will not be obligated to make either permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers available to the tenant pursuant to subdivision a of this section. [ALP S-075]

3. An owner shall keep a record of: (i) outreach conducted to tenants regarding the installation of permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanism or stove knob covers, (ii) written notifications of request for permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers received from a tenant of a dwelling unit, (iii) the owner's attempts to provide permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers to tenants pursuant to subdivision a of this section, (iv) units for which permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers were made available, and (v) tenants who have requested permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers. [ALP S-075]

c. No owner shall refuse a written request of a tenant of such dwelling unit to provide either permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers, regardless of whether making such knobs or covers available is required pursuant to this section. [ALP S-075]

d. Any owner who is required to provide permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers pursuant to this section who fails to do so shall be liable for a class B hazardous violation, provided that it shall be an exception to a violation where (i) the owner provides documented proof that there is no available permanent stove safety knob with an integrated locking mechanism or stove knob cover that is compatible with such stove or (ii) the owner has already fulfilled two requests for replacement permanent stove safety knobs with integrated locking mechanisms or stove knob covers within the previous year. [ALP S-075]

(L.L. 2018/117, 6/9/2018, eff. 12/6/2018; Am. L.L. 2022/044, 1/15/2022, eff. 7/14/2022) [ALP S-075]

Editor's note: For related unconsolidated provisions, see Appendix A at L.L. 2022/044. [ALP S-075]
