SOURCE: https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCadmin/0-0-0-60288
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from American Legal Publishing official bulk XML (http://files.amlegal.com/pdffiles/NewYorkCity/Admin/XML.zip, downloaded 2026-09-28/29), XML file 0-0-0-60027.xml; text extracted mechanically by register/tools/aml.py

§ 27-2017.6 Department inspections.

§ 27-2017.6 Department inspections.

a. When entering a dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling for the purpose of investigating the existence of any violation of the code, the department shall make diligent efforts to ascertain whether there are cockroaches, mice, rats, or visible mold in the dwelling unit and shall inquire of the occupant whether cockroaches, mice, rats or mold are present in the dwelling unit. When performing such inspection, the department need only inspect those portions of the dwelling unit where furniture or other furnishings do not obstruct the view of a surface, except when there is visible evidence that causes the department to believe that the obstructed surface has visible mold or cockroaches, mice, or rats. [ALP S-032]

b. In any dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling the department shall conduct an inspection pursuant to subdivision a of this section no later than thirty days after the department's receipt of a complaint describing a condition that would constitute a violation under subdivision a of section 27-2017.3 or subdivision b of section 27-2017.4. Where the department attempts to perform an inspection of a dwelling unit within the time period required by this subdivision but is unable to gain access, the department shall provide written notice to the occupant of such dwelling unit that no further attempts at access shall be made unless a new complaint is submitted. [ALP S-032]

c. Where, upon conducting an inspection, the department determines the existence of a condition constituting a violation of this article, the department shall serve a notice of violation within ten additional days of such inspection. [ALP S-032]

d. The pamphlet developed by the department of health and mental hygiene pursuant to section 17-199.7 shall be left at the premises of the dwelling unit at the time of an inspection made by the department pursuant to this section. Such pamphlet shall be delivered by the department in conjunction with all notices of violation issued pursuant to paragraph one of subdivision o of section 27-2115. Failure to include such pamphlet with such notices of violation shall not render null and void the service of such notices of violation. Such pamphlet shall also be made available to any member of the public upon request. [ALP S-032]

e. During the period from October first through May thirty-first, or in the event of disaster, the time for the department to conduct an inspection as provided in subdivision b of this section may be extended if the department resources so require. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, failure by the department or the department of health and mental hygiene to comply with any time period provided in this article or section 27-2115 relating to responsibilities of the department and the department of health and mental hygiene, shall not render null and void any notice of violation issued by the department or the department of health and mental hygiene pursuant to such article or section, and shall not provide a basis for defense or mitigation of an owner's liability for civil penalties for violation of such article. [ALP S-032]

(L.L. 2018/055, 1/19/2018, eff. 1/19/2019) [ALP S-032]
