SOURCE: https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCadmin/0-0-0-219880
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from American Legal Publishing official bulk XML (http://files.amlegal.com/pdffiles/NewYorkCity/Admin/XML.zip, downloaded 2026-09-28/29), XML file 0-0-0-4607.xml; text extracted mechanically by register/tools/aml.py

§ 8-109 Complaint.

§ 8-109 Complaint.

(a) Any person aggrieved by an unlawful discriminatory practice or an act of discriminatory harassment or violence as set forth in chapter 6 of this title, or such person's attorney, may make, sign and file with the commission a verified complaint in writing which shall: (i) state the name of the person alleged to have committed the unlawful discriminatory practice or act of discriminatory harassment or violence complained of, and the address of such person if known; (ii) set forth the particulars of the alleged unlawful discriminatory practice or act of discriminatory harassment or violence; and (iii) contain such other information as may be required by the commission. The commission shall acknowledge the filing of the complaint and advise the complainant of the time limits set forth in this chapter. [ALP S-030]

(b) Any employer whose employee or agent refuses or threatens to refuse to cooperate with the provisions of this chapter may file with the commission a verified complaint asking for assistance by conciliation or other remedial action. [ALP S-030]

(c)
Commission-initiated complaints. The commission may itself make, sign and file a verified complaint alleging that a person has committed an unlawful discriminatory practice or an act of discriminatory harassment or violence as set forth in chapter 6 of this title. [ALP S-030]

(d) The commission shall serve a copy of the complaint upon the respondent and all persons it deems to be necessary parties and shall advise the respondent of the respondent's procedural rights and obligations as set forth herein. [ALP S-030]

(e) The commission shall not have jurisdiction over any complaint that has been filed more than one year after the alleged unlawful discriminatory practice or act of discriminatory harassment or violence as set forth in chapter 6 of this title occurred; provided, however, that the commission shall have jurisdiction over a claim of gender-based harassment if such claim is filed within three years after the alleged harassing conduct occurred. [ALP S-030]

(e-1) Any provision of an agreement involving an employer, employment agency, or agent thereof pertaining to terms of employment that purports to shorten the periods in which a complaint or claim may be filed pursuant to subdivision (e) is unenforceable and void as against public policy. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to affect the enforceability of any provision of any agreement other than a provision limiting the period in which a complaint or claim may be filed. [ALP S-097]

(f) The commission shall not have jurisdiction to entertain a complaint if: [ALP S-030]

(i) The complainant has previously initiated a civil action in a court of competent jurisdiction alleging an unlawful discriminatory practice as defined by this chapter or an act of discriminatory harassment or violence as set forth in chapter 6 of this title with respect to the same grievance which is the subject of the complaint under this chapter, unless such civil action has been dismissed without prejudice or withdrawn without prejudice; or [ALP S-030]

(ii) The complainant has previously filed and has an action or proceeding before any administrative agency under any other law of the state alleging an unlawful discriminatory practice as defined by this chapter or an act of discriminatory harassment or violence as set forth in chapter 6 of this title with respect to the same grievance which is the subject of the complaint under this chapter; or [ALP S-030]

(iii) The complainant has previously filed a complaint with the state division of human rights alleging an unlawful discriminatory practice as defined by this chapter or an act of discriminatory harassment or violence as set forth in chapter 6 of this title with respect to the same grievance which is the subject of the complaint under this chapter and a final determination has been made thereon. [ALP S-030]

(g) In relation to complaints filed on or after September 1, 1991, the commission shall commence proceedings with respect to the complaint, complete a thorough investigation of the allegations of the complaint and make a final disposition of the complaint promptly and within the time periods to be prescribed by rule of the commission. If the commission is unable to comply with the time periods specified for completing its investigation and for final disposition of the complaint, it shall notify the complainant, respondent, and any necessary party in writing of the reasons for not doing so. [ALP S-030]

(h) Any complaint filed pursuant to this section may be amended pursuant to procedures prescribed by rule of the commission by filing such amended complaint with the commission and serving a copy thereof upon all parties to the proceeding. [ALP S-030]

(i) Whenever a complaint is filed pursuant to paragraph (d) of subdivision 5 of section 8-107, no member of the commission nor any member of the commission staff shall make public in any manner whatsoever the name of any borrower or identify by a specific description the collateral for any loan to such borrower except when ordered to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction or where express permission has been first obtained in writing from the lender and the borrower to such publication; provided, however, that the name of any borrower and a specific description of the collateral for any loan to such borrower may, if otherwise relevant, be introduced in evidence in any hearing before the commission or any review by a court of competent jurisdiction of any order or decision by the commission. [ALP S-030]

(Am. L.L. 2018/063, 1/19/2018, eff. 10/16/2018; Am. L.L. 2018/100, 5/9/2018, eff. 5/9/2018; Am. L.L. 2024/062, 5/11/2024, eff. 5/11/2024) [ALP S-097]

Editor's note: For related unconsolidated provisions, see Appendix A at L.L. 1991/039 and L.L. 2005/085. [ALP S-085]
