                     AGENDA ITEM 2 (ACTION ITEM)
                     Approval of Minutes
                     From Tuesday, August 18, 2026

                     Page 1 of 8



Jesse M. Unruh State Office Building
915 Capitol Mall, Room CR121
Sacramento, CA 95814

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION CALL-IN NUMBER
Call-In Number: (800) 723-2481 Phone Conference ID: 188 581 237#

TEAMS VIRTUAL PARTICIPATION
Teams Meeting ID: 299 384 188 543 96 Passcode: qJ6jJ7Yz

Interested members of the public may use this number to call in to listen to and/or comment on items
before CAEATFA. Additional instructions will be provided to callers once they call the indicated
number. This call-in number is provided as an option for public participation.

   1. Call to Order & Roll Call

      Fiona Ma, CPA, called the California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation
      Financing Authority (“CAEATFA” or the “Authority”) meeting to order at 10:30 a.m.

      Members Present:

             Fiona Ma, CPA, State Treasurer (Chair)
             David Oppenheim for Malia M. Cohen, State Controller
             Michele Perrault for Joe Stephenshaw, Director of Finance
             Ken Rider for David Hochschild, Chair, California Energy Commission
             Erin Rodriguez for John Reynolds, President, Public Utilities

      Members Absent: None

      Staff Present: Christina Sarron, Executive Director

      Quorum: The Chairperson declared a quorum.

   2. Minutes (Action Item)

      Ms. Ma asked the Board members if there were any questions or comments concerning the
      meeting minutes from the June 16, 2026, board meeting. There were none.

      Ms. Ma asked if there were public comments. There were none.

      Ms. Perrault motioned for approval of the minutes, and there was a second by Mr. Oppenheim.

      The minutes were approved.
                        AGENDA ITEM 2 (ACTION ITEM)
                        Approval of Minutes
                        From Tuesday, August 18, 2026

                        Page 2 of 8


         The item was passed by the following vote:

                       Fiona Ma, CPA, State Treasurer                            Aye
                       David Oppenheim for the State Controller                  Aye
                       Michele Perrault for the Director of Finance              Aye
                       Ken Rider for the California Energy Commission            Aye
                       Erin Rodriguez for the Public Utilities Commission        Aye

   3. Executive Director’s Report

         Presented by Christina Sarron, Executive Director

Program Updates:

Event:

         Ms. Sarron has reported that CAEATFA is in the process of contracting with UC Davis for the
         upcoming Second Annual CA Creates: Golden State Manufacturing Forum, to be held on
         October 15. Last year’s event in Los Angeles, was well received and Ms. Sarron would like to
         continue to provide California’s manufactures with knowledge and access to the funding
         opportunities available in California.


STE Program
         The STE Program received 38 applications for the May 1 deadline. Of these, staff intends to bring
         15 STE award recommendations to the September Board meeting. Approximately $98 million in
         sales tax exclusion is available for 2026, and the 15 proposed awards are expected to fully utilize
         this amount. The recommended projects consist of 8 alternative source, 3 advanced
         transportation, 3 recycling, and 1 advanced manufacturing projects.

GoGreen Financing

         GGF has three board items today: One, an amendment to the grant agreement with the Energy
         Commission; Second, an informational update on our Interest Rate Buydown (IRBD) Program
         funded by the Energy Commission; and Three finalizing some modifications and adjustments to
         GoGreen Business regulations.
                      AGENDA ITEM 2 (ACTION ITEM)
                      Approval of Minutes
                      From Tuesday, August 18, 2026

                      Page 3 of 8


Delegated Authority

Since the last report, Ms. Sarron signed the following items under her delegated authority.

       On July 9, 2026, CAEATFA entered into an interagency agreement (CAEATFA02-26) with the State
       Treasurer’s Office, Information Technology Division (“STO-ITD”) for a one-year term of access
       to their Microsoft Azure cloud computing platform to house the GoGreen Financing Loan
       Master Lists, for a total amount not to exceed $24,000 over the one-year contract term of July
       1, 2026 through June 30, 2027.

       CAEATFA uses the GGF loan Master List Database to store comprehensive project, loan, lender,
       borrower, and contractor data, which serves as the foundation for reporting and analytical
       insights.

       On July 9, 2026, I executed a contract with Technology Crest Corporation for an 18-month term
       to provide document compliance services, ensuring documents for posting to the CAEATFA
       website satisfy current Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) guidelines. The contract is for a
       total amount not to exceed $4,950 over the contract term of July 1, 2026 through December 31,
       2027.

       Ms. Sarron took a moment to thank Bill Heberger for his many years of service as a manager in the
       GoGreen program. Bill will be retiring as of September 1st after 8 years of service.
       Congratulations Bill.

       Ms. Sarron concluded her updates for August and invited questions from the members.

       Ms. Ma asked if Mr. Heberger if he would like to make a comment about the GoGreen
       Financing program.

       Mr. Heberger stated he has worked with GoGreen since 2018 back when the program was
       called REEL. Mr. Heberger noted that the program went from a couple of loans a week to
       hundreds.

       Ms. Ma stated that she would like to work with Ms. Sarron to hear real-life stories from people
       that have used the GoGreen program.

       Ms. Ma asked whether there were any questions from the board members. None were raised.

       Ms. Ma opened the floor for public comment on the Executive Director’s Report. There was
       none.
                AGENDA ITEM 2 (ACTION ITEM)
                Approval of Minutes
                From Tuesday, August 18, 2026

                Page 4 of 8


4. Business Items

  A. Request to Approve Amendment to Grand Agreement EBD-24-001 between CAEATFA
     and the CEC

        Presented by Bill Heberger, Senior Program Manager

  Staff is asking for approval of an amendment to a grand agreement whereby California Energy
  Commission in 2024 granted CAEATFA $30 million to provide electric measures in POU
  territories which is something CAEATFA was unable to do because it was funded by IOUs. This
  spring, CAEATFA was in negotiations with the Energy Commission and, due to budget
  constraints on their side, they asked to reduce the award from $30 million down to $20 million.
  Staff determined that $20 million would be enough money for us to continue to offer the
  previous measures that we were offering now through the end of the contract. CAEATFA is
  recommending that the board approve this amendment to the pre-existing grant for the
  GoGreen Home program.

  Ms. Ma asked if there were any comments. There was one.

  Mr. Rider commented that the reduction in budget had nothing to do with confidence in the
  program. Mr. Rider stated that they are very excited about this program and very happy with
  the partnership with CAEATFA on GoGreen Financing. The budget was generally reduced
  more than half and several programs are funded from the same pot of money.

  Mr. Oppenheim noted that there are further operational adjustments being addressed in the
  agreement. He asked if anything significant that could illuminate on in the terms of the
  adjustments mentioned?

  Mr. Heberger replied that there were some amendments that came up over the course of two
  years of administering the program, such as Publicly Owned Utilities, POUs. He stated that
  GoGreen wanted to include small electric co-ops and smaller IOUs such as Liberty Utilities and
  PacifiCorp so that the program could be truly statewide. Mr. Heberger stated that language
              AGENDA ITEM 2 (ACTION ITEM)
              Approval of Minutes
              From Tuesday, August 18, 2026

              Page 5 of 8


was cleaned up about the end of the program and an increase in the CAP of 7% to 8.5% to
allow capital more flexibility.

Ms. Ma asked if there were any public comments. There were none.

Mr. Rider moved for approval, and there was a second from Ms. Perrault.

Ms. Ma stated that there was a motion and a second and called for a vote.
The item was passed by the following vote:

             Fiona Ma, CPA, State Treasurer                          Aye
             David Oppenheim for the State Controller                Aye
             Michele Perrault for the Director of Finance            Aye
             Ken Rider for the California Energy Commission          Aye
             Erin Rodriguez for the Public Utilities Commission      Aye

B. Resolution of the California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation
   Financing Authority to Amend a Grand Agreement Between CAEATFA and the CEC

      Presented by Rob Geltner, Program Manager GoGreen Home

The GoGreen Home Interest Rate Buy Down (IRBD) campaign promotes no- to low-interest
ﬁnancing to income-qualiﬁed households residing in LIDAC communities. The campaign
intends to increase the adoption of heat pump technology in historically underserved areas
while being available in a truly statewide capacity. Qualifying projects are capped at $30,000,
terms of 10 years or less may be eligible for 0% ﬁnancing, and terms of 10-15 years may be
eligible for 2% ﬁnancing.

In July of 2026, CAEATFA and the California Energy Commission (CEC) agreed to make
modifications to the IRBD campaign in an effort to assist more Californians to receive financing
for energy projects. Two key updates were made: first is the income qualification to be
dependent upon the borrower rather than the entire household and second is to set a
statewide income cap of $150,000 for eligibility (a signed customer attestation is required).
These updates are anticipated to allow more widespread participation in the IRBD campaign
for California residents as well as California lenders. Currently, household level income
verification and complex income tables severely limit this participation. Mr. Gentler stated that
              AGENDA ITEM 2 (ACTION ITEM)
              Approval of Minutes
              From Tuesday, August 18, 2026

              Page 6 of 8


the current income verification and complexity of the income tables has severely limited the
participation of lenders but anticipates an increase with updates to the campaign.

Ms. Ma asked if the income limit would be higher or lower.

Mr. Gentler replied that it was based on household and dependent on where the residents
lived in the state. Now the limit would be just one amount.

Ms. Ma then asked if there were any questions from the Board members. There was one
comment.

Mr. Rider commented that he thought this would help the Interest Rate Buydown Program get
some movement.

Ms. Ma then asked if there were any questions or comments from the public. There were none.

Ms. Ma noted that this is an information item.

Mr. Geltner stated that this would go into effect immediately.

C. Resolution of the California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation
   Financing Authority Approving Modifications to Regulations and Other Related
   Actions to Implement the Commercial Energy Efficiency Financing Program

       Presented by Jonathan Verhoef, Program Manager GoGreen Business

GoGreen Business and Multifamily program staff request Board approval to make permanent
the regulations changes approved through the emergency regulations process in August and
September of 2025. Those amendments make explicit the option to use the program’s
enhanced financing for wildfire repairs, and address several requests made by affordable
multifamily lenders to better align the program’s requirements with industry practices.

Staff are proposing to make permanent the following amendments to program regulations:

1. Clarifying that the program’s enhanced financing may be used for the purpose of rebuilding
   properties destroyed by natural disasters;
2. Extending the timelines for submission for enrollment and final funding to twelve months to
   provide greater flexibility for lenders working with complex sources of capital;
3. Allowing eligibility through the pre-qualified measure list for installations at multifamily
   properties to help reduce project cost;
5. Removing a limitation on security against real property to help qualify projects for credit;
   and
               AGENDA ITEM 2 (ACTION ITEM)
               Approval of Minutes
               From Tuesday, August 18, 2026

               Page 7 of 8


6. Simplifying and increasing the rate of loss reserve contributions for multifamily projects to
   10% of the first $ one million in financing to help lenders achieve greater coverage.

Through these changes staff propose to better meet lending needs in the multifamily sector
and fund more comprehensive clean energy retrofits, and to better serve the needs of
Californians impacted by natural disasters.

Ms. Ma then asked if there were any questions from the applicant for the Board members.
There was one comment.

Mr. Oppenheim commended CAEATFA for adding instructions for natural disasters.

Ms. Ma then asked if there were any questions or comments from the public. There were none.

Mr. Oppenheim moved for approval, and there was a second from Ms. Perrault.

   The item was passed by the following vote:

              Fiona Ma, CPA, State Treasurer                          Aye
              David Oppenheim for the State Controller                Aye
              Michele Perrault for the Director of Finance            Aye
              Ken Rider for the California Energy Commission          Aye
              Erin Rodriguez for the Public Utilities Commission      Aye

D. Approval of the 2027 Board Meeting Calendar

       Presented by Justin Gustafson, Contracts Analyst

Pursuant to the California Code of Regulations, title four, article one, section 10010 A, Regular
meetings of the authority will be held on the third Tuesday of each month at Sacramento, CA
unless otherwise ordered by the authority. All meetings that we’ve scheduled meet the
regulations standard, except for the November and December meetings, which are scheduled
for the second Tuesday of their respective months to accommodate holidays. Staff requests
approval of the proposed 2027 meeting schedule for the California Alternative Energy and
Advanced Transportation Financing Authority. Staff recommends approval of the proposed
meeting, scheduled for calendar year 2027.

Ms. Ma then asked if there were any questions from the applicant for the Board members.
There was one comment.

Ms. Perrault thanked the team for making sure meetings are scheduled well in advance.

Ms. Ma then asked if there were any questions or comments from the public. There were none.
                     AGENDA ITEM 2 (ACTION ITEM)
                     Approval of Minutes
                     From Tuesday, August 18, 2026

                     Page 8 of 8


      Ms. Perrault moved for approval, and there was a second from Mr. Oppenheim.

          The item was passed by the following vote:

                    Fiona Ma, CPA, State Treasurer                       Aye
                    David Oppenheim for the State Controller             Aye
                    Michele Perrault for the Director of Finance         Aye
                    Ken Rider for the California Energy Commission       Aye
                    Erin Rodriguez for the Public Utilities Commission   Aye

   5. Public Comment

      Ms. Ma asked if there were any comments or questions from the public not related to any of
      the items before the board today. There were none.

   6. Adjournment

      There being no further business, public comments, or concerns, the meeting adjourned at
      11:20 a.m.



Respectfully submitted,


Christina Sarron, Executive Director
