                                                                        Agenda Item – 4.B
                                                                  Resolution No. 26-09-4.B

                   CALIFORNIA ALTERNATIVE ENERGY AND
              ADVANCED TRANSPORTATION FINANCING AUTHORITY

                   Board Meeting Date: Tuesday, September 15, 2026

      Request for Approval of Modifications to the GoGreen Home Program
   (Article 5 (Commencing with Section 10091.1) of Division 13 of Title 4 of the
     California Code of Regulations) under the Regular Rulemaking Process

Prepared By: Davey Ly, Program Specialist

REQUEST

Staff requests approval to adopt modifications to the regulations of the GoGreen Home
Program (Program) (Article 5 (Commencing with Section 10091.1) of Division 13 of Title
4 of the California Code of Regulations) (Regulations) under the regular rulemaking
process. The California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing
Authority (CAEATFA) seeks to make modifications to incorporate language clarifying
the eligibility of victims of natural disasters in the Program. This allows those rebuilding
after a natural disaster to incorporate more advanced green technology than may
currently be required by a local building authority. In addition, CAEATFA proposes
regulation modifications clarifying that lenders have 180 days after the last project
certification date to submit loans for enrollment in the Program. These modifications
were adopted under the emergency rulemaking process and CAEATFA is seeking to
make the amendments permanent in the Program Regulations.

BACKGROUND

The California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority
(CAEATFA) administers the California Hub for Energy Efficiency Financing (CHEEF) on
behalf of the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC). CHEEF operates three
energy efficiency financing programs: GoGreen Home, GoGreen Business, and the
GoGreen Multifamily funded by the investor-owned utilities (IOUs) ratepayers.

The CPUC collectively authorized the programs as pilot programs to support the State’s
broader energy efficiency and environmental policy goals through leveraging private
capital for energy retrofits. GoGreen Home, the first pilot program to launch in July
2016, targets the single-family residential market. GoGreen Home mitigates the risk of
default for Lenders 1 through the use of a loan loss reserve mechanism. This loan loss
reserve enables Participating Lenders to offer more attractive financing terms, such as
reduced interest rates, longer terms, and increased financed amounts to a broader
group of Borrowers. The CPUC approved the transition of the Program from pilot to full
program in April 2020.


1 Unless otherwise deﬁned, all capitalized terms are as deﬁned in Program Regulations.


                                              1
                                                                      Agenda Item – 4.B
                                                                Resolution No. 26-09-4.B

Since its inception, GoGreen Home financing has been available to borrowers
retrofitting and/or upgrading existing residential structures. However, following the
destructive fires in the Los Angeles area that took place in January 2025, there was
considerable interest amongst various stakeholders to assist with the rebuilding efforts
by utilizing the GoGreen Home program. NPR reports that more than 10,000 homes
were destroyed in the fires, and the recovery effort will necessitate rebuilding these
structures from the ground up. As such, CAEATFA would like to clarify that that the
Program eligibility includes “reconstruction” specifically allowing victims of natural
disasters to access the Program. The second regulation modification also clarified that
lenders have 180 days after the last project certification date to submit loans for
enrollment in the Program. This modification ensures that lenders submit loans promptly
and ensure organizational efficiency.

These modifications were adopted under the emergency rulemaking process and
CAEATFA is seeking to make the amendments permanent under the regular rule
making process.

OVERVIEW OF MODIFICATIONS

Clarification of eligibility necessitates the modification of GoGreen Home regulations,
specifically §10091.5(b)(2). The intention of this change is to provide the opportunity for
the victims impacted by a natural disaster to rebuild exceeding Title 24 requirements for
energy efficiency standards.

In addition, modifications to §10091.9(j) will help to ensure that data provided to
stakeholders will be accurate and timely by establishing a reasonable 180 day period for
Lenders to enroll completed projects in the Program. This modification has become
necessary as the Program has grown significantly both in number of Lenders as well as
number of projects.

The proposed regulation amendments respond to challenges, lessons learned, and
extensive stakeholder feedback received while implementing GoGreen Home. It is the
Program’s intention to expand the opportunity for consumers to access GoGreen Home,
clarify processes, and facilitate energy efficiency improvements. The amendments:

    •   Allow for the possibility of superior efficiency in homes rebuilt following a
        federally declared natural disaster where measures installed after
        reconstruction would have a significantly higher cost of installation, longer
        payback period, and less positive environmental benefit.

    •   Safeguard the Loan Loss Reserve against losses that could be incurred by
        unscrupulous stakeholders and ensure the potential for the participation of
        more California residents as they work to reduce their carbon emissions.




                                             2
                                                                     Agenda Item – 4.B
                                                               Resolution No. 26-09-4.B


Outreach for GoGreen Home Regulatory Action
CAEATFA staff regularly solicits feedback from Participating Contractors and Lenders
and carefully monitors loan data to understand the Borrower experience and loan
performance. As part of our Regulation modification process, CAEATFA meets regularly
with stakeholders to solicit input and will conduct a public workshop as part of the
Certificate of Compliance process to make permanent these regulation changes. Early
stakeholder feedback is represented in these proposed modifications.


PROPOSED MODIFICATIONS TO REGULATIONS

Below is a brief description of each of the substantive changes to the Regulations. The
specific modifications to the Regulations can be found in Attachment A, denoted in
strikethrough and underlined text.

Section 10091.5. Loan Eligibility and Minimum Underwriting Criteria.
This section outlines the requirements and parameters for loans to be enrolled in the
GoGreen Home Program.

   •   §10091.5(b)(2): This subsection was amended to include an exception for
       reconstruction of an existing building that was destroyed in a federally declared
       natural disaster.

       Necessity: Under current regulations, financing through GoGreen Home is limited
       to upgrading existing homes and cannot be applied to new construction. As a
       result, victims of natural disasters who are forced to rebuild their homes are
       unable to access this program. This is a population for which access to low-cost
       financing could be an important tool as they seek to reconstruct their homes and
       their lives. While the impetus for this exception was the January 2025 fires in Los
       Angeles, given the increasing scale of and recovery costs for climate-related
       disasters throughout the state, there is a need for expanding the range of
       financing sources available to fund recovery efforts.

Section 10091.9. Loan Enrollment.
This Section describes all the documentation and data required for a loan to be
enrolled into the Program in order to receive a Loss Reserve Contribution. The Section
covers documentation provided by the Contractor, Borrower, and Lender, though
Lenders are responsible for compiling and submitting the package.

   •   §10091.9(j): This subsection is being added to specify a reasonable 180 day time
       period within which a Lender is required to submit projects to the Program for
       enrollment.

       Necessity: To ensure accurate data reporting to stakeholders, GoGreen Home
       relies on the timely submission of projects into the program. Previously, this time-

                                            3
                                                                     Agenda Item – 4.B
                                                               Resolution No. 26-09-4.B

      to-enrollment period existed in GoGreen Business, but GoGreen Home staff did
      not see evidence to suggest that it would be necessary. The adoption of the
      online portal and alternate methods of project submission have necessitated its
      inclusion and the renumeration of the following subsection.


REGULATORY PROCESS TIMELINE

All of the future dates below are tentative and subject to change.
 September 14,           Notice of Proposed Action 45 Day period for proposed
 2026                    modified Regulations closes.
 September 15,           CAEATFA Board reviews and approves proposed
 2026                    modified Regulations.
 September 25,           Proposed modified regulations are submitted to Office of
 2026                    Administrative Law (OAL) for review. OAL has 30
                         working days to review the amended regulations.
 November 6, 2026        OAL decision for approval of certificate of compliance to
                         complete the regular rulemaking process.


RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends the adoption of Resolution No. 26-09-4.B to authorize the Chair and
the Executive Director to execute the Certificate of Compliance for the GoGreen Home
Program to make the proposed amendments permanent.

Attachment: Attachment A: Proposed Modified Regulations. Modifications for Board
            consideration are shown with strikethrough and underlined text.




                                            4
                                                                     Agenda Item – 4.B
                                                               Resolution No. 26-09-4.B


 RESOLUTION OF THE CALIFORNIA ALTERNATIVE ENERGY AND ADVANCED
 TRANSPORTATION FINANCING AUTHORITY APPROVING MODIFICATIONS TO
      REGULATIONS AND OTHER RELATED ACTIONS TO IMPLEMENT
                  THE GOGREEN HOME PROGRAM

                                   September 15, 2026

       WHEREAS, the California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation
Financing Authority (“Authority”) is authorized by Section 26009 o f t h e Public
Resources Code to adopt regulations to implement and make specific the statutory
provisions governing the Authority; and

         WHEREAS, the Authority has determined that, under its Memorandum of
Agreement with the Public Utilities Commission and its contract with the investor-owned
utilities to serve as the manager of the California Hub for Energy Efficiency Financing, it
is necessary to adopt modifications to the current program regulations (the
“Regulations”) to implement the GoGreen Home Program (the “Program”).

     NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the California Alternative Energy and
Advanced Transportation Financing Authority as follows:

      Section 1. The proposed modified Regulations, on file with the Authority, are
hereby approved. The Chair and Executive Director are hereby authorized to file the
Regulations, with the supporting documentation required by law, with the Office of
Administrative Law as regulations in the form currently on file with the Authority.

        Section 2. The Chair and Executive Director are hereby authorized to proceed
with the public notice and comment procedures required by the Administrative
Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of
Title 2 of the Government Code) prior to submitting regulations to the Office of
Administrative Law and completing the regular rulemaking process.

       Section 3. The Chair and Executive Director are hereby authorized to take the
actions necessary for the adoption of the Regulations, including making any necessary
changes to the Regulations to secure approval by the Office of Administrative Law, and
to execute and deliver any documents and take any steps the Chair and Executive
Director may deem necessary or advisable to effectuate the purposes of this resolution.

       Section 4. This resolution shall take effect immediately upon its approval.




                                             5
