                                                                            Agenda Item – 4.C
                                                                      Resolution No. 26-09-4.C

                      CALIFORNIA ALTERNATIVE ENERGY AND
                 ADVANCED TRANSPORTATION FINANCING AUTHORITY

   Consideration of a Contract with Zions Bancorporation, National Association for
   Trustee Services for the California Hub for Energy Efficiency Financing Programs
                         in an Amount Not to Exceed $495,000

                                Tuesday, September 15, 2026

Prepared by: Rob Geltner, Program Manager

REQUEST

California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority (“CAEATFA”)
staff (“Staff”) is requesting approval to enter into a contract (“Contract”) with Zions
Bancorporation, National Association, (“Zions” or the “Trustee”) to provide assistance to
CAEATFA with fund management administration for the several energy efficiency financing
programs (“Programs”) authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission (“CPUC”),
which are currently in various stages of implementation and development within the territories
of the four California investor-owned utilities (collectively, the “IOUs”).

Contract Amount. Not to exceed a total aggregate of $495,000 over the entire Contract term.
Funds for the Contract are paid from a receivables contract between CAEATFA and the IOUs.

Term of Contract. The Contract term will be three years.

SUMMARY

Background. The California Hub for Energy Efficiency Financing (“CHEEF”) was first
authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission in Decision D.13-09-044 (September
2013), and CAEATFA officially became the administrator of the CHEEF in 2014. The CHEEF
was established to help the state reach its aggressive energy efficiency goals for the existing
building sector. The CHEEF focuses on attracting and leveraging private capital to be made
available for customer investments in energy efficiency. Lowering financing costs and
expanding access to credit is critical for the State to meet its energy efficiency and greenhouse
gas reduction goals, given that there are not enough ratepayer or taxpayer dollars to pay for
the needed investment.

The CHEEF administers three Programs under the public-facing name, “GoGreen Financing,”
serving the residential, affordable multifamily, and commercial sectors. The Programs are
subject to CPUC-directed reporting and evaluations which look at many metrics, including the
amount of private capital leveraged, realized energy savings, cost-effectiveness and
percentage of administrative cost versus capital deployed, and increased access to financing
for underserved customers.




                                                1
                                                                            Agenda Item – 4.C
                                                                      Resolution No. 26-09-4.C

Core to the GoGreen Programs is the use of a credit enhancement, in the form of a loan loss
reserve. In exchange for the credit enhancement, participating finance companies are able to
offer lower interest rates, longer payback terms, and broader approval criteria (e.g., lower
minimum credit scores) than their standard products. CAEATFA has incorporated funds for
Interest Rate Buy-Downs (IRBD) in order to lower the cost of financing for income-challenged
borrowers and incentivize particular types of projects, such as electrification or clean energy.
CAEATFA deployed the first IRBD campaign in 2024.

Overview of the Programs

GoGreen Home Energy Financing (“GGH”) Program was launched in 2016 and serves
residential properties. As of July 2026, the Program has twelve active lenders, who have
enrolled 21,093 loans totaling more than $449 million. There is expectation from the CPUC
that GoGreen Home will scale moderately over the next several years after considerable
growth from 2023 through mid-2026. To facilitate this scaling, CAEATFA has done the
following:
       • Launched a “Loan & Project Management System” (LPMS), an online workflow tool
           that helps with project eligibility screening and web-based data submission, which
           streamlines participation for credit union lenders and contractors.
       • Incorporated non-IOU ratepayer funding for loss reserve funding and other
           incentives, which created a truly statewide program, reduced complexity, and allows
           use of the program in non-IOU jurisdictions.
       • Consolidated contractor management and brought all activities in-house to
           CAEATFA. Internal staff are able to provide consistent and quicker feedback to
           program stakeholders which has improved the contractor experience.

GoGreen Business Energy Financing (“GGB”) Program was launched in 2019 and has 175
financings enrolled totaling more than $16 million as of August 27, 2026. There are eight
enrolled (four active) finance companies that offer a variety of financing products, including
loans, leases, and energy service agreements. A recent IRBD pilot program has led to
increased interest among contractors and an increase in uptake.

GoGreen Affordable Multifamily Energy Financing (“GGMF”) Program has been offering
financing since 2019. In early 2024, CAEATFA combined the GoGreen Business and GoGreen
Multifamily Programs, and their loss reserve accounts, to reduce complexity for lenders and
potential customers. The combined loss reserve accounts provide greater risk mitigation for
lenders considering financing an eligible multifamily property, both market rate and affordable.

The CPUC also authorized On-Bill Repayment (OBR) for financing in the Commercial and
Multifamily sectors, such that customers can repay financing charges to private finance
companies via their utility bills from participating IOUs. OBR is now available for IOU
customers and is seeing increasing uptake.

The Trustee will assist CAEATFA with fund management administration under the CHEEF.
The scope of work has been developed to enable the Programs to scale and provides the
flexibility to expand to incorporate potential future financing approaches that encourage clean


                                                2
                                                                                   Agenda Item – 4.C
                                                                             Resolution No. 26-09-4.C

energy improvements statewide. This will be the fifth contract1 executed for these services
since the inception of the CHEEF in 2014 and is a continuation of existing services. In each
instance CAEATFA issued a competitive Request for Proposals (“RFP”) and engaged in a
robust outreach process.

Role of the Trustee. Under direction from the CAEATFA Executive Director and management
team, the Trustee will hold funds on behalf of CAEATFA, fund lenders’ loss reserve accounts,
issue payment for claims, provide monthly account statements and other transactional reports,
and provide on-demand electronic account viewing to CAEATFA and lenders participating in
the Programs. Trustee responsibilities under the Contract also include the capability to support
Operational Reserve Fund transactions for the On-Bill program, as well as a Debt Service
Reserve Fund if requested.
The Trustee is critical to CAEATFA’s operation of the CHEEF Programs. The current contract
is in its third year and expires on December 31, 2026.

Request for Proposal Process. On August 21, 2026, Staff advertised an RFP through the
California State Contracts Register (Cal eProcure), as well as on the CAEATFA website. At the
proposal deadline, September 8, 2026, the Authority received two proposals, of which one was
considered responsive to the RFP requirements.

Staff developed a selection process that included an evaluation committee consisting of
CAEATFA management. The responsive proposal was evaluated based on the characteristics
and point values outlined below, for a maximum of 100 possible points (minimum of 85 points
to be considered responsive). Zions’ proposal received a total score of 98.3 points from the
evaluation committee.

   1) Evaluation of the firm’s overall experience demonstrating its ability           (30/30 points)
      to successfully complete the Scope of Work defined in the RFP.

   2) Fvaluation of the firm’s experience as a contractor to state or                 (19.3/20 points)
      other government entities for demonstration of the firm’s
      expertise specific to programs substantially similar to the
      CHEEF Programs.

   3) Evaluation of qualifications of the individuals to be assigned                  (14/15 points)
      to the Contract on the basis of background and experience
      in related work as detailed in the RFP, including experience
      as a trustee and with similar types of programs.

   4) Evaluation of the actual fees proposed, including the                           (35/35 points)
      reasonableness of rates, estimated cost detail and effectiveness

1 Contract #CAEATFA06-14 was a 3-year contract (including extensions) for a maximum of $180,000;

Contract #CAEATFA05-17 was a 3-year contract (including extensions) for a maximum of $285,000;
Contract #CAEATFA03-20 is a 3-year contract for a maximum of $360,000;
Contract #CAEATFA03-23 is a 3-year contract for a maximum of $495,000.


                                                     3
                                                                           Agenda Item – 4.C
                                                                     Resolution No. 26-09-4.C

       (given value of services to be obtained), and cost effectiveness
       (given the experience and qualifications of firm and its personnel).
       For evaluation purposes, the Cost Proposal included potential
       volume Scenarios to establish reasonability of rates and project
       time allocations, and allowed for Proposers to structure their cost
       proposal using transaction-based or annual comprehensive fees

Overview of Zions Bancorporation, National Association. Founded in 1873, Zions Bank is
a division of Zions Bancorporation, National Association. Headquartered in Salt Lake City,
Utah, Zions Bancorporation provides a full range of banking and related services through its
locally managed divisions operating in Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, New
Mexico, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming. Its customer base includes a variety
of issuing entities, including state agencies, housing authorities, student loan authorities,
governmental agencies, municipalities, hospitals, and corporations demonstrating the
knowledge, experience, and ability to manage financings and programs accurately and
efficiently. Zions has provided reliable and accessible trustee services for several current and
past CAEATFA programs, as well as for other authorities of the State Treasurer’s Office.

The Zions office through which the CHEEF’s account will be primarily serviced is located in
Los Angeles. Their Los Angeles office opened in 2013 and staff in this office have provided
trustee services for CAEATFA’s Property Assessed Clean Energy (“PACE”) Loss Reserve
Program since inception in 2014, and California Pollution Control Financing Authority’s
California Capital Access Program since their initial appointment in 2017.

CAEATFA’s account will be managed by Jacqueline (Jacki) Nowak, Relationship Manager,
and Lovely Capiral, Corporate Trust Administrator Specialist. Ms. Nowak and Ms. Capiral have
each been in the corporate trust industry for over 30 years and 17 years respectively and have
recent experience with CAEATFA staff, demonstrating compliance with CAEATFA program
requirements.

Contract Terms. The Contract term will be for three years. The compensation amount shall
not exceed $495,000 for the term of the Contract.

The Authority will compensate Zions for services satisfactorily rendered, and upon receipt and
approval of invoices pursuant to the approved Fee Schedule. Invoices shall be provided to
CAEATFA monthly and in arrears.

Recommendation. Staff recommends adoption of a resolution authorizing the execution of a
contract with Zions Bancorporation, National Association, as Trustee for the CHEEF Programs
in an amount not to exceed $495,000 over three years.




                                               4
                                                                               Agenda Item – 4.C
                                                                         Resolution No. 26-09-4.C

   RESOLUTION OF THE CALIFORNIA ALTERNATIVE ENERGY AND ADVANCED
 TRANSPORTATION FINANCING AUTHORITY AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A
CONTRACT WITH ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, AS TRUSTEE
  FOR THE CALIFORNIA HUB FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY FINANCING PROGRAMS

                                       September 15, 2026

        WHEREAS, the California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation
Financing Authority (the “Authority”), a public instrumentality of the State of California, is
authorized and empowered by the provisions of the California Alternative Energy And
Advanced Transportation Financing Authority Act (Division 16 (commencing with
Section 26000) of the California Public Resources Code) (the “Act”);

          WHEREAS, the Authority has determined it requires a trustee bank to continue to
assist it with administration of the California Hub for Energy Efficiency Financing Programs
currently being implemented in California as authorized by the California Public Utilities
Commission;

         WHEREAS, the Authority has undergone a competitive process to identify an
appropriate contractor to perform trustee banking functions, with knowledge of and experience
with trustee operations, practices, and requirements;

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Authority, as follows:

         Section 1. The Authority hereby authorizes the execution of a contract in an amount
not to exceed $495,000 to retain Zions Bancorporation, National Association, to provide
trustee services and other actions related thereto in connection with the California Hub for
Energy Efficiency Financing programs.

        Section 2. The term of the contract will commence upon execution and approval by
the Department of General Services and will continue for three years, unless earlier terminated
by the Authority.

        Section 3. The Chair of the Authority and Executive Director are hereby authorized for
and on behalf of the Authority to obtain trustee services, with the form and substance of those
contracts to be reviewed and approved by legal counsel of the Authority.

         Section 4. This resolution shall take effect immediately upon its approval.




                                                  5
