                                   CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS
                                           Title 4. Business Regulations
          Division 13. California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority

                         CALIFORNIA ALTERNATIVE ENERGY AND ADVANCED
                             TRANSPORTATION FINANCING AUTHORITY
                                  REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTING
                     THE COMMERCIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY FINANCING PROGRAM

                                               EFFECTIVE NOVEMBER 6, 2025



Contents
Section 10092.1            Definitions ........................................................................................................... 2
Section 10092.2            Finance Entity Enrollment................................................................................... 9
Section 10092.3            Additional Requirements for Entities that are not Financial Institutions .......... 18
Section 10092.4            Contractor and Project Developer Participation................................................ 21
Section 10092.5            Eligible Financial Products ............................................................................... 26
Section 10092.6            Eligible Financing Customers ........................................................................... 27
Section 10092.7            Project Eligibility .............................................................................................. 29
Section 10092.8            Financing Submittal and Enrollment................................................................. 31
Section 10092.9            Credit Enhancement .......................................................................................... 38
Section 10092.10            Claims............................................................................................................... 40
Section 10092.11           Sale and Transfer of Enrolled Financings and Transfer of Program Roles ....... 42
Section 10092.12 Reporting ........................................................................................................... 42
Section 10092.13            Energy Financing Privacy Rights Disclosure................................................... 44
Section 10092.14            Eligible Energy Measure List ........................................................................... 45
Section 10092.15 On-Bill Repayment............................................................................................ 57
Section 10092.16 Conditional Eligibility Expansion ..................................................................... 61
Section 10092.17 Interest Rate Buy-Down Disbursement............................................................. 61
Section 10092.1       Definitions

(a)      “Affordable Multifamily Customer”: An entity who enters into an Eligible Financing
         Agreement with a Finance Provider Entity for the purpose of completing a Project
         installed at a Multifamily Property which:
        (1) Is subject to a recorded affordability deed restriction or covenant, with at least 5 years
            remaining on the recorded affordability deed restriction or covenant, such that the
            property owner is required to keep rents affordable; and
        (2) Is restricted to occupancy for at least 50% of the total units to households meeting the
            requirements of the income limits no greater than “moderate,” published annually in
            the California State Income Limits by the California Department of Housing and
             Community Development in California Code of Regulations, Title 25, Section 6932.

(b)       “Authority”: California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing
          Authority (CAEATFA) established pursuant to Division 16 (commencing with Section
          26000) of the Public Resources Code, or its agent.

(c)       “Battery Storage”: Technologies capable of storing and discharging electric energy.
          Battery Storage does not include thermal or mechanical energy storage.

(d)       “Bill Impact Estimate” (BIE): An estimate of the anticipated energy cost savings that are
          expected to result from the installation of Eligible Energy Measures, which is provided
          by either the Participating Project Developer, the Participating Contractor, or the Finance
          Provider Entity to the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer prior to work being
          performed on the Eligible Property(ies).

(e)       “Capitalized Interest”: Accrued interest from a previous finance agreement for a Project
          (such as a construction loan or down payment loan) where the interest has been added to
          the Total Financed Amount of an Eligible Financing Agreement.

(f)       “CHEEF Financing Identifier” or “CHEEF Financing ID”: An identification number
          associated with an Enrolled Financing Agreement created by the Authority and provided
          to the Finance Provider Entity at the time the financing is approved for enrollment in the
          Program.

(g)       “Claim-Eligible Charge-Off Amount”: The Total Charge-Off Amount multiplied by the
          Claim-Eligible Ratio.

(h)       “Claim-Eligible Financed Amount”: The portion of the Total Financed Amount that is
          eligible for reimbursement in the event of a charge-off. The Claim-Eligible Financed
          Amount is limited to $1 million. At least 70% of the Claim-Eligible Financed Amount
          must be used to fund Eligible Energy Measures as described in 10092.7(b). Non-Energy
          Components are limited to 30% of the dollar value of the total Claim-Eligible Financed
      Amount. The Claim-Eligible Financed Amount is equal to the Total Financed Amount
      less Non-Energy Components beyond the allowable 30%.

(i)   “Claim-Eligible Ratio”: The ratio of the original Claim-Eligible Financed Amount to the
      original Total Financed Amount.

(j)   “Commission” or “CPUC”: The Public Utilities Commission established pursuant to
      Article XII of the California Constitution.

(k)   “Community Choice Aggregator” (CCA): A Community Choice Aggregator as defined
      in Section 331.1 of the Public Utilities Code.

(l)   “CSLB”: The Contractors State License Board established pursuant to the Contractors
      State License Law (Chapter 9 commencing with Section 7000 of Division 3 of the
      Business and Professions Code).

(m)   “Delayed Bill”: A delay of the date on which a utility is scheduled to send a monthly bill
      to an OBR Customer, as reported by the utility to the Authority.

(n)   “Demand Response” (DR): Reductions, increases, or shifts in electricity consumption by
      customers in response to either economic or reliability signals. Economic signals come
      in the form of electricity prices or financial incentives, whereas reliability signals appear
      as alerts when the electric grid is under stress and vulnerable to high prices. Demand
      Response programs aim to respond to these signals and maximize ratepayer benefit.

(o)   “Distributed Generation” (DG): Technologies that generate or store energy at or near the
      site where it will be used. Distributed Generation may serve a single structure or it may
      be part of a microgrid. Technologies classified as Distributed Generation systems
      include, but are not limited to, solar photovoltaic, wind power, hydropower, biomass,
      fuel cells, combined heat and power, and Battery Storage.

(p)   “Eligible Commercial Financing Customer”: Either a qualifying Affordable Multifamily
      Customer or an Eligible Small Business Financing Customer that enters into an Eligible
      Financing Agreement with a Finance Provider Entity for the purpose of completing a
      Project. The entity or individual is not required to own the Eligible Property. Customers
      that do not meet the definition of Affordable Multifamily Customer or Eligible Small
      Business Financing Customer may qualify pursuant to Section 10092.16.

(q)   “Eligible Contractor”: An individual or entity that meets the requirements specified in
      Section 10092.4(b)(1).

(r)   “Eligible Energy Measure” (EEM): Any Energy Efficiency, Distributed Generation,
      Battery Storage, or Demand Response measure including alterations and improvements
      that are legally or practically required to complete the installation of the Eligible Energy
      Measure. This includes energy audits that meet the Authority's requirements as specified
       on the Eligible Energy Measure List. An EEM must utilize, conserve, store, or produce a
       fuel provided by an IOU, CCA, or ESP at the Eligible Property.

(s)    “Eligible Energy Measure Identifier” or “EEM ID”: A unique identifier assigned by the
       Authority to each measure contained within the EEM List.

(t)    “Eligible Energy Measure List” or “EEM List”: The list of pre-qualified Eligible Energy
       Measures as defined in Section 10092.14, with corresponding requirements, fuel type
       designations, and Self-Installer eligibility, published by the Authority.

(u)    “Eligible Financing Agreement”: An agreement made between a Finance Provider Entity
       and an Eligible Commercial Financing Customer to finance a Project. The agreement
       must meet the definition of either an Eligible Lease or Eligible Equipment Financing
       Agreement, Eligible Loan, Eligible Service Agreement, or Eligible Savings-Based
       Payment Agreement. The Eligible Financing Agreement must meet the requirements
       specified in Section 10092.5(b).

(v)    “Eligible Lease” or “Eligible Equipment Financing Agreement”: An agreement that
       provides the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer with Eligible Energy Measures in
       exchange for payments in amounts that are due according to a schedule established in
       the agreement. The payments must result in full satisfaction of the obligation. Those
       payments are made to the Finance Provider Entity or its assignee for a specified term.
       Title to the equipment may transfer at the beginning or end of the term.

(w)    “Eligible Loan”: An agreement that provides the Eligible Commercial Financing
       Customer with ownership of Eligible Energy Measures in exchange for payments in
       amounts that are due according to a schedule established in the agreement. Those
       payments must result in full satisfaction of the obligation. Those payments are made to
       the Finance Provider Entity or its assignee for a specified term. Eligible Loans must be
       closed end loans; no revolving lines of credit will qualify.

(x)    “Eligible Project Developer”: An individual or entity that meets the requirements
       specified in Section 10092.4(b)(2).

(y)    “Eligible Property”: A property that is used for commercial activities. If the purpose of
       the business is residential housing, the property must meet the definition of a
       Multifamily Property.

(z)    “Eligible Savings-Based Payment Agreement”: An agreement that provides the Eligible
       Commercial Financing Customer with Eligible Energy Measures in exchange for regular
       payments to the Finance Provider Entity or the Finance Provider Entity’s assignee. The
       term may be specified by a number of months or may run until payments have reached a
       specified amount. The agreement must satisfy all of the following criteria:
       (1) Savings will be measured and verified no less than annually;
      (2) Total monthly energy and efficiency charges for the Eligible Commercial Financing
          Customer must be projected to be "cash flow positive," based on industry-accepted
           estimates, meaning: allowing for seasonal variations, the combined monthly energy
           expense (gas and electric) along with all projected monthly Eligible Savings-Based
           Payment Agreement charges is projected to be less than the Eligible Commercial
           Financing Customer's pre-project monthly energy expense;
       (3) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer will share in benefits if actual savings
           exceed projected savings; and
       (4) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer does not bear risk in the event that
           savings are less than projected.

(aa)    “Eligible Service Agreement”: An agreement that provides the Eligible Commercial
        Financing Customer with the use of Eligible Energy Measures as well as ongoing
        service and maintenance of that equipment in exchange for regular payments to the
        Finance Provider Entity or the Finance Provider Entity’s assignee for a specified term.
        The agreement must include either:
        (1) A guarantee of functionality for any Eligible Energy Measures and Non-EEMs; or
        (2) A guarantee of energy savings. Equipment functionality or energy savings must be
             measured no less than annually.

(bb)    “Eligible Small Business Financing Customer”: A business or non-profit entity (other
        than a public entity) meeting at least one of the following size requirements:
        (1) 100 or fewer employees;
        (2) Annual revenues of less than $16 million; or
        (3) Meets the U.S. Small Business Administration’s size standards for a Small Business
             matched to the North American Industry Classification System found in Part
             121.201 of Title 13 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

(cc)    “Energy Efficiency” (EE): An energy using appliance, equipment, control system, or
        practice for which the installation or implementation results in reduced utility-supplied
        energy use while maintaining a comparable or higher level of energy service as
        perceived by the customer.

(dd)    “Energy Professional”: An individual who is either:
         (1) Recognized as a Certified Energy Manager (CEM) by the Association of Energy
             Engineers with a certification that is current and free of disciplinary actions; or
         (2) A Professional Engineer (PE) licensed by the State of California whose license is
             current and free of disciplinary actions.

(ee)    “Energy Service Provider” (ESP): An Electric Service Provider as defined in Section
        218.3 of the Public Utilities Code.

(ff)    “Enrolled Financing Agreement”: An Eligible Financing Agreement approved for
        enrollment in the Program pursuant to Section 10092.8(b).

(gg)    “Enrollment Date”: The date that the Trustee has funded the Finance Provider Entity's
        Loss Reserve Account for the Enrolled Financing Agreement.
(hh)   “Executive Director” (ED): The Executive Director of the Authority or their designee.
(ii)   “Finance Provider Applicant” (FPA): The Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant and
       Primary Finance Provider Applicant, collectively.
        (1) “Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant”: As described in Section 10092.2(a).
        (2) “Primary Finance Provider Applicant”: As described in Section 10092.2(a).

(jj)   “Finance Provider Entity” (FPE): The Primary Finance Provider Entity and the Affiliate
       Finance Provider Entity, collectively.
       (1) “Affiliate Finance Provider Entity”: The Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant
            approved for participation in the Program along with a Primary Finance Provider
            Entity as specified in Section 10092.2(a).
       (2) “Primary Finance Provider Entity”: Primary Finance Provider Applicant approved
            for participation in the Program. It may be approved along with an Affiliate
            Finance Provider Entity as specified in Section 10092.2(a).

(kk)   “Financial Institution”: Any insured depository institution, insured credit union, or
       Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI), as those terms are each defined
       in Section 4702 of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement
       Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4702), or a Financial Development Corporation as the term
       "Corporation" is defined in Section 14003(f) of the Corporations Code, or any non-bank
       entity supervised by the Federal Reserve.

(ll)   “GoGreen Business Energy Financing”: The public-facing name to be used in
       informational and marketing materials about the Program for commercial customers.

(mm)   “GoGreen Multifamily Energy Financing”: The public-facing name to be used in
       informational and marketing materials about the Program for multifamily customers.

(nn)   “Investor-Owned Utility” (IOU): Pacific Gas and Electric Company, San Diego Gas &
       Electric Company, Southern California Edison Company, or Southern California Gas
       Company, collectively referred to as “IOUs.”

(oo)   “IOU Custom”: A program offered by the IOUs, RENs, or CCAs in which measures
       require pre-approval and incentives are based on unique project characteristics.

(pp)   “IOU Deemed”: A program offered by the IOUs, RENs, or CCAs in which eligible
       measures and rebate amounts are pre-determined. For the purpose of this definition, IOU
       Deemed includes the following prescriptive program types: downstream, midstream,
       upstream, and direct install.

(qq)   “Loss Reserve Account”: An account established and maintained by the Trustee at the
       Authority’s direction to hold the Loss Reserve Contribution for Enrolled Financing
       Agreements for the benefit of a Finance Provider Entity.

(rr)   “Loss Reserve Account Representative”: As described in Section 10092.2(b)(6).
(ss)    “Loss Reserve Contribution”: The credit enhancement contributed to the Loss Reserve
        Account for each Enrolled Financing Agreement in the Program pursuant to Section
        10092.9(c).
(tt)    “Marketing Representative”: As described in Section 10092.2(b)(7).

(uu)    “Microloan”: An Eligible Financing Agreement with a Total Financed Amount of less
        than or equal to $10,000.

(vv)    “Multifamily Property”: One or more buildings with residential units totaling five or
        more.

(ww)    “Non-Energy Components”: All Non-EEMs, and any Capitalized Interest on a single
        Project.

(xx)    “Non-EEMs”: Any equipment, alteration, or improvement that does not fall under the
        definition of an Eligible Energy Measure. A measure included on the EEM List may not
        be considered a Non-EEM, with the exception that Non-EEMs include measures that
        would otherwise be considered an EEM but do not utilize or conserve fuel provided by
        an IOU, CCA, or ESP.

(yy)    “OBR Approval Date”: The date on which a utility confirms that the OBR Total Charge
        will be placed on the OBR Customer's utility bill.

(zz)    “OBR Customer”: An Eligible Commercial Financing Customer that has elected to
        make payments on its Eligible Financing Agreement through OBR.

(aaa)   “OBR Modified Charge Cutoff Date”: The recurring day of the month by which the FPE
        must provide the Authority with an updated OBR Total Charge amount in order for the
        updated OBR Total Charge to appear on the OBR Customer’s next utility bill. The OBR
        Modified Charge Cutoff Date is specific to each customer’s utility billing cycle and may
        differ from one billing cycle to another.

(bbb)   “OBR Removal Date”: The date on which a utility confirms that the OBR Customer will
        be removed from participation in OBR and that the customer’s OBR Total Charge will
        not appear on its next utility bill or any subsequent bills.

(ccc)   “OBR Tariff”: The gas and electric Rule No. 43 On-Bill Repayment Tariffs filed by each
        IOU through advice letters and approved by the Commission.

(ddd)   “OBR Total Charge”: The financing payment amount to appear on the OBR Customer's
        next utility bill, including any applicable penalties, late fees, and interest, as
        communicated by the FPE to the Authority.

(eee)   “On-Bill Repayment (OBR)”: The repayment of an Enrolled Financing Agreement
        through charges placed on the OBR Customer's monthly utility bill, pursuant to the
        requirements of Section 10092.15.
(fff)   “Operational Reserve Fund (ORF)”: An account administered by the Authority that may
        be drawn upon if there is a Delayed Bill or Returned Item.

(ggg)   “ORF Balance”: The amount that must be reimbursed to the ORF by an FPE as the
        result of one or more payments made from the ORF.

(hhh)   “Participating Contractor”: An Eligible Contractor who has been granted approval to
        participate in the Program by the Authority as described in Section 10092.4(c).

(iii)   “Participating Project Developer”: An Eligible Project Developer who has been granted
        approval to participate in the Program by the Authority as described in Section
        10092.4(c).

(jjj)   “Program”: The Commercial Energy Efficiency Financing Program described in the
        regulations within this Article.

(kkk)   “Program Holding Account”: Accounts established and maintained by the Trustee at the
        Authority’s direction to hold funds allocated by funders of the Program for the Loss
        Reserve Contributions in separate accounts.

(lll)   “Program Identifier” or “Program ID”: A number assigned by the Authority or its
        agent(s) that represents a program administered by the Authority.

(mmm)   “Project”: One or more Scopes of Work at one or more Eligible Properties, as well as
        any Capitalized Interest and any Non-EEMs installed by non-participating contractors,
        financed in whole or in part under a single Eligible Financing Agreement.

(nnn)   “Regional Energy Network” (REN): Regional Energy Network granted authorization by
        the Commission under Decision 12-05-015 and later defined in Decision 12-11-015.

(ooo)   “Returned Item”: A returned payment, closed bank account, scrivener’s error, or other
        payment processing issue that results in a negative payment amount to a utility from an
        OBR Customer.

(ppp)   “Scope of Work”: The Eligible Energy Measures and/or Non-EEMs installed and
        certified pursuant to the requirements of Section 10092.7(a) – (c) and Section
        10092.8(b)(3) by a single Participating Contractor or Self-Installer as reported to the
        Authority, as part of a Project.

(qqq)   “Scope of Work Completion Date”: Date that a Participating Contractor or Self-Installer
        completes installation of its Scope of Work.

(rrr)   “Self-Installer”: An Eligible Commercial Financing Customer who installs any measures
        pursuant to the requirements in Section 10092.7(c).

(sss)   “Total Charge-Off Amount”:
          (1) For Eligible Leases or Eligible Equipment Financing Agreements and for Eligible
              Loans: the Total Charge-Off Amount equals the outstanding principal balance at the
              time of charge-off.
          (2) For Eligible Service Agreements and Eligible Savings-Based Payment Agreements:
              the Total Charge-Off Amount equals the (total initial installation amount paid to
              contractor(s) divided by the number of months in the term) multiplied by the
              number of months remaining in the term at the time of charge-off. Ongoing monthly
              service charges are excluded from the Total Charge-Off Amount.

(ttt)     “Total Financed Amount”: The total amount funded by the Finance Provider Entity
          toward the Project. The Total Financed Amount does not include charges for ongoing
          service and/or maintenance and does not include any interest payments or ongoing
          finance charges.

          (1) For Eligible Leases or Eligible Equipment Financing Agreements and Eligible
              Loans: The original principal amount as disclosed to the Eligible Commercial
              Finance Customer through loan or lease documentation or the job addendum.
          (2) For Eligible Service Agreements and Eligible Savings-Based Payment Agreements:
              The total installation amount paid to the Participating Contractor and/or disclosed
              on the job addendum, inclusive of equipment, taxes, labor, and shipping costs and
              exclusive of ongoing service and oversight payments by Eligible Commercial
              Financing Customer.

(uuu)     “Trustee”: The financial institution chosen by the Authority to hold or administer some
          or all of the Program Holding Accounts and Loss Reserve Accounts.

                  Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
              Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                     Public Resources Code

Section 10092.2       Finance Entity Enrollment

(a)     Descriptions of Finance Provider Applicant and Entity Program Roles
        (1) The “Primary Finance Provider Applicant” is the financing company that is applying
            to the Program for enrollment as a Finance Provider Entity and includes any business
            organization that is managed, owned, or controlled by the applicant that will perform
            one or more of the Program roles. The Primary Finance Provider Applicant may
            fulfill all of the Program roles (described in Section 10092.2(b)(1) – (7)) themselves,
            or the entity may invite an Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant (as described in
             Section 10092.2(a)(2)) to apply to fulfill some of the roles. Additionally, the Primary
            Finance Provider Applicant may invite a Marketing Representative to fulfill the
            Marketing Representative role described in Section 10092.2(b)(7). If there are two or
            more entities fulfilling Program roles together, it will be the finance entity that plans
            to fulfill the "Financing Submittal role" that will be the Primary Finance Provider
          Applicant. The Primary Finance Provider Applicant must meet requirements
          described in Section 10092.2(c) and must be a signatory to the Program application.
      (2) The “Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant” is a potential co-applicant along with the
          Primary Finance Provider Applicant. It may fulfill one or more of the roles of the
          Program described in Section 10092.2(b)(1) – (7). The Affiliate Finance Provider
          Applicant must meet the requirements described in Section 10092.2(c) and must be a
          signatory to the Program application.
      (3) “Finance Provider Applicant” means the Primary Finance Provider Applicant and the
          Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant collectively.
      (4) “Primary Finance Provider Entity” means a Primary Finance Provider Applicant who
          has been accepted for enrollment in the Program. The Primary Finance Provider
          Entity must fulfill all the Program roles described in Section 10092.2(b)(1) – (7)
          themselves, or this entity may fulfill Program roles along with an Affiliate Finance
          Provider Entity and, potentially, an additional entity serving as Marketing
          Representative. If there are two entities fulfilling Program roles together, it will be
          the finance entity that fulfills the Financing Submittal role that will be determined to
          be the Primary Finance Provider Entity.
      (5) “Affiliate Finance Provider Entity” means an Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant
          that has been accepted for enrollment in the Program to fulfill Program roles along
          with the Primary Finance Provider Entity.
      (6) “Finance Provider Entity (FPE)” means the Primary Finance Provider Entity and the
          Affiliate Finance Provider Entity collectively.


(b)   Finance Provider Entity Roles Within the Program
      (1) “Underwriting”
           (A) Means following Program regulations for approving projects and financing for
               customers pursuant to Section 10092.5(b), Section 10092.6, and Section
               10092.7(a) – (c) as well as following the credit and underwriting guidelines
               submitted by the Finance Provider Applicant pursuant to Section 10092.2(c)(3)
               that were approved by the Authority as part of the application process.
           (B) The Underwriting role must be performed by either the Primary Finance
               Provider Entity or the Affiliate Finance Provider Entity.
      (2) “Origination”
           (A) Means engaging in financing origination, including executing the legal contract
               for repayment of the Enrolled Financing Agreement with the Eligible
               Commercial Financing Customer, getting Program forms signed and certified by
               the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer, following Program regulations
               related to eligible products as well as adhering to product terms approved by the
               Authority as part of the application process.
           (B) The Origination role must be performed by either the Primary Finance Provider
               Entity or Affiliate Finance Provider Entity.
      (3) “Financing Submittal”
           (A) Means providing data, documentation, and certifications related to the Project,
               the Eligible Financing Agreement and the Eligible Commercial Financing
               Customer and submitting these data, documentation, and certifications to the
               Authority for enrollment in the Program.
           (B) The specific data points required at Financing Submittal are described in Section
               10092.8(b)(2).
      (4) “Servicing”
           (A) Means conducting a customer service operation to on-board all Eligible
               Financing Agreements into the servicer's servicing system, handling customer
               inquiries regarding Eligible Financing Agreements already under servicing,
               sending out regular financing billing statements, collecting and applying
               payments, handling requests for modifications, collections where necessary, and
               distributions to investors where applicable.
           (B) The Servicing role must be performed by either the Primary Finance Provider
               Entity or the Affiliate Finance Provider Entity.
      (5) “Monthly Reporting”
           (A) Means supplying the Authority with a regular report of required data related to
               financing applications, performance, and sale of financings as described in
               Section 10092.12.
           (B) The Monthly Reporting role must be performed by either the Primary Finance
               Provider Entity or Affiliate Finance Provider Entity.
      (6) “Loss Reserve Account Representative”
           (A) Means the Finance Provider Entity for whom the Loss Reserve Account(s) will
               be opened, and the sole entity that can file a claim in the event of a charge-off.
           (B) The Loss Reserve Account Representative role must be performed by either the
               Primary Finance Provider Entity or the Affiliate Finance Provider Entity.
      (7) “Marketing Representative”
           (A) Means the entity that is publicly listed on Program websites and marketing
               materials as a result of participation in the Program.
           (B) The Marketing Representative role must be performed by either the Primary
               Finance Provider Entity or the Affiliate Finance Provider Entity, or by an
               additional entity.
           (C) The Marketing Representative must sign the acknowledgements and
               certifications in Section 10092.2(c)(4), (5), and (7).

(c)   Application to Participate in the Program. A Primary Finance Provider Applicant must
      submit a complete enrollment application to the Authority signed by an individual
      authorized to legally bind the Primary Finance Provider Applicant and shall include the
      signatory’s name, title, and date. Where the Primary Finance Provider Applicant wishes to
      apply along with an Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant, the Affiliate Finance Provider
      Applicant must also submit an application signed by an individual authorized to legally
      bind the Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant and provide their name, title, and date. Both
      the Primary Finance Provider Applicant and the Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant must
      sign the acknowledgements, certifications, and representations of the Finance Provider
      Applicant, below. A complete enrollment application includes the following information,
      disclosures, acknowledgements, certifications, and representations in a format to be
      specified by the Authority:
(1) Information
     (A) For the Primary Finance Provider Applicant:
         (i) Name, address, and website URL of the Primary Finance Provider
                Applicant.
         (ii) Name, title, phone number, and e-mail address of the Program contact
                person for the Primary Finance Provider Applicant.
         (iii) The name(s) and e-mail address(es) of individual(s) who are authorized to
                provide and certify data and submit Eligible Financing Agreements for
                enrollment in the Program on behalf of the Primary Finance Provider
                Entity.
         (iv) Type of finance entity, e.g., insured depository institution, insured credit
                union, Community Development Financial Institution, or California
                Finance Lender, or other type.
         (v) Name(s) of any regulatory agency(ies) and any insuring agency(ies) to
                which the Finance Provider Applicant is accountable and license
                number(s), if applicable.
     (B) For the Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant, if applicable:
         (i) Name, address, and website URL of the Affiliate Finance Provider
                Applicant.
         (ii) Name, title, phone number, and e-mail address of the Program contact
                person for the Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant.
         (iii) Type of finance entity, e.g., insured depository institution, insured credit
                union, Community Development Financial Institution, or California
                Finance Lender, or other type.
         (iv) Name(s) of any regulatory agency(ies) and any insuring agency(ies) to
                which the Finance Provider Applicant is accountable and license
                number(s), if applicable.
     (C) For the Marketing Representative, if different than the Finance Provider
         Applicant:
         (i) Name, address, and website URL of the Marketing Representative.
         (ii) Name, title, phone number, and e-mail address of the Program contact
                person.
(2) Disclosures. The FPA must disclose the following:
     (A) If there are to be separate entities applying to be the Primary Finance Provider
         Entity and Affiliate Finance Provider Entity, which of the two entities will
         perform the Underwriting, Origination, Servicing, Monthly Reporting, and Loss
         Reserve Account Representative roles;
     (B) The name of the entity that will be the Marketing Representative;
     (C) The name of the entity funding the Projects that are to be enrolled in the
         Program;
     (D) The name of the finance agreement counterparty(ies) or the service agreement
         counterparty(ies) who will be named on the closing documentation provided to
         the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer;
     (E) The assignee(s) of repayment streams, if any; and
    (F) The FPA’s intent as to what it will do with the Enrolled Financing Agreements, if
         known, (e.g. hold, sell, transfer, participate, etc.) and the identity of a purchaser,
         if applicable.
(3) Proposed Products. To participate in the Program, the FPA must provide a description
    of proposed financial product(s), including:
    (A) A detailed description of the products the FPA is proposing to offer, including,
         but not limited to, the type of financing product and its relationship to the
         categories of Eligible Financing Agreements, collateral requirements (if any),
         minimum and maximum financed amounts, interest rates (including whether
         they are fixed or variable), terms, service or maintenance charges, fees,
         prepayment penalties, and a description of customer eligibility and underwriting
         criteria. These product offerings must be certified by at least one of the Finance
         Provider Applicants.
    (B) A description of the geographic area(s) in California where the financing
         product(s) will be available.
    (C) An explanation of how the Loss Reserve Contribution will be utilized to provide
         benefits to Eligible Commercial Financing Customers compared to the FPA’s
         typical product offerings in one or more of the following ways:
         (i) Broadened approval criteria;
         (ii) Longer repayment terms;
         (iii)Larger amounts available to finance;
         (iv)Better rates; and/or
         (v) Other advantageous terms.
(4) Acknowledgements of the Finance Provider Applicant and the Marketing
    Representative. The application must include the FPA’s acknowledgements contained
    within this Section, signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the FPA. If the
    FPA will not be filling the Marketing Representative role, the application must
    additionally include the Marketing Representative’s acknowledgements below, signed
    by an individual authorized to legally bind the Marketing Representative.
    (A) The Authority has made no representations, promises, or guarantees pertaining to
         the volume, quantity, or quality of financing agreements issued pursuant to the
         Program.
    (B) It, its representatives, and agents are not hired by the Authority or any of the
         participating IOUs, and must not represent themselves as such, or claim
         association or affiliation with the Authority or any of the participating IOUs in
         any capacity.
(5) Certifications of the Finance Provider Applicant and Marketing Representative. The
    application must include the FPA’s certifications of this Section, signed by an
    individual authorized to legally bind the FPA. The FPA certifies that once it is
    enrolled in the Program as a Finance Provider Entity it will follow Section
    10092.2(c)(5)(D)-(G) below. If the FPA will not be filling the Marketing
    Representative role, the application must additionally include the Marketing
    Representative’s certifications of this Section, except for Section 10092.2(c)(5)(D),
    signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the Marketing Representative.
    (A) It is not subject to a cease and desist order or other regulatory sanction from the
         appropriate federal or state regulatory body that would impair its ability to
         participate in the Program.
    (B) The individual signing the application is authorized to legally bind the Finance
         Provider Applicant, and must include the signatory’s printed name, title, and
         date.
    (C) All Finance Provider Applicants that are not Financial Institutions must comply
         with the additional requirements specified in Section 10092.3.
    (D) The regulations within this Article constitute a lender services agreement
         between the FPE and the Authority.
    (E) It must follow the Program regulations as set forth in this Article.
    (F) It must permit an audit by the Authority of any of its records relating to Enrolled
         Financing Agreements during normal business hours on its premises, and must
         supply any other information concerning Enrolled Financing Agreements as may
         be requested by the Authority. Additionally, the Finance Provider Entity must
         permit an audit of its records relating to how it is representing the Program to the
         public, including, but not limited to, web and print collateral, marketing scripts,
         and marketing materials.
    (G) The Authority and the State of California have no liability to the Finance
         Provider Entity under the Program except from funds deposited in the Loss
         Reserve Account(s) for the Finance Provider Entity.
(6) In addition to the certifications listed in Section 10092.2(c)(5), the application must
    include the following certifications of the Primary Finance Provider Applicant. These
    certifications must be signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the FPA, that
    upon enrollment in the Program as Finance Provider Entity and for all forthcoming
    Eligible Finance Agreements submitted for enrollment in the Program, the FPA
    agrees that:
    (A) It will provide the documentation required in Section 10092.8(b)(1), the data
         required in Section 10092.8(b)(2), and will secure the certifications described in
         Section 10092.8(b)(3);
    (B) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer will be provided with a Bill
         Impact Estimate;
    (C) The Eligible Financing Agreement will comply with all Program regulations;
    (D) If the entirety of the Claim-Eligible Financed Amount has not yet been funded at
          the time of submittal, that it will be funded within 30 calendar days of submittal,
          unless it is funding for Projects installed at one or more Multifamily Properties,
          in which case it must be funded within 12 months of submittal; and
    (E) If after submittal, the Primary Finance Provider Entity determines it will not
          fund the entirety of the Claim-Eligible Financed Amount, that it will notify the
          Authority within 10 business days of this determination.
(7) Representations of the Finance Provider Applicant and Marketing Representative.
    The application must include the FPA’s representation, warranty, and covenant
    contained in this Section, signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the FPA.
    If the FPA will not be filling the Marketing Representative role, the application must
    additionally include the Marketing Representative’s representation, warranty, and
          covenant below, signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the Marketing
          Representative. Upon enrollment in the Program as an FPE:
          (A) It must retain all records relating to each Enrolled Financing Agreement for the
               term of financing.
          (B) It is solely responsible for identifying and making all disclosures and providing
               periodic reports to its Eligible Commercial Financing Customer(s) as required
               under applicable finance laws.
          (C) It must comply with all applicable finance laws, possess and maintain all
               required state and federal licenses, and remain in good standing with all
               governmental authorities having jurisdiction over its business.
          (D) It indemnifies, defends, and holds harmless the Authority, each of the IOUs, their
               affiliates, and each of its respective officers, directors, employees, agents,
               and representatives (each of which is an express beneficiary of this indemnity)
               from and against any and all losses arising in connection with any claim:
               (i) Resulting from the negligent or unlawful acts or omissions, or willful or
                      tortious conduct including, but not limited to, any failure of the Finance
                      Provider Entity, or its agents, to comply with applicable finance laws in
                      connection with Enrolled Financing Agreements;
               (ii) Resulting from any error or omission by the Finance Provider Entity or
                      any of its agents in the calculation or presentation of principal repayments
                      or interest with respect to an Enrolled Financing Agreement, fees and
                      charges, the receipt and processing of payments received from Eligible
                      Commercial Financing Customers or any collection or enforcement action;
               (iii) Alleging any breach of a representation, warranty, or covenant by that
                      Finance Provider Entity;
               (iv) Alleging any misrepresentation by the Finance Provider Entity or its
                      agents with respect to the energy impacts to be achieved in connection
                      with an Enrolled Financing Agreement, or any failure or deficiency in the
                      products, materials, or work supplied to a Eligible Commercial Financing
                      Customer in connection with an Enrolled Financing Agreement; and/or
               (v) Arising from the Finance Provider Entity’s breach or alleged breach of the
                      regulations within this Article and/or its confidentiality or privacy
                      obligations under the regulations within this Article or with respect to the
                      Program.
          (E) It agrees that the IOUs are not responsible for, and will have no liability for:
               (i) The energy improvements funded through the Enrolled Financing
                      Agreement(s) supported through the Loss Reserve Account(s);
               (ii) The assessment of potential benefits and costs associated with those
                      improvements;
               (iii) The qualification of the Finance Provider Entity;
               (iv) The Finance Provider Entity’s marketing and/or lending policies and
                      practices; or
               (v) The Authority’s educational and outreach activities.

(d)   Application Process
      (1) Upon receipt of a completed application, the Authority will, within 15 business days,
          review and determine whether additional information is required, or whether the
          application is sufficient to permit the Finance Provider Applicant to be a Finance
          Provider Entity.
      (2) The Authority’s decision regarding enrollment will be final.
      (3) The Authority will notify the Finance Provider Applicant of its decision and provide a
          Program-assigned identifier if enrolled as a Finance Provider Entity.

(e)   Changes to Product Terms
      (1) If, after being approved to participate in the Program, an FPE wishes to make
          changes to products offered that will affect the benefits to Eligible Commercial
          Financing Customers as described in Section 10092.2(c)(3) and Section 10092.5), the
          changes must be approved by the Authority.

(f)   Finance Provider Entity Withdrawal and Termination
      (1) A Finance Provider Entity may withdraw from the Program after giving written
          notice, signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the FPE to the Authority.
          That notice must specify either:
          (A) That the Finance Provider Entity waives any further interest in the Loss Reserve
               Account(s) and the reason for the Finance Provider Entity’s withdrawal from the
               Program (including that all Enrolled Financing Agreements covered by the Loss
               Reserve Account(s) have been repaid or sold to a different Finance Provider
               Entity’s portfolio); or,
          (B) That the Finance Provider Entity will not enroll any further Eligible Financing
               Agreements under the Program but that the Loss Reserve Account(s) will
               continue in existence to secure all Enrolled Financing Agreements that were
               enrolled prior to that notice, and the reason for the Finance Provider Entity’s
               withdrawal from the Program.
      (2) For any notice received pursuant to Section 10092.2(f)(1)(A), the remaining balance
          in the Finance Provider Entity’s Loss Reserve Account(s) will be distributed to the
          appropriate Program Holding Account(s).
      (3) The Executive Director may terminate participation of a Finance Provider Entity in
          the Program, by notice in writing, upon the occurrence of any of the following:
          (A) Entry of a cease and desist order, regulatory sanction, or any other action against
               the Finance Provider Entity by a regulatory agency or court with jurisdiction
               over the Finance Provider Entity;
          (B) Failure of the Finance Provider Entity to abide by applicable finance law or the
               regulations within this Article;
          (C) Failure of the Finance Provider Entity to service or enroll any Eligible Financing
               Agreements under the Program, as applicable, for a period of one year;
          (D) Failure of the Finance Provider Entity to report to the Authority pursuant to
               Section 10092.12 for 60 calendar days; or
          (E) Providing false or misleading information regarding the Finance Provider Entity,
               or an Enrolled Financing Agreement, to the Authority, or failure to provide the
          Authority with notice of material changes in submitted information regarding the
          Finance Provider Entity.
(4) In the event of a termination, the Finance Provider Entity must not enroll any further
    Eligible Financing Agreements, but all previously Enrolled Financing Agreements
    will continue to be covered by the Loss Reserve Account(s) until the entity is paid,
    claims are filed, or the Finance Provider Entity withdraws from the Program pursuant
    to Section 10092.2(f)(1)(A).
(5) A terminated Finance Provider Entity must continue to report on Enrolled Financing
    Agreements pursuant to Section 10092.12.
(6) If a terminated Finance Provider Entity fails to report to the Authority pursuant to
    Section 10092.12 for 60 calendar days, the remaining balance in the Finance Provider
    Entity’s Loss Reserve Account(s) may be distributed to the appropriate Program
    Holding Account(s).

          Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
      Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                             Public Resources Code
Section 10092.3        Additional Requirements for Entities that are not Financial Institutions

In addition to the requirements set forth in Section 10092.2(c), to be approved as a Finance
Provider Entity, Finance Provider Applicants who are not Financial Institutions as defined in the
regulations in this Article must meet the requirements described in this Section in a format to be
specified by the Authority. All representations, warranties, and covenants in this Section must be
signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the Finance Provider Applicant.

(a)      Net Worth: The Finance Provider Applicant must demonstrate to the Authority that it has
         a net worth of no less than $1 million.

(b)      Quality Control: The Finance Provider Applicant must demonstrate to the Authority that it
         maintains quality control and management systems to evaluate and monitor the overall
         quality of its financing-related activities, including, where applicable, underwriting
         reviews and consumer complaint resolution processes.

(c)      Underwriting Qualifications: If the Finance Provider Applicant will perform the
         Underwriting role for the Program, it must provide in writing the following to the
         Authority:
         (1) Demonstrated experience with underwriting commercial financing;
         (2) Demonstrated experience with equipment financing and the coordination of that
             financing with contractors and businesses;
         (3) Description of its underwriting process; and
         (4) Demonstrated qualifications of the Finance Provider Applicant and key positions and
             associated job duties with regard to underwriting.

(d)      Origination Qualifications: If the Finance Provider Applicant will perform the Origination
         role for the Program, it must provide the following to the Authority:
         (1) Proof of at least $20 million in committed capital for general financing activities;
         (2) Demonstrated ability, in writing, to originate commercial financing in accordance
              with all applicable finance laws, including related expertise and experience, trained
              and qualified personnel, and suitable systems, processes, and facilities to support the
              business;
         (3) Demonstrated experience, in writing, with equipment financing and the coordination
              of that financing with contractors and businesses;
         (4) Proof of at least 20 transactions originated or at least $20 million in originated
              transactions; and
         (5) Sample transaction documentation.

(e)      Servicing Qualifications: If the Finance Provider Applicant will perform the Servicer role
         under the Program, it must provide the following to the Authority:
         (1) Demonstrated capacity, in writing, for, and experience with, servicing the type of
             product(s) the Finance Provider Applicant will be providing and general customer
             service; and
      (2) A description of key positions and associated job duties, software, and systems used
           by the Finance Provider Applicant in performing the servicing of Enrolled Financing
           Agreements.
(f)   Insurance: The Finance Provider Applicant must maintain and provide evidence of the
      following insurance coverage:
      (1) General liability with limits of not less than $1 million per occurrence for bodily
           injury and property damage liability combined. The policy must include coverage for
           liabilities arising out of premises, operations, independent contractors, products,
           completed operations, personal and advertising injury, and liability assumed under an
           insured contract. This insurance must apply separately to each insured against whom
           a claim is made or suit is brought subject to the Finance Provider Applicant’s limit of
           liability. The policy must include the State of California, its officers, agents,
           employees, and servants as additional insureds, but only insofar as the operations
           under the regulations within this Article are concerned.
      (2) Statutory workers’ compensation and employer’s liability coverage for all its
           employees who will be engaged in the Program, including special coverage
           extensions where applicable. Employer’s liability limits of $1 million are required.
           (3) All insurance coverage must be in effect for the complete term during which the
           Finance Provider Applicant is enrolled as a Finance Provider Entity. If the insurance
           coverage expires during this term, a new certificate must be received by the Authority
           at least 10 business days prior to the expiration of the insurance. The new insurance
           coverage must meet the terms required in this Section.
      (4) The Finance Provider Entity is responsible for ensuring that insurance coverage will
           not be cancelled without 30 days’ prior written notice to the Authority.
      (5) The Finance Provider Entity is responsible for any deductible or self-insured
           retention contained within the insurance policy.
      (6) Once enrolled, the Finance Provider Entity has the obligation to keep in effect at all
           times the insurance coverage specified in the regulations within this Article. If this
           obligation is not met, the Authority may, in addition to any other remedies it may
           have, terminate the Finance Provider Entity's participation in the Program, subject to
           the provisions set forth in the regulations in this Article.
      (7) Any insurance meeting the requirements of the regulations within this Article must be
           primary, and not excess, to any other insurance carried by the Authority.

(g)   Representations of Finance Provider Applicants and Marketing Representatives. The
      application must include the FPA’s representation, warranty, and covenant contained in
      this Section, signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the FPA. If the FPA will
      not be filling the Marketing Representative role, the application must additionally include
      the Marketing Representative’s representation, warranty, and covenant below. These
      representations, warranties, and covenants are not limited to matters of which the Finance
      Provider Applicant and/or Marketing Representative had knowledge. Matters that are of
      public record will be deemed to be known by the Finance Provider Applicant and
      Marketing Representative.
      (1) The Finance Provider Applicant is duly organized and validly existing under the laws
           of the state of its organization and California with due power and authority to own its
          properties and to conduct its business as those properties are currently owned and that
          business is presently conducted, and has had at all relevant times and continues to
          have the power, authority, and legal right to participate in this Program.
      (2) The Finance Provider Applicant is duly qualified to do business and has obtained all
          necessary licenses and approvals in all jurisdictions in which the ownership or lease
          of property or the conduct of its business will require those qualifications.
      (3) The Finance Provider Applicant has the power and authority to execute and to carry
          out the terms of the Program.
      (4) There are no proceedings or investigations pending or threatened, before any court,
          regulatory body, administrative agency or other governmental instrumentality having
          jurisdiction over the Finance Provider Applicant or its properties:
          (A) Asserting the invalidity of the regulations within this Article;
          (B) Seeking to prevent the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by
               the regulations within this Article; or
          (C) Seeking any determination or ruling that might materially and/or adversely affect
               the performance by the Finance Provider Applicant of its obligations under the
               regulations within this Article.

(h)   The Finance Provider Applicant must make the following representations, warranties, and
      covenants to the Authority, signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the FPA.
      These representations, warranties, and covenants are not limited to matters of which the
      Finance Provider Applicant had knowledge. Matters that are of public record will be
      deemed to be known by the Finance Provider Applicant.
      (1) The Finance Provider Applicant has, and must maintain throughout its enrollment in
          the Program as an FPE, trained and qualified employees and suitable facilities and
          operating systems for the performance of the Underwriting, Origination, and
          Servicing functions, as applicable, required to administer the Program.
      (2) For a Finance Provider Applicant planning to fill the Servicing role, the Finance
          Provider Applicant has established, and must maintain throughout its enrollment in
          the Program as an FPE, a written disaster recovery plan that covers the restoration of
          the facilities, backup, and recovery of information in electronic data processing
          systems. Alternate processing facilities and systems are required to ensure continuous
          operations. The Finance Provider Entity must allow the Authority, at no additional
          cost to the Authority, to inspect its disaster recovery plan and facilities.
      (3) For a Finance Provider Applicant planning to fill the Origination role, the Finance
          Provider Applicant has established, and must maintain throughout its enrollment in
          the Program as an FPE, adequate internal audit and management control systems to
          guard against dishonest, fraudulent, or negligent acts by employees and contractors
          involved in the origination process.

                Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
            Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                   Public Resources Code
Section 10092.4       Contractor and Project Developer Participation

(a)     Description of Contractor and Project Developer Program Roles
        (1) “Participating Contractor” is a contractor or contractor company who installs the
            EEMs and/or Non-EEMs on a Project. For the purpose of the regulations within this
            Article, a contractor has the same definition as defined in Section 7026 of the
            Business and Professions Code. The Participating Contractor provides data pursuant
            to Section 10092.8(b)(2) and certifications for Projects pursuant to Section
            10092.8(b)(3)(A).
        (2) “Participating Project Developer” is an individual or entity who develops one or more
            Scope(s) of Work for the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer and facilitates
            data exchange between the Authority, the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer,
            the Finance Provider Entity, and/or the Participating Contractor. The
            Participating Project Developer does not perform installations on a Project. The
            Participating Project Developer provides data pursuant to Section 10092.8(b), and
            certifications for Projects pursuant to Section 10092.8(b)(3)(B). A Participating
            Project Developer with the requisite CSLB license(s) may also apply to be a
            Participating Contractor in the Program.
        (3) One or more Participating Contractors are required to complete a Project, except for
            Projects that are completely self-installed. A Participating Project Developer is
            required to certify a Project if the Project includes a Self-Installer and the Project is
            not financed with a Microloan. Only one Participating Project Developer may be
            active on a Project.

(b)      Eligibility Requirements for Program Participation
        (1) Eligible Contractor Requirements. To participate in the Program as a Participating
              Contractor, an Eligible Contractor must:
              (A) Provide installation service of at least one measure on the EEM List;
              (B) Complete a training made available by the Authority;
              (C) Submit an application to the Authority pursuant to Section 10092.4(c)(1);
              (D) Have no outstanding judgments or liens;
              (E) Have no disciplinary action taken by the CSLB against its license within the past
                   24 months;
               (F) Hold a CSLB license(s) relevant to the work performed under the Program; and
               (G) Be covered by general liability insurance of at least $1 million per occurrence.
         (2) Project Developer Eligibility Requirements. To be eligible to participate in the
             Program as a Participating Project Developer, an Eligible Project Developer must:
              (A) Complete a training made available by the Authority;
              (B) Submit an application to the Authority pursuant to Section 10092.4(c)(2);
              (C) Have no outstanding judgments or liens;
              (D) Be covered by general liability insurance of at least $1 million per occurrence;
                   and
              (E) Demonstrate to the Authority that it has completed at least 10 projects in a
                   project developer role. Any organization with a verifiable contract as an IOU,
               REN, or CCA demand-side energy management program implementer at the
               time of their application to the Program is exempt from this requirement.

(c)   Application to Participate in the Program
      (1) To participate in the Program, the Eligible Contractor must submit an application in a
           format approved by the Authority that:
           (A) Includes the data points specified in Section 10092.4(c)(3);
           (B) Includes the acknowledgements specified in Section 10092.4(c)(5) and
               certifications specified in Section 10092.4(c)(7);
           (C) Includes proof of current insurance coverage as described in Section
               10092.4(b)(1)(H); and
           (D) Is signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the Eligible Contractor.
      (2) To participate in the Program, the Eligible Project Developer must submit an
           application in a format approved by the Authority that:
           (A) Includes the data points specified in Section 10092.4(c)(4);
           (B) Includes the acknowledgements specified in Section 10092.4(c)(6) and
               certifications specified in Section 10092.4(c)(7) and (8);
           (C) Includes proof of current insurance coverage as described in Section
               10092.4(b)(2)(D);
           (D) Demonstrates that it has completed at least 10 projects in a project developer role
               or, if the Eligible Project Developer is implementing an IOU, REN, or CCA
               program as described in Section 10092.4(b)(2)(E), the Eligible Project
               Developer must provide the name of the IOU, REN, or CCA, the name of the
               demand-side energy management program, and the term of its implementer
               contract; and
           (E) Is signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the Eligible Project
               Developer.
      (3) Data points supplied by the Eligible Contractor
           (A) The Eligible Contractor’s business name, address, and, if applicable, website
               URL;
           (B) Name, title, business address, business phone number, and e-mail address of the
               Eligible Contractor’s Program contact person;
           (C) Name, phone number, and e-mail address the Eligible Contractor will make
               publicly available for sales and marketing purposes;
           (D) CSLB license number(s) and type(s) held relevant to the work performed under
               the Program;
           (E) The name(s) and e-mail address(es) of individual(s) who are authorized to
               provide data to the Authority;
           (F) The name(s) and e-mail address(es) of individual(s) who are authorized to certify
               and submit data to the Authority;
           (G) A description of the types of services offered by the Eligible Contractor as part
               of the Program;
           (H) Any languages, in addition to English, in which the Eligible Contractor can
               communicate with customers;
           (I) The geographic area(s) serviced by the Eligible Contractor;
     (J) List of any IOU, REN, or CCA trade professional programs in which the Eligible
          Contractor is currently participating; and
     (K) The date the Eligible Contractor completed the mandatory training.
(4) Data points supplied by the Eligible Project Developer
     (A) The project developer organization's name, address, and, if applicable, website
          URL;
     (B) Name, title, business address, business phone number, and e-mail address of the
          project developer's Program contact person;
     (C) Name, phone number, and e-mail address the Eligible Project Developer will
          make publicly available for sales and marketing purposes;
     (D) The name(s) and e-mail address(es) of individual(s) who are authorized to
          provide data to the Authority;
     (E) The name(s) and e-mail address(es) of individual(s) who are authorized to certify
          and submit data to the Authority;
     (F) A description of the types of services offered by the Eligible Project Developer
          as part of the Program;
     (G) Any languages, in addition to English, in which the Eligible Project Developer
          can communicate with customers;
     (H) The geographic area(s) serviced by the Eligible Project Developer;
     (I) List of any IOU, REN, or CCA demand-side energy management programs in
          which the Eligible Project Developer is currently participating; and
     (J) The date the Eligible Project Developer completed the mandatory training.
(5) Acknowledgements of the Eligible Contractor. The application must include the
     Eligible Contractor’s acknowledgement, signed by an individual authorized to legally
     bind the Eligible Contractor, that:
     (A) Its representatives and agents are not employees of the Authority or any of the
          participating IOUs, and must not represent themselves as such;
     (B) The Authority and the State of California will have no liability to the Eligible
          Contractor under the Program; and
     (C) The IOUs are not responsible for, and will have no liability for:
          (i) The energy improvements funded through the Enrolled Financing
                 Agreements supported through the Loss Reserve Accounts;
          (ii) The assessment of potential benefits and costs associated with those
                improvements;
          (iii) The selection of Eligible Contractors;
          (iv) The Eligible Contractor’s marketing policies and practices; and
          (v) The Authority’s educational and outreach activities.
(6) Acknowledgements of the Eligible Project Developer. The application must include
     the Eligible Project Developer’s acknowledgement, signed by an individual
     authorized to legally bind the Eligible Project Developer, that:
     (A) Its representatives and agents are not employees of the Authority or any of the
          participating IOUs, and must not represent themselves as such;
     (B) The Authority and the State of California will have no liability to the Eligible
          Project Developer under the Program; and
     (C) The IOUs are not responsible for, and will have no liability for:
         (i)    The energy improvements funded through the Enrolled Financing
                Agreements supported by the Loss Reserve Accounts;
         (ii) The assessment of potential benefits and costs associated with those
                improvements;
         (iii) The selection of Eligible Project Developers;
         (iv) The Eligible Project Developer’s marketing policies and practices; and
         (v) The Authority’s educational and outreach activities.
(7) Certifications of the Eligible Contractor and Eligible Project Developer. The
    application must include the Eligible Contractor or Eligible Project Developer’s
    representation, warranty, and covenant, signed by an individual authorized to legally
    bind the applicant, that as a Participating Contractor or Participating Project
    Developer the entity:
    (A) Is responsible for identifying and making all disclosures required under
         applicable finance laws;
    (B) Must comply with all applicable laws and tariffs, possess and maintain all
         required state licenses, and remain in good standing with all governmental
         authorities having jurisdiction over its business;
    (C) Must follow Program rules as set forth in the regulations within this Article
         including, but not limited to, the Project requirements set forth in Section
         10092.7;
    (D) Must hold and maintain a commercial general liability insurance policy or
         policies of not less than $1 million per occurrence throughout its participation in
         the Program. The Eligible Contractor and Eligible Project Developer must
         submit proof of that insurance in its application to the Authority;
    (E) Must permit an audit, by the Authority, of any of its records relating to the
         Projects financed by Enrolled Financing Agreements during normal business
         hours on its premises, and must supply any other information relating to those
         projects as requested by the Authority;
    (F) Indemnifies and holds the Authority harmless from any and all damages
         resulting from its representations, energy impacts estimates, sales, warranties,
         maintenance, any installed measure, product, and/or system, and service for all
         installed measures, products, and/or systems;
    (G) Must not make false or misleading claims about any part of the Program or its
         performance, including energy performance, or engage in fraudulent or deceitful
         conduct in the sale or installation of measures;
    (H) Has no outstanding judgments and/or liens; and
    (I) Agrees that its employees and representatives are solely responsible for all
         representations made to Eligible Commercial Financing Customers regarding the
         Program or work performed for an Eligible Commercial Financing Customer
         under the Program, and are responsible for all energy impact estimates, sales,
         warranties, maintenance, and service for all products and systems installed.
(8) Additional Certifications of the Eligible Project Developer. In addition to the
    certifications in Section 10092.4(c)(7), the application must include certifications of
    the Eligible Project Developer, signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the
    Eligible Project Developer, that for all forthcoming Projects that will be submitted for
          enrollment in the Program as a Participating Project Developer: (A) Any developer
          services costs were for services related to the Project;
          (B) It complied with all Program regulations, rules, and requirements;
          (C) The Project complied with Program requirements; and
          (D) Any EEMs reported as self-installed were installed and comply with Program
               requirements.
      (9) Upon receipt of a completed application, the Authority will, within 10 business days,
          review and determine whether additional information is required or whether the
          application meets the above requirements in a manner sufficient to permit the
          applicant to be a Participating Contractor or Participating Project Developer, or both.
          The Authority’s decision regarding enrollment will be final. The Authority will notify
          the Eligible Contractor or Eligible Project Developer of its decision.

(d)    Program Participation
       (1) The Authority will publish the names of Participating Contractors and Participating
              Project Developers on its website(s). If a Participating Contractor or Participating
              Project Developer fails to enroll a project within a one-year period, the Authority
              may remove them from its website.
      (2) Participating Contractors must maintain a license free of active discipline and
             notify the Authority within 10 business days if disciplinary action has been taken
             against its license.
      (3) Participating Contractors and Participating Project Developers must maintain
             general liability insurance of at least $1 million per occurrence throughout its
             enrollment with the Program.
      (4) On an annual basis, the Authority may request updated proof of insurance, pursuant
             to Section 10092.4(c)(7)(D).
      (5) Participating Contractors and Participating Project Developers must maintain, for a
             period of no less than 18 months following the Scope of Work Completion Date, all
             documentation they produced or relied upon in completing the Project, including,
             but not limited to, invoices, scope(s) of work, permitting documentation, and
             records conveying location of installed measures within each Eligible Property.
           (A) If documents are requested by the Authority as part of a compliance verification
                pursuant to Section 10092.7(d), the Participating Contractor and/or Participating
                Project Developer must supply the documentation.

(e)    Removal from the Program
      (1)   In the event of a misrepresentation or failure to comply with the requirements set
            forth in the regulations within this Article on the part of a Participating Contractor
            or Participating Project Developer, or if the Participating Contractor or Project
            Developer fails to enroll a project with the Program within a three-year period, the
            Executive Director may remove the Participating Contractor or Participating
            Project Developer from the Program. In addition, if a Participating Project
            Developer that qualified for the Program as an IOU, REN, or CCA demand-side
            energy management program implementer, as described in Section
            10092.4(b)(2)(E), has an IOU, REN, or CCA contract terminated due to
              misconduct, the Executive Director may remove the Participating Project
              Developer from the Program. Upon the removal of a Participating Contractor or
              Participating Project Developer, the Executive Director will remove the contractor
              or project developer from the Authority's website and other promotional materials.
              The Authority may notify other governmental agencies and/or the IOUs.
        (2)   Upon removal from the Program, the contractor or project developer must cease
              utilizing any Program or associated brand logos or promotional materials and must
              not represent themselves as affiliated with the Program.
        (3)   The Executive Director will provide written notice of the removal, the basis for
              removal, and the right to appeal in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
              Section.
            (A) Any Participating Contractor or Participating Project Developer receiving a
                notice of removal has the right to submit information, in writing, to the Authority
                explaining the misrepresentation or failure to comply with Program requirements
                and asking that the Executive Director reconsider the removal. The Authority
                must receive that information within 15 business days of the date of the notice of
                removal.
            (B) The Executive Director will have 10 business days to respond to any information
                submitted pursuant to Section 10092.4(e)(3)(A), either reversing or affirming the
                removal. The Executive Director must provide written notice of the decision and
                the right to appeal the decision to the Authority pursuant to Section
                10092.4(e)(3)(C).
            (C) Within 15 business days of the date of the notice from the Executive Director
                pursuant to Section 10092.4(e)(3)(B), the Participating Contractor or
                Participating Project Developer will have the right to seek an appeal to the
                Authority. The appeal must be in writing and must set forth the information the
                Participating Contractor or Participating Project Developer believes warrants a
                reversal of the Executive Director’s decision. The Authority must consider the
                appeal at the first regularly scheduled board meeting occurring at least 20
                business days after the appeal is received.

(f)      Withdrawal of Participating Project Developer and Participating Contractor
        (1) A Participating Project Developer or a Participating Contractor may withdraw from
              the Program after giving written notice to the Authority.

                  Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
              Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                     Public Resources Code

Section 10092.5      Eligible Financial Products

(a)     Disclosure. For all financial products, the Finance Provider Entity must disclose to the
        Eligible Commercial Financing Customer either:
        (1) An annual percentage rate (APR) (inclusive of any fees) as well as any advance
            payments that the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer is required to pay; or
        (2) The total cost of the Project for the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer
            comprised of monthly payments multiplied by the number of months in the
            agreement plus any fees [(monthly payments * number of months in the agreement) +
            fees]. Monthly payments must be inclusive of, but not limited to, equipment and
            installation repayment, and any charges for financing, services, maintenance, or
            oversight of equipment.
        (3) For the purposes of this Section, Savings-Based Payment Agreements will satisfy the
            requirements set forth in Section 10092.5(a)(2) with the FPE’s provision of a good-
            faith estimate of the total cost of the project, based on industry-accepted methods and
            assumptions used to estimate energy savings, due to the fact that monthly payments
            will be variable under these agreements.

(b)     Other Provisions. In addition to meeting the specific definitions of either an Eligible
        Lease or Eligible Equipment Financing Agreement, Eligible Loan, Eligible Service
        Agreement, or Eligible Savings-Based Payment Agreement the following provisions
        apply to Eligible Financing Agreements:
        (1) Interest rates, if applicable, may be fixed or variable.
        (2) Refinancing agreements are acceptable only if both the original and refinancing
            agreements are for the same Project and the Eligible Financing Agreement is
            submitted for enrollment in the Program within 90 calendar days of the Scope of Work
            Completion Date pursuant to Section 10092.8(a)(2). For the purposes of this Section,
            conversion from a construction loan to a permanent loan is not refinancing.
        (3) The agreement must not be a revolving line of credit.
        (4) Fees must be reasonable and in accordance with industry standards.
        (5) FPEs must take a security interest in agreements with Total Financed Amounts greater
            than $50,000.
        (6) The Claim-Eligible Financed Amount of the Enrolled Financing Agreement must not
            be enrolled in a substantially similar program.
        (7) In addition to the general requirements stated above, the terms and characteristics of
            the Eligible Financing Agreement must be consistent with the product(s) described by
            the FPE in its application to participate in the Program pursuant to Section
            10092.2(c)(3) and approved by the Authority.


                  Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
           Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040, Public
                                        Resources Code

Section 10092.6       Eligible Financing Customers

(a)      If the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer is accessing a Total Financed Amount of
         less than or equal to $10,000, the Finance Provider Entity performing the Underwriting
         role described in Section 10092.2(b)(1) must conduct a credit check of the Eligible
         Commercial Financing Customer utilizing a standard industry credit scoring service.
         Alternatively, the FPE may use 12 months of the Eligible Commercial Financing
      Customer's utility bill payment history from one of the IOUs to satisfy this requirement.

(b)   If the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer is accessing a Total Financed Amount of
      greater than $10,000 and less than or equal to $350,000, the following requirements
      apply:
      (1) The Finance Provider Entity performing the Underwriting role described in Section
           10092. 2(b)(1) must conduct a credit check of the Eligible Commercial Financing
           Customer utilizing a standard industry credit scoring service. Alternatively, the FPE
           may use 12 months of the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer's utility bill
           payment history from one of the IOUs to satisfy this requirement.
      (2) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer must not have filed for bankruptcy
           within the last five years or have any outstanding judgments or liens.
      (3) Eligible Commercial Financing Customer must meet any of the following criteria:
           (A) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer shows a positive operating profit
                utilizing either EBIT or EBITDA, or positive taxable income for the last two
                years;
           (B) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer has been in business at least five
                years; or
           (C) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer provides a personal guarantee.

(c)   If the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer is accessing a Total Financed Amount of
      greater than $350,000, all of the following requirements apply:
      (1) The Finance Provider Entity performing the Underwriting role described in Section
           10092. 2(b)(1) must conduct a credit check of the Eligible Commercial Financing
           Customer utilizing a standard industry credit scoring service. Alternatively, the FPE
           may use 12 months of the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer's utility bill
           payment history from one of the IOUs to satisfy this requirement;
      (2) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer must not have filed for bankruptcy
           within the last five years or have any outstanding judgments or liens;
      (3) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer must show a positive operating profit
           utilizing either EBIT or EBITDA, or positive taxable income for at least two out of
           the last five years unless the financing customer is an Affordable Multifamily
           Customer; and
      (4) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer’s debt service coverage ratio must be
           greater than 1.10 for at least two out of the last five years.

(d)   In addition to the requirements listed in this section, if the financing customer is an
      Affordable Multifamily Customer the FPE must review the mortgage on the Multifamily
      Property to determine if the payments are in arrears.

                Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
            Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                   Public Resources Code
Section 10092.7      Project Eligibility

(a)     General Eligibility. Any Project receiving financing through the terms of the Program
        must comply with the following eligibility requirements:
        (1) Each Participating Contractor must be enrolled in the Program prior to that
            Participating Contractor’s Scope of Work Completion Date;
        (2) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer must be provided with a Bill Impact
            Estimate (BIE) by the Participating Contractor, Participating Project Developer, or
            the Primary Finance Provider Entity;
        (3) The Project must have at least one EEM meeting the requirements described in
            Section 10092.7(b);
        (4) The cost for non-lighting measures installed utilizing the EEM List Method,
            described in Section 10092.7(b)(1), must not exceed $350,000. The limit of $350,000
            does not apply to Projects installed at one or more Multifamily Properties;
        (5) Each Participating Contractor must have the proper license(s) relevant to perform its
            Scope of Work;
        (6) The Project must comply with all applicable local, state, and federal laws, rules,
            regulations, and ordinances, including, but not limited to, Title 24 of the California
            Code of Regulations;
        (7) All permits and approvals required to install each Scope of Work must have been
            approved or must be in the process of being approved; and
        (8) The Eligible Financing Agreement may not be for:
            (A) The purchase of a building; or
            (B) New construction of a building except for reconstruction of an existing building
                 that was destroyed, in whole or in part, due to a natural disaster.

(b)     Measure Eligibility. There are three methods by which a measure may qualify as an
        Eligible Energy Measure for Program purposes. Each EEM must satisfy at least one of the
        following methods:
        (1) EEM List Method - The measure meets the criteria the Authority has specified on the
             EEM List as described in Section 10092.14.
             (A) Any measure that qualifies for an IOU, REN, or CCA demand-side energy
                  management program is eligible for qualification through the EEM List Method.
        (2) IOU Custom Measure Method - The measure has been approved for installation as
             part of an IOU Custom program with an IOU Custom approval date within the last 24
             months.
        (3) Professionally Certified Measure Method - An Energy Professional certifies that
             installation of the measure will save energy, will result in energy cost savings
             compared to existing conditions, or will reduce greenhouse gas emissions compared
             to existing conditions. EEMs qualifying via this method must meet the following
             requirements:
             (A) Each Energy Efficiency measure must be projected to save energy;
             (B) Each Demand Response measure must be capable of reducing demand on the
                  electric grid or gas pipeline during peak periods;
          (C) Each Distributed Generation measure must produce clean energy with reduced
              greenhouse gas emissions compared to existing conditions;
          (D) Each Battery Storage measure must have the capability to reduce greenhouse gas
              emissions, to allow for greater grid stability as part of a virtual power plant,
              and/or to mitigate customer costs; and
          (E) Hydrogen production must occur through electrolysis and must use renewable
              energy sources.

(c)   Self-Installers
      (1) An Eligible Commercial Financing Customer may install or have installed without a
          Participating Contractor:
           (A) Eligible Energy Measures which have been identified on the EEM List as
               eligible for self-installation; and
           (B) Non-EEMs.
      (2) A Project Developer must be active on any Project with a Self-Installer unless the
          Eligible Financing Agreement is a Microloan. On Projects with a Self-Installer where
          the Total Financed Amount is greater than $10,000, the Project Developer must
          provide the relevant data points listed in Section 10092.8(b)(2).

(d)   Quality Assurance/Quality Control
      (1) In order to verify that Scopes of Work were installed in accordance with the
          regulations within this Article, within one year of the Enrollment Date of an Eligible
          Financing Agreement, the Authority may conduct one or more of the following
          quality assurance/quality control reviews, which may require the Participating
          Contractor or Project Developer to submit project-related documentation as described
          in 10092.4(d)(5):
          (A) A review of data and documentation (desktop review);
          (B) A field verification at the Eligible Property(ies); or
          (C) Photo verification.
      (2) For Projects with any IOU Custom measures, the Authority will not perform a field
          verification.
      (3) The Authority shall notify the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer at least 10
          business days prior to conducting a field verification.
      (4) If the Authority finds that a Participating Contractor's Scope of Work was not
          installed in accordance with the regulations within this Article or that the
          Participating Contractor misrepresented information related to the work, the
          Authority may remove the Participating Contractor from Program participation
          pursuant to the processes described in Section 10092.4(e) and/or may notify other
          governmental entities and the IOUs.
      (5) If the Authority finds that a Self-Installer's Scope of Work was not installed in
          accordance with these requirements or that the Participating Project Developer
          misrepresented information related to any Project, the Authority may remove the
          Participating Project Developer from Program participation pursuant to the processes
          described in Section 10092.4(e) and/or may notify other governmental entities and
          the IOUs.
                  Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
           Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040, Public
                                        Resources Code


Section 10092.8       Financing Submittal and Enrollment

(a)     Timing of Submittal and Enrollment
        (1) Once all Scopes of Work are completed and certified by all Participating Contractors,
            and, if applicable, the Participating Project Developer, and the FPE has closed the
            agreement with the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer, a complete financing
            submittal may be submitted to the Authority for enrollment as described in Section
            10092.8(b).
        (2) The Eligible Financing Agreement must be submitted within 90 calendar days of the
            last Scope of Work Completion Date on the Project, unless it is for a Multifamily
            Property, in which case it must be submitted within 12 months.
        (3) Within 10 business days of receipt of a complete set of data elements, documentation,
            and certifications as described in Section 10092.8(b), for an Eligible Financing
            Agreement, the Authority will enroll or deny the Eligible Financing Agreement in the
            Program and communicate this decision to the Finance Provider Entity.

(b)     Complete Financing Submittal Requirements
        (1) Documentation. A complete financing submittal must include the following
             documentation provided to the Authority by the Participating Contractor, Project
             Developer, and/or Finance Provider Entity:
             (A) Utility delivery confirmation: Verification of fuel delivery by each utility
                  providing electric or gas fuel relevant to EEMs installed at the Eligible Property.
                  For a Microloan, the verification of fuel delivery to the Eligible Property must be
                  provided for at least one utility.
             (B) IOU Custom incentive documentation: A copy of the IOU Custom incentive
                  approval letter or notice to proceed must be provided to the Authority for all
                  Projects with EEMs that include an IOU Custom rebate or incentive.
             (C) Eligible Commercial Financing Customer data authorizations: A signed Privacy
                  Rights Disclosure Form, as described in Section 10092.13.
             (D) If the Project is being financed by an Affordable Multifamily Customer, a copy
                  of the recorded affordability deed restriction or covenant showing income
                  restriction and family size.
        (2) Data. A completed submittal includes the following data provided to the Authority in
             a format approved by the Authority:
                           Data Points                        Data Must be      Exceptions
                                                              Provided by
                                                              One of These
                                                              Parties:
Eligible Commercial Financing Customer Information
   (A)        Customer name, e-mail address, and phone        Contractor,
              number                                          Project
                                                              Developer
                                                              (PD), FPE
   (B)        North American Industry Classification          FPE
              System (NAICS) Code applicable to the
              type of business
   (C)        Method by which the customer qualifies as       FPE               Not required for
              an Eligible Small Business Financing                              Microloans
              Customer pursuant to Section 10092.1(bb),
              or status as an Affordable Multifamily
              Customer
   (D)        The number of years in business                 FPE
   (E)        An indication of how the entity is organized,   FPE               Not required for
              e.g., sole proprietorship, corporation, or                        Microloans
              LLC
   (F)        The customer’s credit score                     FPE
   (G)        Credit scoring or reporting service relied      FPE
              upon to calculate the customer’s credit score
   (H)        The customer’s annual revenue                   FPE               Only for Eligible
                                                                                Financing
                                                                                Agreements greater
                                                                                than $350,000
   (I)        Special business characteristics if known,      FPE
              e.g. woman-owned, veteran-owned, or
              minority-owned
   (J)        Whether the customer owns the Eligible          Contractor, PD,
              Property(ies) or is a tenant occupant           FPE
Property Information
   (K)        Number of units or spaces at the Eligible       Contractor, PD,   Not required for
              Property for which EEMs were installed          FPE               Microloans
   (L)        The street address, city, and ZIP code          Contractor, PD,
                                                              FPE
   (M)          Utility names and account numbers for all       Contractor, PD,   For Microloans,
                gas and electric providers at each Eligible     FPE               name and account
                Property, if applicable                                           number for at least
                                                                                  one utility
Project Information (for each contractor or Self-Installer’s scope of work)
   (N)          The method by which each EEM qualifies          Contractor, PD,
                for the Program                                 FPE
   (O)          The EEM category, e.g. “Lighting” or            Contractor, PD,
                “Refrigeration”                                 FPE
   (P)          The EEM measure name                            Contractor, PD,
                                                                FPE
   (Q)          A brief description including size, energy      Contractor, PD,   Not required for
                performance, standard material descriptions,    FPE               Microloans
                and/or specifications
   (R)          The quantity installed for each EEM             Contractor, PD,
                                                                FPE
   (S)          An indication of whether the EEM is             Contractor, PD,   Not required for
                replacing existing equipment or is a new        FPE               Microloans
                installation
   (T)          An indication of whether the installation       Contractor, PD,   Not required for
                resulted in a fuel substitution for that        FPE               Microloans
                measure
   (U)          The fuel for which there is expected energy     Contractor, PD,   Not required for
                impact as a result of installing the EEM        FPE               Microloans unless
                                                                                  being repaid
                                                                                  through OBR
   (V)          Total cost of all EEMs installed as part of a   Contractor, PD,
                Scope of Work                                   FPE
   (W)          Total cost and brief description of             Contractor, PD,
                improvements that were legally and              FPE
                practically required to complete a Scope of
                Work not accounted for in the total cost of
                EEMs, if applicable
   (X)          Description of all Non-EEMs installed as        Contractor, PD,   Not required for
                part of a Scope of Work                         FPE               Microloans
   (Y)          Total cost of all Non-EEMs installed as part    Contractor, PD,
                of a Scope of Work                              FPE
(Z)    The Scope of Work Completion Date for any Contractor
       work performed by a Participating
       Contractor

(AA)   Any fees charged by the Participating          PD                Not required for
       Project Developer and, if there are fees, a                      Microloans
       brief description of the services provided
(BB)   The amount of any Capitalized Interest         FPE               Not required for
       included in the Total Financed Amount                            Microloans

(CC)   An indication of whether the Participating     Contractor, PD,
       Contractor or Eligible Commercial              FPE
       Financing Customer is seeking or has
       received a rebate or incentive from an IOU,
       REN, or CCA for a Scope of Work
(DD)   The amount of any utility, REN, or CCA         Contractor, PD,   Only for projects
       rebate or incentive sought for a Scope of      FPE               with rebates or
       Work                                                             incentives

                                                                        Not required for
                                                                        Microloans
(EE)   The name of the utility, REN, or CCA           Contractor, PD,   Only for projects
       issuing a rebate or incentive sought for a     FPE               with rebates or
       Scope of Work, the rebate or incentive name,                     incentives
       and, if known, the project identification code
                                                                        Not required for
                                                                        Microloans
(FF)   Date that the IOU, REN, or CCA approved        Contractor, PD,   Only for projects
       the Eligible Commercial Financing              FPE               with a custom IOU,
       Customer's custom measure(s), if applicable                      REN, or CCA
                                                                        incentive.
(GG)   A description of any Non-EEMs installed by     PD, FPE           Only for projects
       contractors not enrolled with the Program or                     with installations by
       by Self-Installers                                               non-participating
                                                                        contractors

                                                                        Not required for
                                                                        Microloans

(HH)   The total cost of any Non-EEMs installed by PD, FPE
       contractors not enrolled with the Program or
       by Self-Installers
   (II)          The name and CSLB number of the non-           PD, FPE           Only for projects
                 participating contractor company who                             with installations by
                 installed Non-EEMs                                               non-participating
                                                                                  contractors

Data Related to Measures Qualifying through the Professionally Certified Measure Method
pursuant to Section 10092.7(b)(3). For each measure:
   (JJ)          Whether the reported energy cost savings       Energy
                 result from Energy Efficiency, Demand          Professional
                 Response measures, or Distributed
                 Generation
   (KK)          For Energy Efficiency and Demand               Energy
                 Response: Energy Professional's estimate of    Professional
                 the electric savings of each EE or DR
                 measure certified by the Energy
                 Professional. Savings must be reported in
                 annual kWh for EE and peak kW for DR
   (LL)          For Energy Efficiency and Demand              Energy
                 Response: Energy Professional's estimate of Professional
                 the gas savings of each EE or DR measure
                 certified by the Energy Professional. Savings
                 must be reported as annual therms for EE
                 and peak therms for DR
   (MM)          The Energy Professional's name, business       Contractor, PD,
                 name, city, e-mail address, and phone          FPE
                 number
   (NN)          For Distributed Generation: Energy             Energy
                 Professional’s estimate of the annual energy   Professional
                 generation or maximum energy capacity of
                 storage. Energy must be reported in kWh,
                 therms, or gallons
   (OO)          The Energy Professional’s estimate of the      Energy
                 annual greenhouse gas emissions avoided or     Professional
                 reduced, in pounds of CO2 equivalent
   (PP)          An indication of whether the Energy            Contractor, PD,
                 Professional is a PE or CEM                    FPE
   (QQ)          The Energy Professional's certification ID or Contractor, PD,
                 license number, as applicable                 FPE

Financing Data
(RR)    The Finance Provider Entity's internal           FPE
        financing agreement number
(SS)    An indication as to whether the financing        FPE
        agreement is an Eligible Loan, Eligible
        Lease or Eligible Equipment Finance
        Agreement, Eligible Energy Service
        Agreement, or an Eligible Savings-Based
        Payment Agreement
(TT)    Total Financed Amount                            FPE
(UU)    Whether a security interest was taken            FPE   Not required for
        against the financing agreement, and, if so,           Microloans
        an indication of the type of security interest
        taken
(VV)    Date the financing agreement funded or is        FPE
        anticipated to fund
(WW)    Repayment term of the financing agreement        FPE
        and its maturity date or its contractual end
        date
(XX)    Interest rate applied to the financing           FPE   Only for Loans,
        agreement                                              Leases and
                                                               Equipment
                                                               Financing
                                                               Agreements
(YY)    Whether the interest rate is fixed or variable   FPE   Not required for
                                                               Microloans
(ZZ)    Amount of the interest rate bought down by       FPE   Only for Loans,
        the contractor, if applicable                          Leases and
                                                               Equipment
                                                               Financing
                                                               Agreements
                                                               Not required for
                                                               Microloans
(AAA)   Monthly charges for ongoing service and          FPE   Only for Eligible
        maintenance related to the upkeep or                   Service
        performance of all installed measures                  Agreements and
                                                               Eligible Savings-
                                                               Based Payment
                                                               Agreements
(BBB)    The interest rate the Eligible Commercial       FPE                Only for Loans,
         Financing Customer would have received                             Leases and
         without the benefit of the Loss Reserve                            Equipment
                                                                            Financing
                                                                            Agreements

                                                                            Not required for
                                                                            Microloans

        (3) Certifications. A completed financing submittal includes the following certifications
            provided to the Authority:
            (A) Participating Contractor Certifications. Certification, signed by an individual
                authorized to legally bind the Participating Contractor, of the following:
                 (i) The Participating Contractor who completed the Scope of Work holds the
                       relevant license(s) to perform the installation;
                 (ii) All EEMs and Non-EEMs listed on the Scope of Work were installed and
                       comply with Program requirements;
                 (iii) The installation of the EEMs and Non-EEMs complies with all applicable
                       California building standards including, but not limited to, Title 24 of the
                       California Code of Regulations. The installation also complies with all
                       laws, ordinances, regulations and standards applicable in the jurisdiction
                       where the installation occurred;
                 (iv) All permits and approvals required to install the Scope of Work have been
                       approved or are in the process of being approved; and
                 (v) It complied with all Program regulations, rules, and requirements.
            (B) Project Developer Certification. Certification from an individual authorized to
                 legally bind the Participating Project Developer of the following:
                 (i)    All of the information provided by the Project Developer and Participating
                        Contractor is true and correct to the best of the Participating Project
                        Developer’s knowledge.
            (C) Finance Provider Entity Certifications. Certification from the Primary Finance
                 Provider Entity of the following:
                 (i) All data provided by the Primary Finance Provider Entity is true and
                       correct to the best of its knowledge.
            (D) Eligible Commercial Financing Customer Certification. Certification, signed by
                 an individual authorized to legally bind the Eligible Commercial Financing
                 Customer of the following:
                 (i) For projects with equipment requiring installation by a Participating
                       Contractor per the Program rules, all installation(s) by a Participating
                       Contractor have been completed to its satisfaction;
                 (ii) It understands that the Authority and its directors, officers, and agents, and
                       the IOUs and its directors, officers and agents, do not guarantee the
                       performance, quality, or workmanship of any installation in the Project;
                 (iii) The Eligible Financing Agreement funds were, or will be, used to pay for
                       the eligible Project;
                 (iv) All permits and approvals required to complete the Project have been
                       approved or are in the process of being approved;
                 (v) The Participating Contractor, Participating Project Developer, or the
                       Finance Provider Entity has provided the Eligible Commercial Financing
                       Customer with a Bill Impact Estimate; and
                 (vi) Acknowledgement and agreement to be subject to post-project
                       verifications, as described in Section 10092.7(d).
             (E) Energy Professional Certification. The Energy Professional’s certification, for
                 each Eligible Energy Measure qualifying by the Professionally Certified
                 Measure Method, as described in Section 10092.7(b)(3), of the following:
                 (i) Each energy efficiency measure will save energy;
                 (ii) Each Demand Response measure is capable of reducing demand on the
                       electric grid or gas pipeline during peak periods;
                 (iii) Each Distributed Generation measure will produce clean energy with
                       reduced greenhouse gas emissions compared to existing conditions;
                 (iv) Each Battery Storage measure is capable of reducing greenhouse gas
                       emissions, allowing for greater grid stability as part of a virtual power
                       plant, and/or mitigating customer costs; and
                 (v) Hydrogen produced through electrolysis must use renewable energy
                       sources.

                   Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
               Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                      Public Resources Code
Section 10092.9       Credit Enhancement

(a)      Establishment of Accounts. Upon the Authority’s acceptance of an application from a
         Finance Provider Applicant to be a Finance Provider Entity, the Authority shall instruct
         the Trustee to establish a Loss Reserve Account(s) for the Finance Provider Entity. The
         Loss Reserve Account(s) will be held by the Trustee and will be used to:
         (1) Receive and hold Loss Reserve Contributions deposited by the Authority for the
              benefit of a Finance Provider Entity; and
         (2) Pay claims pursuant to Section 10092.10.

(b)      At the Loss Reserve Account Representative's request, the Authority will establish up to
         three Loss Reserve Accounts for the Finance Provider Entity.

(c)      Contributions to Loss Reserve Accounts
         (1) For each of the Finance Provider Entity's Enrolled Financing Agreements, the
             Authority shall direct the Trustee to transfer a Loss Reserve Contribution from the
             Program Holding Account to the Loss Reserve Account of that Finance Provider
             Entity.
      (2) The Loss Reserve Contribution for an Enrolled Financing Agreement will be
          calculated based on customer type.
          (A) For Projects installed at one or more Multifamily Properties, a Participating
               Finance Entity’s Loss Reserve Account(s) will receive a Loss Reserve
               Contribution of 10% of the first $1,000,000 of the Claim-Eligible Financed
               Amount.
          (B) For enrolled Projects which are financed by an Eligible Small Business
               Financing Customer, a Participating Finance Company’s Loss Reserve
               Account(s) will receive a contribution of 20% of the first $50,000 of the Claim-
               Eligible Financed Amount and then 5% of the next $950,000.
      (3) If the Primary Finance Provider Entity notifies the Authority pursuant to Section
          10092.2(c)(6)(F) that it determined not to fund the Enrolled Financing Agreement,
          the Authority will recover the Loss Reserve Contribution for that Enrolled Financing
          Agreement by transferring the funds back to the Program Holding Account and the
          financing agreement will be removed from the Program.
      (4) If the Primary Finance Provider Entity notifies the Authority pursuant to Section
          10092.2(c)(6)(F) that it determined to fund less than the Claim-Eligible Financing
          Amount as reported at the time of submittal, the Authority will recover any excess
          contribution to the Loss Reserve Account by transferring the funds back to the
          Program Holding Account.

(d)   Annual Rebalance. Once per fiscal year ending June 30, the Authority will instruct the
      Trustee to rebalance a Finance Provider Entity's Loss Reserve Account, if necessary, and
      move funds from the FPE's Loss Reserve Account into the Program Holding Account.

(e)   Methodology. The initial rebalance amount will be the sum of the original Loss Reserve
      Contributions associated with Enrolled Financing Agreements that were paid off in full
      during the fiscal year.
      (1) If the FPE did not make any claims pursuant to Section 10092.10 during the fiscal
          year, the initial rebalance amount will not be changed and the funds will be
          transferred from the FPE's Loss Reserve Account to the Program Holding Account.
      (2) If the FPE made one or more claims pursuant to Section 10092.10 during the fiscal
          year, and the total claim amount is less than the initial rebalance amount, the final
          rebalance amount will equal the initial rebalance amount less the claim(s) amount.
      (3) If the FPE made one or more claims pursuant to Section 10092.10 during the fiscal
          year, and the total claim amount is more than the initial rebalance amount, there will
          be no rebalance.

                Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
            Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                   Public Resources Code
Section 10092.10      Claims

(a)     An FPE may submit a claim for an Enrolled Financing Agreement when all of the
        following conditions are met:
        (1) The claim is submitted within 15 years from the Enrollment Date, unless the project
             includes the “Solar Photovoltaic with Battery Storage” EEM as described in Section
             10092.14, in which case the claim is submitted within 20 years from the Enrollment
             Date;
        (2) The Eligible Commercial Financing Customer has defaulted on the Enrolled
             Financing Agreement and the FPE has charged off some or all of the outstanding
             Claim-Eligible Financed Amount;
        (3) The FPE has taken reasonable steps in accordance with industry standards to seek
             recoveries through the liquidation of collateral and any personal guarantees, if
             applicable; and
        (4) The FPE is in compliance with Program regulations, including, but not limited to, the
             reporting requirements in Section 10092.12.

(b)     In the event of a charge-off, the FPE may submit a claim for up to 90% of the Claim-
        Eligible Charge-Off Amount.

(c)     Claims will be paid net of any recovery and proceeds that the Finance Provider Entity has
        obtained prior to the filing of the claim such that the Finance Provider Entity will recoup
        no more than 100% of the Claim-Eligible Charge-Off Amount. Unless as described in
        Section 10092.10(d), a payment for a particular claim is limited to the funds in the
        Finance Provider Entity's Loss Reserve Account(s) at the time that the claim is approved
        by the Authority.

(d)     If there are not sufficient funds in the FPE's Loss Reserve Account to cover 90% of the
        Claim-Eligible Charge-Off Amount at the time of a claim, the Loss Reserve Account
        Representative may ask that future contributions to the Loss Reserve Account (when new
        financings are enrolled) be paid out as part of the original claim until the end of the next
        annual rebalancing.

(e)     Claim Applications. Claim applications must be submitted by the Loss Reserve Account
        Representative to the Authority within 180 calendar days of the date of charge-off of an
        Enrolled Financing Agreement. To make a claim, an FPE must be in compliance with the
        Program regulations, including, but not limited to, the reporting requirements in Section
        10092.12. The claim application must include the following information provided by the
        Finance Provider Entity in a format to be determined by the Authority:
        (1) The following data:
            (A) Total Charge-Off Amount and claim amount requested;
            (B) If the Enrolled Financing Agreement is secured, a statement of whether or not
                 enforcement proceedings have commenced;
            (C) Trustee account number(s) from which the claim payment will be made; (D) The
                 loss reserve payee; and (E) The date of the Charge-Off.
      (2) Certification that the claim was submitted as required by Section 10092.10(a) and
          certification that the charge-off was made in a manner consistent with the FPE's usual
          methods for taking action on financing agreements that are not Enrolled Financing
          Agreements under the Program;
      (3) Certification that the FPE will comply with reporting requirements on recoveries and
          proceeds, as specified in Section 10092.12(g)(2); and
      (4) The claim application must be signed by the Loss Reserve Account Representative
          and will include the signatory’s printed name, title, and date.

(f)   The Authority will approve claims within 30 calendar days of the Authority’s receipt of a
      completed and qualified claim request, provided, however, that the Executive Director
      shall be authorized to reject a claim if they determine that any of the acknowledgements,
      certifications, representations, and warranties provided by the FPE pursuant to Section
      10092.2(c)(4) - (7) and Section 10092.3(g) and (h) at the time of application to the
      Program were false, or if the Eligible Financing Agreement claimed upon does not
      conform to financing product(s) submitted in the application to participate in the Program
      pursuant to Section 10092.2(c)(3) or a subsequent update pursuant to Section 10092.12(f),
      or if the FPE is not in compliance with its obligations, including reporting obligations,
      under the regulations within this Article. The Authority, upon providing written notice to
      the FPE, may defer approval of claims up to an additional 30 calendar days if the
      Authority requires more information to determine if the claim will be paid. Prior to
      authorizing a disbursement from a Loss Reserve Account, the Authority may request
      documentation relating to the original Enrolled Financing Agreement, the servicing file,
      and the default.

(g)   Upon the approval of a claim, the Authority will direct the Trustee to disburse the
      approved claim amount from the FPE's Loss Reserve Account to the Loss Reserve
      Account Representative within five business days.

(h)   The Loss Reserve Representative may request that the Trustee disburse funds to a third
      party of its choosing. That request to disburse funds to a third party must be made by the
      Loss Reserve Account Representative to the Authority, in writing, at the time of the
      submission of the claim application.

(i)   If, subsequent to the payment of a claim by the Authority the FPE recovers from the
      Eligible Commercial Financing Customer, the liquidation of collateral, personal
      guarantees, or any other source amounts for which the FPE applied to have recouped from
      the Authority, the FPE must promptly pay to the Authority or its agent for deposit in the
      Program Holding Account the amount received, net of reasonable and customary costs of
      collection, that in the aggregate exceeds the amount needed to fully cover the FPE's loss
      on the Claim-Eligible Charge-Off Amount.

               Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
        Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040, Public
                                     Resources Code
Section 10092.11     Sale and Transfer of Enrolled Financings and Transfer of Program Roles

(a)     A Finance Provider Entity may sell, transfer, or assign an Enrolled Financing Agreement
        or the associated repayments of an Enrolled Financing Agreement, in whole or in part, or
        a portfolio of Enrolled Financing Agreements, in whole or in part. The sale must be
        reported to the Authority pursuant to Section 10092.12.

(b)     The Primary Finance Provider Entity and Affiliate Finance Provider Entity may transfer
        between themselves the roles of Monthly Reporting, Loss Reserve Account
        Representative, and Financing Submittal by notifying the Authority in writing. If the
        Financing Submittal role transfers, the entity performing the Financing Submittal role will
        become the new Primary Finance Provider Entity.

(c)     If the Primary Finance Provider Entity or Affiliate Finance Provider Entity wish to
        transfer any of the roles it has been approved to perform, and/or disclosed that it will
        perform, to a new entity, the new entity must apply to the Program as a Primary Finance
        Provider Applicant or Affiliate Finance Provider Applicant and be approved by the
        Authority for enrollment in the Program. At any time, no more than one entity may serve
        as Primary Finance Provider Entity and, at any time, no more than one entity may serve
        as Affiliate Finance Provider Entity for any Finance Provider Entity. Once approved, the
        new entity must assume all of the roles filled by the departing Finance Provider Entity.

                  Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
              Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                     Public Resources Code

Section 10092.12      Reporting

(a)     The Finance Provider Entity must report to the Authority, on a monthly basis, on the
        status of each Enrolled Financing Agreement as well as on financing applications and
        decisions for the Program. The report is due to the Authority on the 5th day of the month,
        except the report will be due on the 6th day of the month if a bank holiday falls in the first
        week of the month.

(b)     The report must include the following data points in a format approved by the Authority
        for Enrolled Financing Agreements:
        (1) Financing ID;
        (2) Whether the financing agreement is current, 30 days, 60 days, or 90 days past due,
             fully satisfied, or charged off;
        (3) The current outstanding financed amount;
        (4) Whether the financing agreement was sold, transferred, or assigned to a third party
             and the date of that sale, transfer, or assignment; and
        (5) If the financing agreement was sold, transferred, or assigned, the name of the
             purchaser, transferee, or assignee and whether the transaction was in whole or in part.
(c)   Once an FPE has reported an Enrolled Financing Agreement as having a zero balance or it
      is charged off, the FPE does not need to continue reporting on that agreement in future
      reports.

(d)   For Savings-Based Payment Agreements where the payment amount fluctuates monthly,
      the Finance Provider Entity must report changes to the monthly payment amount
      annually, and no later than February 6 for the January monthly report.

(e)   Upon request from the Authority, but not more than monthly, the FPE must make a good
      faith effort to provide the following marketing and activity information:
      (1) Number of financing applications received during the reporting period;
      (2) Number of applications approved during the reporting period;
      (3) Description of any promotions or other noteworthy patterns or activities; and
      (4) Changes in interest rates for the appropriate comparable non-Program products of the
           FPE for the purpose of helping the Authority determine ongoing benefits to
           borrowers that result from the loss reserve.

(f)   No later than January 15th of each year:
      (1) The FPE must provide a report to the Authority on any material changes to
          information or certifications provided in the initial application to participate or
          indicating that all statements made in the application remain materially unchanged.
      (2) FPEs that are not Financial Institutions must also provide written evidence of current
          licenses and insurance.

(g)   The FPE must report to the Authority when the FPE:
      (1) Becomes subject to a cease and desist order or other regulatory sanction from an
          appropriate federal or state regulatory body. The FPE must inform the Authority in
          writing within 10 business days of that action; or
      (2) Recovers any proceeds of a charged-off Enrolled Financing Agreement. The report
          must be submitted within 180 calendar days and include gross amounts recovered
          through collection activities and the net amount remitted by the Loss Reserve
          Account.

                Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
            Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                   Public Resources Code
Section 10092.13      Energy Financing Privacy Rights Disclosure

(a)     An authorized representative of the Eligible Commercial Financing Customer will be
        required to affirm that it has read and acknowledges all of the following subsections (b) –
        (g) in a format specified by the Authority:

(b)     As a result of your participation in an energy financing program, as approved by the
        California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) and administered by the California
        Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority (CAEATFA),
        CAEATFA may come into possession of some or all of the following information:
        (1) Information disclosing the fact that you are a customer of the finance company.
        (2) Your financing agreement or the account number associated with your financing
             agreement.
        (3) Your name, address, social security number, and contact information.
        (4) Your financial status and underwriting criteria, including, but not limited to, credit
             scores.
        (5) The amount of and terms for repayment of your financing agreement.
        (6) Information regarding your financing agreement payment history.
        (7) The equipment or improvements funded with the proceeds of your financing
             agreement.
        (8) Utility rebate and/or incentive data, including, but not limited to, rebate or incentive
             amount, program project name and identifier, and approval date.
        (9) The account and service agreement number on your utility bill, monthly energy use,
             and utility account payment history.
        (10) Energy impact data from your project.

(c)     The information may be provided to CAEATFA by the CPUC or your utility(ies) or your
        finance company or a contractor or project developer acting on their behalf. The
        information may be combined with energy usage information provided by your utility(ies)
        to the CPUC, who may then provide that information to CAEATFA.

(d)     The information provided to CAEATFA may be released to the Investor-Owned Utilities
        (IOUs), other state agencies, and the federal government pursuant to contracts,
        interagency agreements, or if required by law. The information provided to CAEATFA
        will be released in an anonymized form, aggregated with information from other
        financing recipients throughout the state to make both financing and energy project
        performance available to the public. The information released to the public will be
        anonymized and aggregated to reduce (but may not eliminate) the risk of anyone viewing
        the data making an association between specific information and the provider of that
        information. Information that cannot be anonymized and aggregated will not be released
        to the public.

(e)     In addition to the anonymized and aggregated release of information contemplated above,
        CAEATFA may contact financing customers or may release individual financing
        customer names, addresses, and phone numbers that will enable the IOUs or the CPUC or
            individuals acting on their behalf to contact financing customers. The purpose of the
            release and contact will be limited to inviting financing customers to participate in
            surveys or to arrange visits to financing customers’ business to evaluate various aspects of
            the program.

(f)         The officials responsible for maintaining the information provided regarding your
            financing agreement are program personnel at CAEATFA or its contractors. You have the
            right of access to records established from the information provided to CAEATFA as it
            pertains to you. This Privacy Rights Disclosure will remain effective through the end of
            the repayment term of your financing agreement.

(g)         By your affirmation to this Privacy Rights Disclosure, you represent and warrant that you
            are a duly authorized representative of the financing customer and that you have the
            authority to agree to the terms of this Privacy Rights Disclosure on behalf of the financing
            customer.

                        Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
                    Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                           Public Resources Code

Section 10092.14        Eligible Energy Measure List
 The following table designates the Eligible Energy Measure (EEM) List for the Program and the
 corresponding requirements for each measure. In any situation in which the Title 20 of the
 California Code of Regulations, Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations, or any other legal
 requirement exceeds the requirement specified in the table, the EEM must be installed to meet the
 legal requirement(s). Where a measure is removed from the EEM list or its requirements are
 revised, that measure and requirements will continue to be eligible for inclusion in an Eligible
 Financing Agreement that is submitted to the Program for enrollment within 365 calendar days of
 the removal or revision of the EEM.

                                                                                   Fuel       Eligible for
      Measure                                                                                    Self-
                          Measure                      Requirements              Source
      Category                                                                  Eligibility     Install

                          Automatic Pump Shut-off
      Agriculture                                                                Electric        Yes
                          Sensor
                          Dehumidification System
      Agriculture         using Solid or Liquid                                  Electric         No
                          Desiccant
                          Dehumidification System
      Agriculture                                                                Electric         No
                          with On-site Heat Recovery
                                                                                 Electric
      Agriculture         Greenhouse Energy Curtain                                              Yes
                                                                                   Gas
                                                                                 Electric
      Agriculture         Heat Recovery                                                          Yes
                                                                                   Gas
                    High Efficiency Booster or
Agriculture                                                                         Electric   Yes
                    Well Pump
                    High Efficiency Irrigation
Agriculture                                                                         Electric   Yes
                    Pump
                    High Efficiency Ventilation
Agriculture                                                                         Electric   Yes
                    Fan
                    Irrigation Pump Performance
Agriculture                                                                         Electric   No
                    Testing and Optimization
Agriculture         Plate Cooler                                                    Electric   Yes
Agriculture         Sprinkler-to-Drip Irrigation                                    Electric   Yes
                    VFD on Booster or Well                                                     Yes
Agriculture                                                                         Electric
                    Pump Motor
Agriculture         VFD on Pump or Fan Motor                                        Electric   Yes
Appliances          Air Cleaner/Purifier           Energy Star                      Electric   Yes
Appliances          Convection Electric Oven                                        Electric   Yes
Appliances          Convection Gas Oven                                              Gas       No
Appliances          Heat Pump Dryer                Energy Star                      Electric   No
Appliances          Induction Range or Cooktop     Energy Star                      Electric   Yes
Appliances          Range Hood                     Energy Star                      Electric   No
                    Residential In-Unit Clothes
Appliances                                         Energy Star                      Electric   Yes
                    Dryer (Electric)
                    Residential In-Unit Clothes
Appliances                                         Energy Star                       Gas       No
                    Dryer (Gas)
                    Residential In-Unit Clothes                                     Electric
Appliances                                         Energy Star                                 Yes
                    Washer                                                            Gas
                    Residential In-Unit                                             Electric
Appliances                                         Energy Star                                 Yes
                    Dishwasher                                                        Gas
Appliances          Residential In-Unit Freezer    Energy Star                      Electric   Yes
                    Residential In-Unit
Appliances                                         Energy Star                      Electric   Yes
                    Refrigerator
                                                                                    Electric
Building Envelope   Air Sealing                                                                No
                                                                                      Gas
                                                                                    Electric
Building Envelope   Attic Insulation                                                           No
                                                                                      Gas
Building Envelope   Cool Roof                                                       Electric   No
                                                                                    Electric
Building Envelope   Floor Insulation                                                           No
                                                                                      Gas
                                                   Product must have solar
Building Envelope   Heat Reflective Coating        reflectance ≥ 0.5 as tested to   Electric   No
                                                   ASTM C1549-16
                                                                                    Electric
Building Envelope   Radiant Barrier                                                            No
                                                                                      Gas
                                                                                    Electric
Building Envelope   Wall Insulation                                                            No
                                                                                      Gas
                                                                                 Electric
Building Envelope   Window Film                                                             Yes
                                                                                   Gas
                    Windows/Glass Doors or                                       Electric
Building Envelope                                                                           No
                    Window Retrofits                                               Gas
                    Solar Photovoltaic with
Clean Energy                                                                     Electric   No
                    Battery Storage
                                                Must be paired with an
                                                existing solar photovoltaic
Clean Energy        Battery Storage                                              Electric   No
                                                system or used for load
                                                shifting.
                                                Equipment must have solar
                                                PV and battery storage for
                    Stand Alone Solar-Powered   the primary purpose of
Clean Energy                                                                     Electric   No
                    Equipment                   powering the device.
                                                Equipment may be grid
                                                connected or off-grid.
                                                Microgrid must have a clean
                                                energy generation source,
                    Microgrid Equipment,        storage, and controls for load
Clean Energy                                                                     Electric   No
                    Software, or Controllers    management. Microgrid may
                                                be grid connected or off-grid.

                                                Biogas must be used on site
                    Anaerobic Digester for                                       Electric
Clean Energy                                    to displace natural gas or to               No
                    Biogas Production                                              Gas
                                                generate electricity

Clean Energy        Wind Turbine                                                 Electric   No

Data Centers        Airflow Management Device                                    Electric   No
Data Centers        Aisle Containment                                            Electric   Yes
Data Centers        Aisle Layout Optimization   Separate hot and cold aisles     Electric   Yes
                    Efficient Network
Data Centers                                    Energy Star                      Electric   Yes
                    Equipment
Data Centers        Efficient Server            Energy Star                      Electric   Yes
Data Centers        Efficient UPS               Energy Star                      Electric   Yes
Data Centers        Server Consolidation                                         Electric   Yes
Data Centers        Server Virtualization                                        Electric   Yes
                    Automated Demand
Demand Response     Response Equipment                                           Electric   No
                    (Electric)
                    Automated Demand
Demand Response                                                                   Gas       No
                    Response Equipment (Gas)
                                                Must be used for the purpose
                    Mechanical Energy Storage
Demand Response                                 of permanent load shifting       Electric   No
                    (MES) System
                                                (PLS)
                                               Must be used for the purpose
                  Thermal Energy Storage
Demand Response                                of permanent load shifting       Electric   No
                  (TES) System
                                               (PLS)
                                               Energy Star electric griddles,
                  Commercial Cooking
Food Service                                   ovens, steam cookers, or         Electric   Yes
                  Equipment (Electric)
                                               fryers
                                               Energy Star gas griddles,
                  Commercial Cooking
Food Service                                   ovens, steam cookers, or          Gas       No
                  Equipment (Gas)
                                               fryers
                  Commercial Dishwashing
Food Service      Equipment (Electric Hot      Energy Star                      Electric   No
                  Water)
                  Commercial Dishwashing
Food Service                                                                     Gas       No
                  Equipment (Gas Hot Water)
Food Service      Hot Holding Cabinet          Energy Star                      Electric   Yes
                  Low Flow Pre-Rinse Spray
Food Service                                                                    Electric   Yes
                  Valve (Electric Hot Water)
                  Low Flow Pre-Rinse Spray
Food Service                                                                     Gas       Yes
                  Valve (Gas Hot Water)
                                                                                Electric
Food Service      Ohmic or Joule Heating                                                   No
                                                                                  Gas
                  On-demand Hand Wrap
Food Service                                                                    Electric   Yes
                  Machine
                                                                                Electric
Food Service      Ventilation Hood Control                                                 No
                                                                                  Gas
                                                                                Electric
HVAC              Air Filter Alarm or Sensor                                               No
                                                                                  Gas
                                               HEPA filter upgrade. Must be
                                               installed with an ECM fan        Electric
HVAC              Air Filter Upgrade - HEPA                                                No
                                               motor and a filter sensor or       Gas
                                               alarm.
                                               MERV 13-16 air filter
                                               upgrade. Must be installed       Electric
HVAC              Air Filter Upgrade - MERV                                                No
                                               with an ECM fan motor and a        Gas
                                               filter sensor or alarm.
                  Air-Side or Water-Side
HVAC                                                                            Electric   No
                  Economizer
                  Air-Source or Ground-
HVAC                                                                            Electric   No
                  Source Heat Pump
                  Automatic Filter
HVAC                                                                            Electric   Yes
                  Replacement
                  Automatic Temperature
HVAC                                                                            Electric   No
                  Setpoint Control
                  Chilled Water Outdoor
HVAC                                                                            Electric   No
                  Temperature Reset
HVAC   Chiller Optimization Control                               Electric   No
       Chiller Upgrade, Retrofit, or
HVAC                                                              Electric   No
       Replacement
                                       Variable speed pump with
HVAC   Cold Water Booster Pump                                    Electric   No
                                       ECM motor
HVAC   Compressor or Condenser                                    Electric   No
HVAC   Condensate Recovery                                         Gas       No
       Cooling Tower Upgrade,
HVAC                                                              Electric   No
       Retrofit, or Replacement
       Dedicated Outside Air                                      Electric
HVAC                                                                         No
       System (DOAS)                                                Gas
       Demand Controlled                                          Electric
HVAC                                                                         No
       Ventilation                                                  Gas
       Diagnostic or Fault                                        Electric
HVAC                                                                         No
       Detection Alert Systems                                      Gas
HVAC   Dual Enthalpy Control                                      Electric   No
                                                                  Electric
HVAC   Duct Insulation                                                       Yes
                                                                    Gas
                                                                  Electric
HVAC   Duct Sealing                                                          No
                                                                    Gas
                                                                  Electric
HVAC   Duct Sizing or Optimization                                           No
                                                                    Gas
HVAC   ECM Furnace Fan Motor                                      Electric   No
                                                                  Electric
HVAC   Efficient Make-Up Air Units                                           No
                                                                    Gas
HVAC   Evaporative Cooling                                        Electric   No
HVAC   Fan or Motor Control                                       Electric   No
HVAC   Furnace - Commercial                                        Gas       No
HVAC   Furnace - Residential In-Unit                               Gas       No
       Gas Boiler - Residential In-
HVAC                                                               Gas       No
       Unit
       Gas Hydronic Boiler –
HVAC                                                               Gas       No
       Commercial
       Gas Steam Boiler –
HVAC                                                               Gas       No
       Commercial
                                                                  Electric
HVAC   Heat Pipe Heat Exchanger                                              No
                                                                    Gas
                                                                  Electric
HVAC   Heat Recovery                                                         No
                                                                    Gas
       Heat/Energy Recovery                                       Electric
HVAC                                                                         No
       Ventilator                                                   Gas
HVAC   High Efficiency HVAC Fan                                   Electric   No
       High Efficiency HVAC
HVAC                                                               Electric   No
       Pump
       High Performance Circulator   Variable speed pump with
HVAC                                                               Electric   No
       Pump                          ECM motor
       Hotel Guest Room
                                                                   Electric
HVAC   Occupancy Temperature                                                  Yes
                                                                     Gas
       Control
                                                                   Electric
HVAC   HVAC Pipe Insulation                                                   Yes
                                                                     Gas
       HVAC Tune-up and                                            Electric
HVAC                                                                          No
       Optimization                                                  Gas
       Hybrid or Fully
HVAC                                                               Electric   No
       Compressorless HVAC
HVAC   Infrared Heater (Electric)                                  Electric   No
HVAC   Infrared Heater (Gas)                                        Gas       No
       Notched or Synchronous
HVAC                                                               Electric   Yes
       Drive Belt
                                                                   Electric
HVAC   Outside Air Reduction                                                  No
                                                                     Gas
       Packaged Terminal Air
HVAC                                                               Electric   No
       Conditioner (PTAC)
HVAC   Radiative Cooling                                           Electric   No
       Residential In-Unit Wall
HVAC                                                                Gas       No
       Furnace
                                     Must include VFD control of   Electric
HVAC   Rooftop Unit Control                                                   No
                                     RTU supply fan speed            Gas
       Rooftop Units or Packaged                                   Electric
HVAC                                                                          No
       HVAC System                                                   Gas
                                     Programmable and              Electric
HVAC   Smart Thermostat                                                       Yes
                                     communicating thermostat        Gas
       Split/Mini Split Air
HVAC   Conditioning Unit –                                         Electric   No
       Commercial
       Split/Mini Split Air
HVAC   Conditioning Unit -           18 SEER or above              Electric   No
       Residential In-Unit
                                                                   Electric
HVAC   Static Pressure Reset                                                  No
                                                                     Gas
       Steam Trap
HVAC                                                                Gas       No
       Audit/Replacement
                                                                   Electric
HVAC   Variable Air Volume (VAV)                                              No
                                                                     Gas
       Variable Refrigerant Flow                                   Electric
HVAC                                                                          No
       (VRF)                                                         Gas
HVAC   Ventilation Fan               Energy Star                   Electric   No
HVAC         VFD on Compressor Motor                                  Electric   No
HVAC         VFD on Pump or Fan Motor                                 Electric   No
             Air Receiver Tanks for
Industrial                                                            Electric   No
             Load/No Load Compressor
             All-Electric Injection
Industrial                                                            Electric   No
             Molding Machine
             Compressed Air Cycling,
Industrial   Desiccant, or Heat Pump                                  Electric   No
             Dryer
             Compressed Air Leak Audit
Industrial                                                            Electric   No
             and Repair
             Compressed Air No-Loss
Industrial                                                            Electric   No
             Drain
             Compressed Air Pressure
Industrial                                                            Electric   Yes
             Reduction
             Energy Recovery Pressure
Industrial                                                            Electric   No
             Reducing Valve
                                                                      Electric
Industrial   Exhaust Hood Control                                                No
                                                                        Gas
             High Performance Circulator   Variable speed pump with
Industrial                                                            Electric   No
             Pump                          ECM motor
             Notched or Synchronous
Industrial                                                            Electric   Yes
             Drive Belt
                                           NEMA Premium® rated
Industrial   Premium Efficiency Motor                                 Electric   No
                                           motor
                                                                      Electric
Industrial   Process Heat Recovery                                               No
                                                                        Gas
Industrial   Process Pump                                             Electric   No
                                                                      Electric
Industrial   SCADA System                                                        No
                                                                        Gas
             Solar Water Heating for                                  Electric
Industrial                                                                       No
             Process Applications                                       Gas
Industrial   VFD on Compressor Motor                                  Electric   No
             VFD on Process Pump or
Industrial                                                            Electric   No
             Fan Motor
             Controls: Indoor Daylight
Lighting                                   Wall or ceiling mount      Electric   No
             Sensor
             Controls: Indoor Networked    DLC qualified Networked
Lighting                                                              Electric   No
             Lighting System               Lighting Control
             Controls: Indoor Vacancy
Lighting                                   Wall or ceiling mount      Electric   No
             Sensor
                                          DLC qualified Networked
           Controls: Integrated           Lighting Control with
Lighting                                                                  Electric   No
           Networked Lighting System      Luminaire Level Lighting
                                          Control (LLLC)
           Controls: Integrated Vacancy   Sensors are integral to the
Lighting                                                                  Electric   No
           and Daylight Sensor            light fixture
           Controls: Integrated Vacancy   Sensors are integral to the
Lighting                                                                  Electric   No
           Sensor                         light fixture
           Controls: Outdoor              DLC qualified Networked
Lighting                                                                  Electric   No
           Networked Lighting System      Lighting Control
           Controls: Outdoor
Lighting                                                                  Electric   No
           Occupancy Sensor
           LED Accent/Track Light
Lighting                                  Energy Star                     Electric   No
           Fixture
                                          DLC qualified display case,
Lighting   LED Case Light Fixture         horizontal refrigerated case,   Electric   No
                                          or vertical refrigerated case
           LED Ceiling Mount or
Lighting                                  Energy Star                     Electric   No
           Pendant Fixture
           LED Decorative Screw-base
Lighting                                  Energy Star                     Electric   Yes
           Lamp
           LED Directional Screw-base
Lighting                                  Energy Star                     Electric   Yes
           Lamp
                                          Energy Star hard-wired
Lighting   LED Downlight Fixture          recessed, surface, or pendant   Electric   No
                                          mount
                                          Energy Star recessed or
           LED Downlight Screw-base
Lighting                                  surface mount; screw base       Electric   Yes
           Retrofit Kit
                                          retrofit
           LED Four-Pin Replacement       DLC qualified vertical or
Lighting                                                                  Electric   Yes
           Lamp                           horizontal lamps; UL type A
           LED General Service Screw
Lighting                                  Energy Star                     Electric   Yes
           Base Lamp
           LED High/Low-Bay Fixture       DLC qualified high-bay, low-
Lighting                                                                  Electric   No
           or Retrofit Kit                bay, or high-bay aisle
           LED Horticultural Hardwired    DLC qualified horticultural
Lighting                                                                  Electric   No
           Light Fixture                  light fixture (hard-wired)


           LED Horticultural Plug-in      DLC qualified horticultural
Lighting   Light Fixture or               light fixture (plug-in) or      Electric   Yes
           Replacement Lamp               replacement lamp
           LED Interior Directional       DLC qualified wall wash or
Lighting                                                                  Electric   No
           Fixture                        track
           LED Linear Ambient Fixture     DLC qualified direct or
Lighting                                                                  Electric   No
           or Retrofit Kit                indirect linear
                                           DLC qualified T8 or T5
           LED Linear Replacement
Lighting                                   linear replacement lamps (all   Electric   Yes
           Lamp (TLED) - Type A
                                           dimensions); UL type A
                                           DLC qualified T8 or T5
           LED Linear Replacement
                                           linear replacement lamps (all
Lighting   Lamp (TLED) - Type B and                                        Electric   No
                                           dimensions); UL types B and
           C
                                           C
           LED Mogul Screw-base            DLC qualified high- or low-
Lighting                                                                   Electric   No
           Replacement Lamp - Indoor       bay; UL types B or C
           LED Mogul Screw-base
                                           DLC qualified UL types B or
Lighting   Replacement Lamp –                                              Electric   No
                                           C
           Outdoor
                                           DLC qualified pole/arm-
                                           mounted area, decorative,
           LED Outdoor Area Light
Lighting                                   wall-mounted, bollards,         Electric   No
           Fixture or Retrofit Kit
                                           parking garage, canopy,
                                           flood, spot, stairwell
           LED Residential-style
Lighting   Outdoor Wall, Porch, Post, or   Energy Star                     Electric   No
           Security Light Fixture
           LED Street Light Fixture or     DLC qualified pole/arm-
Lighting                                                                   Electric   No
           Retrofit Kit                    mounted roadway
Lighting   LED Tape Lighting                                               Electric   Yes
           LED Troffer Fixture or          DLC qualified 2x2, 1x4, or
Lighting                                                                   Electric   No
           Retrofit Kit                    2x4
           LED Under-Cabinet or Cove
Lighting                                   Energy Star                     Electric   No
           Fixture
           Building Management                                             Electric
Other                                                                                 No
           System (BMS)                                                      Gas
           Commercial Laundry -
Other      Clothes Washer (Electric Hot    Energy Star                     Electric   No
           Water)
           Commercial Laundry -
Other      Clothes Washer (Gas Hot         Energy Star                      Gas       No
           Water)
           Commercial Laundry - Dryer
Other      Moisture Sensor Retrofit                                        Electric   No
           (Electric)
           Commercial Laundry - Dryer
Other      Moisture Sensor Retrofit                                         Gas       No
           (Gas)
           Commercial Laundry -
Other                                                                       Gas       No
           Modulating Gas Valve


           Commercial Laundry - Ozone
Other      System (Electric Hot                                            Electric   No
           Water)
                Commercial Laundry - Ozone
Other           System (Gas Hot                                                    Gas       No
                Water)
                                                                                  Electric
Other           Energy Audit                                                                 No
                                                                                    Gas
                Energy Management System                                          Electric
Other                                                                                        No
                (EMS)                                                               Gas
                                                Must be installed with at
                Energy Measurement,
                                                least one other non-lighting      Electric
Other           Metering, or Monitoring                                                      Yes
                                                Eligible Energy Measure on          Gas
                Equipment
                                                this list
                Generator Circulating Block
Other                                                                             Electric   No
                Heater
                High Efficiency Distribution
Other                                                                             Electric   No
                Transformer
                                                Measure not elsewhere on
                Other Measures Qualifying       this list that qualifies for an
                                                IOU/REN/CCA demand-side           Electric
Other           Through IOU/REN/CCA                                                          No
                                                energy management program           Gas
                Programs
                                                or demand response program.

                                                Measure not elsewhere on
                                                this list that qualifies for an
                Other Measures Qualifying       IOU/REN/CCA demand-side
                                                energy management program         Electric
Other           Through IOU/REN/CCA                                                          Yes
                                                or demand response program          Gas
                Programs - Self-Install
                                                and for which the
                                                IOU/REN/CCA program
                                                allows self-install.
Other           Plug Load Control                                                 Electric   Yes
Pool Products   Gas Pool Water Heater                                              Gas       No
                Heat Pump Pool Water
Pool Products                                                                     Electric   No
                Heater
Pool Products   Pool Cover (Electric Heater)                                      Electric   Yes
Pool Products   Pool Cover (Gas Heater)                                            Gas       Yes
Pool Products   Pool Pump Motor                 Energy Star                       Electric   No
Pool Products   VFD on Pool Pump Motor                                            Electric   No
Refrigeration   Add Doors to Open Case                                            Electric   Yes
                Add Insulation to Refrigerant
Refrigeration                                                                     Electric   Yes
                Lines or Storage Tanks
                                                Variable speed compressor
                Adaptive Commercial             with a sensor-driven control
Refrigeration                                                                     Electric   No
                Refrigeration Equipment         system capable of capacity
                                                modulation
                Add Insulation to
Refrigeration                                                                     Electric   No
                Refrigerated Enclosure
                Aerofoils for Open Display
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                Cases
                Air Curtain or Impact Swing
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                Doors
                Anti-Condensation
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                Door/Frame Heater Control
                Auto-Close Doors for Walkin
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                Cooler or Freezer
                Chiller Upgrade, Retrofit, or
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                Replacement
Refrigeration   Commercial Ice Machine          Energy Star                Electric   Yes
                Commercial Refrigerator or
Refrigeration                                   Energy Star                Electric   Yes
                Freezer
Refrigeration   Compressor Unit                                            Electric   No
Refrigeration   Condensing Unit                                            Electric   No
                Evaporator Defrost Control
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                for Freezer
                Evaporator Fan Brushless
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                DC or ECM Motor
                Evaporator Fan Motor
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                Control
                Evaporator Fan Permanent
Refrigeration   Magnet Synchronous Motor                                   Electric   No
                (PMSM)
                Floating Head Pressure
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                Control
                Laboratory Grade
Refrigeration                                   Energy Star                Electric   No
                Refrigerator or Freezer
Refrigeration   Low Charge Ammonia                                         Electric   No
                Low Energy Anti-
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                Condensation Door
                Natural or Low GWP              Global Warming Potential
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                Refrigerant                     (GWP) < 300
                Phase Change Material for
Refrigeration   Refrigerated or Freezer                                    Electric   Yes
                Storage
                Rapid Close Doors for
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   No
                Refrigerated Warehouse
                Reach-in Refrigerator or
Refrigeration                                   Energy Star                Electric   No
                Freezer
Refrigeration   Refrigerated Case Door Strip                               Electric   Yes
                Refrigerated Case Night
Refrigeration                                                              Electric   Yes
                Cover
                      Refrigeration Tune-up and
Refrigeration                                                                       Electric   No
                      Optimization
Refrigeration         Vending Machines              Energy Star                     Electric   Yes
                      VFD on Refrigeration Pump
Refrigeration                                                                       Electric   No
                      or Fan Motor
                                                    Must be Energy Star certified
                      Electric Vehicle Charging
Transportation                                      and be capable of internet      Electric   No
                      Equipment, AC Level 1 or 2
                                                    connectivity
                                                    Must be Energy Star certified
                      Electric Vehicle Charging
Transportation                                      with maximum output of 350      Electric   No
                      Equipment, DC Level 3
                                                    kW
                      Central Gas Domestic Water
Water Heating                                                                         Gas      No
                      Heater or Boiler
                                                                                    Electric
Water Heating         Faucet Aerator                                                           Yes
                                                                                      Gas
                      Faucet Laminar Flow                                           Electric
Water Heating                                                                                  Yes
                      Restrictor                                                      Gas
Water Heating         Heat Pump Water Heater        Energy Star                     Electric   No
                      Recirculating Hot Water       Temperature sensor or time
Water Heating                                                                       Electric   No
                      Pump Control                  clock control
                                                                                    Electric
Water Heating         Shower Head - Low Flow                                                   Yes
                                                                                      Gas
                                                                                    Electric
Water Heating         Shower Thermostatic Valve                                                No
                                                                                      Gas
                                                                                    Electric
Water Heating         Solar Water Heater            Energy Star                                No
                                                                                      Gas
                                                                                    Electric
Water Heating         Tank Insulation                                                          Yes
                                                                                      Gas
Water Heating         Tank Water Heater (Gas)       Energy Star                       Gas      No
                      Tankless Water Heater
Water Heating                                                                       Electric   No
                      (Electric)
Water Heating         Tankless Water Heater (Gas)   Energy Star                       Gas      No
                                                                                    Electric
Water Heating         Water Pipe Insulation                                                    Yes
                                                                                      Gas


                    Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
                Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                       Public Resources Code
Section 10092.15     On-Bill Repayment

(a)     OBR Requirements. In addition to all of the requirements in this Article, the following
        additional requirements apply for an Enrolled Financing Agreement to be eligible to be
        repaid through OBR:
        (1) If an OBR Customer receives fuel delivery from more than one utility, charges will
             be placed on the bill of the utility whose fuel is related to the EEM(s) with the
             greatest installed costs.
        (2) Utility Account and Bill Requirements. The utility account through which an
             Enrolled Financing Agreement is repaid must meet all of the following requirements:
             (A) The utility account must not be past due;
             (B) The utility account must not be in a payment arrangement for past due payments;
             (C) The utility account must be for a non-residential utility customer or a residential
                  multifamily utility customer;
             (D) The utility account must be billed monthly; and
             (E) The utility account, if the Project includes installations at more than one service
                  address, must receive a single bill for service to all the addresses.
        (3) Enrolled Financing Agreement Requirements. An Enrolled Financing Agreement must
             meet all of the following requirements:
             (A) The individual or entity named on the utility bill on which the OBR Total Charge
                  will appear must also be named on the financing agreement that is to be repaid
                  through OBR.
             (B) The Total Financed Amount of the Enrolled Financing Agreement must only be
                  comprised of the Claim-Eligible Financed Amount and any of the following
                  costs, if applicable:
                  (i) The costs of any additional EEMs in excess of those included in the Claim-
                         Eligible Financed Amount.
                  (ii) The costs of any Distributed Generation.
        (4) Customer Authorization. The individual or entity named on the utility bill on which
             the OBR Total Charge will appear, or their authorized representative or agent, must
             complete an Authorization to Add Charges to the Utility Bill, in a form developed by
             the appropriate utility.

(b)     Required Data Points. The following data points must be provided to the Authority by the
        FPE:
        (1) An indication by the FPE of their intent to have the Enrolled Financing Agreement
            repaid through OBR;
        (2) All service account numbers for the utilities providing service to the Eligible
            Property(ies);
        (3) The OBR Total Charge; and
        (4) The fuel type that accrued the greatest EEM installed costs.

(c)     Obligations of the Authority.
        (1) Within 10 business days of the Enrollment Date of an Enrolled Financing Agreement
            submitted for repayment through OBR, the Authority will either communicate the
          necessary data required to place financing charges on the utility bill to the relevant
          utility or will communicate the reason for rejection to the FPE.
      (2) Upon receipt of a written request from an FPE to remove charges for an Enrolled
          Financing Agreement being repaid through OBR, the Authority will communicate the
          request to the relevant utility within five business days.
      (3) The Authority will report to an FPE, in a format determined by the Authority, all
          OBR remittances deposited to an FPE's account within three business days from the
          remittance deposit.
      (4) The Authority must communicate the OBR Modified Charge Cutoff Date to the FPE,
          in a format determined by the Authority, within 10 calendar days of the OBR
          Approval Date.

(d)   Restrictions on the FPE.
      (1) It may take multiple utility billing cycles after the OBR Approval Date for the OBR
          Total Charge to first appear on the OBR Customer’s utility bill due to variations in
          utility billing cycle intervals.
      (2) An Enrolled Financing Agreement may be repaid through OBR for up to 15 years
          from the OBR Approval Date, unless the project includes the “Solar Photovoltaic
          with Battery Storage” EEM as described in Section 10092.14, in which case the
          Enrolled Financing Agreement may be repaid through OBR for up to 20 years from
          the OBR Approval Date.
      (3) The FPE must not accelerate repayment of an Enrolled Financing Agreement while it
          is being repaid through OBR, consistent with the relevant OBR Tariff or program
          requirements established pursuant to Section 10092.16.

(e)   Removal from OBR. The OBR Customer may be removed from participation in OBR for
      any of the following reasons:
      (1) Failure to comply with the regulations within this Article.
      (2) At the request of the FPE whose Enrolled Financing Agreement is being repaid
          through OBR, communicated in a format determined by the Authority.
      (3) At the request of the utility on whose bill the OBR Total Charge appears. The
          utilities will only remove a customer from OBR at the direction of the Authority.

(f)   Failure to Pay and Partial Payments.
      (1) Failure to pay in full all charges listed on the utility bill, including any financing
          charges, may result in the disconnection of utility service.
      (2) Any partial payment of the OBR Customer's utility bill, including financing charges,
          will be processed by the utilities, consistent with the partial payment provisions in the
          relevant OBR Tariff or program requirements pursuant to Section 10092.16.

(g)   FPE Change Requests to OBR Total Charge. An FPE may update the OBR Total Charge
      monthly and must communicate any change to the Authority in a format determined by
      the Authority. Changes to the OBR Total Charge communicated to the Authority prior to
      the OBR Modified Charge Cutoff Date in a calendar month will appear on the OBR
      Customer’s next utility bill.
(h)   Operational Reserve Fund. The Authority must utilize the ORF to prevent a shortfall in a
      payment to an FPE when it is due to no fault of the FPE, unless the ORF is depleted of
      funds. Payments made from the ORF on behalf of an FPE must be reimbursed pursuant to
      Section 10092.15(h)(2).
      (1) Use of the ORF.
           (A) If there is a Delayed Bill on an OBR Customer's account, the Authority will
               direct funds equal to the amount of the OBR Total Charge to be transferred from
               the ORF to the affected FPE. The funds transferred become an ORF Balance due
               from the FPE. Additional funds must not be transferred for subsequent Delayed
               Bills for the same OBR Customer until the funds that were transferred as a result
               of the previous Delayed Bill are repaid to the ORF.
           (B) If a Returned Item by an FPE's OBR Customer reduces the funds available for
               the Authority to forward an outgoing remittance to a different FPE, the Authority
               will direct funds equal to the amount of the shortfall to be transferred from the
               ORF to the affected FPE. The funds transferred become an ORF Balance due
               from the FPE whose OBR Customer caused the Returned Item. The Authority
               will not direct a transfer from the ORF to an FPE for a Returned Item caused by
               the FPE's own OBR Customer.
           (C) The ORF will not be utilized for an Enrolled Financing Agreement after 15 years
               from its Enrollment Date, unless the project includes the “Solar Photovoltaic
               with Battery Storage” EEM as described in Section 10092.14, in which case the
               ORF will not be utilized after 20 years from the Enrollment Date.
      (2) Reimbursement of the ORF.
           (A) The Authority may redirect remittances received from any of an FPE's OBR
               Customers to reimburse the ORF for an ORF Balance due from that FPE.
           (B) If an FPE no longer has any Enrolled Financing Agreements being repaid
               through OBR, the FPE's outstanding ORF Balance becomes due to the Authority
               within 30 days.
           (C) Claims paid to an FPE will be net of any ORF Balance due from the FPE.
           (D) If an OBR Customer whose account initiated an ORF transfer based on a
               Delayed Bill is removed from participation in OBR prior to the ORF Balance
               associated with that Delayed Bill being repaid, the ORF Balance associated with
               that Delayed Bill becomes due within 90 days of that customer’s OBR Removal
               Date, except as provided in Section 10092.15(h)(2)(B).
      (3) Replenishment of the ORF. If there are insufficient funds in the ORF, within five
           business days the Authority will communicate to the utilities the deficiency and
           request additional funds.

(i)   Finance Entity Enrollment as an OBR Participant.
      (1) To participate in OBR, the Finance Provider Applicant’s application for enrollment in
           the program must contain, in addition to those described in Section 10092.2, all of the
           following information, disclosures, and acknowledgements:
           (A) An indication that the FPA intends to participate in OBR.
     (B) An indication of which applicant will perform the role of OBR Representative,
         in addition to all other Finance Provider Entity roles described in Section
         10092.2(b). The OBR Representative role must do all of the following:
         (i) Supply the Authority with the required data related to Enrolled Financing
                Agreements being repaid through OBR, as described in Section
                10092.15(b).
         (ii) Be the FPE point of contact for communications and reports to and from
                the Authority related to the status of OBR participation and data related to
                the FPE's financings repaid through OBR. Communications to and from
                the Authority must occur in a manner determined by the Authority.
         (iii) Be performed by either the Primary Finance Provider Entity or the
                Affiliate Finance Provider Entity.
     (C) A similar explanation of the benefits to OBR Customers due to the FPA’s
         participation in OBR, if any, in addition to the explanation of how the Loss
         Reserve Contribution will be utilized to provide benefits to Eligible Commercial
         Customers compared to the FPA’s typical product offerings required by Section
         10092.2(c)(3)(C).
     (D) The FPA’s acknowledgements, in addition to the acknowledgements described in
         Section 10092.2(c)(4), signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the
         FPA, of all of the of the following:
         (i) The Authority has made no representations, promises, or guarantees
                pertaining to the functionality or reliability of utility billing systems.
         (ii) The ORF exists as a tool to address interruptions in OBR payment streams
                to the FPE, and funds from the ORF do not constitute a loan or a line of
                credit to the FPE.
     (E) The FPA’s certifications, in addition to the certifications described in Section
         10092.2(c)(5), signed by an individual authorized to legally bind the FPA, of all
         of the following:
         (i) It must comply with each utility's OBR Tariff or program requirements
               established pursuant to Section 10092.16;
         (ii) It agrees to repay any ORF Balance owed pursuant to Section 10092.15(h);
         (iii) It understands that multiple utility billing cycles may elapse after the OBR
               Approval date and before the Total OBR Charge appears on the OBR
               Customer's utility bill; and
         (iv) It must not accelerate the repayment of an Enrolled Financing Agreement
               that is being repaid through OBR until the OBR Customer’s OBR Removal
               Date.
     (F) The FPA’s representation, warranty, and covenant, in addition to the
         representations described in Section 10092.2(c)(7)(E), signed by an individual
         authorized to legally bind the FPA, that it agrees that the utilities are not
         responsible for, and must have no liability for, the payment of Program funds or
         OBR Customer payments to the FPE after those amounts are transmitted from
         the utilities to the accounts designated by the Authority.
(2) Claims made by FPEs Participating in OBR. In addition to the requirements for claim
     applications described in Section 10092.10(e), a claim application submitted by an
            FPE participating in OBR must include whether an outstanding ORF Balance is owed
            at the time of a claim submittal and the amount owed, if known.

                  Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
              Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                     Public Resources Code

Section 10092.16      Conditional Eligibility Expansion

(a)     If additional funding becomes available from a non-IOU Energy Efficiency ratepayer
        source, the Authority shall do all of the following:
        (1) Maintain an interested parties list which will be open to the public. The Authority will
             publish information on its website as to how to submit contact information to join the
             interested parties list.
        (2) Expand program eligibility in any of the following ways:
             (A)     Expand the types of equipment and related costs that may be applied toward
                     the minimum required 70% of the Claim-Eligible Financed Amount defined in
                     Section 10092.1(h) by expanding the Eligible Energy Measure fuel source
                     eligibility as described in Section 10092.1(r);
             (B)     Expand the types of eligible customers described in Section 10092.1(p);
                     and/or
             (C)     Expand the types of credit enhancement or financial assistance to include
                     additional mechanisms beyond the loss reserve as described in Sections
                     10092.9 and 10092.10.
        (3) Expansion shall be based solely on criteria required by the source of funds. The
             source of funds may originate from any of the following:
             (A)     Federal department or agency.
             (B)     State department or agency.
             (C)     Local government, special district, or regional government.
             (D)     Nonprofit organization.
        (4) Publish the criteria required by the source of funds on its website and notice the
             interested parties list within ten (10) business days of funding being available.

                  Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
              Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                     Public Resources Code

Section 10092.17     Interest Rate Buy-Down Disbursement

(a)     The Authority may from time to time have access to funding for Interest Rate Buy-Down
        (IRBD) campaigns. The IRBD amount shall be calculated against the Claim-Eligible
        Financed Amount.

(b)     When the Authority gains access to IRBD funds, the Authority shall do all of the
        following:
      (1) Develop an IRBD term sheet describing the IRBD campaign, including the following
          information:
          (A) The total amount of IRBD funding available.
          (B) The target interest rate or amount of rate reduction.
          (C) If applicable, the maximum amount of IRBD funds available per Eligible
               Financing Agreement.
          (D) An indication of what Eligible Energy Measures, Eligible Commercial Financing
               Customers, Eligible Properties, or other eligibility criteria may qualify an
               Eligible Financing Agreement for IRBD.
          (E) Terms for and the process by which Finance Provider Entities may apply to
               participate in the IRBD campaign, and how the IRBD shall be calculated and
               disbursed.
      (2) The terms of the IRBD shall not contradict or override existing requirements and
          criteria described in these regulations.

(c)   The Authority will publish the IRBD term sheet on its website and notify the interested
      parties list described in Section 10092.16(a)(1).

(d)   Any Finance Provider Entity that wishes to participate in an IRBD campaign shall submit
      a signed IRBD term sheet agreeing to the terms and processes outlined therein.
      Participation shall be subject to the Finance Provider Entity’s ability to comply with the
      terms of the IRBD campaign. The Authority’s decision regarding participation shall be
      final. The Authority will notify the Finance Provider Entity of its decision and provide a
      Program Participation ID for the Finance Provider Entity.

                Authority: Section 26006 and 26009, Public Resources Code
            Reference: Sections 26002, 26002.5, 26003, 26006, 26011 and 26040,
                                   Public Resources Code
