SOURCE: https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title50-section3913&num=0&edition=prelim
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from the Office of the Law Revision Counsel USLM XML (uscode.house.gov release point 119-111, xml_usc50@119-111.zip), element /us/usc/t50/s3913; text extracted mechanically (editorial notes omitted; source credit appended)

3913. Protection of persons secondarily liable

§ 3913.
Protection of persons secondarily liable
(a)
Extension of protection when actions stayed, postponed, or suspended
Whenever pursuant to this chapter a court stays, postpones, or suspends (1) the enforcement of an obligation or liability, (2) the prosecution of a suit or proceeding, (3) the entry or enforcement of an order, writ, judgment, or decree, or (4) the performance of any other act, the court may likewise grant such a stay, postponement, or suspension to a surety, guarantor, endorser, accommodation maker, comaker, or other person who is or may be primarily or secondarily subject to the obligation or liability the performance or enforcement of which is stayed, postponed, or suspended.
(b)
Vacation or set-aside of judgments
When a judgment or decree is vacated or set aside, in whole or in part, pursuant to this chapter, the court may also set aside or vacate, as the case may be, the judgment or decree as to a surety, guarantor, endorser, accommodation maker, comaker, or other person who is or may be primarily or secondarily liable on the contract or liability for the enforcement of the judgment or decree.
(c)
Bail bond not to be enforced during period of military service
A court may not enforce a bail bond during the period of military service of the principal on the bond when military service prevents the surety from obtaining the attendance of the principal. The court may discharge the surety and exonerate the bail, in accordance with principles of equity and justice, during or after the period of military service of the principal.
(d)
Waiver of rights
(1)
Waivers not precluded
This chapter does not prevent a waiver in writing by a surety, guarantor, endorser, accommodation maker, comaker, or other person (whether primarily or secondarily liable on an obligation or liability) of the protections provided under subsections (a) and (b). Any such waiver is effective only if it is executed as an instrument separate from the obligation or liability with respect to which it applies.
(2)
Waiver invalidated upon entrance to military service
If a waiver under paragraph (1) is executed by an individual who after the execution of the waiver enters military service, or by a dependent of an individual who after the execution of the waiver enters military service, the waiver is not valid after the beginning of the period of such military service unless the waiver was executed by such individual or dependent during the period specified in section 3917 of this title.

SOURCE CREDIT: (Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888, title I, § 103, as added Pub. L. 108–189, § 1, Dec. 19, 2003, 117 Stat. 2838.)
