Attachment J

G. The potential for widespread toxic exposures and threats to public health and the
environment exists in the aftermath of major wildfire disasters. Debris and ash from structure
fires can contain hazardous substances, and the health effects of hazardous substances releases
after a wildfire are well-documented.

H. The combustion of building materials such as siding, roofing tiles, and insulation
can result in dangerous ash that contains asbestos, heavy metals, and other hazardous materials.
Household hazardous waste such as paint, gasoline, cleaning products, pesticides, compressed
gas cylinders, and chemicals may have been stored in homes, garages, or sheds that may have
also burned in the fire, also producing hazardous materials.

IE, Exposure to hazardous substances may lead to health effects and may potentially
cause long-term public health and environmental impacts. Uncontrolled hazardous materials and
debris pose significant threats to public health through inhalation of dust particles and
contamination of drinking water supplies. Improper handling can expose workers to toxic
materials, and improper transport and disposal of fire debris can spread hazardous substances
throughout the community.

J. Standards and removal procedures are needed immediately to protect the public
health and environment, and to facilitate coordinated and effective mitigation of the risks to the
environment and public health from the health hazards generated in Airport Fire.

K. The anticipated start of rainy season offers little time to mitigate further
environmental contamination and fire debris from affected properties.

L. There is an urgent need to mitigate the harm to public health and the environment
from the improper disturbance, removal, transport, and./or disposal of hazardous waste and fire
debris resulting from the Airport Fire.

SECTION 3, REMOVAL OF FIRE DAMAGED DEBRIS FROM PRIVATE
PROPERTY.

1. Definitions.
(a) “Alternative Program” means the requirements for inspections and clean up
established by the County of Orange for property owners who opt out of, or are
ineligible for, the California Office of Emergency Services (“CalOES”) Program.

(b) “Board” means the Board of Supervisors of Orange County.

(c) “Director” means the Orange County Director of Public Works or their
designee.

(d) “CalOES Program” means the fire damage debris clearance program operated

by the CalOES, as may be approved for the Airport Fire, in conjunction with
other State and Federal agencies.

q Page 2 of 9
