Attachment J

(e) “County Private Property Fire Debris Removal Program” means the fire
damage debris clearance program operated by the County should it opt to do
so in lieu of the CalOES Program Phase II, for which property owners would
have to consent through a County Right of Entry Permit.

(f) “Private Action” means the removal of fire debris from private property
damaged by the Airport Fire, by persons not eligible for, or opting out of, the
CalOES Program.

(g) “Removal of fire debris” means all cleanup of fire debris resulting from the
Airport Fire, including removal, transport and disposal of fire debris, but it
does not include the removal of personal property that is not fire debris from
residential sites unless such removal of personal property involves cleanup
and the removal of ash from the property.

(h) “Right of Entry Permit” means the Debris Removal Right-of-Entry Permit
approved by the CalOES for use in the cleanup of fire debris from private
property.

Term of this Ordinance.

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon adoption and shall remain in
effect until the cleanup of all fire debris on all fire-damaged properties from the
Airport Fire, or the completion of all enforcement matters related to this Ordinance,
if any.

Prohibition on Removal of Fire Debris from Private Property.

Removal of fire debris from private property is prohibited without a hazardous
materials inspection conducted by the California Department of Toxic Substances
Control through the CalOES Program, or an equivalent inspection approved by the
Director through the Alternative Program.

Removal of Fire Debris.

(a) The Right of Entry Permit shall function as the sole permit and authorization
for participation in the CalOES Program.

(b) Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the Orange County Codified
Ordinances, no County approvals or permits for fire debris removal are
required for properties participating in the CalOES Program, other than the
Right of Entry Permit.

(c) The County may opt to conduct private property fire debris removal using its

own contractor(s) through the County Private Property Fire Debris Removal
Program.

. Page 3 of 9
