Attachment J

5. Removal of Fire Debris through the Alternative Program.

(a)

(b)

(©)

@)

The County shall administratively adopt and administer the Alternative Program
in the unincorporated areas of Orange County under the supervision of the County
Executive Officer or their designee. The County shall use the state and federal
standards and cleanup goals of the CalOES Program as the standards for the
Alternative Program. Under the supervision of the County Executive Officer or
their designee, the County may administratively update these standards as
necessary to address ongoing changes in the administration of the CalOES
Program and the need to efficiently remove hazardous fire debris from the
community.

For those property owners who are not eligible for the CalOES Program, or who
opt out of the OES Program, or who opt out of the County Private Property Fire
Debris Removal Program, fire debris removal program if the County opts to
conduct removal through its own contractors, Private Action to remove fire debris
from fire-damaged properties is prohibited unless and until a hazardous materials
inspection has been performed and authorization from the Director has been
provided pursuant to the Alternative Program.

The Alternative Program shall require an application that identifies the
appropriate licensed contractors who will perform the work and the submission of
plans that demonstrate that the standards established in the Alternative Program
will be met. Work shall not begin until the County approves the application.

The Director shall prepare a form for property owners to submit, certifying the
work has been completed in accordance with the approved plans and a final
inspection conducted by County staff, in addition to any other documentation the
Director determines is necessary. If the Director determines the fire debris has
been removed in compliance with the standards for the Alternative Program, the
Director shall provide a letter confirming successful of completion of debris and
ash removal to the property owner. A building permit shall not be issued for a
property until the letter has been issued to the property owner.

Hold on Building Permits.

Any building permit previously issued by Orange County for a structure or other
infrastructure that has been damaged or destroyed by the Airport Fire shall be held in
abeyance and not acted upon until fire debris cleanup is completed on the affected
property, either through the CalOES Program, the County Private Property Debris
Removal Program, or the Alternative Program. If fire debris cleanup was performed
under the Alternative Program, the property owner must also receive a letter from the
Director under section 5(d) confirming successful completion of debris and ash
removal before doing any further work under a previously-issued building permit.

_ Page 4 of 9
