Attachment J

Deadlines.

(a)

(b)

(©)

(d)

(©)

The Director may establish deadlines for filing an acceptable Right of Entry
Permit in the CalOES Program and County Private Property Fire Debris
Removal Program, or an acceptable application for the Alternative Program
by posting notice of such deadlines at the County Administration Building
and on the County website. The Director may modify these deadlines as
necessary, or in individual cases based on extenuating circumstances.

Properties with fire debris from the Airport Fire that have neither an approved
Right of Entry permit for the CalOES or for the County Private Property Fire
Debris Rem,oval Program nor an approved application for the Alternative
Program by the deadlines established by the Director are hereby declared a
nuisance and health hazard and are subject to abatement under the Orange
County Codified Ordinances Section 3-14-2, et. seq.

The Director may establish deadlines for the completion of work in the
Alternative Program by posting notice of such deadlines at the County
Administration Building and on the County website. The Director may
modify these deadlines as necessary, or in individual cases based on
extenuating circumstances.

Properties with fire debris from the Airport Fire in the Alternative Program
that are not complete by the deadlines established by the Director are hereby
declared a nuisance and health hazard and are subject to abatement under the
Orange County Codified Ordinances Section 3-14-2, et. seq.

The Board’s intent is to facilitate orderly remediation of large-scale disasters.
Nothing in the deadlines established by the Director shall limit the authority
of the County to abate hazards more quickly when require by exigent
circumstances. Nothing in this Ordinance or in these deadlines limits the
authority of the County Health Officer to require preventative measures as
defined in California Health & Safety Code section 101040.

Enforcement and Abatement.

(a)

General Enforcement Action. If the Director determines that an activity is
being performed in violation of this Ordinance, the Director may initiate an
enforcement action under the Orange County Codified Ordinances and may
seek the imposition of costs and civil penalties. Nothing in this provision is
intended to prevent alternate enforcement mechanisms, including but not
limited to, Health Officer orders pursuant to California Health & Safety Code
section 101040. Violation of this ordinance shall be an infraction, and a
knowing violation may be prosecuted as either an infraction or a
misdemeanor.

Page 5 of 9
