(b)

(©)

(d)

Attachment J

Summary Abatement. Pursuant to the authority of Section 7 of Article XI of
the California Constitution, California Health & Safety Code Section 101040,
and California Government Code Section 25845, if the Director determines
that a violation of this Ordinance constitutes an immediate threat to public
health and safety, the County may summarily abate the condition within the
unincorporated territory of the County of Orange in accordance with the
summary abatement procedures outlined below, as applicable.

i. Pre-Abatement Notice. Unless emergency conditions preclude
doing so, the Director shall issue a summary Abatement Notice and Order
with the property owner(s) as listed on the last equalized tax roll. A summary
of the Notice and Order shall be posted in a conspicuous location on the
property to be abated at least ten (10) days prior to the summary abatement
action.

ii. Appeal and Waiver. The property owner(s) or any person or
entity having a legal interest in the property may submit a written appeal of
the Director’s Order to the Director or Director’s Designee, by United States
mail, overnight mail, or personal delivery, no later than ten (10) days from the
date the Director mailed or delivered the Notice and Order. The written appeal
shall state the basis for the appeal. The Director or the Director's designee
shall review the appeal, if the appeal is timely, and shall issue a written
decision no later than ten (10) days after receipt. The Director's or the
designee's decision on the appeal shall uphold, rescind or modify the
determination of the Notice and Order. The Director's or the designee's
decision on the appeal shall be final. A copy of the Director's or the designee's
determination shall be delivered, promptly upon its issuance, to the appellant
by United states mail or personal delivery at the address listed on the last
equalized tax roll or such other address provided by the appellant. Failure to
appeal with in the time prescribed shall constitute a waiver of the right to
contest the summary abatement.

iii. Post Abatement Notice. After the summary abatement is
completed, the Director shall promptly deliver to the property owner(s) a
post-abatement notice indicating: ( a) the action taken by the County; (b) the
reasons for the actions; ( c) the costs of the abatement and a request that the
costs be paid by the property owner(s) to the County within sixty (60) days;
and (d) that a lien will be recorded against the property if the property
owner(s) fail(s) to pay the requested abatement costs within sixty (60) days.
The post abatement notice shall be delivered by Untied States mail or personal
delivery.

Judicial Enforcement Action. County Counsel is authorized to initiate judicial
enforcement as to a violation ofany provision of this Ordinance without
further Board approval.

Remedies Not Exclusive. The remedies identified in this Ordinance are in
addition to and do not supersede or limit any and all other remedies, civil or
criminal. The remedies provided in this Ordinance are cumulative and not

° Page 6 of 9
