SOURCE: https://usacomplaints.com/miscellaneous/465409-overlook-of-lakemont-complaints-reviews.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
PROVENANCE: search-engine index excerpts (web_search descriptions) of this page; the live page blocks automated access.

Complaint / Review: Overlook Of Lakemont - Switch & Bait Apartments, Fabricated Move-Out Fees. #465409 # Complaint / Review Overlook Of Lakemont Switch & Bait Apartments, Fabricated Move-Out Fees They showed me a demo unit, and then rented me a handicapped unit. That's switch and bait, which isn't technically illegal in apartment complexes because you can drop out of the lease by 6 P.M. That day. I rented an apartment because I liked the demo bathroom counter. They said I couldn't see inside of the available apartment because someone was living there. I love a great bathroom. The handicapped unit had no bathroom counter and no cabinets (for a wheelchair). Also, no kitchen cabinets. It's nothing at all like the demo. Why aren't they advertising for someone in a wheelchair, or giving discounted rent? It was a long distance interstate move for me. I had commnitted to moving before I saw the inside. Just moving the mail for my business is a big deal. I couldn't back out. And they said they didn't have any other units, which in retrospect, was probably a lie. I couldn't stop crying. My long term friend said he had never seen me that upset. While crying non-stop, they intimidated me into filling out the move-in form before 6 P.M. That night. (The next place said take a week if you need the time). The next day when I got home I emailed them that the carpet was dirty and had a stain on it, They said it had been cleaned before I moved in, and maintainence went up and said there was no stain. After I moved in, I didn't stop complaining that the carpet had to be cleaned, it smelled so awful. Finally said, "okay" to get me to stop calling. After the cleaning (around my stuff by that time) it smelled fine, but it was still an old carpet with a stain, also not the same color as the demo unit. I got a lawyer so that I could move out without paying the lease termination fee. I could go on and on with stories of lies and intimidation. It's unbelievable to me. That's partly why I kept doing good, and getting trouble back. For example, they had to renovate the unit next door which was also a handicapped unit. This took them months. Then, all of a sudden, the doors were closed, and the lights were on. The next week someone moved in, and asked me "where are the kitchen cabinets?" I did a lot to improve the property. When I moved out, I told twice that I didn't need a walk for the same reason... Great tenant, you'll get your deposit back. After I moved out, a collection agency called me. I have worked for collection agencies but never had one call me. I thought it was a prospect. I was stunned when the collection lady told me that I had all these move out fees. I've never had a single move out fee in my life. They outsource the "collections" for move-out fees to an East coast company, Preston Mitchell Company, PO Box 457, Ruckersville, VA, 22968. I asked, "How can this go out for collection, when you've never sent me a bill?" I called the District Manager & the VP of Holland Residential, who were willing to return my phone calls until they heard my complaints. I sent 2 written complaints to the collection agency and they finally responded by sending a list of charges. I dispute all of them except for the utility bill, which is more than covered by my deposit. Peggy Remington still wants some cash or she'll send my bill out for collection. She's working a crack in the system where she can send fabricated charges out for collection, and I will have to struggle to get it off my credit report. Overlook has about 400 units, and industry average is a 50% move-out rate per year. Since they have an extremely high move out rate, I figure 300 people a year are being fleeced with bogus move-out fees. That's one a day. As many moving vans as I saw there, one a day sounds about right. Add bogus move out charges to move-in fees, and lease termination fees and it could be profitable to have a high turn over. I complained to the BBB and Overlook management responding with total lies. One of my move-out fees is carpet cleaning. Besides the fact that I left the carpet cleaner than I found it, there was no carpet cleaning bill. They replaced the carpet after I moved out. With the BBB rebuttal, Overlook management said they had put in a new carpet before I moved in. A colleague, who comes by periodically to buy books in bulk, said I should sue them and he will come and testify to the stain in the carpet. Holland Leasing, get new management! Also, we need consumer protection laws for the State of Washington changed so that an apartment complex can't bait a tenant with the demo unit and rent them another unit. One neighbor had the bait & switch with a gray color scheme when she thought she was getting beige.in 6 years of living there they refused to re-paint her apartment or give her a new carpet, while raising her rent every year. When I moved out, everyone who talked to me (it was quite a few people due to a freak snow storm) said, "You're so lucky. I can't wait to move out." I was stunned. Is this a prison? Many tenants speak English as a 2nd language, and management consistently intimates people into not getting maintenance done, or simply lies and says nothing needs doing, or it can't be fixed. It's for them I'm doing this. This is NOT typical for the US. You will have a better experience living in almost any other apartment complex. The rent may seem slightly lower than other rents in this high-priced area, but with all the extra fees, you'll actually end up paying more than you would have by moving into a complex with higher rent. And probably have a better experience as well.