SOURCE: https://web.archive.org/web/20160508022947/http://www.apartments.com:80/bella-terra-mukilteo-wa/cqd6yyd/
SNAPSHOT: 2016-05-08 (Wayback Machine capture timestamp 20160508022947)
COMMUNITY: Bella Terra
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: archived copy of the page; review dates are as displayed on the page; reviewer names removed.

REVIEW [] 
If I could give 0 stars that is what Bella Terra actually deserves. Called up to schedule an appointment to view an apartment and spoke with a very nasty person named Meg. Beyond rude, cut me off so much that when trying to ask a question about the community of apartments and rent increases along with noise problems, I was informed that i should seek arrangements at a retirement community.....I informed her that I was only in my 30's and that was not a viable option for me. Meg told me that I obviously did not know the layout of the complex or understand what residing in Mukilteo actually entailed. She then told me to drive to the complex and park in the parking for many hours so that I would understand the noise level of the apartment building. Which to me, made no sense AT ALL! How on earth would that explain a noise level of an apartment?! She then proceeded to mock me for asking if there was going to be a large increase in rent after the lease is up, being that there are some reviews saying that had happened to them. At that point I just hung up on her, and realized that this apartment complex would be a terrible fit for myself and my family. I do not think a potential resident should be ridiculed and talked down to like I was, just for asking some questions. She treated me like I was an imbecile for asking two simple questions. NO ONE deserves to be treated like this, and I have to wonder how many other potential renters she has turned away due to her horrendous attitude. I feel sorry for the residents of Bella Terra, who have to deal with this woman.

REVIEW [] 
The office staff don't seem to actually care about the people renting in the complex. All they care about is the money they get by having apartments filled. The longer I lived here the less please I was with the office staff. The few staff members who were nice and helpful left, probably to work at a better complex. There are at least 3 different apartments(of approx 13 units) rented in my build that have people that smoke in them. Plus an additional 2 that I have seen in the building across the street from me. I complain numerous times over my years of renting and they are still allowed to renew their lease, let alone not evicted. Also the Office staff tried to tell me they couldn't discriminate against smokers. If they advertise a smoke free environment, they shouldn't renew leases for smokers. Many evenings when I return to my apartment the stairway smells of cigarette smoke. As well as in the summer months when I have the windows open it often blows into my bedroom from neighboring apartments. When equipment in the clubhouse gym breaks it takes an unrealistic amount of time to replace it, over a month and a half on average. The Hot tub is used basically as a kiddy pool for toddlers and as such the water is discolored and isn't as hot as you would like for a hot tub. I highly doubt that it has the correct chemical balance The parking spots are always full. and you often have to park far away from your building. I have complained numerous times about this as well because there are several non-running cars that haven't moved from their spots in 6 months to a year. Sure they have current registration, but they don't actually run. On more than one occasion I've seen the owner try to start the vehicle but couldn't so he ended up pushing it to a different spot. Again the office staff is utterly useless in solving this problem. And then there is the rate hikes. Every year when its time to renew your lease they try to increase the price by around 150-200$ a month.
