SOURCE: https://web.archive.org/web/20251121021227/https://www.apartments.com/bradbury-at-the-society-san-diego-ca/hzh0jd1/
SNAPSHOT: 2025-11-21 (Wayback Machine capture timestamp 20251121021227)
COMMUNITY: Bradbury at The Society
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: archived copy of the page; review dates are as displayed on the page; reviewer names removed.

REVIEW [7/25/22] Unsafe and poorly run
Do not live here. This building is unsafe and run so poorly. It’s meant to look all modern and nice but they actually take the cheapest shortcuts whenever possible. Detailed experience below. Security is horrible. The security patrols are not trained in any way. Most of them don’t speak English which makes interactions difficult. They spend their time FaceTiming loudly while ignoring their duties. Often times they are not even on site. My bike was stolen from the bike storage room within a couple weeks of me storing it. They said security checks the room daily but didn’t notice there was a break in for weeks until I eventually noticed. There was broken bits and pieces all over the floor. By then it was too late to recover security footage. The Society themselves sent out an email saying there is tons of theft in the area. But they didn’t do anything to up security. Garage gate broke in March and was still not fixed in June. Bunch of homeless people on drugs walking around. I’ve been chased by them as I drove out. They said they put security patrols in the garage but I have countless videos of the garage without security. Especially at night. The noise from the surrounding traffic is insane. Cars with loud modified exhausts love to race around the surrounding streets. Impossible to keep a window open and have any peace. Once a month on average, hundreds of people will gather to illegally takeover the intersection outside and do donuts, set off fireworks, and spray graffiti around. You can find news coverage of this here https://youtu.be/VllL2xnJM4w Parking is extremely inconvenient. They have just TWO guest parking spots for the entire building which need to be reserved 24 hours in advance. There is ZERO street parking. They say you can use future resident parking after office hours but really they block it off every night and try to tow cars all the time. It’s a struggling trying to have a guest over. The apartment doors lock behind you like a hotel door. If it is after office hours, there is no one on site to help you get back into your unit if you accidentally let the door close and you don’t have your key on you. You need to call a number, assuming you have your phone, and someone comes in an hour. Hope your stove isn’t on or there aren’t young kids inside Management doesn’t do anything to control smokers. My floor had multiple people who smoked cigarettes in their units with their door open. Hallways frequently smell like a casino floor.
