SOURCE: https://web.archive.org/web/20251026101904/https://www.apartments.com/inspiration-at-frank-lloyd-wright-scottsdale-az/dxz90zj/
SNAPSHOT: 2025-10-26 (Wayback Machine capture timestamp 20251026101904)
COMMUNITY: Inspiration
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: archived copy of the page; review dates are as displayed on the page; reviewer names removed.

REVIEW [9/6/24] Corporate Sucks
I really tried to like it here and didn't want to post anything, but we drove 24 hours moving across the country to move in here. When we moved in we were exhausted. Clearly the tenant before us smoked as walking on the carpet and floors turned out feet black and found cigarette buds in the window sill months afterwards when opening the windows when temperatures cooled. The carpet should of been replaced prior to us moving in but we bought a steam cleaner and cleaned them ourselves. Additionally, numerous cabinets literally pulled off the hinges when just opening normally (I fixed them), a towel rack pulled off the wall after putting a single towel on it. Gaps in the front door were so bad that stuff would blow into the entry way. The fridge died in the first few weeks and installed the cheapest fridge without even an ice maker. We blew this off and worked with the apartment. Now they are coming back charging a carpet cleaning fee for carpet that I would be embarrassed to have a new tenant move into owning my own rentals. Besides one part of the carpet that got torn up a little bit, we left the apartment in better shape than when we moved in. If you all really just steamed cleaned that carpet and let someone move in I feel bad for the new tenant. Sad to end on something like this as the maintenance guy and front office lady were nice to work with, but some corporate Amber chick had to ruin it.
MANAGEMENT RESPONSE []: Hi [resident name removed], I wanted to thank you for your feedback and so sorry to hear of these frustrations you experienced. We work hard to provide exceptional customer service, and we take all feedback extremely seriously. Our interaction was always positive, and I was unaware of these concerns. If you have time, I would like you to either phone me at 480.451.9979 or send me an email sarich@hollandpartnergroup.com let's go over items. I would like a chance to rectify. Sincerely, Sarah Rich l Property Manager l Inspiration at Frank Lloyd Wright

REVIEW [12/1/20] I miss Inspiration!
I was there five years and only moved because of a new job. Sarah and the team do a great job of keeping the grounds and amenities clean and residents happy. Maintenance is top notch. In five years I had a few issues and all were handled promptly. They even made friends with my dogs, which isn’t easy! When “problem” residents caused issues, they were dealt with appropriately. It’s a safe area and the individual, attached garages are such a must in the Arizona heat. My lease was up November 18th and I got my security deposit back in less than a week. It’s a great community with lots of cool people.

REVIEW [8/13/16] Poor Customer Sevice
Please do NOT rent at this apartment complex!!! Until they change management you will not receive the experience you deserve for the price they charge. I lived there for a number of years and it has steadily gone down in quality and service. My air conditioning went out numerous times during the summer and the response time was slow to resolve. The property manager Soana is not concerned with customer service and evidently does not care about retaining tenants. Until they change management I would not recommend. There are too many other options that offer better service for for the same price!

REVIEW [3/12/13] Best apartment experience
This property has been a pleasant surprise. After making a big move across country we have been nothing but pleased with the staff, maintenance and community. Office staff is always pleasant and willing to help with whatever you need. Units are newly remodeled and gorgeous!
