SOURCE: https://web.archive.org/web/20251029033944/https://www.apartments.com/meridian-at-midtown-san-jose-ca/ezyhf1m/
SNAPSHOT: 2025-10-29 (Wayback Machine capture timestamp 20251029033944)
COMMUNITY: Meridian at Midtown
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: archived copy of the page; review dates are as displayed on the page; reviewer names removed.

REVIEW [] 
The apartment itself are very nice but very overpriced like everything in this area. They seemed to be understaffed in a couple of places, maintenance is 2 people, security is also hit or miss, they just hired another firm to supplement the 1 rent a cop they had on duty at night. We have had vehicles stolen and robbed in the secured garage. On the plus side the dog park is a great feature, and the pool area, and common areas are really nice. Location is awesome, and leasing staff is very friendly and helpful. BTW my rent is higher then your max weekly payment, welcome to the silicon valley.

REVIEW [] 
I have lived at M@M for about 8-9 months and it has been a rollercoaster. There are great things about this place. However, there are a lot of red flags as well. Pros: The maintenance staff and most of the leasing staff are absolutely wonderful. They are helpful, efficient, and very nice (to the extent they can help). I would like to particularly call out Andy in maintenance and Jenny and Monique in the leasing office. They have made my experience here much better than I would have had given everything else that happened (more about that in the cons). Andy went out of his way to help me during his off hours and made sure that a major emergency (repeated) was resolved in a timely manner (we are talking about helping me with a plumbing situation at 2am). Jenny made sure that my leasing agreement and monthly payments were properly adjusted after a lot of back and forth of what I was promised and what I kept getting in my statements. Monique helped me a lot, making sure that I was comfortable with moving to a new apartment (due to the plumbing incidents) and that all the paperwork was communicated to the manager in a timely fashion. So, yes, these three are key in having a good customer experience at this location. The facility itself is very nice and has great amenities. The pool is nice, quant, and clean. They have three fitness centers with some decent workout gear. Overall has a nice hotel feel. The security has gotten better and the place is pretty tightly managed with daily security guards after a few break-in incidents. Given the gentrification of the neighborhood, this is to be expected. Cons: The living conditions of some of these apartments are not optimal. There are plumbing issues to watch out for in the first floor (granted it is due to other tenants in the building dumping wipes and other items down the toilet) that causes flooding into some of the apartments. I recommend that you do not rent any apartments from 140-148 unless they can make changes. Three apartments have already been flooded on that floor. The staff at this place is doing their job. Overall, it is a pretty decent place (and yes I am saying this after being flooded) and the staff takes care of emergencies pretty efficiently. Just make sure you get all the facts of the apartment before signing up. If it weren't for so many incidents I would have given this place 5 stars coz the location, convenience, maintenance staff / leasing reps and price are comparable in this market.
