SOURCE: https://web.archive.org/web/20251120215244/https://www.apartments.com/sabine-denver-co/ny6p1fp/
SNAPSHOT: 2025-11-20 (Wayback Machine capture timestamp 20251120215244)
COMMUNITY: Sabine
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
NOTE: archived copy of the page; review dates are as displayed on the page; reviewer names removed.

REVIEW [6/11/24] Exemplary Living Experience: Sabine Apartments Sets the Gold Standard
I recently started my lease at Sabine Apartments on May 31st 2024, and I am absolutely thrilled with my decision. From the very first moment I called them in March 2024 while starting my apartment search, their friendliness and professionalism stood out. This initial and memorable positive interaction made choosing Sabine Apartments an easy decision. Megan and Steven were exceptional throughout the entire process. They cheerfully and patiently answered my questions, ensuring I felt comfortable and informed every step of the way. Steven, in particular, was impressively consistent in treating me with dignity and respect. Upon moving in, I felt incredibly welcomed. The apartments are top quality, offering a living experience that truly feels like the best in America. I was especially touched by the thoughtful warm welcome gift of a bottle of Chardonnay, beautifully adorned with a ribbon. Totally cute gesture. This modern, phenomenal and elite touch to my move-in experience made me feel valued and appreciated as a new resident. Overall, Sabine Apartments have set a high standard for what a rental experience should be, and exceeded my expectations in every way. If you are looking for a place that combines outstanding service, high-quality living spaces, and a welcoming leasing office team, look no further. I highly recommend Sabine Apartments! Five Stars all the way!

REVIEW [6/11/24] Great apartment and amazing staff!!
I loved Sabine from my first tour! Karla walked me around and her friendly professionalism and warm personality made a great first impression of the staff. When I came back to finalize moving in, Megan walked me through every detail patiently and thoroughly. A few days later when I was ready to move in, Steven ensured a smooth transition by answering my remaining questions about the apartments. While the apartment itself is amazing, it's truly the incredible office staff that sets Sabine apart. Anytime I have a need, the office team is always ready to help out fast. and that really gives me a great peace of mind while living here.

REVIEW [6/7/24] Happy
Great management team! I was having some problems with paperwork from another company while trying to move here, and Megan, (office manager) stayed on them until it was done. There are plugs everywhere, which helps tremendously. Spacious closets and bathrooms. The living room, and bedrooms are small, but the new appliances and cabinet space are great. I do wish there was closer parking to our unit. There are plenty of shops, restaurants, and gas stations close too.

REVIEW [6/7/24] AMAZING
This apartment complex is truly amazing, It is very spacious and comfortable. There is so much natural lighting. It’s just very beautiful inside and outside. From the beginning of the process, the staff was very knowledgeable, helpful friendly. I have had the pleasure of meeting all four of the staff members. Starting with Steven, He helped me through the application process because I had lots of questions wanted to keep viewing Apartments so I can remember what they look like, and he always had a smile on his face and accommodated me, And second was Megan, She is so nice and helpful, and cheerful, always smiling and laughing as she communicates with you she has a wonderful personality. I got to meet Karla She also is Very friendly and knowledgeable about the leasing process she helped me get my renters insurance together and made sure that that was all taken care of. And last Charles that is maintenance there was one little thing that was going on nothing serious, but he came resolved the issue the first time and no problems since then and he as well was very nice. He even put those blue things on his feet so he didn’t get my floor dirty lol, he was very pleasant to talk to as he fixed the issue that I had. So I want to say kudos to this apartment complex there is not one person here that is not helpful and that is happy to be at work with a smile on their face. One last thing I love how they know you by name when they see you. If you want to call any place home for a very long time, Sabine is the place to be.

REVIEW [3/8/24] New Tenant
I couldn't be extatic over the management team at Sabine. They all were involved and very communicative through the whole process. Being a new apartment complex still partially under construction, there were changes on a daily basis and I was kept informed of any that might affect me whether big or small. The apartment is new, clean and spacious. I'm so glad I decided to take the tour along with the dozen or so other apartments I reviewed. I am very confident in my choice.
