      EXHIBIT “A”

FY 2026-2027 CDBG AND HOME
     RECOMMENDATIONS
       EXHIBIT “B”

FY 2026-2027 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN
    FY 2026/27
ANNUAL ACTION PLAN
   Draft for Public Review
    April 3 – May 5, 2026




                       City of Huntington Beach
                 Community Enhancement Division
                                2000 Main Street
                     Huntington Beach, CA 92648
                                             CITY OF HUNTINGTON BEACH
                                            2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN
                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................................................................................................... 3
   AP-05 Executive Summary - 24 CFR 91.200(c), 91.220(b) ....................................................................... 3

   PR-05 Lead & Responsible Agencies 24 CFR 91.200(b) ........................................................................ 11

   AP-10 Consultation – 91.100, 91.110, 91.200(b), 91.300(b), 91.215(I) and 91.315(I) ............................... 12

   AP-12 Citizen Participation – 91.105, 91.115, 91.200(c) and 91.300(c) ................................................... 21

EXPECTED RESOURCES ......................................................................................................... 25
   AP-15 Expected Resources – 91.220(c)(1,2) ........................................................................................... 25

ANNUAL GOALS AND OBJECTIVES ........................................................................................ 28
   AP-20 Annual Goals and Objectives ...................................................................................................... 28

PROJECTS ............................................................................................................................ 32
   AP-35 Projects – 91.220(d) ..................................................................................................................... 32

   AP-38 Project Summary ......................................................................................................................... 34

   AP-50 Geographic Distribution – 91.220(f) ........................................................................................... 51

AFFORDABLE HOUSING ....................................................................................................... 53
   AP-55 Affordable Housing – 91.220(g) .................................................................................................. 53

   AP-60 Public Housing – 91.220(h).......................................................................................................... 54

   AP-65 Homeless and Other Special Needs Activities – 91.220(i)............................................................ 55

   AP-75 Barriers to affordable housing – 91.220(j) ................................................................................... 59

   AP-85 Other Actions – 91.220(k)............................................................................................................ 61

PROGRAM SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS ................................................................................... 65
   AP-90 Program Specific Requirements – 91.220(l)(1,2,4) .................................................................... 65




                            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                                                            2
                                  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

 AP-05 Executive Summary - 24 CFR 91.200(c), 91.220(b)

 Introduction

 The Huntington Beach 2025/26-2029/30 Consolidated Plan (“Con Plan”) constitutes the City's
 strategy for addressing its housing and community development needs utilizing federal
 entitlement funds. The goals are to assist low- and moderate-income persons, provide decent
 housing, create suitable living environments, and expand economic opportunities. Included
 in the Consolidated Plan are broad five-year objectives and strategies to accomplish these
 goals. Specific identifiable benchmarks for measuring progress in realizing the City’s strategy
 are proposed in the Annual Action Plans.

 The 2026/27 Annual Action Plan includes application for funds under two different HUD
 entitlement programs - Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) and the HOME
 Investment Partnership Program (HOME). Current year entitlements combined with
 reallocations and repayments from prior year activities (program income) bring the total
 funding for Program Year 2026/27 to just nearly $2.13 million. The following Annual Action Plan
 describes resources, programs, activities and actions Huntington Beach will undertake in FY
 2026/27 to implement its strategic plan and ultimately achieve its Consolidated Plan goals and
 objectives, summarized in the table on the following page.

     Consolidated Plan                                                                 Outcome/
                                                                        2026/27
      5-Year Priority              Implementing Programs                               Objective
                                                                         Goal
Households with Housing      ▪ Special Code Enforcement           750 Housing Units      SL-3
Problems                       ($220,607)
                             ▪ Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans     18 Housing Units       DH-1
                               and Grants Program ($479,818)
                             ▪ Families Forward Tenant Based      15 Households          DH-2
                                Rental Assistance Program
                                ($200,000)
                             ▪ Mercy House Tenant Based           7 Households           DH-2
                                Rental Assistance Program
                                ($100,000)
                             ▪ Mobile Home Tenant-Based           5 Households           DH-2
                                Rental Assistance Program
                                ($111,032.77)
                             ▪ Housing Services for TBRA          27 Housing Units       DH-2
                               ($210,000)
                             ▪ Affordable Housing Development     TBD Housing Units      DH-2
                               ($233,666.12)
Homelessness                 ▪ Pathways to Independence           40 Persons              SL-1
                               ($25,382)
                             ▪ Project Hope Alliance ($23,382)    105 Persons             SL-1
                             ▪ Robyne’s Nest ($27,382)            40 Persons              SL-1

                   HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                   3
                                   ▪ StandUp for Kids OC – Street          75 Persons          SL-1
                                      Outreach Program ($17,382)
Special Needs Populations          ▪ Senior Services Care Management       175 Persons         SL-1
                                      ($22,382)
                                   ▪ Save the Brave Offshore Fishing       250 Persons         SL-1
                                      Program ($17,382)
Priority Community Services        Youth Services
                                   ▪ All for Kids Organization (formerly   150 Persons         SL-1
                                      Children’s Bureau) ($30,382)
Priority Community and Public      ▪ No projects in FY 2026/27
Facilities
Priority Infrastructure            ▪   ADA Curb Cuts in Maintenance        2,277 Persons       SL-1
Improvements                           Zone 4 ($140,000)

Other Housing and Community        ▪ HOME Administration ($51,690.77)      Not Applicable     Not
Development Needs                  ▪ CDBG Administration ($218,233)        Not Applicable   Applicable



 Summary of the Objectives and Outcomes Identified in the Plan Needs Assessment
 Overview

 The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has established three
 predetermined objectives and outcomes designed to capture the range of community
 impacts that occur as a result of CDBG and HOME-funded programs. Each activity or program
 funded with CDBG or HOME must fall under one of three objectives and one of three
 outcomes. The framework of selecting these objectives and outcomes is known as HUD’s CPD
 Outcome Performance Measurement System. Here are the objectives and outcomes to
 choose from:

 Objectives
    • Creating Suitable Living Environments relates to activities that are designed to benefit
        communities, families, or individuals by addressing issues in their living environment,
        from physical problems with their environment to social issues.
    • Providing Decent Housing covers the wide range of housing activities where the
        purpose is to meet individual family or community housing needs.
    • Creating Economic Opportunities applies to activities related to economic
        development, commercial revitalization, or job creation.

 Outcomes
    • Availability/Accessibility applies to activities that make services, infrastructure, public
      services, public facilities, housing, or shelter available or accessible to low- and
      moderate-income people, including persons with disabilities.
    • Affordability applies to activities that provide affordability in a variety of ways to low-
      and moderate-income people and is appropriate to use whenever an activity is
      lowering the cost, improving the quality, or increasing the affordability of a product or
      service to benefit a low-income household.
                          HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                 4
   •   Sustainability applies to activities that are aimed at improving communities or
       neighborhoods, helping to make them livable or viable by providing benefit to persons
       of low- and moderate-income or by removing or eliminating slums or blighted areas,
       through multiple activities or services that sustain communities or neighborhoods.

The City of Huntington Beach has ambitious objectives for spending its federal entitlement
grant funding. The objectives are identified in the Consolidated Plan Needs Assessment which
was developed by reviewing census statistical data and building upon already adopted
planning documents, coupled with consultation with housing, homeless and service
providers, City Departments, and the public via community meetings, public hearings, and a
Community Needs Assessment Survey. The result was the formation of seven areas of priority
need, including:

   1. Housing Needs: The need for affordable housing options in the City continues to be
      high, based on the proportion of households in the City experiencing cost burdens.

   2. Community Facility Needs: The City recognizes the high need for public improvement
      activities throughout the City in order to provide for and maintain a safe and decent
      environment for its citizens. Identified community facility needs include, but are not
      limited to, parks and playgrounds, community and neighborhood facilities, and
      childcare and youth centers.

   3. Infrastructure Needs: The City recognizes the high need for public infrastructure
      improvements throughout the City in order to provide for and maintain a safe and
      decent environment for its citizens. Identified public infrastructure needs include, but
      are not limited to, sidewalk improvements, bicycle and walking paths, street and alley
      improvements, and tree planting and beautification.

   4. Homeless Needs: The is a high need for continued investment of federal funding into
      serving the City’s homeless and at risk of homelessness populations. Using CDBG
      public service funds, the City will provide assistance to homeless service providers that
      assist various subcategories of homeless populations such as homeless youth and
      women.

   5. Special Needs: Huntington Beach prioritizes housing and services for special needs
      populations. Special needs populations include the elderly, families with young
      children, developmentally disabled, victims of domestic violence, homeless individuals,
      and those with behavioral or physical health issues.

   6. Community Service Needs: There are a number of vital community services in the City
      that need continued support. These community services serve low- to moderate-
      income households and generally do not fall under the other service populations
      (homeless, special needs, etc.).

                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                5
   7. Other Housing and Community Development Needs: The City has identified the need
      to provide support for the HOME and CDBG programs in the City, as well as to
      affirmatively further fair housing. These activities are vital to the continuation of the
      City’s efforts to administer these programs.


Evaluation of Past Performance

HUD requires grantees to provide an evaluation of past performance. Because programs
included in the first year of the new Consolidated Plan (FY 2025/26) are still in progress, the
performance summary below reflects the City’s accomplishments during the most recently
completed Consolidated Plan period, covering FY 2020/21 through FY 2024/25.

Decent Housing
   • In FY 2020/21, the City of Huntington Beach allocated $2.8 million in HOME funding to
      support the development of a 43-unit affordable senior housing project at 18431 Beach
      Boulevard. This project, in partnership with the Community Housing Development
      Organization (CHDO) Jamboree Housing Corporation, is a significant step in
      addressing the housing needs of seniors. Of the 43 units, nine are HOME-income and
      rent-restricted, ensuring affordability for very-low-income households. The project
      was completed in December 2024 and contributes to nearly 50% of the City’s 20-unit
      development goal for the 2020/21-2024/25 Consolidated Plan period.

   •   Since July 2020, the City has allocated nearly $3 million in HOME funds for the Tenant-
       Based Rental Assistance (TBRA) program, which helps low- and moderate-income
       households with rental costs. This program has been instrumental in addressing
       housing affordability challenges and has assisted 262 households so far, showcasing
       its effectiveness in supporting vulnerable populations.

   •   The City’s Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans and Grants Program provides critical
       support to lower-income homeowners. The Rehabilitation Grant Program offers one-
       time grants of up to $20,000 for deferred maintenance and health/safety repairs, while
       the Rehabilitation Loan Program offers deferred payment loans up to $75,000 for
       larger repairs. To date, 63 homeowner rehabilitation projects have been completed
       through these programs, with more households currently being assisted in FY 2024/25.
       These efforts demonstrate the City’s ongoing commitment to supporting
       homeownership and preserving affordable housing for its residents.

Suitable Living Environment
    • The City's Special Code Enforcement program has consistently surpassed its goal of
       assisting 600 housing units each year in CDBG-eligible areas. Since July 2020, the
       program has issued over 5,578 code violations, which in most cases, are voluntarily
       addressed by homeowners. This proactive approach to maintaining community
       standards and ensuring safe and habitable living conditions, underscores the City's

                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                6
       commitment to ensuring compliance with housing standards and contributing to the
       overall well-being and livability of neighborhoods within CDBG-eligible areas.

   •   The City of Huntington Beach continues to prioritize the delivery of high-quality
       services to various segments of the community, including youth, homeless individuals,
       seniors, the disabled, and illiterate adults. These efforts are supported through public
       service funding and aim to improve the well-being and accessibility of essential
       services for residents.

       Since July 2020, the City has made significant progress in its public service initiatives.
       For example, over 867 youth have benefited from subsidized after-school
       programming, enriching their educational experiences and offering valuable
       opportunities for personal growth. Additionally, 2,829 homeless individuals have
       received a range of services, including case management, emergency housing,
       outreach services, and other supportive programs. These efforts highlight the City’s
       commitment to addressing homelessness and supporting vulnerable populations.

       Furthermore, 1,448 seniors and individuals with special needs have accessed services
       through the City’s Senior Care Services Program and the Oak View Family Literacy
       Program. These programs are designed to meet the specific needs of these groups,
       ensuring they receive the support and care they require. These initiatives reflect the
       City’s ongoing dedication to enhancing the lives of its residents and ensuring that all
       members of the community have access to the services they need.

   •   As part of its commitment to enhancing public facilities and community infrastructure,
       the City set a goal to assist 5,000 persons with improved or new public facilities during
       the 2020/21-2024/25 Consolidated Plan period. In FY 2023/24, the City allocated CDBG
       funding to the Central Library Restrooms Project, which includes ADA improvements.
       This project not only contributed to enhancing accessibility but also exceeded the goal
       by serving a larger number of individuals than initially targeted.

   •   The City used CDBG funding in FY 2020/21, 2021/22, FY 2023/24, and in FY 2024/25 to
       make ADA curb cut improvements in various areas of the City. By the end of FY 2024/25,
       9,312 persons benefited from the handicap-accessible curb cuts, surpassing the 5-year
       goal of 2,000.

Economic Opportunity
In 2024, the City of Huntington Beach updated its Economic Development Strategic Plan. The
City Council initiated this update to reinforce existing economic development efforts, address
current needs, and prioritize new initiatives. The plan provides a roadmap for strengthening
the local economy, creating jobs, and ensuring that Huntington Beach remains a vibrant and
welcoming place for businesses, residents, and visitors. A blend of new initiatives and
enhancements across four main areas are featured in the plan:

                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                  7
   •   Business Retention, Attraction & Expansion
   •   Tourism, Culture & Community
   •   Responsive & Effective Government
   •   Communication & Collaboration

The plan aims to enhance the City's economic vitality and quality of life by retaining and
attracting a diversified mix of businesses, strengthening tourism and cultural offerings,
growing the Streamline Surf City Initiative, and fostering stronger collaboration with local
stakeholders. Each area includes specific goals and objectives with actionable milestones, as
well as priorities for the upcoming year.

In addition, in October 2023, the City Council adopted the 2023-2027 Strategic Plan for the City
of Huntington Beach. This 2023-2027 Strategic Plan identifies various policies and programs
that the City should prioritize, over and above normal operations, within the limited financial,
human, and operational resources of the City. The goal of economic development is for
greater business retention, investment, and job growth in Huntington Beach.

Summary of citizen participation process and consultation process

The City developed its Con Plan through extensive consultation and coordination with
housing, social service and healthcare providers; public agencies; and the local public housing
agency as presented in Table 2. As a means of gaining input from these agencies, the City
conducted an agency consultation workshop, public meetings, a survey, and invited local
grantees to provide comments on the draft Con Plan and Annual Action Plan (“AAP”). In
addition, consultation in the development of the Con Plan involved several City departments.


                               Consulted Agencies and Organizations
  Families Forward                  Fair Housing Foundation       Literacy Volunteers
                                                                  Mental Health Association of
  StandUp for Kids                  Community SeniorServ          Orange County
  Oak View Family Resource          Open Arms Food Pantry and
  Center Children’s Bureau          Resource Center               Robyne’s Nest
  Pathways to Independence          Project Hope Alliance
                      City of Huntington Beach Departments and Commissions
  Huntington Beach Office of        Huntington Beach Community Huntington Beach Police
  Business Development              Services Department           Department
  Huntington Beach Public           Huntington Beach City Council Citizen Participation Advisory
  Works Department                                                Board (CPAB)
                                         Other Public Agencies
  Orange County Health Agency Orange County Housing
                                    Authority
                             Table 2 – Citizen Participation Consultation



                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                      8
The City of Huntington Beach has followed HUD guidelines for citizen and community
involvement in the preparation of its Con Plan and AAP. This process aims to ensure that the
community has an active role in shaping the documents, which will guide the allocation of
federal funding for housing and community development projects.

To encourage broad participation, the City engaged the public through various activities to
prepare the Con Plan and AAP, including:

   •   Agency Workshop
   •   Community Meetings
   •   Community Needs Survey
   •   Public Hearings

These efforts allowed residents and stakeholders to provide valuable input on the City's
priorities and needs.

A draft of the five-year Con Plan was available for public comment from April 4 to May 6, 2025.
During this period, the public had the opportunity to review and provide feedback on the draft
plan. Additionally, a City Council public hearing took place on May 6, 2025, offering a final
opportunity for residents and interested parties to comment on the plan before it was
formally adopted and submitted to HUD.

Citizen participation for the development of the 2026/27 AAP included a public comment
period from April 3 to May 5, 2026, during which residents and stakeholders could review the
draft APP and provide feedback. A City Council public hearing will also be held on May 5, 2026,
offering a final opportunity for input prior to adoption and submission to HUD. All comments
received have been incorporated into the AAP.

Summary of public comments

Public comments received at the agency workshop, community meetings, the results of the
community survey, and comments made at public hearing can be found in the Appendix.

Summary of comments or views not accepted and the reasons for not accepting them

The City responded to all relevant comments. All comments received were accepted.

Summary

Key findings of the Needs Assessment include:

   •   Housing overpayment is the most prevalent housing problem, with 76% of Huntington
       Beach's low and moderate income (<80% AMI) renter households facing a cost burden
       (>30% of income on housing costs), and 40% facing a severe cost burden (>50% of
                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                9
        income towards housing). Consultation with housing, homeless and public service
        providers identify the shortage of affordable rental housing as the most significant
        issue facing Huntington Beach's extremely low-, low- and moderate-income residents.

    •   Household overcrowding is a far less significant problem than overpayment in
        Huntington Beach though it has doubled in the last decade from 5% of all renters in
        2010 to 10% a decade later (as documented by 2007-2011 and 2016-2020 ACS1).
        However, certain neighborhoods continue to experience high levels of overcrowding.

    •   Many of the workers who make up Huntington Beach's workforce earn modest
        incomes, making it challenging to afford to in live in the City where they work. The
        analysis of rental housing costs and affordability illustrates that households earning
        extremely low, low and moderate incomes cannot afford average market rents in
        Huntington Beach. Local occupations priced out of the rental market include:
        bookkeepers, bus drivers, preschool teachers, retail sales managers, and food service
        managers.

    •   For homeless people or people at-risk of becoming homeless, the most significant
        problem is the lack of affordable rental housing. This problem has been compounded
        by record high rents combined with decreases in public funding previously used to
        support affordable housing.

    •   The City's Capital Improvement Program identifies the following general projects
        (within low- and moderate-income areas) in need of CDBG funds over the next five
        years:
                   ✓ American with Disabilities Act (ADA) improvements to public facilities
                   ✓ Sidewalk, curb and gutter improvements, including accessibility ramps
                   ✓ Main Street Library HVAC installation project
                   ✓ Critical repairs to police and fire stations throughout the City
                   ✓ Necessary improvements to the Oak View Library, Oak View Family
                      Resource Center, Central Library, and playground improvements at 9th
                      Street and Lagenbeck Parks




1
  The American Community Survey (ACS), performed by the U.S. Census Bureau, is an ongoing Census statistical
survey that samples a small percentage of the population every year, and publishes five-year averages of this data.
Many of the tables in the Consolidated Plan are "pre-populated" by HUD with data from the 2016-2020 ACS, and
thus the City has utilized the 2016-2020 ACS as the primary data source throughout the Plan.
                      HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                              10
PR-05 Lead & Responsible Agencies 24 CFR 91.200(b)

Describe agency/entity responsible for preparing the Consolidated Plan and those
responsible for administration of each grant program and funding source

The following are the agencies/entities responsible for preparing the Consolidated Plan and
Annual Action Plan (“Plan”), and those responsible for administration of each grant program
and funding source.

  Agency Role                    Name                             Department/Agency
  Lead Agency                    HUNTINGTON BEACH                 Community Enhancement Division
  CDBG Administrator             HUNTINGTON BEACH                 Community Enhancement Division
                                 Jennifer Villasenor, Community
                                 Development Director
  HOME Administrator             HUNTINGTON BEACH                 Community Enhancement Division
                                 Jennifer Villasenor, Community
                                 Development Director
                                 Table 3 – Responsible Agencies

Narrative

The Community Enhancement Division of the City of Huntington Beach serves as the lead
agency responsible for overseeing the development of both the Con Plan and the Annual
Action Plan. This division plays a crucial role in coordinating the allocation of funding for
various community development projects and initiatives. It is also responsible for monitoring
community-based organizations that receive funding, ensuring compliance with program
requirements, and managing the successful implementation of these projects. Additionally,
the division administers the CDBG and HOME programs, which support affordable housing
and other community development efforts. Beyond these responsibilities, the division also
oversees other housing and community development initiatives, ensuring that all efforts align
with the City’s goals and HUD guidelines. Through these activities, the Community
Enhancement Division plays a key role in fostering the growth and improvement of
Huntington Beach’s housing and community services.

Annual Action Plan Public Contact Information

Gregory Hoang
Senior Housing Analyst
City of Huntington Beach, Community Enhancement Division
2000 Main Street, 5th Floor
Huntington Beach, CA 92648
Phone: (714) 563-5473
Email: gregory.hoang@surfcity-hb.org



                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                11
AP-10 Consultation – 91.100, 91.110, 91.200(b), 91.300(b), 91.215(I) and 91.315(I)

Provide a concise summary of the jurisdiction’s activities to enhance coordination between
public and assisted housing providers and private and governmental health, mental health
and service agencies (91.215(I)).

The City of Huntington Beach developed its Con Plan through a collaborative process that
involved consultation with a wide range of stakeholders. These stakeholders included the
Orange County Housing Authority, various City departments, health and social service
providers, and neighboring local governments. A key part of this process was seeking input
from housing, homeless, and social service providers active within Huntington Beach.

To gather valuable insights, the City held an agency workshop to better understand the
services they offer, identify priority needs within the community, and pinpoint any gaps in
services. This workshop was an important tool for capturing the perspectives of organizations
that work directly with residents in need of housing assistance, homeless services, and other
social support.

By engaging a diverse group of stakeholders and utilizing surveys and consultations, the City
ensured that the Con Plan was shaped by the knowledge and experiences of those most
directly involved in addressing the community’s housing and social service needs. This
collaborative approach was essential in making sure the plan reflects the community’s
priorities, ultimately guiding the allocation of resources to effectively address the key
challenges Huntington Beach faces.

Describe coordination with the Continuum of Care and efforts to address the needs of
homeless persons (particularly chronically homeless individuals and families, families with
children, veterans, and unaccompanied youth) and persons at risk of homelessness

The City of Huntington Beach actively participates in the Orange County Continuum of Care
(CoC), which is led and coordinated by the Orange County Health Care Agency. This
partnership between public and nonprofit entities aims to ensure comprehensive and regional
coordination of efforts and resources to address homelessness and support individuals at risk
of homelessness throughout Orange County.

As part of the CoC, the City's Homeless Outreach Case Manager collaborates with other
stakeholders to promote community-wide commitment to the goal of ending homelessness.
The CoC serves as a regional convener of year-round planning processes and facilitates the
involvement of public and private agencies within the regional homeless system of care.

The Orange County Continuum of Care system is structured to achieve several key objectives:




                   HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                            12
   1. Promote Community-wide Commitment: The CoC fosters a shared commitment
      among stakeholders to end homelessness through regional coordination and
      collaboration.

   2. Advocate for Funding and Resources: It advocates funding and resources to support
      efforts aimed at quickly rehousing individuals experiencing homelessness while
      minimizing trauma and dislocation.

   3. Promote Access to Mainstream Programs: The CoC works to ensure that homeless
      individuals and families have access to and effectively utilize mainstream programs and
      services.

   4. Implement Best Practices: It promotes the implementation of best practices and
      evidence-based approaches to homeless programming and services to ensure
      effectiveness and efficiency.

By actively participating in the Orange County Continuum of Care, the City of Huntington
Beach contributes to the collective efforts aimed at addressing homelessness and improving
outcomes for individuals and families experiencing housing instability in the region.

Describe consultation with the Continuum(s) of Care that serves the jurisdiction's area in
determining how to allocate ESG funds, develop performance standards and evaluate
outcomes, and develop funding, policies and procedures for the administration of HMIS

Not applicable. The City of Huntington Beach does not receive ESG funds.

Describe Agencies, groups, organizations and others who participated in the process and
describe the jurisdiction’s consultations with housing, social service agencies and other
entities




                 HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                              13
                                                                                      How was the
                                                                              Agency/Group/Organization
                                                                              consulted and what are the
                                                                              anticipated outcomes of the
  Agency/Group/         Agency/Group/     What section of the Plan was    consultation or areas for improved
   Organization      Organization Type    addressed by Consultation?                 coordination?
City of Huntington   Other government    • Housing Need Assessment       Citizen Participation Advisory Board
Beach                - Local               Homeless Needs                (“CPAB”). The City of Huntington
                                           Homelessness Strategy         Beach will continue to maintain
                                         • Non-Homeless Special          strong relationships with service
                                           Needs Market Analysis         providers through the CPAB to help
                                         • Economic Development          implement the five-year strategy
                                         • Non-Housing Community         outlined in the Con Plan. The CPAB
                                           Development Strategy          plays a key role in ensuring that
                                         • Anti-Poverty Strategy         community input and collaboration
                                         • Lead-based Paint Strategy     remain central to the process of
                                                                         allocating resources and addressing
                                                                         the social service needs of the
                                                                         community.


Huntington Beach     Civic Leaders       •   Housing Need Assessment     Public hearings. Public hearings are
City Council                             •   Non-Homeless Special        a key component of the City’s
                                             Needs Market Analysis       process for ensuring that the Con
                                         •   Economic Development        Plan accurately reflects the needs
                                         •   Non-Housing Community       and priorities of the community. City
                                             Development Strategy        Council members, who represent
                                         •   Anti-Poverty Strategy       the needs of their constituents, play
                                                                         an important role in this process by
                                                                         incorporating community feedback
                                                                         into the Con Plan. The needs and
                                                                         priorities identified through public
                                                                         hearings, consultations, and surveys
                                                                         have been integrated into the Con
                                                                         Plan, ensuring that the City’s
                                                                         strategy addresses the most
                                                                         pressing concerns of residents.
                                                                         These public hearings provide a
                                                                         platform for community members to
                                                                         voice their opinions and influence
                                                                         the allocation of resources to meet
                                                                         the housing and social service needs
                                                                         of Huntington Beach. Through this
                                                                         process, the City ensures that the
                                                                         Con Plan is responsive to the
                                                                         community's evolving needs.




                       HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                      14
Huntington Beach     Grantee             •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
City Manager’s       Department          •   Public Housing Needs        survey, public input meeting, and
Office                                   •   Homeless Needs –            comment on the draft Plan.
                                             Chronically Homeless
                                         •   Homeless Needs – Families
                                             with Children
                                         •   Homeless Needs – Veterans
                                         •   Homeless Needs –
                                             Unaccompanied Youth
                                         •   Homelessness Strategy
                                         •   Non-Homeless Special
                                             Needs
                                         •   Market Analysis
                                         •   Non-Housing Community
                                             Development Strategy
                                         •   Anti-Poverty Strategy
                                         •   Lead-Based Paint Survey

City of Huntington   Grantee             •   Non-Homeless Special        Invitation to participate in the
Beach Community      Department              Needs                       survey, public input meeting, and
and Library                              •   Non-Housing Community       comment on the draft Plan.
Services             Services-Children       Development Strategy
Department           Services-
                     Education
                     Services-Elderly
                     Persons
Oak View Literacy    Grantee             •   Non-Homeless Special        Invitation to participate in the
Program              Department              Needs                       survey, public input meeting, and
                                         •   Non-Housing Community       comment on the draft Plan.
                     Services-               Development Strategy
                     Education           •   Anti-Poverty Strategy

Huntington Beach     Services-Elderly    •   Non-Homeless Special        Invitation to participate in the
Council on Aging     Persons                 Needs                       survey, public input meeting, and
                                                                         comment on the draft Plan.

Huntington Beach     Grantee             •   Homeless Needs –            Invitation to participate in the
Police               Department              Chronically Homeless        survey, public input meeting, and
Department                               •   Homeless Needs – Families   comment on the draft Plan.
                     Services-Homeless       with Children
                                         •   Homeless Needs – Veterans
                                         •   Homeless Needs –
                                             Unaccompanied Youth
                                         •   Homelessness Strategy

Huntington Beach     Grantee             •   Non-Housing Community       Invitation to participate in the
Public Works         Department              Development Strategy        survey, public input meeting, and
Department                                                               comment on the draft Plan.




                       HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                      15
Huntington Beach      Grantee               •   Non-Homeless Special        Invitation to participate in the
Senior Center         Department                Needs                       survey, public input meeting, and
                                                                            comment on the draft Plan.


Orange County         PHA                   •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
Housing Authority                           •   Public Housing Needs        survey, public input meeting, and
                                            •   Homeless Needs –            comment on the draft Plan.
                                                Chronically Homeless
                                            •   Homeless Needs – Families
                                                with Children
                                            •   Homeless Needs – Veterans
                                            •   Homeless Needs –
                                                Unaccompanied Youth
                                            •   Homelessness Strategy

Therapeutic           Services – Persons    •   Non-Homeless Special        Invitation to participate in the
Riding Center of      with Disabilities         Needs                       survey, public input meeting, and
Huntington Beach                                                            comment on the draft Plan.
Beach Cities          Services –            •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
Interfaith Services   Homeless              •   Homeless Needs –            survey, public input meeting, and
                                                Chronically Homeless        comment on the draft Plan.
                                            •   Homeless Needs – Families
                                                with Children
                                            •   Homeless Needs – Veterans
                                            •   Homeless Needs –
                                                Unaccompanied Youth
                                            •   Homelessness Strategy
                                            •   Non-Housing Community
                                                Development Strategy
Open Arms Food        Services – Children   •   Homeless Needs –            Invitation to participate in the
Pantry &              Services – Elderly        Chronically Homeless        survey, public input meeting, and
Resource Center       Persons               •   Homeless Needs – Families   comment on the draft Plan.
                      Services – Persons        with Children
                      with Disabilities     •   Homeless Needs – Veterans
                      Services -            •   Homeless Needs –
                      Homeless                  Unaccompanied Youth
                                            •   Homelessness Strategy
                                            •   Non-Homeless Special
                                                Needs
                                            •   Anti-Poverty Strategy
StandUP for Kids      Services-Homeless     •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
                                            •   Homeless Needs –            survey, public input meeting, and
                                                Unaccompanied Youth         comment on the draft Plan.
                                            •   Homelessness Strategy
Robyne's Nest         Services-Homeless     •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
                                            •   Homeless Needs –            survey, public input meeting, and
                                                Unaccompanied Youth         comment on the draft Plan.
                                            •   Homelessness Strategy




                        HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                        16
Families Forward    Housing             •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
                                        •   Homeless Needs – Families   survey, public input meeting, and
                    Services-Homeless       with Children               comment on the draft Plan.
                                        •   Homelessness Strategy
South County        Housing             •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
Outreach                                •   Homeless Needs –            survey, public input meeting, and
                    Services-Homeless       Chronically Homeless        comment on the draft Plan.
                                        •   Homeless Needs – Families
                                            with Children
                                        •   Homeless Needs – Veterans
                                        •   Homeless Needs –
                                            Unaccompanied Youth
                                        •   Homelessness Strategy
Fair Housing        Services-Fair       •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
Foundation          Housing             •   Public Housing Needs        survey, public input meeting, and
                                                                        comment on the draft Plan.
Assistance League   Services-Children   •   Non-Homeless Special        Invitation to participate in the
of Huntington       Services-Veterans       Needs                       survey, public input meeting, and
Beach               Services-           •   Non-Housing Community       comment on the draft Plan.
                    Education               Development Strategy
                                        •   Anti-Poverty Strategy
Mercy House         Housing             •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
                                        •   Homeless Needs –            survey, public input meeting, and
                    Services-Homeless       Chronically Homeless        comment on the draft Plan.
                                        •   Homeless Needs – Families
                                            with Children
                                        •   Homeless Needs – Veterans
                                        •   Homeless Needs –
                                            Unaccompanied Youth
                                        •   Homelessness Strategy
Interval House      Housing             •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
                                        •   Homeless Needs –            survey, public input meeting, and
                    Services-Homeless       Chronically Homeless        comment on the draft Plan.
                                        •   Homeless Needs – Families
                                            with Children
                                        •   Homeless Needs – Veterans
                                        •   Homeless Needs –
                                            Unaccompanied Youth
                                        •   Homelessness Strategy
Illumination        Housing             •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
Foundation                              •   Homeless Needs –            survey, public input meeting, and
                    Services-Homeless       Chronically Homeless        comment on the draft Plan.
                                        •   Homeless Needs – Families
                                            with Children
                                        •   Homeless Needs – Veterans
                                        •   Homeless Needs –
                                            Unaccompanied Youth
                                        •   Homelessness Strategy




                      HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                      17
Project Self-        Housing               •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
Sufficiency                                •   Homeless Needs – Families   survey, public input meeting, and
                     Services-Homeless         with Children               comment on the draft Plan.
                                           •   Homelessness Strategy
Orange County        Services-Fair         •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
Fair Housing         Housing               •   Non-Housing Community       survey, public input meeting, and
Council                                        Development Strategy        comment on the draft Plan.
Catalyst Kids        Services-Children     •   Non-Housing Community       Invitation to participate in the
                                               Development Strategy        survey, public input meeting, and
                                                                           comment on the draft Plan.
Project Hope         Services-Homeless     •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
Alliance                                   •   Homeless Needs – Families   survey, public input meeting, and
                                               with Children               comment on the draft Plan.
                                           •   Homeless Needs –
                                               Unaccompanied Youth
                                           •   Homelessness Strategy
New San Cai          Other                 •   Non-Housing Community       Invitation to participate in the
                     Government-State          Development Strategy        survey, public input meeting, and
                                                                           comment on the draft Plan.
The Priority         Services-Health       •   Non-Housing Community       Invitation to participate in the
Center                                         Development Strategy        survey, public input meeting, and
                                                                           comment on the draft Plan.
Amuse                Services-Children     •   Non-Housing Community       Invitation to participate in the
Foundation                                     Development Strategy        survey, public input meeting, and
                                                                           comment on the draft Plan.
Friendship Shelter   Housing               •   Housing Needs Assessment    Invitation to participate in the
                                           •   Homeless Needs –            survey, public input meeting, and
                     Services-Homeless         Chronically Homeless        comment on the draft Plan.
                                           •   Homeless Needs – Families
                                               with Children
                                           •   Homeless Needs – Veterans
                                           •   Homeless Needs –
                                               Unaccompanied Youth
                                           •   Homelessness Strategy

Straight Talk        Services-Health       •   Non-Housing Community       Invitation to participate in the
Counseling                                     Development Strategy        survey, public input meeting, and
                                                                           comment on the draft Plan.
Meals on Wheels      Services-Elderly      •   Non-Housing Community       Invitation to participate in the
OC                   Persons                   Development Strategy        survey, public input meeting, and
                                                                           comment on the draft Plan.
Pathways to          Services-Victims of   •   Non-Housing Community       Invitation to participate in the
Independence         Domestic Violence         Development Strategy        survey, public input meeting, and
                                                                           comment on the draft Plan.




                       HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                      18
Orange County    Civil Rights           •   Non-Housing Community         Invitation to participate in the
Congregation                                Development Strategy          survey, public input meeting, and
Community                                                                 comment on the draft Plan.
Organization
Orange County    Civil Rights           •   Non-Housing Community         Invitation to participate in the
Asian Pacific                               Development Strategy          survey, public input meeting, and
Islander                                                                  comment on the draft Plan.
Community
Alliance
                          Table 4 – Agencies, groups, organizations who participated

 Identify any Agency Types not consulted and provide rationale for not consulting

 The City of Huntington Beach diligently engaged in the development of its Consolidated Plan
 by consulting with a broad spectrum of stakeholders. These consultations included housing,
 social, and health service providers, as well as local agencies and governments, and the
 Orange County Housing Authority. By actively seeking input from these various entities, the
 City ensured that a comprehensive range of perspectives and expertise were considered in
 the planning process. The City is unaware of any Agency Types relevant to the Consolidated
 Plan that were not consulted.

 Other local/regional/state/federal planning efforts considered when preparing the
 Consolidated Plan

                                                                               How do the goals of your
                                                                           Strategic Plan overlap with the
           Name of Plan                        Lead Organization                  goals of each plan?
   Continuum of Care                 Orange County Health Care Agency,     Leadership and coordination of
                                     Office of Care Coordination           Orange County’s Continuum of
                                                                           Care planning process is led by
                                                                           the Orange Health Care
                                                                           Agency, Office of Care
                                                                           Coordination. The organization
                                                                           uses housing and demographic
                                                                           data obtained through HMIS
                                                                           and Homeless Counts to
                                                                           determine needs and to
                                                                           pinpoint gaps in housing and
                                                                           services. This in turn helps to
                                                                           pool and coordinate resources
                                                                           with the County and cities to
                                                                           develop coordinated homeless
                                                                           access and assessment centers.
                                                                           Huntington Beach participates
                                                                           in building the regional
                                                                           continuum of care to address
                                                                           the homeless and persons at
                                                                           risk of homelessness.


                   HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                           19
 Huntington Beach 2013-2021        City of Huntington Beach Planning        Key housing policies and
 Housing Element                   Division                                 programs from the 2013-2021
                                                                            Housing Element have been
                                                                            reflected within the Con Plan.

 Orange County Housing             Orange County Housing Authority          The purpose of OCHA’s
 Authority Administrative Plan     (OCHA)                                   Administrative Plan is to
                                                                            establish policies and
                                                                            procedures to implement the
                                                                            Section 8 Program in a manner
                                                                            consistent with HUD
                                                                            requirements and local
                                                                            objectives. The Con Plan
                                                                            reflects the policies set forth in
                                                                            the Administrative Plan.

 Multi-Family Submarket Report     CoStar Group                              The Multi-Family Submarket
 for Huntington Beach/Seal                                                   Report, prepared in August
 Beach                                                                       2024, provides real estate
                                                                             information and analytics on
                                                                             both multi-family rental and
                                                                             multi-family sales in Huntington
                                                                             Beach.
                         Table 5 – Other local / regional / federal planning efforts

Describe cooperation and coordination with other public entities, including the State and
any adjacent units of general local government, in the implementation of the Consolidated
Plan (91.215(l))

The City of Huntington Beach has notified adjacent jurisdictions, including Costa Mesa,
Fountain Valley, Seal Beach, Westminster, and the County of Orange, of the availability of its
draft Annual Action Plan for a 30-day public review and comment period.

The City coordinates with the local Continuum of Care (CoC) in implementing the Plan’s
homeless strategy, and with the Orange County Housing Authority in administering the
Housing Choice Voucher Program.




                    HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                              20
AP-12 Citizen Participation – 91.105, 91.115, 91.200(c) and 91.300(c)

Summary of citizen participation process/Efforts made to broaden citizen participation

The City followed HUD’s guidelines for citizen and community involvement in preparation of
the Consolidated Plan and Action Plan. To encourage citizen participation in the preparation
of the documents, the City undertook several activities as summarized below.

Housing and Community Development Needs Survey
In order to evaluate public opinion of specific housing and community development needs in
preparation of the 2025/26-2029/30 Consolidated Plan, the City utilized a Needs Survey (in
English and Spanish) in which the respondent was asked to rank the level of need for a
particular housing program, capital improvement and public infrastructure project, and public
service need.

Hard copies of the survey were distributed in various community locations within low- and
moderate-income neighborhoods and at the Senior Center and published on the City's
website. A total of 334 responses were received with the following results:

• Top Housing Needs include the construction of new or rehabilitation of existing affordable
  rental housing, property maintenance/code enforcement, and the development of
  affordable senior housing.

• Top  Capital    Improvement      Needs      include    parks          and     playgrounds,
  community/neighborhood centers, and childcare/youth centers.

• Top Infrastructure Improvement Needs include sidewalk improvements, bicycle and
  walking paths, street/alley improvements, and tree planting/beatification projects.

• Top Public Service Needs include anti-crime, homelessness, and domestic violence
  preventative and response services.

A copy of the Housing and Community Development Survey, along with the Needs Survey
Report can be found in the Appendix of the Con Plan.

Community Workshops
For the development of the Consolidated Plan, the City held two community workshops on
October 30, 2024, at Oak View Community Center and November 7, 2024, at Central Library.
The presentation covered CDBG and HOME programs, eligible funding uses, and current
funding uses, while also gathering public input on priority needs. Sixteen residents attended.




                   HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                             21
Stakeholders Workshop
As part of the preparation of the Consolidated Plan, on November 14, 2024, a stakeholders
meeting was convened with various agencies that provide services to Huntington Beach's
low- and moderate-income households, special needs populations, and homeless
populations. The discussion focused on identifying priority needs and gaps in the services
provided. A total of eight agencies participated in the meeting, including those offering fair
housing, tenant-based rental assistance, homelessness support, literacy programs, and other
public services.

FY 2026/27 Annual Action Plan Citizen Participation
The citizen participation plan implemented by the City of Huntington Beach for its federal
CDBG and HOME programs demonstrates a strong commitment to engaging residents in the
planning and implementation process. Here are the key highlights of the plan:

   1. Encouragement of Citizen Participation: All citizens of Huntington Beach are
      encouraged to participate in the planning, development, and implementation of the
      Annual Action Plan. This inclusive approach ensures that the voices of all community
      members, including those from diverse backgrounds and perspectives, are heard and
      considered in the decision-making process.

   2. Regular Contact with CDBG-Funded Organizations: Organizations receiving direct
      CDBG funding maintain regular contact with City staff. This ongoing communication
      facilitates collaboration and ensures that funded programs align with the goals and
      priorities outlined in the Annual Action Plan.

   3. Consultation with Other Organizations: Other organizations are consulted as needed
      or are present at various public hearings held by the City. This ensures that a broad
      spectrum of community stakeholders, beyond direct CDBG-funded organizations, have
      the opportunity to contribute their input and perspectives to the planning process.

   4. Notice of Public Hearings: A Notice of Public Hearing is published at least 15 days prior
      to each hearing to provide residents with adequate notice. This ensures transparency
      and allows residents to plan and participate in the hearings effectively.

   5. Public Comment Period: A draft of the Annual Action Plan was made available for
      public comment for a minimum of 30 days (April 3 – May 5, 2026), allowing residents
      ample time to review the plan and provide feedback. This extended comment period
      demonstrates a commitment to soliciting and considering public input before
      finalizing the plan.

   6. Public Hearings: Two public hearings are held each year by the City to discuss issues
      related to the Consolidated Plan and the Annual Action Plan. These hearings provide
      citizens with multiple opportunities to engage in the planning process, offer feedback
      on draft plans, and raise any concerns or questions they may have. This ensures that

                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                               22
            elected representatives hear directly from the community before making decisions on
            the Annual Action Plan.


    Summarize citizen participation process and how it impacted goal-setting

    Citizen Participation Outreach
                                                                                 Summary of comments
 Sort    Mode of     Target of        Summary of              Summary of             not accepted        URL (If
Order    Outreach    Outreach    response/attendance       comments received          and reasons      applicable)
1       Newspaper   Non-         A newspaper               No comments           None
        Ad          targeted /   advertisement was         received.
                    broad        published on 01/01/26
                    community    notifying interested
                                 persons of a public
                                 hearing on needs
                                 and priorities on
                                 1/15/26.
2       Public      Non-         The Citizen               See attached          None
        Hearing     targeted /   Participation             results in Appendix
                    broad        Advisory Board            C.
                    community    (CPAB), a group of
                                 appointed
                                 Huntington Beach
                                 citizens, held a public
                                 hearing on 1/15/26 to
                                 solicit input on
                                 housing and
                                 community
                                 development needs
                                 and to report on FY
                                 2024/25 AAP
                                 accomplishments.
3       Community   Non-         The CPAB held two         See attached          None
        Meeting     targeted /   public meetings on        results in Appendix
                    broad        1/29/26 and on            C.
                    community    2/19/26 to allow
                                 presentations from
                                 local agencies and
                                 for recommended
                                 CDBG funding in
                                 2026/27.
4       Community   Non-         A joint CPAB and City     See attached          None
        Meeting     targeted /   Council study session     results in Appendix
                    broad        was held on 3/17/26       C.
                    community    to go over CPAB
                                 funding
                                 recommendations.




                       HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                       23
                                                                                Summary of comments
 Sort    Mode of     Target of        Summary of               Summary of           not accepted        URL (If
Order    Outreach    Outreach    response/attendance comments received               and reasons      applicable)
5       Newspaper   Non-         A newspaper              See attached          None
        Ad          targeted /   advertisement will       results in Appendix
                    broad        post soliciting public   C.
                    community    comment on the
                                 draft FY 2026/27
                                 Action Plan and to
                                 notify the public of a
                                 public hearing to
                                 adopt the Plan on
                                 5/5/26. The public
                                 notice will be
                                 published on 4/2/26.
6       Public      Non-         The City Council will    See attached          None
        Hearing     targeted /   hold a public hearing results in Appendix
                    broad        to adopt the FY          C.
                    community    2026/27 Action Plan
                                 on 5/5/26.
                                     Table 6 – Citizen Participation Outreach




                       HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                      24
                                 EXPECTED RESOURCES

AP-15 Expected Resources – 91.220(c)(1,2)

Introduction

Huntington Beach is an entitlement jurisdiction and as such, will receive $1,091,165 in CDBG
entitlement funds, will have approximately $308,167 in prior year CDBG funds carried forward,
and is estimated to receive around $33,000 in program income for a total of $1,432,332. The
City does not have any income from float-funded activities or surplus from urban renewal
settlements, sale of real property, prior period adjustments, loans outstanding or written off,
CDBG-acquired property available for sale, or lump sum drawdown payments. Nor is the City
funding any “urgent need activities.” CDBG funds will be used for public services, housing
services in support of eligible HOME activities, a homeowner rehabilitation program, code
enforcement, infrastructure improvements, and CDBG administration.

The City will also receive a HOME entitlement allocation of $516,907.66. The City does not have
any unallocated prior-year funds to reprogram for activities in FY 2026/27 and does not
anticipate receiving any program income during the program year. However, the City does
have $179,482 in Community Housing Development Organization (CHDO) reserve funds that
will be carried over to FY 2026/27 for use on a future affordable housing project. This brings
the total HOME funding for FY 2026/27 to $696,389.66.

The City plans to use HOME allocation funds for program administration and three tenant-
based rental assistance programs and will reserve at least 15% for a future affordable housing
project. The City also proposes using prior years HOME administrative funds to support
current-year fair housing services.

SB-2, also known as the Permanent Local Housing Allocation funding, was implemented in
January 2019. It imposes an additional recording fee on property sales, with the aim of
collecting revenues that are then distributed by the state to local jurisdictions. These funds
are earmarked for financing affordable housing projects and homeless prevention activities.
Huntington Beach is set to receive annual revenues from this source, but it's contingent upon
the certification of the 2021-2029 Housing Element by the State of California. Once the
Housing Element is certified, Huntington Beach can continue to access these funds. This
funding serves as a crucial resource that can be utilized to complement CDBG and HOME
funds, particularly in addressing issues related to affordable housing and homelessness within
the community. Leveraging these various funding sources can significantly bolster efforts to
combat housing insecurity and homelessness in Huntington Beach.



                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                               25
    The Huntington Beach Housing Authority also contributes approximately $220,000 annually
    from the Low- and Moderate-Income Housing Asset Fund (LMIHAF) for homeless services
    personnel as part of the City’s Homeless Taskforce effort.

    The City will pursue competitive public and private grants for the development and
    preservation of programs, housing, and services and work to support legislation that
    promotes funding for future affordable housing during the Consolidated Plan period.

    Anticipated Resources

                                               Expected Amount Available Year 2               Expected
                                                                                              Amount
                                                                                              Available
          Source                          Annual     Program     Prior Year                  Remainder
             of                        Allocation:   Income:     Resources:       Total:     of ConPlan      Narrative
Program    Funds     Uses of Funds          $            $           $              $             $         Description
CDBG      Public-   Acquisition,       $1,091,165    $33,000     $308,167     $1,432,332    $3,232,656      Entitlement
          Federal   Planning,                                                                               funds
                    Economic                                                                                allocation
                    Development,                                                                            plus
                    Housing,                                                                                estimated
                    Public                                                                                  program
                    Improvements,                                                                           income
                    Public Services                                                                         plus prior-
                                                                                                            year
                                                                                                            resources.
HOME      Public-   Acquisition,       $516,907.66   $0          $179,482     $696,389.66   $1,507,615.38   Entitlement
          Federal   Homeowner                                                                               allocation
                    Rehab,                                                                                  plus
                    Multifamily                                                                             estimated
                    rental new                                                                              program
                    construction,                                                                           income and
                    Multifamily                                                                             prior-year
                    rental rehab,                                                                           resources.
                    New
                    construction
                    for ownership,
                    TBRA
                                      Table 7 - Expected Resources – Priority Table

    Explain how federal funds will leverage those additional resources (private, state and local
    funds), including a description of how matching requirements will be satisfied

    Federal funds play a vital role in implementing the Consolidated Plan. Since local, private, and
    non-federal resources are often insufficient to meet the community's demand for housing and
    services, agencies receiving CDBG and HOME funds rely on substantial financial and in-kind
    support from individuals, foundations, and private organizations to address the needs
    outlined in the plan.

                         HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                          26
Additionally, the City leverages other resources from formula grant programs. For instance,
the HOME program is supported by a range of funding sources, including private and public
investments, as well as low-income housing tax credits. Other potential matching funds
include inclusionary housing in-lieu fees, residual receipts from former Redevelopment
Agency loans, and State SERAF loan repayments from former Redevelopment Low/Mod
Housing Funds.

Historically, the City has used former redevelopment tax increment funds and surplus
contributions from the Redevelopment Agency to meet the 25% match requirement for HOME
funds. Although redevelopment tax increment funds are no longer available for future
matches, the City continues to use the surplus for this purpose. As of September 2024, the
latest information available, the surplus stands at approximately $3,603,310.56, providing a
valuable resource for meeting match requirements and supporting affordable housing
development.

If appropriate, describe publicly owned land or property located within the jurisdiction that
may be used to address the needs identified in the plan

The City Council approved the acquisition of property at 17631 Cameron Lane, which was
developed as an emergency homeless shelter to address the needs of the homeless
population. This aligns with the priority need identified in the previous 2020/21–2024/25
Consolidated Plan and continues to be a priority in the 2025/26–2029/30 Consolidated Plan.




                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                             27
                                       ANNUAL GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

         AP-20 Annual Goals and Objectives

         Goals Summary Information

 Sort                   Start   End                   Geographic      Needs
Order     Goal Name     Year    Year     Category        Area       Addressed   Funding    Goal Outcome Indicator
  1      Sustain and    2026    2027    Affordable   Special Code    Priority   $220,607        Housing Code
         Strengthen                      Housing     Enforcement     Housing     (CDBG)    Enforcement/Foreclosed
        Neighborhoods                                    Area         Needs                     Property Care:
                                                                                           750 Household Housing
                                                                                                     Unit
                                                                                                 (Special Code
                                                                                                Enforcement)

                                       Non-Housing     Citywide                 $479,818         Rental Units
                                        Community                                (CDBG)         Rehabilitated:
                                       Development                                          18 Household Housing
                                                                                                     Unit
                                                                                                 (Homeowner
                                                                                           Rehabilitation Loans and
                                                                                               Grants Program)




                            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                               28
2     Preserve        2026   2027   Affordable   Citywide     Priority    $200,000      Tenant-Based Rental
      Existing &                     Housing                  Housing      (HOME             Assistance
     Create New                                                Needs                       15 Households
     Affordable                                                                        (Families Forward TBRA
       Housing                                                                                Program)

                                                                          $100,000      Tenant-Based Rental
                                                                          (HOME)             Assistance
                                                                                           7 Households
                                                                                         (Mercy House TBRA
                                                                                             Program)

                                                                         $111,032.77    Tenant-Based Rental
                                                                          (HOME)             Assistance
                                                                                           5 Households
                                                                                         (Mobile Home TBRA
                                                                                             Program)

                                                                          $210,000             Other
                                                                           (CDBG)         27 Housing Units
                                                                                        (Housing Services for
                                                                                               TBRA)

                                                                         $233,666.12        Rental Units
                                                                           (HOME)          Constructed –
                                                                                          TBD Household
                                                                                           Housing Units
                                                                                        (Affordable Housing
                                                                                           Development)


3   Support Efforts   2026   2027   Homeless     Citywide     Priority    $93,528      Public service activities
      to Address                                             Homeless     (CDBG)              other than
     Homelessness                                             Needs                    Low/Moderate Income
                                                                                           Housing Benefit:
                                                                                        260 Persons Assisted
                                                                                             (Pathways to
                                                                                         Independence = 40
                                                                                        persons; Project Hope
                                                                                        Alliance = 105 persons;
                                                                                         Robyne’s Nest = 40
                                                                                        persons; StandUp for
                                                                                           Kids =75 persons)




                         HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                              29
4     Support         2026   2027   Non-Homeless       Citywide        Priority        $39,764       Public service activities
    Agencies that                   Special Needs                   Special Needs      (CDBG)                other than
    Assist Special                                                                                   Low/Moderate Income
       Needs                                                                                             Housing Benefit:
     Populations                                                                                      425 Persons Assisted
                                                                                                      (Senior Outreach Care
                                                                                                        Management = 175
                                                                                                    persons; Save the Brave
                                                                                                         Offshore Fishing
                                                                                                    Program = 250 persons)
5       Increase      2026   2027   Non-Housing        Citywide        Priority        $30,382       Public service activities
       Access to                     Community                       Community         (CDBG)                other than
      Community                     Development                       Services                       Low/Moderate Income
      Services for                                                                                       Housing Benefit:
        Low- and                                                                                      150 Persons Assisted
       Moderate-                                                                                            (All for Kids
         Income                                                                                         Organization = 150
         Persons                                                                                              persons)
6        Provide      2026   2027   Non-Housing        Citywide          Priority     $140,000           Public Facility or
         Needed                      Community                       Infrastructure    (CDBG)       Infrastructure Activities
     Infrastructure                 Development                     Improvements                             other than
    Improvements                                                                                     Low/Moderate Income
                                                                                                         Housing Benefit:
                                                                                                    5,000 Persons Assisted
                                                                                                       (ADA Curbs Cuts and
                                                                                                      Ramps in MZ 4 = 2,277
                                                                                                              persons)
7   Planning for      2026   2027   Administration     Citywide     Priority Other     $218,233          Not Applicable.
    Housing and                                                     Housing and        (CDBG)             (CDBG Program
     Community                                                       Community                           Administration)
    Development                                                     Development
                                                                        Needs         $51,690.77       Not Applicable.
                                                                                       (HOME)          (HOME Program
                                                                                                     Administration; Fair
                                                                                                     Housing Foundation)
                                              Table 8 – Goals Summary

    Goal Descriptions

                       Goal Name                                         Goal Description
       Sustain and Strengthen Neighborhoods          Using CDBG funds, the City will sustain and strengthen
                                                     neighborhoods by eliminating unsafe conditions and blight
                                                     while improving the quality of life of residents within the
                                                     community.

                                                     (Projects:   Special   Code     Enforcement;    Homeowner
                                                     Rehabilitation Loans and Grants Program)




                         HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                            30
Preserve Existing and Create New             To the extent possible, based upon the availability of funds
Affordable Housing                           and a project’s viability, HOME funds will be used to assist
                                             affordable housing developers in the acquisition,
                                             construction and/or rehabilitation of low-income rental
                                             and/or owner housing units, and in the provision of tenant-
                                             based rental assistance (TBRA).

                                             [Projects: Mercy House TBRA, Families Forward TBRA, Mobile
                                             Home TBRA, and Housing Services for TBRA; Affordable
                                             Housing Development (CR)]
Support Efforts to Address Homelessness      Using CDBG public service funds, the City will provide
                                             assistance to homeless service providers.

                                             (Projects: Pathways to Independence, Project Hope Alliance,
                                             Robyne’s Nest, StandUp for Kids Street Outreach)
Support Agencies that Assist Special Needs   Using CDBG public service funds, the City will provide
Populations                                  assistance to special needs service providers.

                                             (Project: Senior Outreach Care Management; Save the Brave
                                             Offshore Fishing Program)
Increase Access to Community Services for    Using CDBG public service funds, the City will provide
Low- and Moderate-Income Persons             assistance to various social service agencies for programs for
                                             youth, fair housing, anti-crime, and general public services.
                                             Services must benefit at least 51 percent low/mod persons.

                                             (Project: All for Kids Organization)
Provide Needed Infrastructure                Using CDBG funds, the City will provide financial assistance to
Improvements                                 improve public infrastructure.

                                             (Projects: ADA Curb Cuts and Ramps; TBD Public Infrastructure
                                             Project)
Planning for Housing and Community           The City will conduct the following administration/planning
Development                                  activities: (1) General Administration of CDBG and HOME
                                             Program, including preparation of budget, applications,
                                             certifications and agreements, (2) Coordination of CDBG-
                                             funded capital improvement projects, (3) Coordination of
                                             Public Service Subrecipients, (4) Coordination of HOME-
                                             funded housing projects, (5) Monitoring of CDBG and HOME
                                             projects/programs to ensure compliance with federal
                                             regulations, (6) Preparation of Annual Action Plan, and (7)
                                             Preparation of the CAPER. Up to 20% of the annual CDBG
                                             entitlement and up to 10% of the HOME entitlement is
                                             allowed for administration activities.

                                             (Projects: CDBG Program Administration; HOME Program
                                             Administration; Fair Housing Foundation)
                            Table 9 – Annual Action Plan Goal Descriptions




                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                            31
                                         PROJECTS

AP-35 Projects – 91.220(d)

Introduction

The City plans to undertake the following CDBG and HOME-funded activities during FY 2026/27
to address its priority housing and community development needs. All proposed activities are
eligible and meet program service targets. Additionally, the City of Huntington Beach has not
exceeded any of its maximum allocations for CDBG public services, CDBG administration, or
HOME administration. With an estimated CDBG allocation of $1,091,165, the City of Huntington
Beach will allocate $163,674 for public services, representing almost 15% of the CDBG
entitlement, the max allowable. This Action Plan proposes to allocate the following to 2026/27
public services: Pathways to Independence ($25,382); Project Hope Alliance ($23,382);
Robyne’s Nest ($27,382); StandUp for Kids ($17,382); Senior Outreach Care Management
($22,382); All for Kids Organization (formerly Children’s Bureau) ($30,382); and Save the Brave
Offshore Fishing Program ($17,382). CDBG regulations also permit a maximum allocation of
20% of the annual entitlement, or $218,233, for CDBG administration activities. The City has
allocated this entire amount to CDBG Administration. Lastly, a maximum of 10% of the annual
HOME entitlement, $51,690.77, will be allocated to HOME Program Administration in FY
2026/27.

Consistent with the City’s Citizen Participation Plan for 2025/26-2029/30, the Annual Action
Plan may contain a list of “back-up” projects to be activated during the given program year
due to one or more of the following circumstances:

    •   Additional funding becomes available during the program year from the close out of
        current projects that were completed under budget.

    •   More program income becomes available than originally estimated and budgeted in
        the Annual Action Plan.

    •   If, during the development of the Annual Action Plan, the City of Huntington Beach
        has not definitively decided which public facility or infrastructure improvement
        project to fund, the City may opt to categorize each option as a “back-up” project until
        further project and budget planning is performed. Initiation and funding of one or
        more of the “back-up” projects would not constitute a substantial amendment as
        defined in the Citizen Participation Plan. Preferential consideration will be given to
        those projects that demonstrate the ability to spend CDBG funds in a timely manner,
        consistent with the City’s goal to meet CDBG timeliness rules, as well as those projects
        that meet the needs of the community as defined in the Consolidated Plan.



                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                32
Projects

           #      Project Name
           1      Special Code Enforcement
           2      Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans and Grants Program
           3      Families Forward Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program
           4      Mercy House Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program
           5      Mobile Home Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program
           6      Housing Services for Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program
           7      Affordable Housing Development CHDO Reserve (CR) Funds
           8      Pathways to Independence
           9      Project Hope Alliance
           10     Robyne’s Nest
           11     StandUp for Kids Street Outreach
           12     Senior Center Care Management
           13     Save the Brave Offshore Fishing Program
           14     Oak View Community Center – All for Kids Organization
                  (formerly the Children’s Bureau)
           15     ADA Improvements in Maintenance Zone 4
           16     CDBG Administration
           17     HOME Program Administration
                                 Table 10 – Project Information

Describe the reasons for allocation priorities and any obstacles to addressing underserved
needs

The highest priority is given to the needs of the lowest-income residents, recognizing their
increased vulnerability to displacement, homelessness, and other severe housing challenges
due to limited financial resources and various other hardships they may face.

The Consolidated Plan highlights several barriers to addressing underserved needs, including
the persistent high demand for public services and the insufficient funding available to meet
the community’s needs, particularly in housing. This plan allocates resources specifically
aimed at overcoming these challenges.




                  HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                             33
    AP-38 Project Summary

    Project Summary Information

1    Project Name                                         Special Code Enforcement
     Target Area                                          Special Code Enforcement Target Area
     Goals Supported                                      Sustain and Strengthen Neighborhoods
     Needs Addressed                                      Priority Housing Needs
     Funding                                              CDBG: $220,607
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.202 (c) - Code
                                                          Enforcement
                                                          National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208 (a)(1) - Low
                                                          Mod Area Benefit

                                                          Funding will be used to support two (2) full-time Code
                                                          Enforcement Officers (CEO) to support code
                                                          enforcement in the Special Code Enforcement Target
                                                          Area. As the City ages, certain areas within the City of
                                                          Huntington Beach need ongoing, proactive property
                                                          maintenance inspections by code enforcement to
                                                          maintain a safe, habitable living environment. Thus, with
                                                          continued code enforcement efforts and education, the
                                                          quality of life and housing standards are maintained. The
                                                          Special Code Enforcement Program benefits the
                                                          community overall by working to upgrade the housing
                                                          stock within deteriorating/deteriorated areas.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2027
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   750 housing units
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Special Code Enforcement Target Area
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                        HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                       34
2   Project Name                                         Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans and Grants Program
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Sustain and Strengthen Neighborhoods
    Needs Addressed                                      Priority Housing Needs
    Funding                                              CDBG: $479,818
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.202 - Housing/Rehab:
                                                         Single Unit Residential
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(3) - Low
                                                         Mod Housing Benefit

                                                         The Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans and Grants
                                                         Program assists lower-income households with much-
                                                         needed home repairs and improvements. Available to
                                                         eligible homeowners is a $75,000 loan to pay
                                                         rehabilitation costs for a single-family home, town home,
                                                         or condominium. The City charges a 3% simple interest.
                                                         Repayment of the loan is deferred until the home is sold,
                                                         transferred, or refinanced.

                                                         The City also offers a one-time grant not to exceed
                                                         $20,000 to low-income homeowners for deferred
                                                         maintenance and health and safety-related household
                                                         repairs. Qualified households may include owners of
                                                         mobile homes.

                                                         The Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans and Grants
                                                         Program will also fund operation costs associated with
                                                         the implementation program.
    Target Date                                          6/30/2027
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   18 housing units
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                       HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                       35
3   Project Name                                         Families Forward Tenant-Based Rental Assistance
                                                         (TBRA) Program
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Preserve Existing and Create New Affordable Housing
    Needs Addressed                                      Priority Housing Needs
    Funding                                              HOME: $200,000
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 92.205(a)(1) – Tenant Based
                                                         Rental Assistance
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(3) - Low
                                                         Mod Housing Benefit

                                                         Families Forward will continue administering a Tenant
                                                         Based Rental Assistance Program with a goal of assisting
                                                         15 households with short and medium-term rental
                                                         assistance as well as housing relocation and stabilization
                                                         services.
    Target Date                                          06/30/2027
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   15 households
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                       HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                        36
4   Project Name                                         Mercy House Tenant-Based Rental Assistance (TBRA)
                                                         Program
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Preserve Existing and Create New Affordable Housing
    Needs Addressed                                      Priority Housing Needs
    Funding                                              HOME: $100,000
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 92.205(a)(1) – Tenant Based
                                                         Rental Assistance
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(3) - Low
                                                         Mod Housing Benefit

                                                         Mercy House will continue administering a Tenant
                                                         Based Rental Assistance Program with a goal of
                                                         assisting 7 households with short and medium-term
                                                         rental assistance as well as housing relocation and
                                                         stabilization services.
    Target Date                                          06/30/2027
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   7 households
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                       HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                       37
5   Project Name                                         Mobile Home Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Preserve Existing and Create New Affordable Housing
    Needs Addressed                                      Priority Housing Needs
    Funding                                              HOME: $111,032.77
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 92.205(a)(1) – Tenant Based
                                                         Rental Assistance
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(3) - Low
                                                         Mod Housing Benefit

                                                         The City of Huntington Beach will offer a Mobile Home
                                                         Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program to seniors (age
                                                         62+) with at least one year of mobile home residency.
                                                         The homeowners must also be very low income (50%
                                                         area median income) or below and preference will be
                                                         given to veterans, extremely low income, or to seniors
                                                         who are severely cost burdened (paying over 50% of their
                                                         income on housing). The program proposes assisting 5
                                                         households with much needed rental assistance.
    Target Date                                          06/30/2027
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   5 households
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                       HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                      38
6   Project Name                                         Housing Services for Tenant-Based Rental Assistance
                                                         (TBRA) Program
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Preserve Existing and Create New Affordable Housing
    Needs Addressed                                      Priority Housing Needs
    Funding                                              CDBG: $210,000
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201 (k) – Housing Services
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(3) - Low
                                                         Mod Housing Benefit

                                                         The City will allocate $210,000 in CDBG funds to be used
                                                         to pay costs in support of activities eligible for funding
                                                         under the HOME program. This activity will fund services
                                                         such as housing counseling in connection with tenant-
                                                         based rental assistance, inspections, tenant selection,
                                                         and management of the three Huntington Beach Tenant
                                                         Based Rental Assistance Programs.
    Target Date                                          06/30/2027
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   27 households
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                       HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                         39
7   Project Name                                         Affordable Housing Development CHDO Reserve
                                                         Funds
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Not Applicable
    Needs Addressed                                      Not Applicable
    Funding                                              HOME: 233,666.12
    Description                                          HOME Funds available for the development of
                                                         affordable housing with a local CHDO.
    Target Date                                          6/30/2027
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   To be determined.
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide.
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                        HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                          40
8   Project Name                                         Pathways to Independence
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Support Efforts to Address Homelessness
    Needs Addressed                                      Priority Homeless Needs
    Funding                                              CDBG: $25,382
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201 (c) - Operating Costs
                                                         of Homeless/AIDS Patients Programs
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208 (a)(2) -
                                                         Low/Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                         The mission of Pathways to Independence is to
                                                         transform the lives of single young women from
                                                         disadvantaged backgrounds through education,
                                                         therapy, mentoring, housing, and healthcare, to break
                                                         the cycle of poverty and abuse. Pathways to
                                                         Independence plans to utilize City of Huntington Beach
                                                         CDBG funds to support a residential program, which
                                                         empowers low-income young women with the financial
                                                         security to complete their college education and achieve
                                                         upward mobility. Support from the City of Huntington
                                                         Beach CDBG Program will offset expenses to support
                                                         program staff, utilities, and transportation costs for
                                                         clients and case managers.

    Target Date                                          6/30/2027
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   40 persons (homeless)
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                        HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                       41
9   Project Name                                         Project Hope Alliance
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Support Efforts to Address Homelessness
    Needs Addressed                                      Priority Homeless Needs
    Funding                                              CDBG: $23,382
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201 (c) - Operating Costs
                                                         of Homeless/AIDS Patients Programs
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208 (a)(2) -
                                                         Low/Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                         PHA's mission is to "end the cycle of homelessness, one
                                                         child at a time." PHA utilizes a unique program
                                                         methodology - placing full time, professional case
                                                         managers directly on school campus for the purpose of
                                                         serving the educational and social-emotional needs of
                                                         students experiencing homelessness. Project Hope
                                                         Alliance has continued their work at Huntington Beach
                                                         High School, Valley Vista High School, Westminster High
                                                         School and Ocean View High School. PHA continues to
                                                         host four case managers at our four partner HBUHSD
                                                         schools to work with students experiencing
                                                         homelessness, providing intensive, individualized, and
                                                         long-term care that includes resources for academic
                                                         guidance, social-emotional mentorship, transportation,
                                                         technology, basic needs, and
                                                         external referrals for additional needs.
    Target Date                                          6/30/2027
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   105 persons (homeless)
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Project Hope Alliance is located in Costa Mesa, CA;
                                                         however, services will be offered at various schools in
                                                         Huntington Beach, including:
                                                         Huntington Beach High School: 1905 Main Street,
                                                         Huntington Beach, CA 92648
                                                         Valley Vista High School: 9600 Dolphin Street, Fountain
                                                         Valley, CA 92708
                                                         Westminster High School, 14325 Goldenwest St.,
                                                         Westminster CA 92683
                                                         Oceanview High School: 17071 Gothard Street,
                                                         Huntington Beach, CA 92647
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                         HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                      42
10   Project Name                                         Robyne’s Nest
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Support Efforts to Address Homelessness
     Needs Addressed                                      Priority Homeless Needs
     Funding                                              CDBG: $27,382
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201 (c) - Operating Costs
                                                          of Homeless/AIDS Patients Programs
                                                          National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208 (a)(2) -
                                                          Low/Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                          The mission of Robyne's Nest is to identify at-risk and
                                                          homeless high school students and provide them a path
                                                          to become stable and productive citizens. Robyne's
                                                          Nest helps high school students in the Huntington Beach
                                                          area who have little to no parental support with
                                                          academic, financial, and life skills. They assist students
                                                          with security, routine, and a place to belong. Their
                                                          purpose is to enable students to complete their high
                                                          school diploma and continue onward with college, trade
                                                          school, or military programs. Robyne's Nest provides
                                                          housing resources; basic needs such as food, clothing,
                                                          and supplies; educational assistance such as tutoring,
                                                          Chromebooks, school supplies, and fees; and overall
                                                          help with health and wellbeing in the form of
                                                          counseling, therapy, mentoring, and life skills classes.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2027
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   40 persons (homeless)
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Citywide
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                        HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                        43
11   Project Name                                         StandUp for Kids Street Outreach Program
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Support Efforts to Address Homelessness
     Needs Addressed                                      Priority Homeless Needs
     Funding                                              CDBG: $17,382
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201 (c) - Operating Costs
                                                          of Homeless/AIDS Patients Programs
                                                          National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208 (a)(2) -
                                                          Low/Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                          StandUp for Kids Street Outreach provides wrap-around
                                                          support aimed at moving youth facing homelessness
                                                          into safe and stable housing. Youth are assessed for
                                                          their immediate needs and provided with food, clothing,
                                                          hygiene products, and transitional housing as needed.
                                                          Youth are then linked with a volunteer mentor who
                                                          assists the youth to create a pathway to self-sufficiency
                                                          and to obtain safe and stable housing. This pathway can
                                                          include assistance, job search and resume strategies,
                                                          household and budget management, and home-finding
                                                          assistance. Mentoring normally continues for six
                                                          months, and sometimes much longer. Huntington
                                                          Beach citizens will benefit through creating new self-
                                                          supporting,     contributing    members       of     their
                                                          communities.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2027
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   75 persons (homeless)
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Citywide
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                        HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                        44
12   Project Name                                         Senior Services Care Management
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Support Agencies that Assist Special Needs Populations
     Needs Addressed                                      Priority Special Needs
     Funding                                              CDBG: $22,382
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201(e) - Public
                                                          Services/Senior Services
                                                          National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(2) - Low
                                                          Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                          The CDBG funded Senior Center Care Management
                                                          project will consist of two part time staff who will assist
                                                          over 165 at-risk, older adult, Huntington Beach residents
                                                          in fiscal year 2026/27. Various services will be provided to
                                                          these residents and can include thorough intake, need
                                                          assessment,       care    plan    development,       service
                                                          implementation, as well as provision of senior specific
                                                          information and referrals. Additional direct services to
                                                          address unmet needs in the areas of nutrition, mobility,
                                                          home safety, housing insecurity, access to services,
                                                          emotional and social support needs are also provided to
                                                          ongoing care management clients. Services can be short
                                                          or long-term, depending on individual needs. Many of
                                                          those served by this program lack the ability to access
                                                          services on their own and do not have an adequate
                                                          support system to assist. Most older adults served by
                                                          care management are individuals and couples, with low
                                                          incomes and who are at-risk. Care Managers work closely
                                                          with community partners, local resources, County
                                                          agencies,       faith-based      groups,       philanthropic
                                                          organizations and other City departments to help
                                                          optimize the lives of our most vulnerable and isolated
                                                          citizens. For all these reasons, this project positively
                                                          impacts the residents of Huntington Beach.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2027
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   175 persons (seniors)
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 The Senior Services Care Management Program is
                                                          located at 18041 Goldenwest Street, Huntington Beach;
                                                          however, the service is available to elderly persons
                                                          citywide.
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                          HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                       45
13   Project Name                                         Save the Brave Offshore Fishing Program
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Support Agencies that Assist Special Needs Populations
     Needs Addressed                                      Priority Special Needs
     Funding                                              CDBG: $17,382
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201(e) - Public
                                                          Services/Youth Services
                                                          National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(2) - Low
                                                          Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                          Save the Brave Offshore Fishing is a veteran outreach
                                                          program designed to provide therapeutic offshore and
                                                          inshore angling experiences at no cost to participants.
                                                          Through partnerships with local captains, guides,
                                                          charters, and outfitters, this agency offers veterans the
                                                          opportunity to engage in Saltwater Therapy, a proven
                                                          method of promoting mental health, building resilience,
                                                          and fostering a sense of camaraderie among veterans.
                                                          With CDBG funding, Save the Brave will expand these
                                                          programs to serve veterans residing in Huntington
                                                          Beach, ensuring they have access to these life-changing
                                                          experiences without financial burden. By facilitating
                                                          positive social connections, promoting mental wellness,
                                                          and supporting the overall well-being of veterans, this
                                                          program strengthens the Huntington Beach community,
                                                          helping veterans reintegrate and thrive as productive,
                                                          engaged citizens
     Target Date                                          6/30/2027
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   150 persons (veterans)
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Citywide
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                        HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                       46
14   Project Name                                         All for Kids Organization (formerly Children’s Bureau)
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Increase Access to Community Services for LMI Persons
     Needs Addressed                                      Priority Community Services
     Funding                                              CDBG: $30,382
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201(e) - Public
                                                          Services/Youth Services
                                                          National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(2) - Low
                                                          Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                          The Oak View Family Resource Center (FRC) is located in
                                                          the Oak View enhancement area where many of the
                                                          families are linguistically isolated, which creates a need
                                                          for specialized services. The All for Kids Organization
                                                          provides after school recreation in a safe environment,
                                                          promoting healthy activity, and social interaction, as an
                                                          alternative to unsupervised, unstructured, high-risk
                                                          activity. CDBG funds pay for staffing for the after-school
                                                          recreation program, as well as for related costs for
                                                          supplies, equipment and services.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2027
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   150 persons (youth)
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Citywide
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                        HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                        47
15   Project Name                                         ADA Curb Cuts in Maintenance Zone 4
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Provide for Needed Infrastructure Improvements
     Needs Addressed                                      Priority Infrastructure Needs
     Funding                                              CDBG: $140,000
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201(c) - Public Facilities and
                                                          Infrastructure Improvements/Other
                                                          National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(2) - Low
                                                          Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                          Residents and visitors with disabilities utilize ADA ramps
                                                          to access street intersections when traveling on city
                                                          sidewalks. CDBG funds will be used to remove existing
                                                          curbs and gutters that act as an architectural barrier to
                                                          sidewalk and street accessibility, particularly for persons
                                                          with severe disabilities. The curbs and gutters will be
                                                          removed in the area known as Maintenance Zone 4,
                                                          which has been evaluated for specific ADA pavement
                                                          and concrete improvements.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2027
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   2,277 persons (disabled)
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Census tracts: 099405, 099406, 099407, 099408,
                                                          099415, and 099417
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                          HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                          48
16   Project Name                                         CDBG Program Administration
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Planning for Housing and Community Development
     Needs Addressed                                      Other Housing and Community Development Needs
     Funding                                              CDBG: $218,233
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.206(a) - Administration
                                                          and Planning/General Program Administration
                                                          National Objective Citation: Not Applicable

                                                          The      City     will     conduct       the    following
                                                          administration/planning      activities:    (1)   General
                                                          Administration of CDBG Program, including preparation
                                                          of budget, applications, certifications and agreements;
                                                          (2) Coordination of CDBG-funded capital improvement
                                                          projects; (3) Coordination of Public Service
                                                          Subrecipients, (4) Coordination of HOME-funded
                                                          housing projects; (5) Monitoring of CDBG
                                                          projects/programs to ensure compliance with federal
                                                          regulations; and (6) Preparation of the CAPER. Up to 20%
                                                          of the annual CDBG entitlement is allowed for
                                                          administration activities.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2027
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   Not applicable.
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Not applicable.
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                        HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                       49
17   Project Name                                         HOME Program Administration
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Planning for Housing and Community Development
     Needs Addressed                                      Other Housing and Community Development Needs
     Funding                                              HOME: $51,690.77
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 92.207(a) - General
                                                          Management, Oversight and Coordination
                                                          National Objective Citation: Not Applicable

                                                          The City of Huntington Beach Community Enhancement
                                                          Division is responsible for administering the HOME
                                                          program. Up to 10 percent of the HOME allocation will
                                                          be used to provide for staffing and other program
                                                          administration costs associated with the HOME
                                                          program, including planning, reporting, monitoring, and
                                                          IDIS setup and maintenance.

                                                          In addition to the 2026/27 HOME Program
                                                          Administration activities identified above, available FY
                                                          2019/20 – 2023/24 HOME Administration funds
                                                          (approximately $110,000) will be allocated to 2026/27 fair
                                                          housing services to be provided by the Fair Housing
                                                          Foundation, preparation of the Annual Action Plan, and
                                                          staff salaries.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2027
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   Not applicable.
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Not applicable.
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                        HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                        50
AP-50 Geographic Distribution – 91.220(f)

Description of the geographic areas of the entitlement (including areas of low-income and
minority concentration) where assistance will be directed

Huntington Beach, located in northwestern Orange County, is an urbanized coastal
community characterized by extensive residential development. With most residentially
designated land already built out, future housing growth is expected to occur primarily
through infill development and the reuse of existing parcels. The City is bordered by Seal
Beach to the northwest, Westminster to the northeast, Fountain Valley and Costa Mesa to the
east, Newport Beach to the southeast, and the Pacific Ocean to the southwest.

Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) and HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME)
funds are allocated citywide to support eligible projects and programs, with a focus on
addressing the needs of the most vulnerable neighborhoods, particularly those in which at
least 51 percent of residents are low- to moderate-income.

To support targeted code enforcement efforts, the City conducted a visual survey of CDBG-
eligible areas to identify properties, businesses, parkways, alleys, and structures exhibiting
code violations. This assessment identified a concentrated area of deterioration generally
bounded by Bolsa Chica Street to the west, Bolsa Avenue to the north, Brookhurst Street to
the east, and Atlanta Avenue to the south. This area, designated as the “Special Code
Enforcement Target Area,” includes several census tracts with a combined population of
approximately 67,625 residents, of whom 45,300 individuals—nearly 70 percent—are
classified as low- to moderate-income.

Geographic Distribution

                      Target Area                                Percentage of Funds
      Citywide                                                           89%
      Special Code Enforcement Target Area                               11%
                                  Table 11 - Geographic Distribution

Rationale for the priorities for allocating investments geographically

The City of Huntington Beach is committed to using Community Development Block Grant
funds to benefit residents citywide. Public service programs will serve eligible populations
throughout the community, with a focus on youth, individuals experiencing homelessness,
and seniors. Approximately 90 percent of the City’s FY 2026/27 federal funding is allocated to
activities that provide citywide benefits.

In addition, addressing blight remains a key priority through targeted investment in the
Special Code Enforcement Target Area. The Special Code Enforcement Program focuses on

           HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                    51
identifying substandard residential and commercial properties and ensuring that code
violations are corrected to improve overall neighborhood conditions. Approximately 11
percent of the City’s FY 2026/27 federal funding is dedicated to supporting these efforts.




           HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                 52
                                     AFFORDABLE HOUSING

AP-55 Affordable Housing – 91.220(g)

Introduction

    One Year Goals for the Number of Households to be Supported
    Homeless                                                                     7
    Non-Homeless                                                                15
    Special-Needs                                                                5
    Total                                                                      27
                Table 12 - One Year Goals for Affordable Housing by Support Requirement

    One Year Goals for the Number of Households Supported Through
    Rental Assistance                                                            27
    The Production of New Units
    Rehab of Existing Units
    Acquisition of Existing Units
    Total                                                                        27
                      Table 13 - One Year Goals for Affordable Housing by Support Type

Discussion

In FY 2026/27, the City of Huntington Beach plans to allocate $411,032.77 in HOME funds to
support three tenant-based rental assistance programs. Families Forward and Mercy House
will operate two of these programs, each aimed at assisting 15 and 7 households, respectively.
Households to be services comprise homeless individuals, veterans, and victims of domestic
violence. The third program, managed by GRC Associates, is specifically designed to aid 5
senior residents of mobile home communities facing escalating space rent costs.

Additionally, the City anticipates having an unallocated balance of approximately $233,666.12
in HOME funds, which it intends to allocate towards a new Community Housing Development
Organization (CHDO) affordable housing project in the future.




             HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                  53
AP-60 Public Housing – 91.220(h)

Introduction

The City of Huntington Beach does not contain any public housing developments. However,
residents benefit from programs administered by the Orange County Housing Authority
(OCHA), which manages the Housing Choice Voucher (Section 8) program within the City.
Currently, 668 households in Huntington Beach receive Section 8 vouchers through OCHA,
including 106 family households, 142 households with persons with disabilities, and 420 elderly
households.

In addition to the Housing Choice Voucher program, OCHA administers several specialized
voucher programs, including 38 Continuum of Care vouchers, 13 Family Self-Sufficiency
vouchers, 19 Family Unification vouchers, one Non-Elderly Disabled voucher, 111 Portability
vouchers, 100 Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) vouchers, and 53 Emergency
Housing Vouchers. At present, waiting lists for these programs are closed.

Actions planned during the next year to address the needs to public housing

Not applicable.

Actions to encourage public housing residents to become more involved in management
and participate in homeownership

Not applicable.

If the PHA is designated as troubled, describe the manner in which financial assistance will
be provided or other assistance

Not applicable.




            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                    54
AP-65 Homeless and Other Special Needs Activities – 91.220(i)

Introduction

Homelessness remains a growing challenge nationwide, including in the Los Angeles County
and Orange County regions. Contributing factors include a shortage of affordable housing,
rising poverty, reductions in public assistance, substance use disorders, the
deinstitutionalization of individuals with mental illness, and other complex socioeconomic
conditions.

To better understand and respond to homelessness, Orange County conducts a biennial
enumeration of both sheltered and unsheltered individuals experiencing homelessness
during a 24-hour period. This effort, known as the Homeless Point-in-Time (PIT) Count, is
required by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for all jurisdictions
receiving federal homeless assistance funding. HUD requires that the PIT Count occur during
the last ten days of January. The most recent count was conducted on January 26–27, 2026;
however, final data and the official report are not expected to be available until May 2026.

The 2024 PIT Count, conducted by the County of Orange in coordination with the Orange
County Continuum of Care, included a sheltered count on January 22, 2024, followed by an
unsheltered count from January 23 through January 25, 2024. The count identified 7,322
individuals experiencing homelessness countywide, representing a 28 percent increase from
the 2022 total of 5,718 individuals.

Within Huntington Beach, the 2024 PIT Count identified 433 individuals experiencing
homelessness, including 173 unsheltered and 260 sheltered persons. This reflects an increase
from 2022, when 330 individuals were counted, including 188 unsheltered and 142 sheltered
persons.

Addressing homelessness remains a top priority for the City. Huntington Beach has
established a comprehensive System of Care for individuals experiencing or at risk of
homelessness, with an emphasis on outreach, engagement, case management, and
connections to shelter, housing, and supportive services. The City’s Homeless and Behavioral
Health Division is committed to a balanced approach that combines compassionate service
delivery with efforts to maintain overall community quality of life.

Describe the jurisdictions’ one-year goals and actions for reducing and ending homelessness
including:

Reaching out to homeless persons (especially unsheltered persons) and assessing their
individual needs




           HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                  55
The City of Huntington Beach Homeless and Behavioral Health Division conducts proactive
outreach to individuals experiencing homelessness through a coordinated, multidisciplinary
approach that includes Outreach Social Workers, and Homeless Task Force Officers.

Outreach Social Workers play a critical role in engaging individuals, families, seniors, and
veterans who are experiencing or at risk of homelessness. They assess barriers to housing
stability, including income limitations, lack of access to basic needs, behavioral health
challenges, and substance use disorders. Outreach staff provide assistance with obtaining
vital documents, facilitate shelter referrals, support family reunification efforts, and advocate
for clients through the Coordinated Entry System.

In addition, Outreach Social Workers collaborate with community groups, faith-based
organizations, and nonprofit partners to strengthen resource connections and referral
networks, while collecting data to inform and improve outreach strategies. They also work
closely with the City’s Community Prosecutor to support client compliance with legal
obligations—such as stay-away orders, probation requirements, and the resolution of
outstanding warrants—recognizing that these factors can impact eligibility for housing
opportunities.

Complementing these efforts, the City’s Homeless Task Force includes one lieutenant, one
sergeant, and four full-time officers who are specially trained to work with individuals
experiencing homelessness. Utilizing a trauma-informed approach that emphasizes
community engagement and public safety, these officers work closely with Outreach Social
Workers to provide coordinated, field-based support. Their responsibilities include
conducting outreach, facilitating reunification and relocation efforts, and helping individuals
reconnect with family members or access appropriate housing options. Through this
collaborative model, the Homeless Task Force plays a vital role in advancing the City’s
comprehensive response to homelessness.

Further, in the ensuing years covered by the Consolidated Plan and Annual Action Plans, the
City plans to support at least four homeless public service programs that provide outreach
and assessment of homeless individuals. The Pathways to Independence Program focuses on
young single women experiencing homelessness, while Project Hope Alliance, Robyne’s Nest,
and StandUp for Kids Street Outreach focus on homeless youth and providing wrap around
services unique to young individuals such as mentoring, food, clothing, housing, academic
support, and educational aid.

Addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons

The City of Huntington Beach addresses the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs
of individuals experiencing homelessness through a combination of interim housing,
supportive services, and long-term housing solutions.



            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                      56
The Huntington Beach Navigation Center serves as the City’s primary emergency housing
facility, offering 164 beds for individuals (reduced from 174 beds in 2025), couples, and non-
binary residents, ensuring inclusive access to shelter. Operating at approximately 92 percent
capacity, the Navigation Center differs from traditional shelters by emphasizing
comprehensive, service-enriched support designed to help residents transition out of
homelessness. Eligibility is generally limited to individuals with established ties to Huntington
Beach, allowing the City to prioritize assistance for its local population.

The Navigation Center provides a wide range of supportive services, including transportation
assistance, housing navigation, access to homeless court programs, employment resources,
recreational programming, mobile medical services, and specialized services for veterans. In
addition, the Pathways Project enhances the Center’s efforts by promoting long-term housing
stability through coordinated case management and service delivery. Together, these
resources position the Navigation Center as a critical hub for both emergency shelter and
pathways to permanent housing.

In FY 2021/22, the City launched the HB Oasis project in partnership with the State of California
Homekey Program, the County of Orange, National CORE, and American Family Housing. The
project involved acquisition and rehabilitation of the former Quality Inn & Suites motel located
at 17251 Beach Boulevard to provide interim housing for up to 62 individuals and households
within Orange County’s Central Service Planning Area. HB Oasis offered transitional housing
alongside comprehensive property management and supportive services grounded in
trauma-informed, evidence-based practices, with a strong focus on case management and
connections to permanent housing.

In May 2024, HB Oasis transitioned from interim housing to permanent supportive housing.
This conversion included renovation of units to incorporate kitchenettes and the use of
project-based vouchers to promote long-term housing stability for residents.

Helping homeless persons (especially chronically homeless individuals and families, families
with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) make the transition to
permanent housing and independent living, including shortening the period of time that
individuals and families experience homelessness, facilitating access for homeless
individuals and families to affordable housing units, and preventing individuals and families
who were recently homeless from becoming homeless again

The City of Huntington Beach is implementing a comprehensive approach to address
homelessness, with a focus on both immediate relief and long-term solutions. The strategy
involves securing both short-term and long-term funding, collaborating with experienced
service providers, and creating affordable housing opportunities. The City's key efforts aim to
support various populations, including chronically homeless individuals, families with children,
veterans, victims of domestic violence, and unaccompanied youth.



            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                      57
A central initiative is the Navigation Center, which has received around $4.5 million in funding
from CDBG, CDBG-CV, and HOME-ARP grants since 2020. This center offers wraparound
services to help individuals transition from emergency shelter to more stable housing. The
City plans to repurpose the property into a permanent facility that will provide affordable
housing and supportive services for chronically homeless individuals.

Additionally, the City continues to prioritize tenant-based rental assistance (TBRA), with plans
to offer rental subsidies to 27 households in 2026/27. Families Forward is responsible for
providing rental assistance to households with children, while Mercy House focuses on
supporting those experiencing homelessness, victims of domestic violence, and veterans.
Another program is also in place to provide space rent relief for senior mobile homeowners
for up to 24 months.

By focusing on both immediate housing solutions and long-term support, Huntington Beach
is working to not only reduce homelessness but also prevent those recently housed from
falling back into homelessness.

Helping low-income individuals and families avoid becoming homeless, especially extremely
low-income individuals and families and those who are: being discharged from publicly
funded institutions and systems of care (such as health care facilities, mental health
facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions);
or, receiving assistance from public or private agencies that address housing, health, social
services, employment, education, or youth needs

To prevent homelessness and support at-risk populations, Huntington Beach actively
participated in the Orange County Continuum of Care System. This system is designed to
provide assistance to individuals at risk of becoming homeless, ensuring a network of support
for those in need.

The City is also committed to supporting families through HOME-funded rental assistance
programs. In FY 2026/27, the City is proposing to support three rental assistance programs
that will assist a variety of vulnerable population groups in Huntington Beach. As mentioned
above, Families Forward assists families that are homeless or at risk of homelessness, while
Mercy House targets lower-income households, homeless persons, veterans, and victims of
domestic violence. The Mobile Home Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Program targets senior
owners of mobile homes with space rents.

Although the City does not receive Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) or Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) funding and therefore is not required to
develop a discharge coordination policy, it remains committed to addressing this issue. The
City will continue to work with the Orange County Housing Authority and the Continuum of
Care Homeless Issues Task Force to develop and refine its discharge coordination policy.



            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                     58
AP-75 Barriers to affordable housing – 91.220(j)

Introduction

Huntington Beach has demonstrated a strong commitment to supporting affordable housing
through various measures, including updates to its zoning ordinance and direct financial
assistance to affordable housing projects. Despite funding constraints resulting from the loss
of Redevelopment Housing Funds, which previously generated approximately $3 million
annually for housing activities, the City remains dedicated to developing affordable housing.
However, one of the primary challenges faced by Huntington Beach in this regard is the
scarcity of vacant land suitable for residential development. Much of the underdeveloped
residentially zoned land is owned by separate owners, making lot consolidation and the
demolition of existing structures necessary to accommodate higher density infill
development.

To address this challenge, the City has adopted alternative policy tools, such as the Amended
Downtown and Beach and Edinger Corridors Specific Plans. These plans provide opportunities
for high-density mixed-use and residential infill development, facilitating the creation of
affordable housing units within the community. Through continued collaboration and
innovative approaches, Huntington Beach aims to overcome barriers and enhance the
availability of affordable housing for its residents.

Actions it planned to remove or ameliorate the negative effects of public policies that
serve as barriers to affordable housing such as land use controls, tax policies affecting
land, zoning ordinances, building codes, fees and charges, growth limitations, and policies
affecting the return on residential investment

Through the administration of the CDBG and HOME programs, every effort is made to remove
barriers to affordable housing through agreements with for-profit and non-profit affordable
housing developers. These efforts also include working with neighborhood residents to
ensure affordable housing projects are acceptable. Ongoing monitoring of “for sale”
affordable units is conducted by department staff by assuring that the affordable housing
covenants are recorded on title when the unit is sold. To address the decline in sources of
housing funds, the City will continue to advocate for and pursue federal, state, local and
private funding sources for affordable housing.

Additionally, as part of the City’s Housing Element update, the City must assess and to the
extent feasible, mitigate, its governmental constraints to housing for lower and moderate-
income households and persons with disabilities. The Housing Element addresses the City’s
provisions for affordable housing, emergency shelters, transitional housing, and supportive
housing. The following programs in the City's 2013-2021 Housing Element specifically address
the variety of regulatory and financial tools used by the City to remove barriers and facilitate
the provision of affordable housing:

            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                     59
Multi-family Acquisition/Rehabilitation through Non-Profit Developers: Acquire, rehabilitate,
and establish affordability covenants on 80 rental units.

Residential and Mixed-Use Sites Inventory: Maintain current inventory of vacant and
underutilized development sites and provide developers with information on incentives.

Beach and Edinger Corridors Specific Plan: Facilitate development through flexible, form-
based standards and streamlined processing. Encourage affordable housing by requiring
inclusionary units to be provided on-site, or within the Specific Plan, and providing additional
incentives for increased percentages of affordable units.

Inclusionary Program and Housing Trust Fund: Continue implementation and re-evaluate
Ordinance to provide consistency with case law and market conditions. Establish in-lieu fee
amount for projects between 10-30 units.

Affordable Housing Development Assistance: Provide financial and regulatory assistance in
support of affordable housing. Provide information on incentives to the development
community.

Affordable Housing Density Bonus: Continue to offer density bonus incentives as a means of
enhancing the economic feasibility of affordable housing development.

Development Fee Assistance: Continue to offer fee reductions to incentivize affordable
housing. Specify the waiver of 100% of application processing fees in the Code for projects
with 10% extremely low-income units.

Residential Processing Procedures: Provide non-discretionary development review within the
Beach and Edinger Corridors Specific Plan. Adopt streamlined review procedures for multi-
family development on a citywide basis.




            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                     60
AP-85 Other Actions – 91.220(k)

Actions planned to address obstacles to meeting underserved needs

The City of Huntington Beach has identified long-range strategies, activities, and funding
sources to advance its housing and community development goals for the benefit of
residents. The City will continue to pursue additional resources to address one of the most
significant challenges to meeting underserved needs—limited and insufficient funding. It will
also explore innovative and creative approaches to strengthen its service delivery systems
while maintaining and expanding partnerships with both for-profit and nonprofit
organizations.

Through the strategic use of CDBG and HOME funds, the City will prioritize the development
and preservation of affordable rental housing, tenant-based rental assistance, and
homeowner rehabilitation programs. Federal funding is also being utilized to address key
housing needs, including housing availability, housing conditions, and the promotion of fair
housing practices to help prevent homelessness. In addition, the City will continue to invest
in community development activities such as infrastructure improvements, public facility
enhancements, and code enforcement efforts. Recognizing that many challenges extend
beyond local boundaries, the City is also collaborating with neighboring jurisdictions to
support a coordinated regional approach to addressing underserved needs.

Actions planned to foster and maintain affordable housing

The Huntington Beach Consolidated Plan identifies both the preservation of existing
affordable housing and the development of new units as key priorities for the 2025/26–
2029/30 planning period. To support transparency and public access to information, the City
will continue maintaining its online Affordable Housing Viewer, which allows residents to
easily locate affordable housing developments throughout the community.

The City will also continue supporting tenant-based rental assistance programs through a
combination of CDBG and HOME funding. In FY 2026/27, approximately $210,000 in CDBG
funds and $411,032.77 in HOME funds are proposed to assist 27 households. Assistance will be
available to income-eligible renters, including seniors residing in mobile home parks who are
facing rising space rents.

In addition, the City will maintain its residential rehabilitation programs to preserve the
existing housing stock and improve living conditions for lower-income homeowners. One
program provides grants of up to $20,000 for emergency repairs and health and safety
improvements, while a second program offers low-interest loans—up to $75,000 at 3 percent
interest—for both single-family and multifamily property improvements. Through these
combined efforts, the City anticipates assisting 18 lower-income households in FY 2026–2027.


           HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                   61
To further support affordable housing initiatives, the City is pursuing funding through the SB
2 Planning Grant Program administered by the California Department of Housing and
Community Development. Upon certification of the 2021–2029 Housing Element, the City may
receive approximately $550,000 annually. These funds would help advance efforts to
streamline affordable housing development and leverage existing CDBG and HOME resources
to address both housing affordability and homelessness.

Actions planned to reduce lead-based paint hazards

As a means of better protecting children and families against lead poisoning, in 1999 HUD
instituted revised lead-based paint regulations focused around the following five activities:

   •   Notification
   •   Lead Hazard Evaluation
   •   Lead Hazard Reduction
   •   Ongoing Maintenance
   •   Response to Children with Environmental Intervention Blood Lead Level

The City has implemented HUD Lead Based Paint Regulations (Title X), which requires
federally funded rehabilitation projects to address lead hazards. Lead-based paint abatement
is part of the City's Residential Rehabilitation Program and the Acquisition/Rehabilitation of
Affordable Rental Housing Program. Units within rental housing projects selected for
rehabilitation are tested if not statutorily exempt. Elimination or encapsulation remedies are
implemented if lead is detected and is paid for by either the developer of the project, or with
CDBG or HOME funds, as appropriate.

Actions planned to reduce the number of poverty-level families

Huntington Beach has a strategy to help reduce poverty among local families and individuals.
These programs work together to address both the immediate housing needs of low-income
residents and the long-term economic self-sufficiency of vulnerable populations. Examples of
the poverty reduction efforts include:

   •   Housing Choice Rental Assistance Program: Over 660 low and extremely low-income
       households in Huntington Beach participate in the Housing Choice Rental Assistance
       Voucher Program, which is administered by the Orange County Housing Authority
       (OCHA). This program directly supports poverty reduction by helping these
       households access affordable rental housing, thus easing financial strain and enabling
       them to allocate resources toward other basic needs, such as food, healthcare, and
       education.

   •   Tenant-Based Rental Assistance (TBRA) Programs: The City plans to utilize HOME
       funds to support three tenant-based rental assistance programs. These programs will
       provide direct rental subsidies to eligible low-income households, helping reduce the
            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                    62
       financial burden of housing costs and offering families a better chance at achieving
       long-term stability and upward mobility. The City’s goal is to provide a total of 27
       households with TBRA in FY 2026/27.

   •   Pathways to Independence Program: With CDBG funding, the City will support the
       Pathways to Independence program, which serves single women who are homeless or
       unstably housed. This program helps participants achieve economic self-sufficiency
       through education and personal development, providing a critical link between stable
       housing and the long-term reduction of poverty. By equipping individuals with the
       skills and support they need to succeed, the program contributes to breaking the cycle
       of homelessness and poverty. Pathways to Independence plans to enroll 40 women
       into their program in FY 2026/27.

   •   Affordable Housing Development: During the five-year period of the Consolidated
       Plan, the City will work to utilize HOME funds to gap finance an affordable housing
       project at a yet-to-be-determined location. The development of new affordable
       housing will directly address the need for affordable living spaces for low-income
       families and individuals, providing them with stable housing opportunities that can
       help reduce economic vulnerability and improve quality of life.

Actions planned to develop institutional structure

The City proposes to strengthen, coordinate and integrate the governmental institutions,
non-profit and private delivery systems to implement the City’s five-year strategy and to
address the priority needs outlined in the Consolidated Plan for Fiscal Years 2025/26 – 2029/30.
Engaging the community and stakeholders in the delivery of services and programs for the
benefit of low to moderate residents will be vital in overcoming gaps in service delivery. The
City will also utilize public notices, Community Workshops and Meetings (as appropriate), the
City’s website, and other forms of media to deliver information on carrying out the
Consolidated Plan strategies.

Actions planned to enhance coordination between public and private housing and social
service agencies

In an ongoing effort to bridge the gap of various programs and activities, the City has
developed partnerships and collaborations with local service providers and City departments
that have been instrumental in meeting the needs and demands of the homeless, low-income
individuals and families, and other special needs. The array of partners include, but are not
limited to: the Huntington Beach Police Department, Library Services, Community Services,
and Public Works Departments; Mercy House, Families Forward, Colette’s Children’s Home,
AMCAL, Orange County Community Housing Corporation, Jamboree Housing, National CORE,
Community SeniorServ, Project Self Sufficiency, Alzheimer’s Family Services, StandUp for
Kids, Robyne’s Nest, Project Hope Alliance, Pathways to Independence, the Fair Housing
Foundation, the Orange County Housing Authority, 2-1-1 Orange County, and OC Community
            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                     63
Services (Orange County Continuum of Care). During FY 2026/27, the City will continue to
develop these partnerships.




           HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                               64
                         PROGRAM SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

AP-90 Program Specific Requirements – 91.220(l)(1,2,4)

The City of Huntington Beach participates in HUD's CDBG Program that is used for creating
decent affordable housing, suitable living environments, and economic opportunities. The
program year (2026/27) will begin on July 1, 2026. The FY 2026/27 CDBG allocation of $1,091,165
will be used to implement CDBG projects and programs during the program year.

Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG)
Reference 24 CFR 91.220(l)(1)

Projects planned with all CDBG funds expected to be available during the year are identified
in the Projects Table. The following identifies program income that is available for use that
is included in projects to be carried out.

  1. The total amount of program income that will have been received before                 $0
  the start of the next program year and that has not yet been
  reprogrammed
  2. The amount of proceeds from section 108 loan guarantees that will be                   $0
  used during the year to address the priority needs and specific objectives
  identified in the grantee's strategic plan
  3. The amount of surplus funds from urban renewal settlements                             $0
  4. The amount of any grant funds returned to the line of credit for which                 $0
  the
  planned use has not been included in a prior statement or plan.
  5. The amount of income from float-funded activities                                      $0
  Total Program Income                                                                      $0

Other CDBG Requirements

  1. The amount of urgent need activities                                                   $0




            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                    65
HOME Investment Partnership Program (HOME)
Reference 24 CFR 91.220(l)(2)

A description of other forms of investment being used beyond those identified in Section
92.205 is as follows:

The City will provide grants, interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing deferred payment
loans or residual receipts loans permitted under 24 CFR 92.206 (b) (1). The City will not
institute other forms of investment forms not described in the aforementioned section nor
provide loan guarantees described under 24 CFR 92.206 (b) (21).

A description of the guidelines that will be used for resale or recapture of HOME funds
when used for homebuyer activities as required in 92.254, is as follows:

The City is not administering a homebuyer program with CDBG or HOME funds as part of its
2026/27 Annual Action Plan. The Annual Plan, therefore, does not describe resale or recapture
guidelines as required in 92.254.

A description of the guidelines for resale or recapture that ensures the affordability of
units acquired with HOME funds? See 24 CFR 92.254(a)(4) are as follows:

The City is not administering a homebuyer program with CDBG or HOME funds as part of its
2025/26 Annual Action Plan. The Annual Plan, therefore, does not describe resale or recapture
guidelines that ensure the affordability of units acquired with HOME funds as required in
92.254 (a)(4).

Plans for using HOME funds to refinance existing debt secured by multifamily housing that
is rehabilitated with HOME funds along with a description of the refinancing guidelines
required that will be used under 24 CFR 92.206(b), are as follows:

The City is not proposing to use HOME funds to refinance existing debt secured by multifamily
housing rehabilitated with HOME funds. Thus, since the City does not propose to undertake
refinancing, the City is not required to discuss its financing guidelines required under 24 CFR
92.206(b).




            HUNTINGTON BEACH 2026/27 ANNUAL ACTION PLAN                                     66
