Council/PFA Regular Meeting Minutes
June 2, 2026
Page 16 of 17

City revenue. Rio Media gets 25% of the revenue generated and the City gets 75%. The $332,000 and
$500,000 numbers presented are the City's 75% of total revenue generated.

Councilmember Kennedy stated he believes Huntington Beach will be leading the way by approving this
item and noted the way these ads will improve the appearance of lifeguard towers that are fading in
color. He added the benefit for Huntington Beach is direct revenue. The wraps are paid for by Yaamava
using Sticky Fingers, a local Huntington Beach company, to produce them. He stated that lifeguard
tower advertising is wide open for all Huntington Beach companies, and noted that already Sea World,
Toyota, and Raising Cane's have taken space. There is also interest from Hollywood movie studios.
Every wrap will include the public safety rip current visual and QR code. Marine Safety and Fire have
been very involved in the process. It was noted that a new lifeguard tower costs approximately $75,000
and some of the revenue will be used to replace the most dilapidated of the total of 24 towers.

Councilmember Gruel confirmed that this item is specifically to allow Yaamava to advertise, not opening
up advertising categories to include gambling businesses. It was also noted that alcohol, cigarette,
vaping, sexual content or gambling advertising will continue to be banned for City asset advertising.

City Attorney Mike Vigliotta noted that the authority for ad approval is delegated to the City Manager, and
Council can tether that in this case by stating it just applies to Yaamava as part of the motion.

A motion was made by Twining, second Kennedy to direct staff to allow for copy content related to
gambling and delegate authority to the City Manager to execute an amended agreement for the
Lifeguard Tower Advertising License Agreement, as amended to allow for copy content only from
Yaamava Resort and Casino related to resorts and casinos.

The motion carried by the following roll call vote:

AYES: Kennedy, Twining, McKeon, and Burns
NOES: Gruel, and Williams
ABSENT: Van Der Mark

Councilmember Williams asked that his vote on Consent Calendar Item #24 (26-480) regarding
amending the franchise to collect refuse granted to Rainbow Disposal and Rainbow Transfer and
Recycling Companies should be recorded as a No. Councilmember Gruel also stated he would
also like his vote to be recorded as a No.

City Attorney Mike Vigliotta stated as a point of order Council can dispense the whole motion to
reconsider it or ask the City Clerk to clarify the record. Typically, the motion would have to be
reconsidered. Council verbally agreed to ask the City Clerk to clarify the record.

There was further Council discussion clarifying that a "No" vote on this item is essentially putting a tax
increase on all Huntington Beach residents because trash collection is a private company service paid
for by the customers; review of the available Senior discount; and acknowledgement that if the item was
not approved, the cost of service would be charged to all Huntington Beach residents as increased taxes.

ADJOURNMENT — At 10:56 PM a motion was made by Burns, with a second by McKeon, to adjourn to
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Huntington Beach City Council/Public Financing Authority on
Tuesday, June 16, 2026, in the Civic Center Council Chambers, 2000 Main Street, Huntington Beach,
California.
