Council/PFA Regular Meeting Minutes
June 2, 2026
Page 15 of 17

A motion was made by McKeon, second Twining to adopt Ordinance No. 4348, "An Ordinance of the City
Council of the City of Huntington Beach Amending the Franchise to Collect Refuse Granted to Rainbow
Disposal and Rainbow Transfer and Recycling Companies"

The motion carried by the following roll call vote, as corrected by Councilmembers Gruel and
Williams just before this meeting adjourned:

AYES: Gruel, Kennedy, Twining, McKeon, Burns, and Wiliams
NOES: Gruel, and Williams
ABSENT: Van Der Mark

ADMINISTRATIVE ITEMS

25. 26-277 Approved Brown Act Modernization, Adopted Resolution No. 2026-17 Implementing
a Technology Disruption Policy During Public Comments, and Approved for
Introduction Ordinance No. 4349 Regarding Public Participation and Disruptive
Behavior

Council Policy Analyst Shannon Levin presented a PowerPoint communication titled SB 707: Brown Act
Modernization with slides entitled: Table of Contents, Introduction, Intent of SB 707, Eligibility, Training &
Distribution, Updated Regulations, Remote Participation - Member, Remote Participation: Two-Way
Public Access, Managing Disruptions — Technology, Managing Disruptions — Decorum, Social Media
and Compensation Reporting, Accessibility, Language and Outreach, Policy Adoption (2), and
Questions?

There was no Councilmember discussion for this item.

A motion was made by Twining, second Burns to adopt Resolution No. 2026-17 "A Resolution of the City
Council of the City of Huntington Beach Adopting a Policy Regarding Technology Disruption During
Public Comments"; and, after City Clerk reads by title, approve for introduction Ordinance No. 4349
"An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of Huntington Beach Amending the Huntington Beach
Municipal Code by Adding New Chapter 2.102 Thereto Entitled 'Public Participation and Disruptive
Behavior."

The motion carried by the following roll call vote:

AYES: Gruel, Kennedy, Twining, McKeon, Burns, and Williams
NOES: None
ABSENT: Van Der Mark

COUNCIL MEMBER ITEMS

26. 26-485 Approved Item Submitted by Mayor Pro Tem Twining and Councilman Kennedy —
Lifeguard Tower Advertising License Agreement

Mayor Pro Tem Twining introduced this item by reading the Issue Statement. Mayor Pro Tem Twining
noted that Rio Media is a local Huntington Beach firm that won the bid in May 2025 and shared an image
of a lifeguard tower wrapped in a Yaamava Resort and Casino ad which promotes one of their upcoming
concerts. It is expected these ads will increase City revenue by approximately $332,000 in 2026, and
Yaamava has stated interest in advertising for 12 months in 2027 which would generate over $500,000 in
