Council/PFA Regular Meeting Minutes
June 2, 2026
Page 7 of 17

SUPPLEMENTAL COMMUNICATIONS REGARDING PUBLIC HEARING FOR ITEM #13 (26-439)

Pursuant to the Brown "Open Meetings" Act, City Clerk Lisa Lane Barnes announced supplemental
communications received by her office following distribution of the Council Agenda packet which were all
uploaded to the City's website and Councilmember iPads: Public Hearing Item #13 (26-439) (report
submitted by Councilmember Williams) and (4 email communications).)

Director of Community Development, Jennifer Villasenor, introduced Planning Manager Rick Ramos who
presented a PowerPoint communication titled Appeal of the Planning Commission’s Action on
Conditional Use Permit No. 25-027 with slides entitled: Request, Project Location, Site Plan, Analysis (2),
and Summary. Marco Klebus, Associate Planner and Police Department Captain Kevin Johnson were
also introduced as available to answer discussion questions.

Mayor Pro Tem Twining and Captain Johnson discussed the number of calls for service at Distractions

Lounge over three years. Mayor Pro Tem Twining reported his observations during visits to Westmont

Elementary School. City Attorney Mike Vigliotta reminded Councilmembers this discussion time should
be focused on the staff report.

Councilman Burns confirmed with Captain Johnson that the other restaurants and the liquor store in
same center where Distractions Lounge is located all have the same address, except for unit number;
and Distractions Lounge is approximately 600 feet from Heil Avenue on the alley side.

Councilmember Kennedy and Captain Johnson discussed the amount of time and thought that goes into
alcohol recommendations for any specific site.

Councilmember Gruel and Captain Johnson discussed that Municipal Code Section 5.7 covers
regulations for a bikini bar. There was further discussion on what triggers a call for service or inspection
of a facility. Director Villasenor stated that currently Distractions Lounge does not require nor need a
Conditional Use Permit (CUP). The State does not allow public consumption from an open alcoholic
container outside of an establishment.

Councilmember Williams reviewed in greater detail several of the incidents on the Ten—Year Calls for
Service report.

Mayor McKeon opened the Public Hearing.
Public Speakers for Public Hearing Item #13 (26-439) — 7 Speakers

Brian Thienes, Huntington Beach Planning Commissioner, stated he originally voted to deny this
Conditional Use Permit (CUP). He provided distances from Distractions Lounge to the parcel at Beach
and Heil that is expected to be used for a senior care facility and Westmont Elementary School. He
added that if this establishment becomes a nuisance, the added conditions can be used to shut them
down and therefore it is appropriate to approve this CUP. (02:19:37)

Roz Price shared she made a personal visit to Distractions Lounge and asked if approving this
Conditional Use Permit is really in the best interests of the community. She supports businesses in
Huntington Beach, but questions expanding beer and wine service to broader alcohol privileges and how
that could impact public safety, neighborhood compatibility and compliance with existing license
requirements. She requested that Council deny this request. (02:22:43)
