Council/PFA Regular Meeting Minutes
June 2, 2026
Page 8 of 17

Unnamed Speaker, who lives at 16591 Waite Lane, directly across the alley from Distractions Lounge
back door, shared in the five years he has lived there at least three times he has had to walk very drunk
people out of his backyard, or off the back retaining wall. He also described multiple incidents on his
street that required calls for police. He added that he believes Distractions Lounge does what they are
supposed to do, but with alcohol comes a lot of commotion, drunk people coming over the wall into the
residential neighborhood and multiple burglaries. (02:25:52)

Dawn Thomas shared her personal experience of being drugged twice in her life when she attended
various bars and stated hard alcohol just makes situations worse. She asked Council to deny this
request. (02:27:48)

Keri Gorsage, Ocean View School District Board Trustee, stated that one of the most troubling aspects of
this process is lack of clarity regarding how future impacts will be measured and addressed. She stated
the Ocean View School District has requested annual police reviews for the life of the permit, clearer
standards for evaluating increases in service calls, improved lighting, unobstructed visibility into the
establishment and reporting requirements related to drink—spiking incidents. Good public policy requires
measurable standards, on-going oversight. (02:31:01)

Gina Clayton-Tarvin, Ocean View School District Board of Trustees President, stated her support for the
appeal. She noted the liquor license being sought is specifically designed for establishments that
primarily serve alcohol, not meals. She stated the public is being asked to believe that increasing alcohol
service at this location, already associated with police activity, will somehow improve conditions in the
area. She added that no District school, other than Westmont Elementary, is surrounded by this
concentration of alcohol serving establishments. She asked Council to approve this appeal. (02:33:41)

Peter Blied, Land Use Consultant representing the owner of Distractions Lounge, clarified this is an
existing business with a bar on premises since the 1960s. The current owner purchased the bar in 2012,
incorporated in 2019, has an active, current business license and is in good standing with the City and
Huntington Beach Police Department. He noted this Conditional Use Permit has been approved twice
already and has been reviewed by the Zoning Administrator, staff and the Planning Commission.
Required findings for this project can be made and should be made to allow the business owner to
improve his competitive disadvantage with other Type 48 establishments that are nearby. He noted that
review of the calls for service shows there are no incidents involving juveniles or minors. He stated that
decisions can't be based on fears of what could happen and asked that Council deny this appeal.
(02:36:55)

There being no more speakers, Mayor McKeon closed this Public Hearing.

Council discussion continued with a review of the Planning Commission meeting, discussion and action;
the added conditions of approval to provide more safeguards and oversite by the Police Department,
which signed off on this CUP, were reviewed; Police Chief Parra confirmed the calls for service for this
establishment are not abnormal; Councilmembers are elected to make responsible decisions based on
lawful exercise of rights, conformity, and safety checks, not personal values or opinions; the added
conditions put more protections for residents in place; Responsible Beverage Control (RBC) does not
allow bar tenders to drink with patrons nor take any drinks outside of the establishment; a definition for
bikini bars already exists; Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) is the ultimate enforcement mechanism; City
Attorney Mike Vigliotta confirmed that Council may approve or deny any Conditional Use Permit but there
have to be findings for the decision, and added there is not a ministerial right to receive a CUP; portions
of the letter from Ocean View School District regarding this item were read; we live in a free-market
based society, in a nation of laws, where the Police Department can validate public safety concerns.
