Council/PFA Regular Meeting Minutes
June 2, 2026
Page 10 of 17

Brian Thienes, Huntington Beach Planning Commissioner, stated his support for adopting the proposed
Housing Element despite the massive burden it will place on the City's infrastructure. He noted that
exempting the City from California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) removes citizen participation and
the Senate bills are in violation of the Environmental Impact Report (EIR) policy. (03:39:50)

Unnamed Speaker stated her support for adopting the proposed Housing Element to bring Huntington
Beach into compliance with the California housing law. She added that continuing to resist compliance
puts the City at risk of significant consequences, including the possibility of surrendering local control
over land use decisions. Adopting a Housing Element is not just about avoiding penalties, it is also an
economic opportunity, as new housing supports local businesses, generates property tax revenue and
helps create a stronger local economy. Compliance will also restore Huntington Beach's eligibility for
$B2 planning grants and other State funding opportunities. She noted that when this lawsuit was
initiated, four current Councilmembers were not part of that decision. She believes the current
Councilmembers have an opportunity to hit the reset button, protect local control, and position
Huntington Beach for future success. (03:42:58)

Daniel Sasse, Outside Counsel for the Kennedy Commission, stated it is very clear that the Huntington
Beach Housing Element is not yet compliant because it does not include the 16 requirements set out by
the State Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) letter. He also noted there has
not been a full seven days since the draft was posted for public comment; the inventory of sites is
incomplete; and the City's Adequate Building Site Analysis and Appendix B are deficient, inconsistent
and incomplete. (03:45:12)

Cesar Covarrubias, Kennedy Commission Executive Director, stated it is expensive to live in Orange
County where the median income is now $139,000. It is important to ensure that housing opportunities
are created for every segment, including affordable housing and above-moderate housing. He noted that
every single Orange County city has a compliant Housing Element except Huntington Beach. He stated
it appears from the report presented for this item, only about 10% of the affordable housing needed has
been developed or is in the pipeline for Huntington Beach compared to market rate development which
has already created about 50% of the Regional Housing Needs Allowance (RHNA). He urged
Councilmembers to submit a compliant Housing Element that addresses the issues outlined by HCD, the
Kennedy Commission and community stakeholders. (03:48:32)

Eric Evans, Retired Orange County Deputy Fire Marshall, noted the issues of call loads, increased
paramedic runs and congestion, and inability to provide decent response times. He stated Huntington
Beach is at risk of having to deal with a builder's remedy situation and is headed to being the example for
what happens in a municipality when state mandates are ignored. (03:51:42)

There being no more speakers, Mayor McKeon closed this Public Hearing for Item #14 (26-482).

Councilmember discussion included that there has not been adequate time for proper public or
Councilmember review of the proposed Housing Element; the Housing Element is still in need of
additional updates; there needs to be a reasonable and responsible consideration of the public concerns
and issues that have been expressed; everyone was encouraged to read the on-line Orange County
Grand Jury report just issued about the California Housing mandates and unintended reshaping of
Orange County neighborhoods; and Councilmembers need time to read all of the Supplemental
Communication received for this item.

An amended motion was made by Williams, second Burns to find that the California Environmental
Quality Act (CEQA) requirement for GPA No. 21-003 is satisfied based on court orders in the People of
