CITY OF HUNTINGTON BEACH MOBILE HOME TENANT BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM PROGRAM GUIDELINES / OPERATING PROCEDURES (November 1, 2022)

INTRODUCTION Utilizing HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) funding, the City of Huntington Beach (City) has elected to assist certain eligible very-low income senior mobile home owners by establishing a Mobile Home Tenant Based Rental Assistance Program (“MH TBRA Program’ or “Program”). This MH TBRA Program compliments the City’s existing TBRA program that assists individuals and families that are homeless or at-risk of homelessness. The MH TBRA Program will enable the City to meet the needs of the participating tenant households by providing monthly rental assistance for up to twenty- four months (2 years) to eligible senior mobile home owners to pay for a portion of their space rent.

The MH TBRA Program guidelines and operating procedures may require periodic modifications to remain compliant with changing federal, state or local regulatory or legal requirements, whereby the Director of Community Development may immediately implement such changes. At any time, the Director of Community Development may initiate revisions and waivers of any provisions described in these Program guidelines and operating procedures, providing that such revisions or waivers are not in conflict with HUD policy requirements as described in the City’s HOME Policy & Procedure Manual for TBRA programs (Exhibit D).

TENANT SELECTION POLICY . Participating Tenant Households — For the purposes of participating in the City’s MH

TBRA Program, an eligible senior (62 years of age or older) mobile home owner household must at a minimum qualify as a very low-income household and, as necessary, may need to meet local preference requirements. The eligible senior must have owned and lived their mobile home for at least one year. The household must not receive other rent subsidies from federal, state or local sources.

The definition of a very low-income household is a household that has an adjusted annual income that does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the Area Median Income (AMI), adjusted for family size, as established by U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the City of Huntington Beach and as shown in Exhibit B.

The City has adopted the following local preferences for all income-qualified Participating Tenant Households consisting of at least one member that is 62 years of age or older that owns the mobile home:

e Veterans of military service. For the purpose of these policy statements, “veteran” is defined to mean a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service,

and who was discharged or released under honorable conditions or conditions other than dishonorable. e Households that are extremely low-income (30% of AMI or less)

e Households that are paying 50 percent of gross income or greater for space rent Due to the limited amount of HOME funding available, selection of applicants for the MH TBRA Program will be based upon a lottery system. A one-month period will be established for Huntington Beach senior mobile home owners to submit a brief “interest form” indicating their interest in participating in the MH TBRA Program. The interest form will be a simplified version of an application that will consist of providing self-certification of the following information:

Name Address Age Phone number/Contact information Estimated gross household income Number of members in the household Qualification for preferences (e.g., veteran, extremely low-income) At the close of the one-month interest period, City staff will categorize each household by income level and preferences into Excel spreadsheets and then conduct a lottery by randomizing the spreadsheets to determine the order for potential recipients of the MH TBRA Program. Only one interest list form may be submitted per address. Any duplicate or multiple forms submitted from the same address will automatically disqualify the household from participating in the Program. Once the lottery order has been established, the City will contact individuals as MHTBRA funds remain available so that they can submit a MH TBRA Program application and staff will then verify income and preferences to confirm eligibility.

Applicants shall be selected based on Fair Housing priorities, which prohibit discrimination based on age, race, creed, religion, sex, handicap, national origin or familial status.

. Determination of Participating Tenant Household Income — The City will review income documentation as part of the Initial Income Verification process. Income Eligibility is dependent upon the gross annual income, and includes all payment from all sources, whether in cash or in kind, that is anticipated to be received by all adult members of the Participating Tenant Household. Household Gross Annual Income includes, but is not limited to:

1. Gross amount of wage, salary, overtime pay, commissions, fees, tips and bonuses 2. Net income from the operation of a business or profession

Interest and other income of any kind from real or personal property Full amount of periodic payments received from social security, annuities, insurance policies, retirement funds, pensions, disability/handicap or death benefits

Payment in lieu of earnings such as unemployment, worker's compensation and severance pay

Welfare/AFDC Assistance Alimony, child support and other regular contributions C. Adjustment of gross monthly income - Gross monthly income shall equal one-twelfth of

gross annual income.

D. Assets — Tenant household assets cannot exceed $25,000, excluding mobile home, one car, and household furnishings. Under special circumstances the asset limitation may be amended by the City’s Director of Community Development on a case-by-case basis.

I. | ELIGIBLE HOUSING UNITS A. Eligible Housing Units - Participating Tenant Households receiving Program assistance from the City of Huntington Beach must reside in an eligible Housing Unit. An eligible Housing Unit is defined as:

1.

2.

3.

The mobile home is located in a mobile home park in the City of Huntington Beach.

The household includes at least one member that is a senior age 62 years or older, that has resided in their mobile home for at least one year.

The mobile home must be inspected to demonstrate that the housing unit and housing unit characteristics meet federally established Housing Quality Standards (HQS).

B. Occupancy Standard - The eligible Housing Unit shall contain at least one bedroom or living/sleeping room of appropriate size. The following occupancy standard shall apply:

0 bedroom — 1 person maximum 1 bedroom — 3 persons maximum 2 bedroom — 5 persons maximum 3 bedroom — 7 persons maximum

IV.

Vi.

MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF RENTAL SUBSIDY/TENANT HOUSEHOLD CONTRIBUTION . Rent Standard - The City shall establish a Fair Market Rent standard for the Program by

utilizing HUD’s Fair Market Rent documentation system for the Santa Ana-Anaheim- Irvine, California metro area. As shown in Exhibit C, the maximum fair market rent for a two-bedroom unit in 2022 is $2,324 per month.

. Total Tenant Household Payment — Participating Tenant Households shall pay thirty percent (30%) of their adjusted monthly income (as hereafter defined) for housing costs consisting of monthly space rent payment and a utility allowance.

. Maximum MH TBRA Payment -— The maximum amount of a MH TBRA Program payment is restricted, in that, payments to MH TBRA participants is the difference between thirty percent (30%) of the Participating Tenant Household’s adjusted monthly income and the Fair Market Rent standard established by the City as shown in Exhibit C.

. Rent Reasonableness Review — City shall review the Participating Tenant Household’s

space Lease Agreement to verify the amount of space rent paid on a monthly basis, excluding utilities, is reasonable.

LENGTH OF ASSISTANCE The City of Huntington Beach will provide rental assistance payments for up to twelve months (1 year) from the date of the execution of Rent Payment Contract with the possibility of renewal for a second one-year period following recertification of the Participating Tenant Household's income eligibility and Program qualification.

Rental Assistance Payments will be made directly to the Participating Tenant Household by the City on a monthly reimbursement basis. Assistance may be terminated upon verification that the Participating Tenant Household:

1. Is no longer income eligible (i.e., income exceeds fifty percent (50%) of AMI adjusted per family size), or

2. Fails to complete the recertification process, or 3. No longer resides in the eligible Housing Unit on a full-time basis. In addition, rental assistance per this MH TBRA Program may be terminated prior to annual renewal if the City no longer receives HOME funding or if HOME funds carried- over from prior fiscal year to fund the Program are not available. If HOME funding to the City is discontinued or not available, the MH TBRA Program funding will be terminated on June 30° of the current Program year. RECERTIFICATION

Federal law requires that the City of Huntington Beach recertify the income of each Vil.

Vill.

assisted Participating Tenant Household annually. This recertification must be completed prior to the execution of a second year Rent Payment Contract. Failure on the part of the Participating Tenant Household to recertify its income eligibility will cause the termination of any further rental assistance. Should a Participating Tenant Household income exceed fifty percent (50%) of the Area Median Income, assistance will be terminated.

RIGHT TO APPEAL PROCEDURE Program participants may appeal a proposed Program action that may have an adverse effect upon them by submitting a written Request for Appeal to the City of Huntington Beach, which includes the Participating Tenant Household's objection, name and relationship of all potential parties, list of documents to be included in appeal, current address and telephone number. Appeals must be filed within seven (7) calendar days of notification of a proposed Program action. The appeal will be reviewed by the Director of Community Development on a case-by-case basis, and they will provide a decision on the appeal by mail within 30 days of the date the Participating Tenant Household’s objection was first submitted.

PROGRAM PROCEDURES 1. City will provide a one month period for Huntington Beach senior mobile home owners to submit self-certified initial information to the City and sign-up to be included on the MH TBRA Program Interest List.

2. City conducts a lottery based upon the Program eligibility categories, including preferences, from the interest list to determine the order of potential MH TBRA Program candidates to receive Program assistance.

3. Based upon lottery results, City contacts each candidate Participating Tenant Household to review Program requirements and to prepare and submit a Program application.

4. City reviews and verifies annual gross income and other required documentation and the adjusted monthly income is calculated to determine the Total Tenant Payment.

5. Application approved by City staff.

6. Unit inspection to confirm Housing Quality Standards.

7, Preparation and execution of the One-Year Rent Payment Contract between the City and the Participating Tenant Household.

8. City sets up project in the HUD Integrated Disbursement and Information system (IDIS).

9. City makes twelve monthly payments to the Participating Tenant Household upon 10.

11.

receipt of proof of space rent payment. City shall drawdown federal funds to reimburse City for such costs.

Forty-five days prior to the termination of the Rent Payment Contract, the Participating Tenant Household shall submit monthly income information. City or its Consultant shall review documentation for re-certification.

Upon confirmation of re-certification and HOME funding availability, the City and the Participating Tenant Household may execute an additional One-Year Rent Payment contract.
