adjacent properties will mot be assessed trash collection at the discretion of the Assessor. (If it
appears to the Assessor that adjacent parcels are not using the commercial dumpster but are using
local trash collection, the adjacent parcels will be assessed for trash collection.)

Commercial dumpster: A dumpster that a parcel owner or a business owner contracts for directly
with a trash collection company. These may be on commercial or residential properties.
Dumpsters contracted for during construction on a parcel are not considered assigned commercial
dumpsters and are considered temporary contracts only. Assessment of trash collection units on
parcels under construction is at the discretion of the Assessor. :

Sewage Assessment Policy:

Any parcel with the potential of having a separate structure or unit built upon it will be
assessed a minimum of one (1) sewage unit. Current use of the parcel will not negate this
assessment, e.g., vacant lots, parking lots, storage lots. The purpose of this policy is to allow
equitable distribution of maintenance costs of sewage lines to all parcels.

Residential sewage: Residential parcels will be assessed for sewage based on the number
of residential units on the parcel. Each residential unit counts as one unit of sewage assessment.
Minimum assessment is one (1) unit of sewage.

Commercial sewage: Commercial parcels are assessed for sewage based on the amount of

- water used in the year prior to the assessment. The calculation for commercial sewage units is
based on an estimated average of residential water usage. The water usage of approximately 30
single-unit residential parcels is averaged to come up with a base value for water usage per unit.
That base value is used to find the number of units used by commercial parcels. Water usage for a
commercial parcel is divided by the base value to determine the number of sewage units to assess
the commercial parcel. The final number is then rounded to the nearest quarter unit. Commercial
parcels will be assessed a minimum of one (1) unit of sewage.

This policy is based on two factors. The first is that the District is assessed sewage
processing fees by Orange County Sanitary District 11 and sewage transmittal fees by the City of
Huntington Beach on the basis of the number of gallons which flow through their plants. The second
is that some commercial businesses may use more water and thus more sewage than most other
businesses and residences, ¢.g., restaurants. This allows a more equitable distribution of fees.

Policy: Vacant lots are assessed for one (1) unit of sewage and zero (9) units of trash collection.

Policy: Strip lots, streets, and subsurface parcels are not assessed.

April 9, 1992 SBSD Assessment Policy Page 2 of 2

sh Mi ch anamematontl
