                                Sunset Beach Sanitary District
                                              P.O. Box 1185
                                       Sunset Beach, CA 90742-1185
                                              (562) 493-9932


   NOTICE OF PROPOSED INCREASE OF TRASH, SEWER SERVICE, AND
               RESTAURANT SEWAGE CLEANING FEE

      THIS NOTICE PROVIDES IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT A PROPOSED
         PROPERTY-RELATED FEE AND THE MAJORITY PROTEST PROCESS


THE SUNSET BEACH SANITARY DISTRICT
Properties within the boundaries of the Sunset Beach Sanitary District (the “District”) receive services
from the District for the collection, treatment and disposal of sewage and trash. The District is primarily
funded by revenue from a share of the County of Orange property tax basic levy, as well as the service
fees charged for each residential and commercial unit which is collected on the annual tax bill. There are
three components of this service fee; the trash pick-up fee of $240 per residential and commercial unit,
the sewer transport and treatment fee of $200 per each residential and commercial unit, and sewage
cleaning fee of $475 per restaurant unit. The total service fee charged to each parcel is based on the number
of units assigned. Commercial sewer units are calculated based on water consumption and the sewage
cleaning fee is only charged to restaurants.

FEES BEING CONSIDERED FOR INCREASE
The District’s annual per-unit service fees have not been increased since 2016. The District is proposing
to increase the annual trash fee by $60 (from $240 per unit to $300 per unit), the annual sewer
transport and treatment fee by $100 (from $200 per unit to $300 per unit), and the annual restaurant
sewage cleaning fee by $150 (from $475 per unit to $625 per unit).

The total service fee for a residential or commercial unit is currently $440 ($240 for trash pick-up and
$200 for sewer transport and treatment). If the proposed increase is approved, the total service fee for a
residential or commercial unit is estimated at $600 ($300 for trash pick-up and $300 for sewer transport
and treatment). The total per-unit service fee for a restaurant is estimated at $1,225 ($300 for trash pick-
up (if no dumpster), $300 per unit based on water usage for sewer transport and treatment, and $625 for
sewer cleaning fee).

The District’s cost of service is among the lowest in the area in comparison to other agencies within
Orange County. Properties within the District do not pay the $358 ($371 in 2024-25) service fee levied
by the Orange County Sanitation District (OCSD). In addition, properties within the District do not pay
the trash and sewage charges collected on water bills by the Cities, which average more than $450 per
home per year. The proposed total service fee of $600 for a residential unit within the District is more than
25% less when compared to fees paid by property owners outside the District (approximately $821), for
the same services. Furthermore, the District collects garbage twice a week, while City agencies collect
garbage only once per week.

BASIS UPON WHICH THE AMOUNT OF THE PROPOSED FEE WAS CALCULATED
Nearly all of the sewage facilities were built in 1935-36, and are now more than 80-years old. The District
has made continuous repairs to the facilities to maintain a safe and reliable system. The majority of the
District’s expenses are paid to other agencies for contracted services, such as sewage treatment. These
costs increase each year with inflation and the added cost of new requirements, such as full secondary
treatment for sewage and changes to contractor prevailing wage requirements. The proposed increase will
help provide funding for high-priority sewage facilities replacements and upgrades needed to support the
continued provision of safe and reliable sewer service. Trash Fees are being increased in order to cover
per unit fees charged by the District's contracted trash collector.

PUBLIC HEARING AND MAJORITY PROTEST PROCESS
The Board of Directors of the District (the “Board”) will hold a Public Hearing on Thursday, March
14, 2024 at 6:30 pm at the Sunset Beach Women’s Club, 16812 Bayview Drive, Sunset Beach (corner
of Broadway and Bayview). The Board will then consider all written and oral comments regarding the
proposed sewer transport and treatment fee, and may adopt, the fees described in this notice. However, if
written protests are received that represent a majority of the affected parcels, the proposed fee adjustment
will not be approved. Oral comments at the public hearing will not qualify as a formal protest unless
accompanied by a written protest. Only one written protest will be counted per identified parcel which
receives sewer service. The Board of Directors will receive a final tabulation of all written protests
received by the District at the hearing. Written protests must be received prior to the close of the public
hearing, which may be delivered by U.S. Mail or in person at the public hearing. Written protests are being
mailed to each property owner for parcels within the District with instructions on how to submit. Written
protests must contain the address, parcel number, and include the name and original signature of the
property owner submitting the protest. Send written protests to Sunset Beach Sanitary District, P.O.
Box 1185, Sunset Beach CA 90742.

EFFECTIVE DATE FOR PROPOSED FEES
If a majority of the affected property owners submit protests, the proposed sewer transport and treatment
fee will not be imposed; otherwise the fee will become effective on July 1, 2024, following adoption by
the District’s Board.

CONTACT INFORMATION
Should you have any questions regarding this Public Notice, please contact the Assessor for the Sunset
Beach Sanitary District, Willdan Financial Services at (866) 807-6864.
