SUNSET BEACH SANITARY DISTRICT

of Orange County
P.O. Box 1185
Sunset Beach, CA 90742

—{34+0}590-8499-—

(562) 493-9932

Assessment Policy

Vacant lot: A parcel with the potential of having a separate structure or unit built upon it, but
which, at the time of the assessment, contains no structures and is not used for storage or any other

purpose.

Strip lot: Narrow parcels which have been combined with an existing parcel to extend property
lines and owner's rights. For example, channel and oceanfront properties sometimes have these
narrow strip parcels added to them.

Streets: Parcels that are considered public right-of-way.

Commercial parcel: Any parcel with a commercial business on it. The parcel may also contain
residential units.

Residential parcel: A parcel which does not have a commercial business on it.

Units: An area within a parcel that is maintained as a separate commercial business or a separate
living area..Each separate area will count as one unit, designated either residential or commercial.

Commercial unit: A separate business area. A business area is considered separate if each business
has a separate entrance to the unit. Unoccupied areas are considered separate if separate entrances
are maintained.

Residential unit: A separate living area. A living area is considered separate if a separate entrance
or a separate food preparation area is maintained or there are no joint indoor entertainment areas.
Any living area with a separate entrance or a separate food preparation area is considered a
separate unit whether or not the unit is occupied. A building with a single entrance may be
considered multiple units if separate food-preparation areas are maintained or there are no joint
indoor entertainment areas for individual residents.

Trash Assessment Policy:

Any parcel which contains any structure, whether permanent or temporary, or any items of
storage or is developed im any way is assumed to be a parcel which generates trash. Unless an
assigned commercial dumpster is present, that parcel will be assessed a minimum of one (1) unit
of trash collection. The total number of units assessed is based upon the number of commercial or
residential units on the parcel.

If an assigned commercial dumpster is present on any parcel, no assessment for trash
collection will be made. In addition, adjacent parcels owned by the same individual or company
may combine use of a commercial dumpster that is located on one of the several properties, These

April 9, 1992 SBSD Assessment Policy

