I. INTRODUCTION Utilizing HOME Investment Partnership Program (HOME) funding, the City of Huntington Beach(City)has elected to assist certain eligible low income persons and families through funding by the Housing and Urban Development Department(HUD) by establishing a Tenant Based Rental Assistance Program (TBRA) that follows all of the requirements set forth in the HOME Program under Section 24, Part 92, of the Code of Federal Regulations (24 CFR 92). By partnering with local Service Providers, the Program will enable the City to meet the needs of participating tenant households by providing monthly rental assistance for up to 24 months (subject to funding availability.)

II. TENANT SELECTION POLICY A. Current Residents of the City of Huntington Beach and Persons with Strong Ties to the City This program is designed to help current residents of the City and those with strong ties to the City. Priority shall be given to residents from the Huntington Beach Police Department, Huntington Beach Homeless Task Force, 0C211 and other housing providers. Due to the nature of the population served by the Program, it may not be possible to obtain traditional proof of residency documentation such as utility bills. The following documentation can be accepted to establish that an applicant household qualifies for the Huntington Beach live/work preference: • Documentation from a Huntington Beach school that the children in the household have been enrolled in and attending the school for at least the last 90 days from the time of admission into the Program. • Documentation from a partner agency, such as the Huntington Beach Police Department, evidencing that the family is known to be homeless in Huntington Beach. • Proof that the applicant's last place of stable residency was in the City of Huntington Beach. Verification from a landlord is acceptable. • Proof that an adult member of the household is working or has been recently hired to work in Huntington Beach.

B. Currently Homeless or At-Risk of Homelessness • At-Risk of Homelessness refers to a household that is at imminent risk of being evicted due to an economic hardship in paying rent or staying current with rent. (Category 2 of HUD Homeless Definition) • Homelessness refers to a household who meets the HUD Homeless Definition at 24 CRF 91, 582 and 583: Category 1 (literally homeless) and Category 4 (fleeing/attempting to flee violence and living in a place described in Category 1).

C. Intake Process As part of the intake process, the Service Provider will meet with the prospective Eligible Household to conduct a needs assessment and complete an Initial Qualifications Form (Appendix A). If the Program has reached maximum capacity, the Service Provider shall review the applicant to assess if other services may be offered while the applicant is waiting for a slot to open in the Program. As part of the intake process, the Service Provider shall also request and/or assist the prospective Eligible Household with the completion of the following documents: • TBRA Application (Appendix B) • Declaration of Homeless Status or Declaration of At-Risk of Homelessness Status (Appendix C)

D. Income Eligible Households • To receive supportive services as well as rental assistance under the HOME Program, the Applicant's total household income must be at or below 60% of the Orange County area median income (AMI). However,once the Applicant is part of the Program, the household income can increase up to 80% of the AMI before a notice of termination must be given from the Program. • Income limits for low-income households are established annually for the HOME Program by HUD for the Orange County income limit area. • Gross Annual Income shall be determined in accordance with 24 CFR 5.609,with the allowable exclusions from income established at 24 CFR 5.611. • Gross Annual Income means the gross amount of income from all sources, including assets, for all adult household members that is anticipated to be received prospectively during the 12-month period following the date of application and before any deductions are taken. • Applicants must verify eligibility for assistance under the Program through the review of income source documents. As outlined in the revised HOME rules published in July 2013, applicants must provide evidence of income for the two (2) most recent months. Acceptable source documents include wage statements, check stubs, entitlement verification from another government agency and bank statements. The definition of income for the purposes of the Program is located at 24 CFR Part 5 (often referred to as the Section 8 definition). In cases where no evidence of income (third-party verification) is available, applicants may self- report their income. In such cases, a written explanation must be provided as to why third-party verification or documentation was unavailable. • Likely changes in income may be considered when collecting income verification documentation. • Initial income verifications are valid for six months. If admission to the Program takes longer than 6 months, income verifications must be updated and reevaluated. After initial verification, income recertification shall be conducted every six months. • Income verifications will be used for two purposes: • To determine eligibility for services. A determination of eligibility will be completed as part of the admissions process and thereafter annually. • Income information will be used to establish the household's initial contribution toward rent, which shall be set at 30% of the household income. The household's initial contribution will remain unchanged for at least six months.

E. Eligibility Verification • Applicants will be re-qualified, including examination of source documentation, every six months or at the end of the lease term,whichever occurs earlier. • If an applicant has fluctuating income, and/or a change of household size or composition and/or fails to participate in all the policies of the program, the applicant may be requested to provide verification(s),more often, as reasonably necessary to confirm continued qualification and eligibility for the Program. • Applicants will be given written notice stating whether the Eligible Household was determined to be eligible for continued assistance under the Program.

F. Waiting List Once the Program has reached maximum enrollment, a waiting list of prospective Eligible Households will be maintained. This list will be prioritized as follows: • Clients who have been assessed for TBRA eligibility, completed intake process, and are ready for housing placement. Ready for housing placement means that the household has found a housing unit that meets TBRA requirements. • Clients who have been assessed for TBRA eligibility, completed intake process, and are searching for housing. • Clients who have been assessed for TBRA eligibility and pending intake. • Priority ranking will be given for Homeless Category 1 (24 CRF 91, 582 and 583), literally homeless participants from the streets or other locations not meant for human habitation,emergency shelters, or safe havens.

G. Outreach and Collaboration with the City If funds are available to assist more City residents,the Service Provider is responsible for marketing and outreach activities to find prospective Eligible Households interested in the Program. Examples of outreach activities include conducting community presentations, contacting school districts, community based organizations and faith-based groups, and participating in community events to educate on TBRA resources available.

III. SELECTION OF HOUSING UNITS A. Housing Unit Selection Eligible Households may elect to rent any Housing Unit in the City so long as the unit meets federal Housing Quality Standards(HQS) (Appendix D)or such other standards as may be made applicable to the Program by HOME Program statues and/or regulations, specifically including Uniform Physical Condition Standards (UPCS) and passes a rent reasonableness test. If an appropriate Housing Unit cannot be located within the City boundaries, a Housing Unit can be located outside of the City boundaries.

B. Occupancy Standards The number of persons in each Eligible Household will determine the required unit type. Each household must comply with the two per bedroom plus one occupancy standard. The following table provides the occupancy standards by unit type: Number in Unit Type Household One-bedroom Unit U• to 3 Persons Two-bedroom Unit U• to 5 Persons Three-bedroom Unit U• to 7 Persons Four-bedroom Unit U• to 9 Persons

C. Property Inspections Prior to occupancy of any Housing Unit by an Eligible Household, and again during the annual verification process, a certified HQS inspector must inspect each Housing Unit to ensure the unit complies with HQS as set forth in the HOME Program (24 CFR 92.251), as well as all applicable state and local codes and ordinances, including zoning ordinances. Each HQS inspection will include the following: • Verification of the age of the Housing Unit (on Rent Reasonableness Form) Appendix E; • Completed HQS Inspection Form (HUD-52580); • • Lead-based paint hazard assessment, dissemination of lead-based paint information pamphlet and disclosure form and lead-based paint reduction activities,if required; • Adequate opportunity for landlord to correct any deficiencies indicated in the HQS Inspection form to bring the Housing Unit into compliance; and • Verification that occupancy by the Eligible Household will comply with occupancy standards.

D. Housing Unit Rent Reasonableness Rental assistance paid on behalf of the Eligible Household must be in compliance with federal Rent Reasonableness requirements that mandate rents paid by or on behalf of assisted households be similar to rents paid by non-assisted households. Rent Reasonableness reviews will be performed by the service providers. The factors listed below shall be considered when determining rent comparability: • Location and age; • Unit size including the number of rooms and square footage or rooms; • The type of unit including construction type (e.g.,single family, duplexes,garden, low-rise,high-rise); • The quality of the unit,which includes the building construction,maintenance and improvements; and • Amenities, services and utilities included in the rent. The Service Provider will follow both the rent reasonableness regulations established for the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program at 24 CFR 982.507 to evaluate rents. In the event that a rent request does not meet rent reasonableness requirements,the Service Provider shall attempt to negotiate a lower rent with the property owner. If the owner is not willing to accept a lower rent, the household must be instructed to search for another unit. Under no circumstances shall rent exceed the sum approved through the rent reasonableness review. Additionally, the assisted household is not allowed to make up any difference in the rent offer.

E. Coordination with Landlords The Service Provider will meet with and provide guidance to landlords participating in the Program regarding the requirements and procedures that impact landlords. Landlord Agreement(Appendix F) • The Service Provider will enter into a Landlord Agreement with each participating landlord or property owner. The Landlord Agreement will establish the security deposit assistance payment and the initial rental assistance payments to be paid on behalf of the household. The Agreement will also establish the participating household's initial share of the contract rent.The Agreement will also require the landlord to provide the Service Provider with notice of a lease termination, and reaffirm the tenant protections included in the Tenant Protection Agreement. • This contract will have an initial term of 6 months unless otherwise agreed between the Service Provider,tenant and the City. Lease Addendum for Tenant Protection (Appendix G) • The landlord will be required to enter into a lease agreement with a term of 12 months with any Eligible Household occupying a Housing Unit. • The lease agreement will include a Tenant Protection Agreement that will be executed in connection with the lease between the landlord and the Eligible Household. • • The Tenant Protection Agreement will include the following elements: • Prohibit the inclusion of the following provisions in the lease, as required by 24 CFR 92.253: ■ (1)Agreement to be sued; • (2) Treatment of property; • (3) Excusing owner from responsibility; • (4) Waiver of notice; • (5) Waiver of legal proceedings; • (6) Waiver of a jury trial; • (7) Waiver of right to appeal court decision; • (8) Tenant chargeable with cost of legal actions regardless of outcome; and • (9) Mandatory supportive services. ■ Confirm the landlord's obligation to maintain the Housing Unit in accordance with HQS,as established at 24 CFR 982.401. • Prohibit discrimination by the landlord against the Eligible Household. • The Service Provider will review the lease agreement to confirm its compliance with state law and all HOME Program requirements. Prior to signing the lease, the Service Provider must provide the City with the tenant's application, income eligibility documentation, IDIS form and lease terms for approval of acceptance into the program. If the City does not respond within two business days,the tenant is deemed approved.

IV. Payment Standards,Rent Calculation,Term and Subsidy Reductions As authorized by HOME TBRA regulations, the Program will rely on a traditional rental assistance calculation. The model allows for the rent subsidy determination based on 30%of household income.

A. Rent Assistance Calculation A rental assistance calculation will be completed for each Eligible Household. The calculation will determine each household's Program subsidy and share of the rent. The maximum amount of monthly assistance is the difference between the rent standard for the unit size and 30%of the household's monthly adjusted income. Each household's maximum rent subsidy will vary since the calculation involves the use of individualized factors such as the household's actual income and family size. The initial household contribution to rent will remain unchanged for at least six months. Minimum tenant contribution to rent under the Program is set at $50.00. This minimum is used if the maximum subsidy calculation would result in the household paying less than $50.00 towards the monthly rent (e.g. if 30% of the household's monthly adjusted income is less than$50.00).

B. Rent Payment Rent Reasonableness The Program must use the Rent Reasonableness Standard (Appendix E) to calculate monthly rental assistance. The payment standards represent the cost of rent and utilities for moderately priced units in Huntington Beach as well as those in surrounding Orange County cities. Payment standards are established by bedroom size. When utilities are included in the cost of renting a unit, that is, the owner assumes responsibility for payment for all utility services, the household's entire share of the housing costs will go directly to the owner. When the cost of utilities is not part of the rent,that is,the household is directly responsible for payment of utility services,the household's initial share will be determined by subtracting a utility allowance from 30% of the household's income. The Orange County Housing Authority utility allowance schedule (Appendix I) shall determine the household's utility allowance. In these cases, the household's share of the rent is equal to 30% of the household's monthly adjusted income minus the applicable monthly utility allowance. Each household is responsible for paying their rent share directly to the landlord each month. If a selected Housing Unit is subject to contractual, statutory and/or regulatory affordability restriction, the monthly rental assistance payments will not exceed the difference between the required affordable rent amount for the Housing Unit and 30%of the Eligible Household's monthly adjusted income. i. Participant Agreement(Appendix H) The Service Provider will enter into a Participant Agreement with each participating client household. The Participant Agreement will establish the Eligible Household's responsibilities towards rent payments. The Agreement will establish the participating household's initial share of the contract rent, which will be adjusted every 6 months. ii. Term Rental assistance will be for an initial term of 6 months,which can be extended every 6-12 months,for a cumulative term of up to 24 months. Extensions will be granted at the discretion of the Service Provider and shall be based on continued Program compliance and ongoing need. The Service Provider will utilize the Gap Analysis and Income Re-Evaluation to assess ongoing need and adjust household's share of rent as appropriate. Households with income above 80%AMI will be notified about income eligibility limits. iii. Subsidy Reductions The participant's household income will be reevaluated every six months. If the household income has changed since the previous evaluation, the participant's monthly rent responsibility will be adjusted accordingly.

V. Security Deposits Security deposit assistance is available to Eligible Households. Such assistance shall be the lesser of: • Two months approved rent for the Housing Unit; or • The standard security deposit required by the landlord for non-subsidized tenants. Security deposit assistance provided to participating households will be in the form of a grant. As such,the landlord can provide a security deposit refund directly to the household. Any disputes involving the return, or lack thereof, of a security deposit shall be settled by the tenant and landlord,as provided for in the lease.

VI. Utility Deposits Utility deposit assistance is available to Eligible Households. Utility deposit assistance provided to participating households will be in the form of a grant. As such, the utility provider can provide a utility deposit refund directly to the household. Any disputes involving the return, or lack thereof, of a utility deposit shall be settled by the tenant and the utility provider. The Utility deposit subsidies cannot be used as a stand-alone activity. The assistance must be utilized with rental subsidy,security deposit subsidy, or both. The Orange County Housing Authority will annually establish the utility allowances for each year. (Appendix I)

VII. Annual Recertification, Termination of Assistance and Returning Households A. Annual Recertification Recertification of income and Program eligibility will every 6 months. The Service Provider will gather source documentation for participating households to determine annual income. Annual income must be calculated in accordance with 24 CFR Part 5. If the total household income is above 80%AMI,rental assistance must be terminated following a 30 day notification period.

B. Termination of Rental Assistance Assistance can be terminated for the following reasons: ■ Eviction from the assisted rental unit based on behavioral issues and/or unlawful activity. ■ The family will be assisted by another rental assistance program such as the Section 8 Tenant-Based or Project-Based program. Participation in any other rental assistance program is considered a duplicative subsidy therefore all HOME funded rental assistance must terminate. • Failure to meet significant goals in the participants Self-Sufficiency Program as outlined on page 11, Case Management.

C. Returning Participant Households As needed, participants may be allowed to return to the Program for either support services, rental assistance or both. A determination to allow re-entry shall be based on the following criteria: • Participants must have left the Program in good standing. To be in good standing, participants must have been engaged in their case management plan,voluntarily left the program (not in-lieu of termination) or have been released because their household income exceeded eligible limits. In general, participants will not be allowed to re-enter the Program if they were terminated for non-compliance. • A request for readmission from a non-compliant household may be considered when compelling reasons exist. In such cases, re-admission will require concurrence from the City. • The Participant's previous rental assistance did not exceed 24 months. Cumulatively, participants will only be allowed to receive rental assistance for a maximum of 24 months. Self Sufficiency Program Subrecipient will request each Eligible Household receiving rental assistance payments to participate in a Self-Sufficiency Program administered by Subrecipient. The Case Management and Self-Sufficiency Program Policies and Procedures are outlined in Appendix J. The Self-Sufficiency Program provides participating households with intense case management,which is designed to assist participants move to self-sufficiency within a 12 to 24-month period. Income recertifications will be completed annually for participating households. If the participating household's income exceeds the low (80%AMI) income limits,Subrecipient must terminate the rental assistance. Listed below are some of the Self-Sufficiency Case Management Services offered by Subrecipient:

D. Case Management The Subrecipient Case Management model maximizes client success by developing individualized service plans and addressing clients' specific needs in securing permanent housing and self-sufficiency. Clients will meet with their Case Manger on a minimum of a monthly basis to update goals, monitor progress, and ensure long- term housing stability. Self-sufficiency groups are also held weekly to assist with financial management, job development, life skills, personal empowerment, and accessing other resources needed to gain housing stability.

E. Individualized Housing and Service Plan Participants meet with their Case Manager at intake and monthly to review their Goal Worksheet and Individualized Service Plan to help establish and identify participant goals and plans for housing, education, employment, financial (including budgeting and credit repair), legal, and other housing stabilization and relocation resources needed.

F. Housing Search and Placement Subrecipient advocates assists clients with comprehensive housing search and placement into affordable permanent housing. Subrecipient has established close partnerships with permanent housing agencies, including affordable housing providers,apartment associations,and private landlords/owners.

G. Financial Management/Credit Repair Subrecipient assists program participants with credit repair, financial literacy, and job placement and retention. Assistance will also be provided to access mainstream financial benefits including social security, veteran's benefits, Ca1WORKs, disability, unemployment, and other public assistance.

H. Employment Assistance Obtaining self-sufficiency is a critical goal for families served by Subrecipient. Subrecipient Case Managers work with clients to identify interests, life experiences and talents that lend themselves to employment. Housing Advocates also: • Help clients develop resumes,complete job application and prepare for interviews; • Obtain educational scholarships through AmeriCorps and other sources to increase leadership skills and/or further their education; • Provide transportation solutions to job interviews and job-related activities; and • Provide job placement in career-level jobs and job retention assistance.

I. Transportation Subrecipient provides support services at Community Service Center and Satellite sites in Huntington Beach conveniently accessible via public transportation routes or via home visits as needed. Subrecipient provides assistance with transportation via bus passes and accessing mainstream resources available for transportation through Ca1WORKs and disability access. Subrecipient also maintains agreements with local taxi companies to provide emergency transportation assistance and works closely with the Huntington Beach Police Department to assist transport participants in crisis situations.

J. Behavioral Health Subrecipient provides an array of individual and group counseling programs on-site and works closely with other mental health providers to address behavioral health needs of participants.

VIII. RIGHT TO AN INFORMAL HEARING PROCEDURE Participating Tenant Households have the right to be heard by an impartial official, without prejudice. Program participants may appeal a proposed Program action that may have an adverse effect upon them by submitting a written Request for Hearing to the City of Huntington Beach,which include the Participating Tenant Household's objection, name and relationship of all potential parties, list of documents to be presented, current address and telephone number. Appeals must be filed within seven (7) calendar days of notification of proposed Program action. The informal hearing will be scheduled as soon as possible. The informal hearing shall be conducted in English. Notice of Informal Hearing will be issued at least ten days prior to the Hearing appointment. The Participating Tenant Household may bring person(s) to testify and/or documents at their expense. Participating Tenant Households may review pertinent file documentation so long as such documentation does not infringe on any other party's rights.

IX. CITY REQUIREMENTS A. Monthly Meetings and Reports Each month,the will meet with each Service Provider via teleconference. At least 24 hours prior to the meeting, the Service Provider will provide an updated tenant chart. The City and Service Provider will discuss all tenants,potential applicants and other issues impacting the operations of the Program.

B. Monthly Summaries At the end of each month, the Service Provider will submit a summary of services provided. The summary shall include the number of new, continuing and existing households served in the quarter, any staffing changes, any billing issues, any outreach efforts and other issues impacting the administration of the Program.,The Quarterly Summary is due within 45 days after the end of the quarter.

C. Billing Requirements Service Providers shall submit their invoices no later than 20 days after the end of a service month. The invoices shall include a City coversheet for each household, a general ledger of all current clients, an updated IDIS form, if necessary, proof of all reimbursable costs, including rent checks, security deposits and staff time and any written communication with the City discussing exceptions or unusual circumstances regarding a household. Timely submission of invoices is required for City finance and budget purposes.

D. The City maintains the ability to make changes to the Operating Guidelines as City, State and Federal laws, ordinances and policies change. The City shall provide written notice to the Service Provider when a substantive change is made to the guidelines.

IX. COMFORMANCE WITH HOME LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS The Program Guidelines/Operating Procedures must conform to all HOME laws,rules and regulations. To the extent Congress or the federal government makes changes to the laws, rules and regulations, particularly due to an exigent circumstance,the City has the discretion to modify these guidelines/procedures to align with federal laws, rules and regulations. At the time of the adoption of these Operating Guidelines, HUD has issued waivers and suspensions of HOME regulations due to COVID 19. The changes to the HOME regulations shall be in effect until December 31, 2020 unless otherwise modified by HUD. (Appendix K.) As applicable,the City and Service Providers shall both implement the requirements regulations of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (VAWA) per the provisions outlined in 24 CFR 92.359 and 24 CFR 5,Subpart L. Service Providers shall also implement the applicable VAWA requirements related to the City's Emergency Transfer Plan,as required by 24 CFR 92.359(g) and included as Appendix K, for all applicants to the TBRA Program,and all TBRA recipients for the period that tenant based rental assistance is provided. Moreover,all leases that are approved by the Service Providers shall contain the City's required VAWA lease term/addendum per 24 CFR 92.359(e),and included as Appendix L.
