STATE OF CALIFORNIA
BUILDING STANDARDS COMMISSION

                       STATEMENT OF PROGRESS
                FOR PROPOSED BUILDING STANDARDS OF
                THE OFFICE OF THE STATE FIRE MARSHAL
    REGARDING THE 2025 CALIFORNIA WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE,
           CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS, TITLE 24, PART 7
                              (SFM 01-25)

Section 1-419(f) of the California Administrative Code, Part 1 of Title 24 of the California
Code of Regulations states that a state proposing or adopting agency requesting
approval for readoption of an emergency building standard shall provide a written
statement providing specific facts demonstrating by substantial evidence that the
agency has made substantial progress and proceeded with diligence to comply with
Government Code Section 11346.1(e); and either a statement that the emergency
circumstances are unchanged since the initial adoption or prior readoption; or an
updated finding of emergency required by Government Code Section 11346.1(b) to
reflect circumstances that have changed since the initial adoption or readoption.

STATEMENT ON PROGRESS TO COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION
11346.1(e)
The Office of the State Fire Marshal has made substantial progress towards making its
emergency regulations permanent.
Following the initial adoption of the emergency building standards, SFM proceeds to
complete the certifying rulemaking process through the regular rulemaking process
during the 2025 Intervening Code Adoption Cycle to make the emergency building
standards permanent in accordance with Government Code Section 11346.1 and
Health and Safety Code Section 18938.
The CAL FIRE—Office of the State Fire Marshal’s CWUI work group was established to
support Cal FIRE’s mission and strategic plan, which serves and safeguards the people
and protects California's resources. The purpose of the work group is to evaluate and
recommend improvements to building codes, standards, materials, and communication
strategies that reduce wildfire risk in WUI communities while ensuring regulatory
changes remain practical, cost-effective, and science based. The work group continues
to meet regularly to accomplish the following goals and objectives. Meetings are open to
the public, with agendas and minutes posted on the Office of the State Fire Marshal
website.
WORK GROUP GOALS:
         1. To improve the safety and survivability of structures and communities in the
            WUI area.
         2. To promote statewide consistency and clarity in WUI regulations and
            communications.
         3. To ensure that regulatory changes are cost-effective, attainable, and based
            on sound science.
Statement of Progress                                                            April 7, 2026
SFM EF 01/25 - Part 7 - Emergency Rulemaking readoption
State Fire Marshal                                        Page 1 of 4
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
BUILDING STANDARDS COMMISSION

         4. To foster innovation by allowing new, proven materials and technologies to be
            readily available in California.
         5. Create a shared understanding and common messaging around WUI risk,
            mitigation strategies, and regulatory requirements.

         WORK GROUP OBJECTIVES:
         1. Enhancements of Code and Standards
                  a. Evaluate current CWUI code and standards for effectiveness and
                     clarity.
                  b. Propose revisions that enhance fire resistance without creating undue
                     burden.
                  c. Encourage alignment with emerging best practices and lessons
                     learned from a recent wildfire.
                  d. Collaborate with stakeholders to align regulations with emerging
                     technology.
         2. Cost of Compliance
                  a. Analyze the economic impact of existing and proposed regulations on
                     homeowners, builders, and local jurisdictions.
                  b. Identify areas where costs can be reduced without compromising
                     safety.
                  c. Identify financial impacts on the construction, renovation, and
                     maintenance of structures in the WUI.
         3. Cost-Effective Enhancements without Overregulation
                  a. Develop recommendations that balance risk reduction with feasibility.
                  b. Avoid duplicative or unnecessarily complex requirements that
                     discourage compliance.
                  c. Promote streamlined permitting and review processes when
                     appropriate.
         4. Innovation and Material Availability
                  a. Create a clear pathway for the evaluation and approval of new
                     construction materials and systems
                  b. Ensure that approved products are cost-effective and broadly available
                     within California.
                  c. Support pilot projects and partnerships that test new technologies in
                     real-world wildfire conditions.
         5. Consistent Messaging
                  a. Ensure that clear, evidence-based justification supports all
                     recommendations and code change proposals.
Statement of Progress                                                               April 7, 2026
SFM EF 01/25 - Part 7 - Emergency Rulemaking readoption
State Fire Marshal                                        Page 2 of 4
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
BUILDING STANDARDS COMMISSION

         WORK GROUP MEMBERSHIP
         Members of the work group shall be open to all interested parties, including but
         not limited to state and local fire agencies, building officials, planners, industry
         experts, academic researchers, material manufacturers, insurance
         representatives, and community stakeholders.


STATEMENT THAT EMERGENCY CIRCUMSTANCES REMAIN UNCHANGED
Since the initial adoption of amendments to the 2025 California Wildland-Interface
Code, California Code of Regulations, Title 24, Part 7 via emergency regulations filed
with the Secretary of State on November 4, 2025, the emergency circumstances have
not changed.

ITEM 1
Chapter 1 Administration, Division I California Administration, Section 1.1.2
Purpose
    Adoption of these regulations is necessary to effectuate HSC section 13108.5.

ITEM 2
Chapter 1 Administration, Division II Scope and Administration, Sections 101.3.1
Application and 101.3.1.1 Application date and where required
    Combining two application sections 101.3.1 and 101.3.1.1 into one clear section on
    where the wildland urban interface building standards will be applied.
    Deleting the application date or “trigger date” exceptions to comply with the 2025
    California Wildland-Urban interface regulations is to effectuate HSC section
    17922(d). The removal of the “trigger dates” and exceptions closes the gap on the
    existing building and structure stock and aligns with the mission and objectives of
    CALFIRE/ Office of the State Fire Marshal on campaigning home hardening,
    retrofits, Firewise communities, access to grants, and expands the overall safety of
    the built environment in the identified FHSZ’s.

ITEM 3
Chapter 2 Definitions, Home-Hardening
    The proposed definition was included in the Emergency Regulations approved on
    October 15, 2025. The emergency circumstances have not changed.

ITEM 4
Chapter 5 Special Building Construction Regulations, Section 503.1 General
     The proposed deletion of exception 2 and renumbering was included in the
     Emergency Regulations approved on October 15, 2025. The emergency
     circumstances have not changed.




Statement of Progress                                                               April 7, 2026
SFM EF 01/25 - Part 7 - Emergency Rulemaking readoption
State Fire Marshal                                        Page 3 of 4
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
BUILDING STANDARDS COMMISSION

ITEM 5
Chapter 5 Special Building Construction Regulations, Section 504.3.1 Protection
of open eaves
     This proposal was included in the Emergency Regulations approved on October 15,
     2025. The emergency circumstances have not changed.




Statement of Progress                                                     April 7, 2026
SFM EF 01/25 - Part 7 - Emergency Rulemaking readoption
State Fire Marshal                                        Page 4 of 4
