SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._military_law_section_303
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MIL/303 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Military Law Section 303

Representation

opening judgment

default

1.
In any action or proceeding in which a person in military service is a party, if such party does not personally appear therein or is not represented by an authorized attorney, the court may appoint an attorney to represent him; and in such case a bond, approved by the court, conditioned to indemnify the defendant, if in military service, against any loss or damage that he may suffer by reason of any judgment, should the judgment be thereafter set aside in whole or in part, may be required and an order made to protect the rights of such person. But no attorney appointed under this act to protect a person in military service shall have power to waive any right of the person for whom he is appointed or bind him by his acts.

2.
If any judgment shall be rendered in any action or proceeding against any person in military service during the period of such service, or within thirty days thereafter, and it appears that such person was prejudiced by reason of his military service in making his defense thereto, such judgment may, upon application, made by such person or his legal representative, not later than ninety days after the termination of such service, be opened by the court rendering the same and such defendant or his legal representative let in to defend; provided it is made to appear that the defendant has a meritorious or legal defense to the action or proceeding, or to some part thereof. Vacating, setting aside, or reversing any judgment because of any of the provisions of this act shall not impair any right or title acquired by any bona fide purchaser for value under such judgment.

3.
Where a default judgment may properly be rendered in any action or proceeding in any court, the court shall not require the attorney for the plaintiff or petitioner to submit an affidavit or affirmation that the defendant or respondent is not in military service, provided that the court may impose such requirement where authorized by federal law. For purposes of this subdivision, the term “military service” shall have the meaning ascribed by the provisions of the Federal Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, as amended.

Source:
Section 303 — Representation; opening judgment; default, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MIL/303 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
