SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._military_law_section_312
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MIL/312 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Military Law Section 312

Mortgages

1.
The provisions of this section shall apply only to obligation and secured by mortgage, trust deed, or other security in the nature of a mortgage upon real or personal property owned by a person in military service at the commencement of the period of his military service and still so owned by him which obligations originated prior to such person’s period of military service.

2.
In any proceeding commenced in any court during the period of military service to enforce such obligation arising out of nonpayment of any sum thereunder due or out of any other breach of the terms thereof occurring prior to or during the period of such service the court may, after hearing, in its discretion, on its own motion, and shall, except as hereinafter provided in this act, on application to it by such person in military service or some person on his behalf, unless in the opinion of the court the ability of the defendant to comply with the terms of the obligation is not materially affected by reason of his military service (a) stay the proceedings as provided in this act; or

(b)
make such other disposition of the case as may be equitable to conserve the interests of all parties.

3.
No sale, foreclosure, or seizure of property for nonpayment of any sum due under any such obligation, or for any other breach of the terms thereof, whether under a power of sale, under a judgment entered upon warrant of attorney to confess judgment contained therein, or otherwise, shall be valid if made during the period of military service, or within six months thereafter, unless upon an order of sale previously granted by the court and a return thereto made and approved by the court.

4.
Any person who shall knowingly cause to be made any sale, foreclosure or seizure of property defined as invalid by subdivision three hereof, or attempts so to do, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment not to exceed one year, or by fine not to exceed one thousand dollars, or both.

Source:
Section 312 — Mortgages, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MIL/312 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
