SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._military_law_section_316-a
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MIL/316-A (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Military Law Section 316-A

Protection of assignor of life insurance policy

enforcement of storage liens

1.
Where any life insurance policy on the life of a person in military service has been assigned prior to such person’s period of military service to secure the payment of any obligation of such person, no assignee of such policy, except the insurer in connection with a policy loan, shall, during the period of military service of the insured or within one year thereafter, except upon the consent in writing of the insured made during such period or when the premiums thereon are due and unpaid or upon the death of the insured, exercise any right or option by virtue of such assignment unless upon leave of court granted upon an application made therefor by such assignee. The court may thereupon refuse to grant such leave unless in the opinion of the court the ability of the obligor to comply with the terms of the obligation is not materially affected by reason of his or her military service.

2.
No person shall exercise any right to foreclose or enforce any lien for storage of household goods, furniture, or personal effects of a person in military service during such person’s period of military service and for three months thereafter except upon an order previously granted by a court upon application therefor and a return thereto made and approved by the court; provided, however, within thirty days of such person’s return from military service, he or she shall provide notice to the individual or entity providing for the storage of his or her household goods, furniture or personal effects. In such proceeding the court may, after a hearing, in its discretion, on its own motion, and shall, on application to it by such person in military service or some person on his or her behalf, unless in the opinion of the court the ability of the defendant to pay the storage charges due is not materially affected by reason of his or her military service:

(a)
stay the proceedings as provided in this article; or

(b)
make such other disposition of the case as may be equitable to conserve the interest of all parties.

Source:
Section 316-A — Protection of assignor of life insurance policy; enforcement of storage liens, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MIL/316-A (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
