SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._military_law_section_317
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MIL/317 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Military Law Section 317

Reemployment in private industry

1.
In the case of any person who, in order to perform military service, has left or leaves a position, other than a temporary position, in the employ of any employer, and who (a) receives a certificate of completion of military service duly executed by an officer of the applicable force of the armed forces of the United States or by an officer of the applicable force of the organized militia of this state or of any other state as provided for by law;

(b)
is still qualified to perform the duties of such position; and

(c)
makes application for reemployment within ninety days after he or she is relieved from such service, if such position was in the employ of a private employer, such employer shall restore such person to such position, or to a position of like seniority, status and pay, unless the employer’s circumstances have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable to do so.

2.
The benefits, rights and privileges granted to persons in the military service by this section shall be extended to and be applicable to any person who, in order to participate in assemblies for drill or other equivalent training, reserve duty training, instruction or duties, or annual full-time training duty, active duty for training or other annual training pursuant to any law of the United States or section forty-six of this chapter or the regulations issued thereunder, or in order to attend service schools conducted by the armed forces of the United States, temporarily leaves or has left his or her position, other than a temporary position, in the employ of any employer and who, being qualified to perform the duties of such position, makes application for reemployment within ten days after completion of such temporary period of service. 2-a. The benefits, rights and privileges granted to persons in the military service by this section shall be extended to and be applicable to any person who, in order to perform initial full-time training duty or initial active duty for training with or in an armed force of the United States under the provisions of this chapter or the laws of the United States or both, temporarily leaves or has left his or her position, other than a temporary position, in the employ of any employer and who, being qualified to perform the duties of such position, makes application for re-employment within sixty days after completion of such period of full-time training duty or active duty for training.

3.
The benefits, rights and privileges granted to persons in the military service by this section shall be extended to and be applicable to any person who is or becomes a member of the organized militia of this state or of any other state as provided for by law, or of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States and who, because of such membership is discharged by his or her employer or whose employment is suspended by his or her employer because of such membership and who, being qualified to perform the duties of such position, makes application for reemployment or termination of the period of his or her suspension within ten days after such discharge or suspension. These benefits, rights and privileges are not applicable to persons participating in routine reserve officer training corps training except when performing advanced training duty as a member of a reserve component of the armed forces.

4.
Any person who is restored to a position in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be considered as having been on furlough or leave of absence during his or her period of military service, temporary service under subdivision two or subdivision two-a of this section, or of discharge or suspension under subdivision three of this section, shall be so restored without loss of seniority, shall be entitled to participate in insurance or other benefits offered by the employer pursuant to established rules and practices relating to employees on furlough or leave of absence in effect with the employer at the time such person entered the military service or commenced such temporary service or was so discharged or suspended, and shall not be discharged from such position without cause, within one year after such restoration.

5.
In case any private employer fails or refuses to comply with the provisions of this section, the supreme court of the state within the county in which such private employer maintains a place of business, shall have the power, upon the filing of a motion, petition or other appropriate pleading, by the person entitled to the benefits of such provisions, to specifically require such employer to comply with such provisions, and may, as an incident thereto, compensate such person for any loss of wages or benefits suffered by reason of such employer’s unlawful action. The court shall order a speedy hearing in any such case, and shall advance it on the calendar. Any person claiming to be entitled to the benefits of the provisions of this section may appear and be represented by counsel, or, upon application to the attorney general of the state, may request that the attorney general appear and act on his or her behalf. If the attorney general is reasonably satisfied that the person so applying is entitled to such benefits, he or she shall appear and act as attorney for such person in the amicable adjustment of the claim, or in the filing of any motion, petition or other appropriate pleading and the prosecution thereof. In the hearing and determination of such applications under this section no fees or court costs shall be assessed against a person so applying for such benefits.

Source:
Section 317 — Reemployment in private industry, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MIL/317 (updated Oct. 4, 2024; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
