SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._judiciary_law_section_468-a
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/JUD/468-A (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Judiciary Law Section 468-A

Biennial registration of attorneys

1.
Every attorney and counsellor-at-law admitted to practice in this state on or before January first, nineteen hundred eighty-two, whether resident or nonresident, shall file a biennial registration statement with the administrative office of the courts on or before March first, nineteen hundred eighty-two in such form as the chief administrator of the courts shall prescribe. An attorney who is admitted to practice after January first, nineteen hundred eighty-two and on or before January first, nineteen hundred eighty-six, shall file a registration statement within sixty days after the date of admission. An attorney who is admitted to practice after January first, nineteen hundred eighty-six shall file a registration statement prior to taking the constitutional oath of office.

2.
Attorneys shall register biennially on the dates prescribed by the chief administrator. In the event of a change in information previously submitted, an attorney shall file an amended statement within thirty days of such change.

3.
The chief administrator shall prescribe the form in which such registry of attorneys shall be maintained and the procedures for public access thereto, and may make all such other rules and regulations necessary and appropriate to implement and enforce the provisions of this section.

4.
The biennial registration fee shall be three hundred seventy-five dollars, sixty dollars of which shall be allocated to and be deposited in a fund established pursuant to the provisions of section ninety-seven-t of the state finance law, fifty dollars of which shall be allocated to and shall be deposited in a fund established pursuant to the provisions of section ninety-eight-b of the state finance law, twenty-five dollars of which shall be allocated to be deposited in a fund established pursuant to the provisions of section ninety-eight-c of the state finance law, and the remainder of which shall be deposited in the attorney licensing fund. Such fee shall be required of every attorney who is admitted and licensed to practice law in this state, whether or not the attorney is engaged in the practice of law in this state or elsewhere, except attorneys who certify to the chief administrator of the courts that they have retired from the practice of law.

5.
Noncompliance by an attorney with the provisions of this section and the rules promulgated hereunder shall constitute conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice and shall be referred to the appropriate appellate division of the supreme court for disciplinary action.

Source:
Section 468-A — Biennial registration of attorneys, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/JUD/468-A (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
