SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._judiciary_law_section_476-c
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/JUD/476-C (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Judiciary Law Section 476-C

Investigation by the attorney-general

1.
The attorney-general is empowered to conduct an investigation of any complaint of unlawful practice of the law and in connection therewith, the attorney-general, his deputy, assistant, special assistant or other officer designated by him for such purpose is empowered to subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, examine them under oath before him or the supreme court of the state of New York, or a justice thereof, and require the production of any books or papers which he deems relevant or material to the inquiry. Such power of subpoena and of examination shall not abate or terminate by reason of the commencement or pendency of any action or proceeding brought by the attorney-general under section four hundred seventy-six-a.

2.
No person shall be excused from attending such inquiry in pursuance to the mandates of a subpoena, or from producing a paper or book, or from being examined or required to answer a question on the ground of failure of tender or payment of a witness fee or mileage, unless at the time of such appearance or production, as the case may be, such witness makes demand for such payment as a condition precedent to the offering of testimony or production required by the subpoena and unless such payment is not thereupon made. Such provisions for payment of witness fee or mileage do not apply to any officer, director or person in the employ of any person, partnership, corporation, company, trust or association whose conduct or practices are being investigated.

3.
It shall be the duty of all public officers, their deputies, assistants, subordinates, clerks or employees and all other persons to render and furnish to the attorney-general, his deputy or other designated officer when requested all information and assistance in their possession or within their power. Any officer participating in such inquiry who shall disclose to any person other than the attorney-general the name of any witness examined or any other information obtained upon such inquiry except as directed by the attorney-general shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

Source:
Section 476-C — Investigation by the attorney-general, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/JUD/476-C (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
