                              ORDINANCE NO. _26-001__

   AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF ORANGE, CALIFORNIA AMENDING
 SECTIONS 3-1, OF THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF THE COUNTY OF ORANGE
                   REGARDING EMERGENCY SERVICES

Division 1 - EMERGENCY SERVICES

ARTICLE 1. - EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION[1]

Footnotes:

--- (1) ---

Editor's note— Ord. No. 98-4, §§ 1 and 2, adopted April 14, 1998, amended the Code
by repealing former Art. 1, §§ 3-1-1—3-1-9 and adding a new Art. 1, §§ 3-1-1—3-1-9.
Former Art. 1 pertained to similar subject matter and derived from Ord. No. 3982,
adopted May 13, 1997; and Ord. No. 3915, adopted April 26, 1994.
Sec. 3-1-1. - Purpose.

     The declared purposes of this Article are to provide for the direction of the emergency
organization; the coordination of the emergency functions of this County with all other
public agencies, corporations, organizations, and affected private persons; and the
preparation and implementation of plans for the protection of persons and property within
this County in the event of an emergency. Any expenditures made in connection with
such emergency activities, including mutual aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively
to be for the direct protection and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the County of
Orange.

(Ord. No. 98-4, §§ 1, 2, 4-14-98)

Sec. 3-1-2. - Definitions.

    The following terms as used in this article shall, unless the content clearly indicates
otherwise, have the respective meanings herein set forth:
        (a)   “California Emergency Services Act (“the Act”) is codified at Chapter 7 of
              Division 1 of Title 2 of the Government Code commencing with Section
              8550..
        (b)   “Day-to-day Emergencies” shall mean situations which may arise in the
              County on a daily basis, but are not of sufficient magnitude to be classified
              as an emergency as defined in Section 3-1-2(d) of this article. Local
              assistance for Day-to-day Emergencies may be made available within the
              County.
        (c)   “Director of Emergency Services” shall mean that person designated in a
              resolution adopted pursuant to Government Code Section 8610 by the


                                                                                 Page 1 of 7
             Board of Supervisors, to provide direction and control of the Orange County
             Emergency Organization during times of emergency or disaster.
      (d)    “Emergency” shall mean a "local emergency," "state of emergency," and/or
             "state of war emergency" as defined in the Act at Government Code Section
             8558
      (e)    “Orange County Emergency Organization” shall mean all officers and
             employees of the County and of any special district governed by the Board
             of Supervisors, together with those volunteer forces registered to aid the
             County during an emergency, and all groups, organizations and persons
             who may, by agreement or operation of law (including County officers and
             employees, and citizens of Orange County called to serve under the
             provisions of Section 3-1-6(b)(4) of this chapter), be charged with duties
             necessary for the protection of life and property in the County during such
             emergency. Emergency Organization includes such organizations and
             groups as may offer their services to, and have their services accepted by,
             the County prior to, during, or after an emergency.
      (f)    “Absence” shall mean, for the purposes of declaring an emergency, being
             incapacitated due to illness or disability that renders one unable to attend
             meetings and otherwise perform their duties.
      (g)    “Emergency Plans” shall include all plans, annexes, standard operating
             procedures, and other supporting tools and documents developed to
             respond to emergencies as defined in Section 3-1-2(d) or otherwise
             required by law.


(Ord. No. 98-4, §§ 1, 2, 4-14-98; Ord. No. 98-15, § 24, 12-8-98; Ord. No. 99-24, § 1, 12-
14-99)

Sec. 3-1-3. - County of Orange Emergency Management Council establishment and
membership.

    Pursuant to Government Code Section 8610, the County of Orange hereby creates
a disaster council, which shall be entitled Orange County Emergency Management
Council. The number of members of the Emergency Management Council, the terms of
the members, and the manner of appointment or selection of the members shall be
established by resolution of the Board of Supervisors

(Ord. No. 98-4, §§ 1, 2, 4-14-98; Ord. No. 05-001, § 1, 1-25-05)

Sec. 3-1-4. - Lines of Succession for Emergency Management Council and Alternatives.

       (a)   Emergency Management Council Chair. The Chair shall be a member of
             the Board of Supervisors, appointed by the Board of Supervisors. The
             Board of Supervisors shall also determine the order in which the other


                                                                               Page 2 of 7
             members of the Board of Supervisors will serve as alternates to the Chair
             of the Emergency Management Council, who shall preside over the
             Emergency Management Council in absence of the Chair. In the Absence
             of both the Chair and alternates, the members of the Council present shall,
             by majority vote, select one (1) of the members present to act as Chair Pro
             Tem.
      (b)    Emergency Management Council. Each member shall have a minimum of
             three (3) alternates and an order of succession. All alternates shall have full
             voting privileges. The powers and duties of the Emergency Management
             Council have been specified by the Board of Supervisors in a resolution
             adopted pursuant to this article. The Board may amend, or repeal and
             replace, a resolution adopted pursuant to this article upon the request and
             recommendation of Emergency Management Council or the County
             Executive Officer.
      (c)    Emergency Management Council Bylaws. As required by the Orange
             County Board of Supervisors, the Emergency Management Council will
             maintain bylaws. Bylaws will be reviewed and revised through the
             Emergency Management Council and approved by the Board of
             Supervisors.

(Ord. No. 98-4, §§ 1, 2, 4-14-98; Ord. No. 01-006, § 1, 7-17-01)

Sec. 3-1-5. - Operational Area, Operational Area Council and Executive Board.

     By resolution adopted pursuant to this Article, the Board of Supervisors established
an Operational Area Council and Executive Board for the purposes of emergency
management planning and coordination of all political subdivisions within the Orange
County geographic area as required by State law. The County serves as Lead Agency
as required by State law pursuant to Section 2409 of Title 19 of the California Code of
Regulations (CCR). The Orange County Operational Area Agreement, as approved by
the Board of Supervisors, defines the Operational Area membership, powers, duties,
staffing, services, and responsibilities as further set out in 19 CCR § 2409. As required
by the Orange County Board of Supervisors, the Operational Area Executive Board will
maintain bylaws. Bylaws will be reviewed and revised through the Operational Area
Executive Board and approved by the Board of Supervisors.

(Ord. No. 98-4, §§ 1, 2, 4-14-98)

Sec. 3-1-6. - Director of Emergency Services.

    By resolution adopted pursuant to this Article, the Board of Supervisors shall
designate a Director of Emergency Services. The Director of Emergency Services shall
have the following duties and powers:
       (a)   Emergency proclamations. Director of Emergency Services shall request a
             proclamation of local emergency, as defined at Government Code Section


                                                                                 Page 3 of 7
      8558 including any necessary language recommended by County Counsel,
      as follows:
      (1)   Board in session - If the Board of Supervisors is in session, the Director
            of Emergency Services shall request that the Board of Supervisors
            proclaim a local emergency.
      (2)   Board not in session - Emergency Management Council Chair present.
            In the event the Board of Supervisors is not in session, the Director of
            Emergency Services shall request the Chair of the Emergency
            Management Council to issue a proclamation of local emergency. The
            Chair of the Emergency Management Council is hereby designated to
            proclaim a local emergency when the Board of Supervisors is not in
            session.
      (3)   Board not in session - Emergency Management Council Chair absent.
            In the event that the Board of Supervisors is not in session, and the
            Emergency Management Council Chair and alternate are absent, the
            Director of Emergency Services shall request that the Chair of the
            Board of Supervisors, or successor as set forth in the applicable Board
            resolution, issue a proclamation of local emergency.
      (4)   Director of Emergency Services. The Director of Emergency Services
            is hereby designated to proclaim a local emergency when the Board
            of Supervisors is not in session, and when the Emergency
            Management Council Chair and alternate, and all members of the
            Board of Supervisors are absent.
(b)   Emergency Powers. In the event of a proclamation of local emergency as
      herein provided, the proclamation of a state of emergency by the Governor
      of the State of California or the Director of the State Office of Emergency
      Services, or the existence of a "state of war emergency," the Director of
      Emergency Services is hereby empowered to:
      (1)    Rules and Regulations. Make and issue rules and regulations on
             matters reasonably related to the protection of life and property as
             affected by such emergency.
      (2)    Requisition County Personnel and Material. Requisition necessary
             personnel and material of any County agency or department.
      (3)    Obtain Supplies and Equipment. Obtain vital supplies, equipment,
             and any other properties found lacking and needed for the protection
             of life and property and to bind the county for the fair value thereof
             and, if required immediately, to commandeer the same for public use.
             (a) Purchases. During a proclaimed emergency within the County,
                 the Director of Emergency Services and the County Purchasing
                 Agency are authorized to direct the purchase of emergency-
                 related equipment, supplies, and services on behalf of local
                 public agencies and special districts, in accordance with
                 mutually agreed-upon procedures.


                                                                           Page 4 of 7
                     (b) Donations. During a proclaimed emergency within the County,
                         the Director of Emergency Services and County Purchasing
                         Agent are authorized to accept donations to be used for direct
                         emergency purposes on behalf of the citizens of Orange County,
                         and shall report on a quarterly basis to the Board of Supervisors
                         the source and value of donations in excess of ten thousand
                         dollars ($10,000.00), in accordance with Government Code
                         253551. Policies and processes for accepting and tracking such
                         donations during emergencies will be documented within the
                         County and Operational Area Emergency Plan.
              (4)    Command the Aid of Officers, Employees and Citizens. Require
                     emergency services of any County officer or employee and, in the
                     event of a state of war emergency, state of emergency, or local
                     emergency, command the aid of as many citizens of the County as
                     the Director of Emergency Services deems necessary in the
                     execution of their duties; such persons shall be entitled to all
                     privileges, benefits, and immunities as are provided by State law for
                     disaster services workers.
                     (a) Volunteers. During a proclaimed emergency, volunteers who
                         perform services on behalf of the County Emergency O
                         rganization or for the Operational Area, in accordance with
                         provisions of this article and Government Code 3100, shall so
                         serve without compensation. Volunteers performing duties on
                         behalf of the County shall be registered with the Emergency
                         Management Council as "disaster service worker - volunteers"
                         in order to be eligible for workers' compensation benefits
                         pursuant to Labor Code Section 4350, et seq. Exceptions based
                         on local emergency conditions to any County policies on the use
                         of volunteers shall be documented in writing and submitted to
                         the Board of Supervisors.


      (c)     Initial Emergency Measures. All emergency measures taken by the Director
              of Emergency Services prior to the issuance of an official proclamation of
              emergency, or prior to any decision of the Board not to issue such
              proclamation, shall be legal and binding upon the County.

(Ord. No. 98-4, §§ 1, 2, 4-14-98; Ord. No. 98-15, § 25, 12-8-98)

Sec. 3-1-7. - Emergency Plans.

     Under the direction of the Emergency Management Council and the Operational Area
Executive Board, the County Emergency Manager shall be responsible for ensuring the
development and maintenance of Emergency Plans necessary for the effective
mobilization     of all of the resources of the County, both public and private, to meet any
1 Resolution 93-1235: Acceptance of gifts and donations
condition constituting an Emergency; and shall provide for the organization, powers and


                                                                                 Page 5 of 7
duties, and staff of the Emergency Organization. Emergency Plans include, but may not
be limited to:
                Hazard Mitigation Plan
                Alert and Warning Plan
                Continuity of Government Plan. Continuity of Operations Plans are the
                 responsibility of individual County agencies
                Emergency Operations Plan
                Recovery Plan
       (a)   Compliance. Emergency Plans shall comply with applicable local, State,
             and federal planning criteria, analyze the risks faced by the County, assign
             functional responsibilities to County agencies, departments, and personnel,
             and assign lines of succession for the members of the emergency
             organization.
       (b)   Functional Assignments. Emergency Plans shall include the functions
             assigned to County agencies and departments, and it shall be the
             responsibility of County agency directors and department heads to appoint
             coordinators who shall report to the Emergency Operations Center and
             carry out the assigned duties as appropriate.
       (c)   Adoption. Emergency Plans will be effective upon adoption by the Board of
             Supervisors, unless otherwise stated. Supporting annexes will be effective
             upon approval by the Emergency Management Council and Operational
             Area Executive Board, unless otherwise stated.

(Ord. No. 98-4, §§ 1, 2, 4-14-98)

Sec. 3-1-8. - Alternate Seat of Government.

   In the event of a local emergency, the Board of Supervisors shall meet as soon as
possible. The place of the meeting shall be as designated by the Chair of the Board of
Supervisors but need not be in the geographic jurisdiction of the County of Orange.

(Ord. No. 98-4, §§ 1, 2, 4-14-98)

Sec. 3-1-9. - Punishment of Violators.

    It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or both, for any person,
during a state of war emergency, state of emergency or local emergency, to:
      (a)    Willfully Obstruct. Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the
             emergency organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation
             issued pursuant to this ordinance, or in the performance of any duty
             imposed upon him by virtue of this ordinance.



                                                                              Page 6 of 7
        (b)     Engage in Forbidden Acts. Engaging in any act forbidden by any lawful rule
                or regulation issued pursuant to this ordinance, if such act is of such a nature
                as to give or be likely to give assistance to the enemy, or to imperil the lives
                or property of inhabitants of this county, or to prevent, hinder, or delay the
                defense or protection of the state.

(Ord. No. 98-4, §§ 1, 2, 4-14-98)

Secs. 3-1-10—3-1-28. - Reserved.

This ordinance shall take effect and to be in full force thirty (30) days from and after its passage
and, before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after the passage thereof, shall be published once
in an adjudicated newspaper published in the County of Orange.

      THE FOREGOING was PASSED and ADOPTED by the following vote of the Orange
County Board of Supervisors on January 13, 2026, to wit:


AYES:         Supervisors:     JANET NGUYEN, KATRINA FOLEY, VICENTE SARMIENTO
                               DONALD P. WAGNER, DOUG CHAFFEE
NOES:
EXCUSED:
ABSTAINED:




(Signature on File)
Robin Stieler,
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of Orange County, California




                                                                                         Page 7 of 7
