SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._uniform_commercial_code_law_section_3-503
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/UCC/3-503 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Uniform Commercial Code Law Section 3-503

Time of Presentment

Section 3--503. Time of Presentment.

(1)
Unless a different time is expressed in the instrument the time for any presentment is determined as follows:

(a)
where an instrument is payable at or a fixed period after a stated date any presentment for acceptance must be made on or before the date it is payable;

(b)
where an instrument is payable after sight it must either be presented for acceptance or negotiated within a reasonable time after date or issue whichever is later;

(c)
where an instrument shows the date on which it is payable presentment for payment is due on that date;

(d)
where an instrument is accelerated presentment for payment is due within a reasonable time after the acceleration;

(e)
with respect to the liability of any secondary party presentment for acceptance or payment of any other instrument is due within a reasonable time after such party becomes liable thereon.

(2)
A reasonable time for presentment is determined by the nature of the instrument, any usage of banking or trade and the facts of the particular case. In the case of an uncertified check which is drawn and payable within the United States and which is not a draft drawn by a bank the following are presumed to be reasonable periods within which to present for payment or to initiate bank collection:

(a)
with respect to the liability of the drawer, thirty days after date or issue whichever is later; and

(b)
with respect to the liability of an endorser, seven days after his indorsement.

(3)
Where any presentment is due on a day which is not a full business day for either the person making presentment or the party to pay or accept, presentment is due on the next following day which is a full business day for both parties.

(4)
Presentment to be sufficient must be made at a reasonable hour, and if at a bank during its banking day.

Source:
Section 3-503 — Time of Presentment, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/UCC/3-503 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
