SOURCE: https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-24/part-5#p-5.106
API: https://www.ecfr.gov/api/versioner/v1/full/2026-09-28/title-24.xml?part=5
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from the eCFR versioner API (up to date as of 2026-09-28); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/ecfr.py

§ 5.106 Equal access in accordance with the individual's gender identity in community planning and development programs.
(a) Applicability. This section applies to assistance provided under Community Planning and Development (CPD) programs, including assistance under the following CPD programs: HOME Investment Partnerships program (24 CFR part 92), Housing Trust Fund program (24 CFR part 93), Community Development Block Grant program (24 CFR part 570), Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS program (24 CFR part 574), Emergency Solutions Grants program (24 CFR part 576), Continuum of Care program (24 CFR part 578), or Rural Housing Stability Assistance Program (24 CFR part 579). The requirements of this section apply to recipients and subrecipients, as well as to owners, operators, and managers of shelters and other buildings and facilities and providers of services funded in whole or in part by any CPD program.
(b) Equal access in accordance with gender identity. The admissions, occupancy, and operating policies and procedures of recipients, subrecipients, owners, operators, managers, and providers identified in paragraph (a) of this section, including policies and procedures to protect privacy, health, safety, and security, shall be established or amended, as necessary, and administered in a nondiscriminatory manner to ensure that:
(1) Equal access to CPD programs, shelters, other buildings and facilities, benefits, services, and accommodations is provided to an individual in accordance with the individual's gender identity, and in a manner that affords equal access to the individual's family;
(2) An individual is placed, served, and accommodated in accordance with the gender identity of the individual;
(3) An individual is not subjected to intrusive questioning or asked to provide anatomical information or documentary, physical, or medical evidence of the individual's gender identity; and
(4) Eligibility determinations are made and assisted housing is made available in CPD programs as required by § 5.105(a)(2).
(c) Placement and accommodation in temporary, emergency shelters and other buildings and facilities with shared sleeping quarters or shared bathing facilities—(1) Placement and accommodation. Placement and accommodation of an individual in temporary, emergency shelters and other buildings and facilities with physical limitations or configurations that require and are permitted to have shared sleeping quarters or shared bathing facilities shall be made in accordance with the individual's gender identity.
(2) Post-admission accommodations. A recipient, subrecipient, owner, operator, manager, or provider must take nondiscriminatory steps that may be necessary and appropriate to address privacy concerns raised by residents or occupants and, as needed, update its admissions, occupancy, and operating policies and procedures in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) Documentation and record retention. Providers shall document and maintain records of compliance with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section for a period of 5 years.
[81 FR 64782, Sept. 21, 2016]
