SOURCE: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/SCP/1003
CAPTURE: https://web.archive.org/web/20260917014158id_/https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/SCP/1003
PUBLISHED: not stated (nysenate.gov 'This entry was published on' date of the captured version)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of the Internet Archive capture of the official nysenate.gov page (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser; public.law does not carry this law); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/senate_archive.py

SECTION 1003. Persons who must be served with process; waiver of process; dispensation with service of process 1

§ 1003. Persons who must be served with process; waiver of process;

        dispensation with service of process

1.  In a proceeding for letters of administration upon the estate of a
person alleged to be deceased process shall issue directed to such
person and to all his presumptive distributees.

2.  Every eligible person who has a right to administration prior or
equal to that of the petitioner and who has not renounced must be served
with process upon an application for letters of administration.  When
the petitioner is a creditor or a person interested in an action brought
or about to be brought in which the intestate, if living, would be a
party, process shall also issue to all incompetents, conservatees and
infants for whom a committee, conservator or guardian of the property
has been appointed who are domiciliary distributees.  When the
petitioner is a public administrator or county treasurer process shall
issue only to such incompetent or conservatee domiciliary distributees
whose names and addresses are known to him.  The court may dispense with
the issuance and service of process upon non-domiciliaries.

3.  Any person who has a right to administration prior or equal to
that of the petitioner may renounce his right and waive the issuance and
service of process by an acknowledged instrument which must be filed in
the office of the clerk of the court, except that a public administrator
or the chief fiscal officer of the county may not renounce his right and
may only be excused from acting, upon his motion duly made and an order
made and entered thereupon by the court.

4.  The court may dispense with service of process upon a person who
has a right to administration prior or equal to that of the petitioner
where it appears that the name or whereabouts of such person is unknown
and cannot be ascertained after diligent inquiry, subject to the
requirement that the decree granting the letters shall contain a
provision directing that in the proceeding for the judicial settlement
of the account of the administrator process shall issue and be served
upon such person.

5.  If an application for letters of administration be made under the
circumstances provided in 1001, subdivision 9, process shall also issue
to the persons named in the paper  writing referred to in that section
and the persons to whom process would be required to issue in a
proceeding for the probate of such paper writing.
