Bill Text - AB-1521 Committee on Judiciary: judiciary omnibus.
/* Hide page by default*/
            html { display : none; }
//<![CDATA[

            if (self === top) {
                // Show the page
                document.documentElement.style.display = 'block';
            } else {
                // Inside a frame. Replace the frame.
                var parentUrl = document.referrer;
                var num = -1;
                if (parentUrl !== '') {

                    num = parseInt(parentUrl.indexOf('calchannel.granicus.com'));

                    if (!(num >= 0)) {
                        window.top.location.replace(window.location);
                        top.location = self.location;
                    }
                }
            }
            // ]]>
/* Hide page by default*/
            html { display : inline; }
//<![CDATA[
function faceletsDebug(URL) {day = new Date();id = day.getTime();eval("page" + id + " = window.open(URL, '" + id + "', 'toolbar=0,scrollbars=1,location=0,statusbar=0,menubar=0,resizable=1,width=800,height=600,left = 240,top = 212');"); };(function() { if (typeof jsfFaceletsDebug === 'undefined') { var jsfFaceletsDebug = false; } if (!jsfFaceletsDebug) {var faceletsOrigKeyup = document.onkeyup;document.onkeyup = function(e) { if (window.event) e = window.event; if (String.fromCharCode(e.keyCode) == 'D' & e.shiftKey & e.ctrlKey) faceletsDebug('/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?facelets.ui.DebugOutput=1790798046765'); jsfFaceletsDebug = true; if (faceletsOrigKeyup) faceletsOrigKeyup(e); };
}})();//]]>
function changePlaceHolder() {

            var x = document.getElementById("billheaderinit_form:quick_search_select_id");
            var input = document.getElementById("billheaderinit_form:searchall");

            if (x !== null) {
                if (x.options[0].selected) {

                    input.placeholder = "AB1 or ab 1 or ABX1-1";
                } else {
                    input.placeholder = "Search phrase";
                }
            }

        }
skip to content
home
accessibility
FAQ
feedback
sitemap
login
x
Quick Search:
Bill Number
Bill Keyword
Home
Bill Information
California Law
Publications
Other Resources
My Subscriptions
My Favorites
function getTableColumnCount(table) {
                var columnCount = 0;
                var rows = table.rows;
                if (rows !== null) {
                    if (rows.length > 0) {
                        var cells = rows[0].cells;
                        for (var i = 0, len = cells.length; i < len; ++i) {
                                // alert("i=" + i + "colspan=" + cells[i].colSpan);
                                columnCount += cells[i].colSpan;
                        }
                    }
                }
                return columnCount;
            }

          function findSubTableIds() {
          //alert('inside findSubTableIds');
            var allElements = document.getElementsByTagName("*");
            //var ei = '';
            for (var i = 0, n = allElements.length; i < n; ++i) {
                var ei = allElements[i];
                if (ei !== null) {
                    if (ei.id) {
                        if (ei.id.startsWith("subtable_")) {
                        // console.log(el.id);
                            var arrName = ei.id.split("_");
                            var table = document.getElementById(ei.id);
                            if (table !== null) {
                                var colcount = getTableColumnCount(table);
                                if (colcount !== 0) {
                                        document.getElementById("tdColSpanId_" + arrName[1]).colSpan =colcount;
                                }
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
          }
Bill Information
>>
Bill Search
>>
Text
Bill Text
Bill Information
function asAmendsPopup() {
            window.open("asAmendsInfo.xhtml", "Information", "width=330, height=220, toolbar=no, location=no, directories=no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, top=270, left=150")
        }

        function selectVersion() {

            var versionObj = document.getElementById("version");
            var selectedVersionId = '20250AB152191CHP';
            var len = versionObj.options.length;
            //alert('selectedVersionId='+selectedVersionId);
            for (i = 0; i < len; i++) {
                if (versionObj.options[i].value == selectedVersionId) {
                    versionObj.options[i].selected = true;
                }
            }
        }

        function  downLoadPDF() {
            document.getElementById("pdf_link2").click();
        }
PDF2
Bill PDF
|
Add To My Favorites
|
Track Bill
|
Version:
10/01/25 - Chaptered
09/12/25 - Enrolled
09/02/25 - Amended Senate
07/15/25 - Amended Senate
07/03/25 - Amended Senate
06/19/25 - Amended Senate
05/23/25 - Amended Assembly
04/21/25 - Amended Assembly
03/18/25 - Introduced
AB-1521 Committee on Judiciary: judiciary omnibus.
(2025-2026)
Text
>>
Votes
>>
History
>>
Bill Analysis
>>
Today's Law As Amended
>>
Compare Versions
>>
Status
>>
Comments To Author
>>
Track Bill
>>
Add To My Favorites
>>
selectVersion();
SHARE THIS:
Date Published: 10/02/2025 09:00 PM
AB1521:v91#DOCUMENT
Bill Start
Assembly Bill
              
                        No. 1521
CHAPTER 200
An act to amend Section 10147.5 of the Business and Professions Code, to amend Sections 1785.27, 1788.2, 2923.7, 2924.18, and 2924f of, and to add Section 1798.84.1 to, the Civil Code, to amend Sections 697.530, 1141.30, 1710.45, 2016.040, 2023.010, 2030.020, 2031.020, and 2033.020 of the Code of Civil Procedure, to amend Section 15800 of the Corporations Code, to amend Section 12974 of, and to repeal Sections 7928.210, 7928.215, 7928.220, 7928.225, and 7928.230 of, the Government Code, to amend Section 103470 of the Health and Safety Code, to add Section 76.5 to the Penal Code, to amend Section 9202 of the Probate Code, and to amend Section 319 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to state government.
[
Approved  by
Governor
October 01, 2025.
Filed with
Secretary of State
October 01, 2025.
]
LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST
AB 1521, Committee on Judiciary.
                      Committee on Judiciary: judiciary omnibus.
(1) Existing law, the Real Estate Law, provides for the licensure and regulation of real estate brokers and salespersons. Existing law requires specified language be included in agreements that provide for the amount of compensation to be paid to a real estate licensee for the purchase of specified residential property or a mobilehome. That language states that the amount or rate of real estate commissions is not fixed by law but rather is set by each broker individually and may be negotiable between the seller and the broker.
This bill would make a technical correction to the language that must be included in agreements for the purchase of a specified property or mobilehome to clarify that the rate at issue is that paid by a buyer to the broker.
(2) Existing
		law, the Consumer Credit Reporting Agencies Act, defines and regulates consumer credit reports and consumer credit reporting agencies. Existing law prohibits a person from furnishing information regarding a medical debt to a consumer credit reporting agency, and requires a contract creating a medical debt entered into on or after July 1, 2025, to include specified language and provides consequences for failing to include such language.
This bill would specify that the requirement that specified language be included in contracts creating medical debt applies only to written contracts.
(3) Existing law, the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, prohibits debt collectors from engaging in unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the collection of covered debts and requires debtors to act fairly in entering into and honoring those debts. Existing law provides that a covered debt includes a covered
		commercial debt, and defines “covered commercial debt” and “covered commercial credit” to mean money due or owing or alleged to be due or owing from a natural person to a lender, commercial financing provider, or debt buyer, by reason of one or more covered commercial credit transactions, if the total amount of all commercial credit transactions due and owing is no more than $500,000.
This bill would specify that commercial debt does not include specified commercial financing transactions of at least $50,000 in which the recipient is a vehicle dealer or an affiliate of a dealer or a trade credit, as defined.
(4) Existing law defines and regulates mortgages, including recording notices of default, applications for loan modification, and foreclosure prevention alternatives. Existing law provides that where a borrower submits a timely request for a loan modification, certain types of lien holders may not
		foreclose on the property during the pendency of that request and provides procedures for the subsequent approval or rejection of that application, as specified. Existing law provides that these lien holders include persons or entities that make or service seven or fewer loans for the purchase of residential property in a year.
This bill would specify that the application of this section to persons or entities with seven or fewer loans applies only to such entities that service the loans, and that the loans apply only to properties within the state. The bill also expands the application of this provision to include loans that encumber such property.
(5) Existing law requires mortgage servicers to establish a single point of contact when a borrower requests a foreclosure prevention alternative, as specified. Existing law exempts from these provisions entities and persons that, make and service 7 or
		fewer loans for the purchase of residential real property in a calendar year from those provisions.
This bill would instead exempt a person or entity that services seven or fewer loans encumbering real property located in California in a calendar year.
(6) Existing law imposes various requirements that must be satisfied before exercising a power of sale under a mortgage or deed of trust. Among those requirements, existing law requires the mortgagee, beneficiary, or authorized agent with respect to residential real property containing no more than 4 dwelling units to provide to the trustee the fair market value of the property, as defined, at least 10 days prior to the initially scheduled date of sale, and prohibits the trustee from selling the property at the initially scheduled date of sale for less than 67% of the amount of that fair market value of the property. If the property remains unsold after
		the initial trustee’s sale, the trustee is required to postpone the sale for at least 7 days, and would authorize the property to be sold thereafter to the highest bidder, as specified.
This bill would clarify that the trustee may not sell the property at the first sale at which a bid may be made for less than 67% of the amount of that fair market value of the property. This bill would further clarify that if the property remains unsold after the first sale at which a bid can be made for less than 67% of market value, the trustee is required to postpone the sale for at least 7 days.
(7) Existing law specifies personal property of a judgment debtor that is subject to enforcement of a money judgment. Among other things, tangible chattel paper, as defined, of a judgment debtor that is located in the state is subject to enforcement of a money judgment against the judgment debtor.
This bill would instead specify that chattel paper, as defined, of a judgment debtor that is located in the state is subject to enforcement of a money judgment against the judgment debtor. The bill would also conform a cross-reference in that provision to existing law.
(8) Existing law prescribes procedures for judicial arbitration to facilitate the resolution of small civil cases, and specifies that these procedures are mutually exclusive and independent of another set of procedures relating to the enforcement of arbitration agreements between parties.
This bill would make a nonsubstantive change to the provision above by removing an obsolete cross-reference.
(9) Existing law authorizes a judgment creditor to apply for the entry of a judgment based on a sister state judgment, as specified. Existing
		law permits a writ of execution on such a judgment to issue before service of the notice of entry of judgment if the judgment debtor is, among other things, a foreign partnership that has not filed a statement designating an agent for service of process.
This bill would conform a cross-reference in that provision to existing law.
(10) Existing law, the Civil Discovery Act, governs discovery in civil actions and proceedings of a civil nature. Existing law requires a meet and confer declaration in support of a motion brought pursuant to the act to state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion. Existing law deems a failure to confer in person, by telephone, or by letter in order to informally resolve a discovery dispute to be a misuse of the discovery process if the law requires that a party show an attempt at informal resolution in
		support of a motion.
This bill would provide that the parties may meet and confer by videoconference, instead of by letter, in order to conform these provisions to other provisions in the act which authorize meeting and conferring by videoconference.
(11) The Civil Discovery Act provides that in actions for unlawful detainer, a plaintiff may propound interrogatories, make a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and may make requests for admission, all without leave of court any time that is 5 days after service of summons on or appearance in court by that party.
This bill would change these timelines for specified discovery in unlawful detainer actions to 10 days after the service of summons on, or appearance by, that party from which discovery is requested.
(12) Existing law
		requires every partnership that is domiciled outside of the state and that has no regular place of business in the state to file a statement with the Secretary of State designating an agent for service of process, except as specified.
This bill would conform a cross-reference in that provision to existing law.
(13) Existing law, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, provides that when a complaint is filed with the Civil Rights Department, and the department concludes that prompt judicial action is necessary to enforce the act, the director of the department or their authorized representative may bring a civil action for temporary or preliminary relief pending final disposition of the complaint. Existing law requires such an action to be brought in a particular county, depending on whether certain conditions are present.
This bill would conform a
		cross-reference in the provision above, relating to the county in which the judicial action must be brought, to existing law.
(14) Existing law makes it a misdemeanor for a person to knowingly post the home address or telephone number of any elected or appointed official, or of their residing spouse or child, on the internet with the intent to cause imminent great bodily harm or threatening to cause imminent great bodily harm, as provided.
This bill would recodify this provision in the Penal Code.
(15) Existing law prohibits a person, business, or association from publicly posting or publicly displaying on the internet the home address or telephone number of any elected or appointed official if that official has made a written demand of that person, business, or association to not disclose the official’s home address or telephone number.
		Existing law also specifies how an official whose information has been posted in violation of these sections may act to enforce their rights to keep this information private.
This bill would repeal these provisions.
(16) Existing law prohibits a person, business, or association from soliciting, selling, or trading on the internet the home address or telephone number of an elected or appointed official with the intent to cause imminent great bodily harm to the official or to any person residing at the official’s home address.
This bill would recodify this provision in the Civil Code.
(17) Existing law permits a verified petition to be filed by any beneficially interested person with the county clerk of certain superior courts for an order to judicially establish the fact of, and the time and place
		of, a birth, death, or marriage that is not registered or for which a certified copy is not obtainable. Existing law provides such petitions are heard by judges who hear probate matters.
This bill would specify that petitions to establish such a record for individuals that are otherwise subject to the juvenile courts, as specified, may be made and heard in juvenile courts. The bill would require the court to waive the filing fee for any such petition filed in juvenile court.
(18) Existing law requires the general representative of an estate in probate or the estate attorney to give the Director of Health Care Services notice of a decedent’s death if the decedent was a recipient of Medi-Cal health care services or was the surviving spouse of a person who received such care in order to provide the director with an opportunity to make a claim against the decedent’s estate.
This bill would additionally authorize the general representative or the estate attorney to give that notice through the department’s official internet website using the online notice of death form.
This bill would require the personal representative or estate attorney to provide notice to the to the Director of Child Support Services if the representative or attorney knows or has reason to know that the decedent had a child support obligation, in order to provide the director with an opportunity to assert a claim against the decedent’s estate. The bill would make this requirement applicable to all estates for which letters of administration were first issued on or after January 1, 2026.
(19) Existing law establishes the grounds for removal of a dependent child from the custody of the child’s parents or guardian. Existing law requires the court, at the initial
		petition hearing, to examine the child’s parents, guardians, Indian custodian, or other persons having relevant knowledge and hear the relevant evidence, and order the release of the child from custody unless a prima facie showing has been made that, among other things, whether less disruptive alternatives to removal were considered, and factors related to impact of removal on the child. If the court finds that removal is necessary existing law requires the court’s order to state whether its determination complies with placement guidelines for removed Indian children, and less disruptive alternatives.
This bill would make a technical, nonsubstantive change to the latter provision.
Digest Key
Vote:
MAJORITY
Appropriation:
NO
Fiscal Committee:
YES
Local Program:
NO
Bill Text
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
SECTION 1.
Section 10147.5 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:
10147.5.
(a) Any printed or form agreement that initially establishes, or is intended to establish, or alters the terms of any agreement that previously established a right to compensation to be paid to a real estate licensee for the sale of residential real property containing not more than four residential units, or for the sale of a mobilehome, shall contain the following statement in not less than 10-point boldface type immediately preceding any provision of such agreement relating to compensation of the licensee:
Notice: The amount or rate of real estate commissions is not fixed by law. They are set by each broker individually and may be negotiable between the seller and broker.
(b) Any printed or form agreement that
				  initially establishes or is intended to establish, or alters the terms of any agreement that previously established a right to compensation to be paid to a real estate licensee for the purchase of residential real property containing not more than four residential units, or for the purchase of a mobilehome, shall contain the following statement in not less than 10-point boldface type immediately preceding any provision of such agreement relating to compensation of the licensee:
Notice: The amount or rate of real estate compensation is not fixed by law. They are set by each broker individually and may be negotiable between the buyer and broker.
(c) The amount or rate of compensation shall not be printed in any such agreement described in subdivisions (a) and (b).
(d) Nothing in this section shall affect the validity of a transfer of title
				  to real property.
(e) As used in this section, “alters the terms of any agreement which previously established a right to compensation” means an increase in the rate of compensation, or the amount of compensation if initially established as a flat fee, from the agreement which previously established a right to compensation.
SEC. 2.
Section 1785.27 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
1785.27.
(a) A person shall not furnish information regarding a medical debt to a consumer credit reporting agency.
(b) A medical debt is void and unenforceable if a person knowingly violates this section by furnishing information regarding the medical debt to a consumer credit reporting agency.
(c) (1) On or after July 1, 2025, it is unlawful to enter into a written contract creating a medical debt that does not include the following term:
“A holder of this medical debt contract is prohibited by Section 1785.27 of the Civil Code from furnishing any information related to this debt to a consumer credit reporting agency. In addition to any other
				  penalties allowed by law, if a person knowingly violates that section by furnishing information regarding this debt to a consumer credit reporting agency, the debt shall be void and unenforceable.”
(2) A written contract entered into on or after July 1, 2025, that does not include the term described in paragraph (1) is void and unenforceable.
(d) A violation of this section by a person holding a license or permit issued by the state shall be deemed to be a violation of the law governing that license or permit.
SEC. 3.
Section 1788.2 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
1788.2.
(a) Definitions and rules of construction set forth in this section are applicable for the purpose of this title.
(b) The term “debt collection” means any act or practice in connection with the collection of covered debts.
(c) The term “debt collector” means any person who, in the ordinary course of business, regularly, on behalf of that person or others, engages in debt collection. The term includes any person who composes and sells, or offers to compose and sell, forms, letters, and other collection media used or intended to be used for debt collection.
(d) The term “debt” means money, property, or their equivalent that is due or owing
				  or alleged to be due or owing from a natural person to another person.
(e) The term “consumer credit transaction” means a transaction between a natural person and another person in which property, services, or money is acquired on credit by that natural person from the other person primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
(f) The terms “consumer debt” and “consumer credit” mean money, property, or their equivalent, due or owing or alleged to be due or owing from a natural person by reason of a consumer credit transaction. The term “consumer debt” includes a mortgage debt.
(g) The term “person” means a natural person, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, trust, estate, cooperative, association, or other similar entity.
(h) (1) Except as provided in Section 1788.18, the term “debtor” means a natural person from whom a debt collector seeks to collect a covered debt that is due and owing or alleged to be due and owing from that person.
(2) In relation to a covered commercial debt or covered commercial credit, a “debtor” shall mean a natural person who guarantees an obligation related to a covered commercial credit transaction.
(i) The term “creditor” means a person who extends covered credit to a debtor.
(j) The term “consumer credit report” means any written, oral, or other communication of any information by a consumer reporting agency bearing on a consumer’s creditworthiness, credit standing, credit capacity, character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living that is used
				  or expected to be used or collected in whole or in part for the purpose of serving as a factor in establishing the consumer’s eligibility for (1) credit or insurance to be used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, or (2) employment purposes, or (3) other purposes authorized under any applicable federal or state law or regulation. The term does not include (a) any report containing information solely as to transactions or experiences between the consumer and the person making the report; (b) any authorization or approval of a specific extension of credit directly or indirectly by the issuer of a credit card or similar device; or (c) any report in which a person who has been requested by a third party to make a specific extension of credit directly or indirectly to a consumer conveys that person’s decision with respect to that request, if the third party advises the consumer of the name and address of the person to whom the request was made, and the person makes the disclosures to the
				  consumer required under any applicable federal or state law or regulation.
(k) The term “consumer reporting agency” means any person that, for monetary fees, dues, or on a cooperative nonprofit basis, regularly engages, in whole or in part, in the practice of assembling or evaluating consumer credit information or other information on consumers for the purpose of furnishing consumer credit reports to third parties and uses any means or facility for the purpose of preparing or furnishing consumer credit reports.
(l) The term “covered debt” means a consumer debt or a covered commercial debt.
(m) The term “covered credit” means consumer credit or covered commercial credit.
(n) (1) The terms “covered commercial debt” and “covered
				  commercial credit” mean money due or owing or alleged to be due or owing from a natural person to a lender, a commercial financing provider, as defined in Section 22800 of the Financial Code, or a debt buyer, as defined in Section 1788.50, by reason of one or more covered commercial credit transactions, provided the total amount of all covered commercial credit transactions and all other noncovered commercial credit transactions due and owing by the debtor or other person obligated under the transactions to the same lender, commercial financing provider, or debt buyer is no more than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000).
(A) For credit owed to a lender or commercial financing provider, the total value of credit per transaction is determined as of when the transaction is first entered into and is the maximum amount that the creditor is contractually required to provide or make available to the debtor over the life of the transaction or is
				  the maximum amount that is enumerated in an open-end credit agreement.
(B) The value of credit for each transaction for a debt buyer is the amount owing or alleged to be owing to the debt buyer when the debt buyer acquires the rights of the lender or commercial financing provider in the commercial credit.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, covered commercial debt does not include either of the following:
(A) Trade credit.
(B) A commercial financing transaction in which the recipient is a dealer as defined by Section 285 of the Vehicle Code, or an affiliate of the dealer, pursuant to a specific commercial financing offer or commercial open-end credit plan of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000), including, but not limited to, a
				  commercial loan made pursuant to that commercial financing transaction.
(o) The term “covered commercial credit transaction” means a transaction between a person and another person in which a total value of no more than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000), is acquired on credit by that person from the other person for use primarily for other than personal, family, or household purposes.
(p) The term “trade credit” means an extension of credit that meets both of the following conditions:
(1) The credit is extended by a person whose primary business is the furnishing or provision of goods, materials, equipment, or services.
(2) The credit is extended in connection with the furnishing or provision of goods, materials, equipment, or services, unless
				  the transaction is structured as “lease financing” as defined in Section 22800 of the Financial Code.
SEC. 4.
Section 1798.84.1 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
1798.84.1.
(a) No person, business, or association shall solicit, sell, or trade on the internet the home address or telephone number of an elected or appointed official with the intent to cause imminent great bodily harm to the official or to any person residing at the official’s home address.
(b) Notwithstanding any other law, an official whose home address or telephone number is solicited, sold, or traded in violation of subdivision (a) may bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(c) If a jury or court finds that a violation has occurred, it shall award damages to that official in an amount up to a maximum of three times the actual damages but in no case less than four
				  thousand dollars ($4,000).
(d) “Elected or appointed official” has the same meaning as that term is defined in Section 7920.500 of the Government Code.
SEC. 5.
Section 2923.7 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
2923.7.
(a) When a borrower requests a foreclosure prevention alternative, the mortgage servicer shall promptly establish a single point of contact and provide to the borrower one or more direct means of communication with the single point of contact.
(b) The single point of contact shall be responsible for doing all of the following:
(1) Communicating the process by which a borrower may apply for an available foreclosure prevention alternative and the deadline for any required submissions to be considered for these options.
(2) Coordinating receipt of all documents associated with available foreclosure prevention alternatives and notifying the
				  borrower of any missing documents necessary to complete the application.
(3) Having access to current information and personnel sufficient to timely, accurately, and adequately inform the borrower of the current status of the foreclosure prevention alternative.
(4) Ensuring that a borrower is considered for all foreclosure prevention alternatives offered by, or through, the mortgage servicer, if any.
(5) Having access to individuals with the ability and authority to stop foreclosure proceedings when necessary.
(c) The single point of contact shall remain assigned to the borrower’s account until the mortgage servicer determines that all loss mitigation options offered by, or through, the mortgage servicer have been exhausted or the borrower’s account
				  becomes current.
(d) The mortgage servicer shall ensure that a single point of contact refers and transfers a borrower to an appropriate supervisor upon request of the borrower, if the single point of contact has a supervisor.
(e) For purposes of this section, “single point of contact” means an individual or team of personnel each of whom has the ability and authority to perform the responsibilities described in subdivisions (b) to (d), inclusive. The mortgage servicer shall ensure that each member of the team is knowledgeable about the borrower’s situation and current status in the alternatives to foreclosure process.
(f) This section shall apply only to mortgages or deeds of trust described in Section 2924.15.
(g) (1) This
				  section shall not apply to either of the following:
(A) A depository institution chartered under state or federal law, a person licensed pursuant to Division 9 (commencing with Section 22000) or Division 20 (commencing with Section 50000) of the Financial Code, or a person licensed pursuant to Part 1 (commencing with Section 10000) of Division 4 of the Business and Professions Code, that, during its immediately preceding annual reporting period, as established with its primary regulator, foreclosed on 175 or fewer residential real properties, containing no more than four dwelling units, that are located in California.
(B) A person or entity that services seven or fewer loans encumbering residential real property located in California in a calendar year.
(2) Within three months after the close of any calendar year or
				  annual reporting period as established with its primary regulator during which an entity or person described in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) exceeds the threshold of 175 specified in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1), that entity shall notify its primary regulator, in a manner acceptable to its primary regulator, and any mortgagor or trustor who is delinquent on a residential mortgage loan serviced by that entity of the date on which that entity will be subject to this section, which date shall be the first day of the first month that is six months after the close of the calendar year or annual reporting period during which that entity exceeded the threshold.
SEC. 6.
Section 2924.18 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
2924.18.
(a) (1) If a borrower submits a complete application for a first lien loan modification offered by, or through, the borrower’s mortgage servicer at least five business days before a scheduled foreclosure sale, a mortgage servicer, trustee, mortgagee, beneficiary, or authorized agent shall not record a notice of default, notice of sale, or conduct a trustee’s sale while the complete first lien loan modification application is pending, and until the borrower has been provided with a written determination by the mortgage servicer regarding that borrower’s eligibility for the requested loan modification.
(2) If a foreclosure prevention alternative has been approved in writing prior to the recordation of a notice of default, a mortgage servicer,
				  mortgagee, trustee, beneficiary, or authorized agent shall not record a notice of default under either of the following circumstances:
(A) The borrower is in compliance with the terms of a written trial or permanent loan modification, forbearance, or repayment plan.
(B) A foreclosure prevention alternative has been approved in writing by all parties, including, for example, the first lien investor, junior lienholder, and mortgage insurer, as applicable, and proof of funds or financing has been provided to the servicer.
(3) If a foreclosure prevention alternative is approved in writing after the recordation of a notice of default, a mortgage servicer, mortgagee, trustee, beneficiary, or authorized agent shall not record a notice of sale or conduct a trustee’s sale under either of the following circumstances:
(A) The borrower is in compliance with the terms of a written trial or permanent loan modification, forbearance, or repayment plan.
(B) A foreclosure prevention alternative has been approved in writing by all parties, including, for example, the first lien investor, junior lienholder, and mortgage insurer, as applicable, and proof of funds or financing has been provided to the servicer.
(b) This section shall apply to both of the following:
(1) A depository institution chartered under state or federal law, a person licensed pursuant to Division 9 (commencing with Section 22000) or Division 20 (commencing with Section 50000) of the Financial Code, or a person licensed pursuant to Part 1 (commencing with Section 10000) of Division 4 of the Business and
				  Professions Code, that, during its immediately preceding annual reporting period, as established with its primary regulator, foreclosed on 175 or fewer residential real properties, containing no more than four dwelling units, that are located in California.
(2) A person or entity that services seven or fewer loans encumbering residential real property located in California in a calendar year.
(c) Within three months after the close of any calendar year or annual reporting period as established with its primary regulator during which an entity or person described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) exceeds the threshold of 175 specified in paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), that entity shall notify its primary regulator, in a manner acceptable to its primary regulator, and any mortgagor or trustor who is delinquent on a residential mortgage loan serviced by that entity of the date
				  on which that entity will be subject to Sections 2923.55, 2923.6, 2923.7, 2924.9, 2924.10, 2924.11, and 2924.12, which date shall be the first day of the first month that is six months after the close of the calendar year or annual reporting period during which that entity exceeded the threshold.
(d) For purposes of this section, an application shall be deemed “complete” when a borrower has supplied the mortgage servicer with all documents required by the mortgage servicer within the reasonable timeframes specified by the mortgage servicer.
(e) If a borrower has been approved in writing for a first lien loan modification or other foreclosure prevention alternative, and the servicing of the borrower’s loan is transferred or sold to another mortgage servicer, the subsequent mortgage servicer shall continue to honor any previously approved first lien loan modification or other
				  foreclosure prevention alternative, in accordance with the provisions of the act that added this section.
(f) This section shall apply only to mortgages or deeds of trust described in Section 2924.15.
SEC. 7.
Section 2924f of the Civil Code, as amended by Section 3 of Chapter 311 of the Statutes of 2024, is amended to read:
2924f.
(a) As used in this section and Sections 2924g and 2924h, “property” means real property or a leasehold estate therein, and “calendar week” means Monday through Saturday, inclusive.
(b) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (c), before any sale of property can be made under the power of sale contained in any deed of trust or mortgage, or any resale resulting from a rescission for a failure of consideration pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 2924h, notice of the sale thereof shall be given by posting a written notice of the time of sale and of the street address and the specific place at the street address where the sale will be held, and describing the property to be sold, at least 20 days before the date of sale in one public place in the
				  city where the property is to be sold, if the property is to be sold in a city, or, if not, then in one public place in the county seat of the county where the property is to be sold, and publishing a copy once a week for three consecutive calendar weeks.
(2) The first publication to be at least 20 days before the date of sale, in a newspaper of general circulation published in the public notice district in which the property or some part thereof is situated, or in case no newspaper of general circulation is published in the public notice district, in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which the property or some part thereof is situated, or in case no newspaper of general circulation is published in the public notice district or county, as the case may be, in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county in this state that is contiguous to the county in which the property or some part thereof is situated
				  and has, by comparison with all similarly contiguous counties, the highest population based upon total county population as determined by the most recent federal decennial census published by the Bureau of the Census. For the purposes of this section, publication of notice in a public notice district is governed by Chapter 1.1 (commencing with Section 6080) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code.
(3) A copy of the notice of sale shall also be posted in a conspicuous place on the property to be sold at least 20 days before the date of sale, where possible and where not restricted for any reason. If the property is a single-family residence the posting shall be on a door of the residence, but, if not possible or restricted, then the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the property; however, if access is denied because a common entrance to the property is restricted by a guard gate or similar impediment, the property may be
				  posted at that guard gate or similar impediment to any development community.
(4) The notice of sale shall conform to the minimum requirements of Section 6043 of the Government Code and be recorded with the county recorder of the county in which the property or some part thereof is situated at least 20 days prior to the date of sale.
(5) The notice of sale shall contain the name, street address in this state, which may reflect an agent of the trustee, and either a toll-free telephone number or telephone number in this state of the trustee, and the name of the original trustor, and also shall contain the statement required by paragraph (3) of subdivision (c). In addition to any other description of the property, the notice shall describe the property by giving its street address, if any, or other common designation, if any, and a county assessor’s parcel number; but if the property
				  has no street address or other common designation, the notice shall contain a legal description of the property, the name and address of the beneficiary at whose request the sale is to be conducted, and a statement that directions may be obtained pursuant to a written request submitted to the beneficiary within 10 days from the first publication of the notice. Directions shall be deemed reasonably sufficient to locate the property if information as to the location of the property is given by reference to the direction and approximate distance from the nearest crossroads, frontage road, or access road. If a legal description or a county assessor’s parcel number and either a street address or another common designation of the property is given, the validity of the notice and the validity of the sale shall not be affected by the fact that the street address, other common designation, name and address of the beneficiary, or the directions obtained therefrom are erroneous or that the street address, other common
				  designation, name and address of the beneficiary, or directions obtained therefrom are omitted.
(6) The term “newspaper of general circulation,” as used in this section, has the same meaning as defined in Article 1 (commencing with Section 6000) of Chapter 1 of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code.
(7) The notice of sale shall contain a statement of the total amount of the unpaid balance of the obligation secured by the property to be sold and reasonably estimated costs, expenses, advances at the time of the initial publication of the notice of sale, and, if republished pursuant to a cancellation of a cash equivalent pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 2924h, a reference of that fact; provided, that the trustee shall incur no liability for any good faith error in stating the proper amount, including any amount provided in good faith by or on behalf of the beneficiary.
				  An inaccurate statement of this amount shall not affect the validity of any sale to a bona fide purchaser for value, nor shall the failure to post the notice of sale on a door as provided by this subdivision affect the validity of any sale to a bona fide purchaser for value.
(8) (A) On and after April 1, 2012, if the deed of trust or mortgage containing a power of sale is secured by real property containing from one to four single-family residences, the notice of sale shall contain substantially the following language, in addition to the language required pursuant to paragraphs (1) to (7), inclusive:
NOTICE TO POTENTIAL BIDDERS: If you are considering bidding on this property lien, you should understand that there are risks involved in bidding at a trustee auction. You will be bidding on a lien, not on the property itself. Placing the
				  highest bid at a trustee auction does not automatically entitle you to free and clear ownership of the property. You should also be aware that the lien being auctioned off may be a junior lien. If you are the highest bidder at the auction, you are or may be responsible for paying off all liens senior to the lien being auctioned off, before you can receive clear title to the property. You are encouraged to investigate the existence, priority, and size of outstanding liens that may exist on this property by contacting the county recorder’s office or a title insurance company, either of which may charge you a fee for this information. If you consult either of these resources, you should be aware that the same lender may hold more than one mortgage or deed of trust on the property.
NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER: The sale date shown on this notice of sale may be postponed one or more times by the mortgagee, beneficiary, trustee, or a
				  court, pursuant to Section 2924g of the California Civil Code. The law requires that information about trustee sale postponements be made available to you and to the public, as a courtesy to those not present at the sale. If you wish to learn whether your sale date has been postponed, and, if applicable, the rescheduled time and date for the sale of this property, you may call [telephone number for information regarding the trustee’s sale] or visit this internet website [internet website address for information regarding the sale of this property], using the file number assigned to this case [case file number]. Information about postponements that are very short in duration or that occur close in time to the scheduled sale may not immediately be reflected in the telephone information or on the internet website. The best way to verify postponement information is to attend the scheduled sale.
NOTICE TO TENANT: You may have a
				  right to purchase this property after the trustee auction pursuant to Section 2924m of the California Civil Code. If you are an “eligible tenant buyer,” you can purchase the property if you match the last and highest bid placed at the trustee auction. If you are an “eligible bidder,” you may be able to purchase the property if you exceed the last and highest bid placed at the trustee auction. There are three steps to exercising this right of purchase. First, 48 hours after the date of the trustee sale, you can call [telephone number for information regarding the trustee’s sale], or visit this internet website [internet website address for information regarding the sale of this property], using the file number assigned to this case [case file number] to find the date on which the trustee’s sale was held, the amount of the last and highest bid, and the address of the trustee. Second, you must send a written notice of intent to place a bid so that the trustee receives it no more than 15 days after the trustee’s
				  sale. Third, you must submit a bid so that the trustee receives it no more than 45 days after the trustee’s sale. If you think you may qualify as an “eligible tenant buyer” or “eligible bidder,” you should consider contacting an attorney or appropriate real estate professional immediately for advice regarding this potential right to purchase.
(B) A mortgagee, beneficiary, trustee, or authorized agent shall make a good faith effort to provide up-to-date information regarding sale dates and postponements to persons who wish this information. This information shall be made available free of charge. It may be made available via an internet website, a telephone recording that is accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week, or through any other means that allows 24 hours a day, seven days a week, no-cost access to updated information. A disruption of any of these methods of providing sale date and
				  postponement information to allow for reasonable maintenance or due to a service outage shall not be deemed to be a violation of the good faith standard.
(C) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), nothing in the wording of the notices required by subparagraph (A) is intended to modify or create any substantive rights or obligations for any person providing, or specified in, either of the required notices. Failure to comply with subparagraph (A) or (B) shall not invalidate any sale that would otherwise be valid under this section.
(D) Information provided pursuant to subparagraph (A) does not constitute the public declaration required by subdivision (d) of Section 2924g.
(E) For purposes of a property subject to this paragraph and of satisfying the requirements of Section 2924m, a trustee or an authorized agent shall
				  maintain an internet website and a telephone number to provide information on applicable properties to persons who wish the information. In addition to any other information required by subparagraph (B), a trustee or an authorized agent shall provide information regarding the sale date, amount of the last and highest bid, and the trustee’s address, to be accessible using the file number assigned to the case and listed on the NOTICE TO TENANT required by subparagraph (A). This information shall be made available free of charge and shall be available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(9) If the sale of the property is to be a unified sale as provided in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 9604 of the Commercial Code, the notice of sale shall also contain a description of the personal property or fixtures to be sold. In the case where it is contemplated that all of the personal property or fixtures are to be sold, the
				  description in the notice of the personal property or fixtures shall be sufficient if it is the same as the description of the personal property or fixtures contained in the agreement creating the security interest in or encumbrance on the personal property or fixtures or the filed financing statement relating to the personal property or fixtures. In all other cases, the description in the notice shall be sufficient if it would be a sufficient description of the personal property or fixtures under Section 9108 of the Commercial Code. Inclusion of a reference to or a description of personal property or fixtures in a notice of sale hereunder shall not constitute an election by the secured party to conduct a unified sale pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 9604 of the Commercial Code, shall not obligate the secured party to conduct a unified sale pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 9604 of the Commercial Code, and in no way shall
				  render defective or noncomplying either that notice or a sale pursuant to that notice by reason of the fact that the sale includes none or less than all of the personal property or fixtures referred to or described in the notice. This paragraph shall not otherwise affect the obligations or duties of a secured party under the Commercial Code.
(c) (1) This subdivision applies only to deeds of trust or mortgages which contain a power of sale and which are secured by real property containing a single-family, owner-occupied residence, where the obligation secured by the deed of trust or mortgage is contained in a contract for goods or services subject to the provisions of the Unruh Act (Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1801) of Title 2 of Part 4 of Division 3).
(2) Except as otherwise expressly set forth in this subdivision, all other provisions of law relating
				  to the exercise of a power of sale shall govern the exercise of a power of sale contained in a deed of trust or mortgage described in paragraph (1).
(3) If any default of the obligation secured by a deed of trust or mortgage described in paragraph (1) has not been cured within 30 days after the recordation of the notice of default, the trustee or mortgagee shall mail to the trustor or mortgagor, at their last known address, a copy of the following statement:
YOU ARE IN DEFAULT UNDER A
,
(Deed of trust or mortgage)
DATED ____. UNLESS YOU TAKE ACTION TO PROTECT
YOUR PROPERTY, IT MAY BE SOLD AT A PUBLIC SALE.
IF YOU NEED AN EXPLANATION OF THE NATURE OF THE
PROCEEDING AGAINST YOU, YOU SHOULD CONTACT
A LAWYER.
(4) All sales of real property pursuant to a power of sale contained in any deed of trust or mortgage described in paragraph (1) shall be held in the county where the residence is located and shall be made to the person making the highest offer. The trustee may receive offers during the 10-day period immediately prior to the date of sale and if any offer is accepted in writing by both the trustor or mortgagor and the beneficiary or mortgagee prior to the time set for
				  sale, the sale shall be postponed to a date certain and prior to which the property may be conveyed by the trustor to the person making the offer according to its terms. The offer is revocable until accepted. The performance of the offer, following acceptance, according to its terms, by a conveyance of the property to the offeror, shall operate to terminate any further proceeding under the notice of sale and it shall be deemed revoked.
(5) In addition to the trustee fee pursuant to Section 2924c, the trustee or mortgagee pursuant to a deed of trust or mortgage subject to this subdivision shall be entitled to charge an additional fee of fifty dollars ($50).
(6) This subdivision applies only to property on which notices of default were filed on or after the effective date of this subdivision.
(d) With respect to
				  residential real property containing no more than four dwelling units, a separate document containing a summary of the notice of sale information in English and the languages described in Section 1632 shall be attached to the notice of sale provided to the mortgagor or trustor pursuant to Section 2923.3.
(e) (1) With respect to residential real property containing no more than four dwelling units that is subject to a power of sale contained in any deed of trust or mortgage, a sale of the property under the power of sale shall not be conducted until the expiration of an additional 45 days following the scheduled date of sale pursuant to subdivision (a) or (c) of Section 2924g if the trustee receives, at least five business days before the scheduled date of sale, from the mortgagor or trustor, by certified mail with the United States Postal Service or by another overnight mail courier service with tracking information that
				  confirms the recipient’s signature and the date and time of receipt and delivery, a listing agreement with a California licensed real estate broker to be placed in a publicly available marketing platform for the sale of the property at least five business days before the scheduled date of sale. The provisions of this paragraph shall not be used to postpone the scheduled sale date more than once.
(2) If a scheduled date of sale is postponed pursuant to paragraph (1), the trustor’s or mortgagor’s right to reinstate the account shall be extended, calculated pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 2924c based on the new scheduled date of sale.
(3) If a scheduled date of sale has been postponed pursuant to paragraph (1) and the trustee receives, at least five business days before the scheduled date of sale, from the mortgagor or trustor, by certified mail with the United States Postal
				  Service or by another overnight mail courier service with tracking information that confirms the recipient’s signature and the date and time of receipt and delivery, a copy of a purchase agreement for the sale of the property at least five business days before the scheduled sale, the trustee shall postpone the scheduled date of sale to a date that is at least 45 days after the date on which the purchase agreement was received by the trustee. The provisions of this paragraph shall not be used to postpone the scheduled sale date more than once.
(4) For purposes of this subdivision, “purchase agreement” means a bona fide and fully executed contract for the sale of the property that is subject to a power of sale with a purchase price amount equal to or greater than the amount of the unpaid balance of all obligations of record secured by the property that includes the name of the buyer, the sales price, the agreed closing date, and acceptance by the
				  designated escrow agent.
(f) (1) With respect to residential real property containing no more than four dwelling units that is subject to a power of sale contained in a first lien deed of trust or mortgage, the mortgagee, beneficiary, or authorized agent shall provide to the trustee a fair market value of the property at least 10 days prior to the initially scheduled date of sale, and the trustee shall not sell the property at the first sale at which a bid can be made for less than 67 percent of that fair market value of the property. The trustee may rely on the fair market value provided pursuant to this paragraph, and shall not have a duty to verify the source or accuracy of the valuation.
(2) If the property remains unsold after the first sale at which a bid can be made pursuant to paragraph (1), then the trustee shall postpone the sale for at least seven
				  days, and the property may be sold to the highest bidder.
(3) For purposes of this subdivision, “fair market value of the property” means an estimate of the fair market value of the property made within six months of the initially scheduled date of sale and determined by an opinion of a licensed real estate broker, an appraisal from a licensed appraiser, a value from a commercially utilized automated valuation model, or a value from a computerized property valuation system that is used to derive a real property value.
(4) A failure to comply with the provisions of paragraph (1) shall not affect the validity of a trustee’s sale or a sale to a bona fide purchaser for value.
(5) The provisions of this subdivision shall apply to the initial trustee’s sale for each notice of sale issued pursuant to subdivision (b) of
				  Section 2924f.
(g) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2031, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute that is enacted before January 1, 2031, deletes or extends that date.
SEC. 8.
Section 2924f of the Civil Code, as amended by Section 4 of Chapter 311 of the Statutes of 2024, is amended to read:
2924f.
(a) As used in this section and Sections 2924g and 2924h, “property” means real property or a leasehold estate therein, and “calendar week” means Monday through Saturday, inclusive.
(b) (1) Except as provided in subdivision (c), before any sale of property can be made under the power of sale contained in any deed of trust or mortgage, or any resale resulting from a rescission for a failure of consideration pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 2924h, notice of the sale thereof shall be given by posting a written notice of the time of sale and of the street address and the specific place at the street address where the sale will be held, and describing the property to be sold, at least 20 days before the date of sale in one public place in the
				  city where the property is to be sold, if the property is to be sold in a city, or, if not, then in one public place in the county seat of the county where the property is to be sold, and publishing a copy once a week for three consecutive calendar weeks.
(2) The first publication to be at least 20 days before the date of sale, in a newspaper of general circulation published in the public notice district in which the property or some part thereof is situated, or in case no newspaper of general circulation is published in the public notice district, in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which the property or some part thereof is situated, or in case no newspaper of general circulation is published in the public notice district or county, as the case may be, in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county in this state that is contiguous to the county in which the property or some part thereof is situated
				  and has, by comparison with all similarly contiguous counties, the highest population based upon total county population as determined by the most recent federal decennial census published by the Bureau of the Census. For the purposes of this section, publication of notice in a public notice district is governed by Chapter 1.1 (commencing with Section 6080) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code.
(3) A copy of the notice of sale shall also be posted in a conspicuous place on the property to be sold at least 20 days before the date of sale, where possible and where not restricted for any reason. If the property is a single-family residence the posting shall be on a door of the residence, but, if not possible or restricted, then the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the property; however, if access is denied because a common entrance to the property is restricted by a guard gate or similar impediment, the property may be
				  posted at that guard gate or similar impediment to any development community.
(4) The notice of sale shall conform to the minimum requirements of Section 6043 of the Government Code and be recorded with the county recorder of the county in which the property or some part thereof is situated at least 20 days prior to the date of sale.
(5) The notice of sale shall contain the name, street address in this state, which may reflect an agent of the trustee, and either a toll-free telephone number or telephone number in this state of the trustee, and the name of the original trustor, and also shall contain the statement required by paragraph (3) of subdivision (c). In addition to any other description of the property, the notice shall describe the property by giving its street address, if any, or other common designation, if any, and a county assessor’s parcel number; but if the property
				  has no street address or other common designation, the notice shall contain a legal description of the property, the name and address of the beneficiary at whose request the sale is to be conducted, and a statement that directions may be obtained pursuant to a written request submitted to the beneficiary within 10 days from the first publication of the notice. Directions shall be deemed reasonably sufficient to locate the property if information as to the location of the property is given by reference to the direction and approximate distance from the nearest crossroads, frontage road, or access road. If a legal description or a county assessor’s parcel number and either a street address or another common designation of the property is given, the validity of the notice and the validity of the sale shall not be affected by the fact that the street address, other common designation, name and address of the beneficiary, or the directions obtained therefrom are erroneous or that the street address, other common
				  designation, name and address of the beneficiary, or directions obtained therefrom are omitted.
(6) The term “newspaper of general circulation,” as used in this section, has the same meaning as defined in Article 1 (commencing with Section 6000) of Chapter 1 of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code.
(7) The notice of sale shall contain a statement of the total amount of the unpaid balance of the obligation secured by the property to be sold and reasonably estimated costs, expenses, advances at the time of the initial publication of the notice of sale, and, if republished pursuant to a cancellation of a cash equivalent pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 2924h, a reference of that fact; provided, that the trustee shall incur no liability for any good faith error in stating the proper amount, including any amount provided in good faith by or on behalf of the beneficiary.
				  An inaccurate statement of this amount shall not affect the validity of any sale to a bona fide purchaser for value, nor shall the failure to post the notice of sale on a door as provided by this subdivision affect the validity of any sale to a bona fide purchaser for value.
(8) (A) On and after April 1, 2012, if the deed of trust or mortgage containing a power of sale is secured by real property containing from one to four single-family residences, the notice of sale shall contain substantially the following language, in addition to the language required pursuant to paragraphs (1) to (7), inclusive:
NOTICE TO POTENTIAL BIDDERS: If you are considering bidding on this property lien, you should understand that there are risks involved in bidding at a trustee auction. You will be bidding on a lien, not on the property itself. Placing the
				  highest bid at a trustee auction does not automatically entitle you to free and clear ownership of the property. You should also be aware that the lien being auctioned off may be a junior lien. If you are the highest bidder at the auction, you are or may be responsible for paying off all liens senior to the lien being auctioned off, before you can receive clear title to the property. You are encouraged to investigate the existence, priority, and size of outstanding liens that may exist on this property by contacting the county recorder’s office or a title insurance company, either of which may charge you a fee for this information. If you consult either of these resources, you should be aware that the same lender may hold more than one mortgage or deed of trust on the property.
NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER: The sale date shown on this notice of sale may be postponed one or more times by the mortgagee, beneficiary, trustee, or a
				  court, pursuant to Section 2924g of the California Civil Code. The law requires that information about trustee sale postponements be made available to you and to the public, as a courtesy to those not present at the sale. If you wish to learn whether your sale date has been postponed, and, if applicable, the rescheduled time and date for the sale of this property, you may call [telephone number for information regarding the trustee’s sale] or visit this internet website [internet website address for information regarding the sale of this property], using the file number assigned to this case [case file number]. Information about postponements that are very short in duration or that occur close in time to the scheduled sale may not immediately be reflected in the telephone information or on the internet website. The best way to verify postponement information is to attend the scheduled sale.
(B) A
				  mortgagee, beneficiary, trustee, or authorized agent shall make a good faith effort to provide up-to-date information regarding sale dates and postponements to persons who wish this information. This information shall be made available free of charge. It may be made available via an internet website, a telephone recording that is accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a week, or through any other means that allows 24 hours a day, seven days a week, no-cost access to updated information. A disruption of any of these methods of providing sale date and postponement information to allow for reasonable maintenance or due to a service outage shall not be deemed to be a violation of the good faith standard.
(C) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), nothing in the wording of the notices required by subparagraph (A) is intended to modify or create any substantive rights or obligations for any person providing, or specified in, either of the required
				  notices. Failure to comply with subparagraph (A) or (B) shall not invalidate any sale that would otherwise be valid under this section.
(D) Information provided pursuant to subparagraph (A) does not constitute the public declaration required by subdivision (d) of Section 2924g.
(9) If the sale of the property is to be a unified sale as provided in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 9604 of the Commercial Code, the notice of sale shall also contain a description of the personal property or fixtures to be sold. In the case where it is contemplated that all of the personal property or fixtures are to be sold, the description in the notice of the personal property or fixtures shall be sufficient if it is the same as the description of the personal property or fixtures contained in the agreement creating the security interest in or encumbrance on the
				  personal property or fixtures or the filed financing statement relating to the personal property or fixtures. In all other cases, the description in the notice shall be sufficient if it would be a sufficient description of the personal property or fixtures under Section 9108 of the Commercial Code. Inclusion of a reference to or a description of personal property or fixtures in a notice of sale hereunder shall not constitute an election by the secured party to conduct a unified sale pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 9604 of the Commercial Code, shall not obligate the secured party to conduct a unified sale pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 9604 of the Commercial Code, and in no way shall render defective or noncomplying either that notice or a sale pursuant to that notice by reason of the fact that the sale includes none or less than all of the personal property or fixtures referred to or described in the notice. This
				  paragraph shall not otherwise affect the obligations or duties of a secured party under the Commercial Code.
(c) (1) This subdivision applies only to deeds of trust or mortgages which contain a power of sale and which are secured by real property containing a single-family, owner-occupied residence, where the obligation secured by the deed of trust or mortgage is contained in a contract for goods or services subject to the provisions of the Unruh Act (Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1801) of Title 2 of Part 4 of Division 3).
(2) Except as otherwise expressly set forth in this subdivision, all other provisions of law relating to the exercise of a power of sale shall govern the exercise of a power of sale contained in a deed of trust or mortgage described in paragraph (1).
(3) If any default of
				  the obligation secured by a deed of trust or mortgage described in paragraph (1) has not been cured within 30 days after the recordation of the notice of default, the trustee or mortgagee shall mail to the trustor or mortgagor, at their last known address, a copy of the following statement:
YOU ARE IN DEFAULT UNDER A
,
(Deed of trust or mortgage)
DATED ____. UNLESS YOU TAKE ACTION TO PROTECT
YOUR PROPERTY, IT MAY BE SOLD AT A PUBLIC SALE.
IF YOU NEED AN EXPLANATION OF THE NATURE OF THE
PROCEEDING AGAINST YOU, YOU SHOULD CONTACT
A LAWYER.
(4) All sales of real property pursuant to a power of sale contained in any deed of trust or mortgage described in paragraph (1) shall be held in the county where the residence is located and shall be made to the person making the highest offer. The trustee may receive offers during the 10-day period immediately prior to the date of sale and if any offer is accepted in writing by both the trustor or mortgagor and the beneficiary or mortgagee prior to the time set for sale, the sale shall be postponed to a date certain and prior to which the property may be conveyed by the trustor to the person making the offer according to its terms. The offer is revocable until accepted. The performance of the offer, following acceptance, according to its terms, by a
				  conveyance of the property to the offeror, shall operate to terminate any further proceeding under the notice of sale and it shall be deemed revoked.
(5) In addition to the trustee fee pursuant to Section 2924c, the trustee or mortgagee pursuant to a deed of trust or mortgage subject to this subdivision shall be entitled to charge an additional fee of fifty dollars ($50).
(6) This subdivision applies only to property on which notices of default were filed on or after the effective date of this subdivision.
(d) With respect to residential real property containing no more than four dwelling units, a separate document containing a summary of the notice of sale information in English and the languages described in Section 1632 shall be attached to the notice of sale provided to the mortgagor or trustor pursuant to
				  Section 2923.3.
(e) (1) With respect to residential real property containing no more than four dwelling units that is subject to a power of sale contained in any deed of trust or mortgage, a sale of the property under the power of sale shall not be conducted until the expiration of an additional 45 days following the scheduled date of sale pursuant to subdivision (a) or (c) of Section 2924g if the trustee receives, at least five business days before the scheduled date of sale, from the mortgagor or trustor, by certified mail with the United States Postal Service or by another overnight mail courier service with tracking information that confirms the recipient’s signature and the date and time of receipt and delivery, a listing agreement with a California licensed real estate broker to be placed in a publicly available marketing platform for the sale of the property at least five business days before the scheduled date of
				  sale. The provisions of this paragraph shall not be used to postpone the scheduled sale date more than once.
(2) If a scheduled date of sale is postponed pursuant to paragraph (1), the trustor’s or mortgagor’s right to reinstate the account shall be extended, calculated pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 2924c based on the new scheduled date of sale.
(3) If a scheduled date of sale has been postponed pursuant to paragraph (1) and the trustee receives, at least five business days before the scheduled date of sale, from the mortgagor or trustor, by certified mail with the United States Postal Service or by another overnight mail courier service with tracking information that confirms the recipient’s signature and the date and time of receipt and delivery, a copy of a purchase agreement for the sale of the property at least five business days before the scheduled sale, the
				  trustee shall postpone the scheduled date of sale to a date that is at least 45 days after the date on which the purchase agreement was received by the trustee. The provisions of this paragraph shall not be used to postpone the scheduled sale date more than once.
(4) For purposes of this subdivision, “purchase agreement” means a bona fide and fully executed contract for the sale of the property that is subject to a power of sale with a purchase price amount equal to or greater than the amount of the unpaid balance of all obligations of record secured by the property that includes the name of the buyer, the sales price, the agreed closing date, and acceptance by the designated escrow agent.
(f) (1) With respect to residential real property containing no more than four dwelling units that is subject to a power of sale contained in a first lien deed of trust or
				  mortgage, the mortgagee, beneficiary, or authorized agent shall provide to the trustee a fair market value of the property at least 10 days prior to the initially scheduled date of sale, and the trustee shall not sell the property at the first sale at which a bid can be made for less than 67 percent of that fair market value of the property. The trustee may rely on the fair market value provided pursuant to this paragraph, and shall not have a duty to verify the source or accuracy of the valuation.
(2) If the property remains unsold after the first sale at which a bid can be made sale pursuant to paragraph (1), then the trustee shall postpone the sale for at least seven days, and the property may be sold to the highest bidder.
(3) For purposes of this subdivision, “fair market value of the property” means an estimate of the fair market value of the property made within six months
				  of the initially scheduled date of sale and determined by an opinion of a licensed real estate broker, an appraisal from a licensed appraiser, a value from a commercially utilized automated valuation model, or a value from a computerized property valuation system that is used to derive a real property value.
(4) A failure to comply with the provisions of paragraph (1) shall not affect the validity of a trustee’s sale or a sale to a bona fide purchaser for value.
(5) The provisions of this subdivision shall apply to the initial trustee’s sale for each notice of sale issued pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 2924f.
(g) This section shall be operative January 1, 2031.
SEC. 9.
Section 697.530 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
697.530.
(a) A judgment lien on personal property is a lien on all interests in the following personal property that are subject to enforcement of the money judgment against the judgment debtor pursuant to Article 1 (commencing with Section 695.010) of Chapter 1 at the time when the lien is created if the personal property is, at that time, any of the following:
(1) Accounts receivable, and the judgment debtor is located in this state.
(2) Chattel paper, as defined in paragraph (11) of subdivision (a) of Section 9102 of the Commercial Code, and the judgment debtor is located in this state.
(3) Equipment, located within this state.
(4) Farm products, located within this state.
(5) Inventory, located within this state.
(6) Negotiable documents of title, located within this state.
(b) If any interest in personal property on which a judgment lien could be created under subdivision (a) is acquired after the judgment lien was created, the judgment lien attaches to the interest at the time it is acquired.
(c) To the extent provided by Section 697.620, a judgment lien on personal property continues on the proceeds received upon the sale, collection, or other disposition of the property subject to the judgment lien.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this
				  section, the judgment lien does not attach to:
(1) A vehicle or vessel required to be registered with the Department of Motor Vehicles or a mobilehome or commercial coach required to be registered pursuant to the Health and Safety Code.
(2) As-extracted collateral, as defined in paragraph (6) of subdivision (a) of Section 9102 of the Commercial Code, and timber to be cut.
(3) The inventory of a retail merchant held for sale except to the extent that the inventory of the retail merchant consists of durable goods having a unit retail value of at least five hundred dollars ($500). For the purposes of this paragraph, “retail merchant” does not include either of the following:
(A) A person whose sales for resale exceeded 75 percent in dollar volume of the
				  person’s total sales of all goods during the 12 months preceding the filing of the notice of judgment lien on personal property.
(B) A cooperative association organized pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 54001) of Division 20 of the Food and Agricultural Code (agricultural cooperative associations) or Part 3 (commencing with Section 13200) of Division 3 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code (Fish Marketing Act).
(e) If property subject to a lien under this article becomes a fixture, as defined in paragraph (41) of subdivision (a) of Section 9102 of the Commercial Code, the judgment lien on that property is extinguished.
(f) Notwithstanding the filing of a notice of judgment lien, subject to the provisions of Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 708.010), a person obligated on an account receivable or chattel
				  paper is authorized to pay or compromise the amount without notice to or consent of the judgment creditor unless and until there is a levy pursuant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 699.010).
(g) For purposes of this section, whether a person is located in this state is determined in accordance with Section 9307 of the Commercial Code, except that the location of a registered organization, as defined in paragraph (71) of subdivision (a) of Section 9102 of the Commercial Code, that is organized under the law of another state is determined without regard to subdivision (e) of Section 9307 of the Commercial Code.
SEC. 10.
Section 1141.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
1141.30.
This chapter shall not be construed in derogation of Title 9 (commencing with Section 1280) of Part 3, and, to that extent, this chapter and that title are mutually exclusive and independent of each other.
SEC. 11.
Section 1710.45 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
1710.45.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a writ of execution on a judgment entered pursuant to this chapter shall not issue, nor may the judgment be enforced by other means, until at least 30 days after the judgment creditor serves notice of entry of the judgment upon the judgment debtor, proof of which has been made in the manner provided by Article 5 (commencing with Section 417.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2.
(b) A writ of execution may be issued, or other enforcement sought, before service of the notice of entry of judgment if the judgment debtor is any of the following:
(1) An individual who does not reside in this state.
(2) A foreign corporation not qualified to do business in this state under the provisions of Chapter 21 (commencing with Section 2100) of Division 1 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code.
(3) A foreign partnership which has not filed a statement pursuant to Section 15800 of the Corporations Code designating an agent for service of process.
(c) The court may order that a writ of execution be issued, or may permit enforcement by other means, before service of the notice of entry of judgment if the court finds upon an ex parte showing that great or irreparable injury would result to the judgment creditor if issuance of the writ or enforcement were delayed as provided in subdivision (a).
(d) Property levied upon pursuant to a writ issued under subdivision (b) or (c) or otherwise sought to be applied to the
				  satisfaction of the judgment shall not be sold or distributed before 30 days after the judgment creditor serves notice of entry of the judgment upon the judgment debtor, proof of which has been made in the manner provided by Article 5 (commencing with Section 417.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2. However, if property levied upon is perishable, it may be sold in order to prevent its destruction or loss of value, but the proceeds of the sale shall not be distributed to the judgment creditor before the date sale of nonperishable property is permissible.
SEC. 12.
Section 2016.040 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
2016.040.
(a) A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt, either in person, by telephone, or by videoconference, to informally resolve each issue presented by the motion.
(b) The declaration shall also include whether the moving party has met and conferred, including through an electronic communication, regarding the retention of a certified shorthand reporter to report the hearing on the motion. This subdivision does not prevent the retention of a certified shorthand reporter.
SEC. 13.
Section 2023.010 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
2023.010.
Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Persisting, over objection and without substantial justification, in an attempt to obtain information or materials that are outside the scope of permissible discovery.
(b) Using a discovery method in a manner that does not comply with its specified procedures.
(c) Employing a discovery method in a manner or to an extent that causes unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.
(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.
(e) Making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery.
(f) Making an evasive response to discovery.
(g) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery.
(h) Making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery.
(i) Failing to confer or to attempt to confer, in person, by telephone, or by videoconference with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery, if the section governing a particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration stating facts showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been
				  made.
SEC. 14.
Section 2030.020 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
2030.020.
(a) A defendant may propound interrogatories to a party to the action without leave of court at any time.
(b) A plaintiff may propound interrogatories to a party without leave of court at any time that is 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, that party, whichever occurs first.
(c) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), in an unlawful detainer action or other proceeding under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 1159) of Title 3 of Part 3, a plaintiff may propound interrogatories to a party without leave of court at any time that is 10 days after service of the summons on, or appearance by, that party, whichever occurs first.
(d) Notwithstanding subdivisions (b) and (c), on motion with or without notice, the court, for good cause shown, may grant leave to a plaintiff to propound interrogatories at an earlier time.
SEC. 15.
Section 2031.020 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
2031.020.
(a) A defendant may make a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling without leave of court at any time.
(b) A plaintiff may make a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling without leave of court at any time that is 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, the party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first.
(c) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), in an unlawful detainer action or other proceeding under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 1159) of Title 3 of Part 3, a plaintiff may make a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling without leave of court at any time that is 10 days after service of the summons on, or appearance by, the
				  party to whom the demand is directed, whichever occurs first.
(d) Notwithstanding subdivisions (b) and (c), on motion with or without notice, the court, for good cause shown, may grant leave to a plaintiff to make a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling at an earlier time.
SEC. 16.
Section 2033.020 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:
2033.020.
(a) A defendant may make requests for admission by a party without leave of court at any time.
(b) A plaintiff may make requests for admission by a party without leave of court at any time that is 10 days after the service of the summons on, or appearance by, that party, whichever occurs first.
(c) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), in an unlawful detainer action or other proceeding under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 1159) of Title 3 of Part 3, a plaintiff may make requests for admission by a party without leave of court at any time that is 10 days after service of the summons on, or appearance by, that party, whichever occurs first.
(d) Notwithstanding subdivisions (b) and (c), on motion with or without notice, the court, for good cause shown, may grant leave to a plaintiff to make requests for admission at an earlier time.
SEC. 17.
Section 15800 of the Corporations Code is amended to read:
15800.
(a) Every partnership, other than a foreign limited partnership, subject to Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 15900), or a commercial or banking partnership established and transacting business in a place outside the United States, that is domiciled without this state and has no regular place of business within this state, shall, within 40 days from the time it commences to do business in this state, file a statement in the office of the Secretary of State in accordance with Section 16309 designating some natural person or corporation as the agent of the partnership upon whom process issued by authority of or under any law of this state directed against the partnership may be served. A copy of the designation, duly certified by the Secretary of State, is sufficient evidence of the appointment.
(b) The process may be served in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 16310 on the person so designated, or, in the event that no person has been designated, or if the agent designated for the service of process is a natural person and cannot be found with due diligence at the address stated in the designation, or if the agent is a corporation and no person can be found with due diligence to whom the delivery authorized by subdivision (b) of Section 16310 may be made for the purpose of delivery to the corporate agent, or if the agent designated is no longer authorized to act, then service may be made by personal delivery to the Secretary of State, Assistant Secretary of State, or a Deputy Secretary of State of the process, together with a written statement signed by the party to the action seeking the service, or by the party’s attorney, setting forth the last known address of the partnership and a service fee as set forth in Section
				  12197 of the Government Code. The Secretary of State shall immediately give notice of the service to the partnership by forwarding the process to it by registered mail, return receipt requested, at the address given in the written statement.
(c) Service on the person designated, or personal delivery of the process and statement of address together with a service fee as set forth in Section 12197 of the Government Code to the Secretary of State, Assistant Secretary of State, or a Deputy Secretary of State, pursuant to this section is a valid service on the partnership. The partnership so served shall appear within 30 days after service on the person designated or within 30 days after delivery of the process to the Secretary of State, Assistant Secretary of State, or a Deputy Secretary of State.
SEC. 18.
Section 7928.210 of the Government Code is repealed.
SEC. 19.
Section 7928.215 of the Government Code is repealed.
SEC. 20.
Section 7928.220 of the Government Code is repealed.
SEC. 21.
Section 7928.225 of the Government Code is repealed.
SEC. 22.
Section 7928.230 of the Government Code is repealed.
SEC. 23.
Section 12974 of the Government Code is amended to read:
12974.
Whenever a complaint is filed with the department and the department concludes on the basis of a preliminary investigation that prompt judicial action is necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, the director or the director’s authorized representative may bring a civil action for appropriate temporary or preliminary relief pending final disposition of such complaint. Any temporary restraining order or other order granting preliminary or temporary relief shall be issued in accordance with Section 527 of the Code of Civil Procedure. An action seeking such temporary or preliminary relief may be brought in any county in which actions may be brought under paragraph (4) of subdivision (a) of Section 12965. In civil actions brought under this section, the court, in its discretion, may award to the department reasonable attorney’s fees and costs,
				  including expert witness fees, when it is the prevailing party for the purposes of the order granting temporary or preliminary relief.
SEC. 24.
Section 103470 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:
103470.
The fee for filing the petition is two hundred five dollars ($205). This fee shall be distributed as provided in Section 68085.4 of the Government Code. The petition may be heard by any judge hearing probate matters, or if a probate department has been designated for hearing probate matters, the matter shall be assigned to the probate department for hearing. A petition to establish a record of birth, death, or marriage of a minor or nonminor who is alleged or adjudged to be a person described in Section 300, 450, 601, 602, or subdivision (v) of Section 11400 of the Welfare and Institutions Code may be made and heard in the juvenile court having jurisdiction over the minor or nonminor. The court shall waive the filing fee for all petitions heard in the juvenile court.
SEC. 25.
Section 76.5 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
76.5.
(a) No person shall knowingly post the home address or telephone number of any elected or appointed official, or of the official’s residing spouse or child, on the internet knowing that person is an elected or appointed official and intending to cause imminent great bodily harm that is likely to occur or threatening to cause imminent great bodily harm to that individual.
(b) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor.
(c) A violation of this section that leads to the bodily injury of the official, or the official’s residing spouse or child, is a misdemeanor or a felony.
(d) “Elected or appointed official” has the same
				  meaning as that term is defined in Section 7920.500 of the Government Code.
SEC. 26.
Section 9202 of the Probate Code is amended to read:
9202.
(a) Not later than 90 days after the date letters are first issued to a general personal representative, the general personal representative or estate attorney shall give the Director of the State Department of Health Care Services notice of the decedent’s death in the manner provided in Section 215, or submitted electronically to the director through the department’s official internet website using the online notice of death form, if the general personal representative knows or has reason to believe that the decedent received health care under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 14000) or Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 14200) of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, or was the surviving spouse of a person who received that health care. The director has four months after notice is given in which to file a
				  claim.
(b) Not later than 90 days after the date letters are first issued to a general personal representative, the general personal representative or estate attorney shall give the Director of the California Victim Compensation Board notice of the decedent’s death in the manner provided in Section 216 if the general personal representative or estate attorney knows that an heir or beneficiary is or has previously been confined in a prison or facility under the jurisdiction of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation or confined in any county or city jail, road camp, industrial farm, or other local correctional facility. The director of the board shall have four months after that notice is received in which to pursue collection of any outstanding restitution fines or orders.
(c) (1) Not later than 90 days after the date letters are first issued to a
				  general personal representative, the general personal representative or estate attorney shall give the Franchise Tax Board notice of the administration of the estate. The notice shall be given as provided in Section 1215.
(2) The provisions of this subdivision shall apply to estates for which letters are first issued on or after July 1, 2008.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring the estate attorney, the beneficiary, the personal representative, or the person in possession of property of the decedent to conduct an additional investigation to determine whether a decedent has an heir or beneficiary who has been confined in a prison or facility under the jurisdiction of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, or its Division of Juvenile Facilities, or confined in any county or city jail, road camp, industrial farm, or other local correctional
				  facility.
(e) (1) Not later than 90 days after the date letters are first issued to a general personal representative, the general personal representative or estate attorney shall give notice of the decedent’s death to the Director of the California Department of Child Support Services, in the manner provided by Section 1215, or submitted electronically to the director through the department’s official internet website in a manner to be determined by the department, if the general personal representative or estate attorney knows or has reason to believe that the decedent had a child support obligation under an order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2) A local child support agency providing services pursuant to Division 17 (commencing with Section 17000) of the Family Code may assert a claim no later than four months after receiving notice under
				  this subdivision.
(3) This subdivision applies to estates for which letters are first issued on or after January 1, 2026.
SEC. 27.
Section 319 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:
319.
(a) At the initial petition hearing, the court shall review the report described in subdivision (b) and examine the child’s parents, guardians, Indian custodian, or other persons having relevant knowledge and hear the relevant evidence as the child, the child’s parents or guardians, the child’s Indian custodian, the petitioner, the Indian child’s tribe, or their counsel desires to present. The court may examine the child, as provided in Section 350.
(b) The social worker shall report to the court on the reasons why the child has been removed from the parent’s, guardian’s, or Indian custodian’s physical custody, the need, if any, for continued detention, the available services and the referral methods to those services that could facilitate the return of the child to
				  the custody of the child’s parents, guardians, or Indian custodian, and whether there are any relatives who are able and willing to take temporary physical custody of the child. The report shall also include information regarding any short-term or long-term harms, or both short-term and long-term harms, to the child that may result from their removal from the custody of their parent, guardian, or Indian custodian, including, but not limited to, the information specified in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (c), the placement options, including an assessment of the least disruptive alternatives to returning the child to the custody of their parent, guardian, or Indian custodian, including compliance with the placement preferences set forth in Section 361.31 in the case of an Indian child, and measures that may be available to alleviate disruption and minimize the harms of removal. If it is known or there is reason to know the child is an Indian child, the report shall also include all of the
				  following:
(1) A statement of the risk of imminent physical damage or harm to the Indian child and any evidence that the emergency removal or placement continues to be necessary to prevent the imminent physical damage or harm to the child.
(2) The steps taken to provide notice to the child’s parents, custodians, and tribe about the hearing pursuant to this section.
(3) If the child’s parents and Indian custodians are unknown, a detailed explanation of what efforts have been made to locate and contact them, including contact with the appropriate Bureau of Indian Affairs regional director.
(4) The residence and the domicile of the Indian child.
(5) If either the residence or the domicile of
				  the Indian child is believed to be on a reservation or in an Alaska Native village, the name of the tribe affiliated with that reservation or village.
(6) The tribal affiliation of the child and of the parents or Indian custodians.
(7) A specific and detailed account of the circumstances that caused the Indian child to be taken into temporary custody.
(8) If the child is believed to reside or be domiciled on a reservation in which the tribe exercises exclusive jurisdiction over child custody matters, a statement of efforts that have been made and that are being made to contact the tribe and transfer the child to the tribe’s jurisdiction.
(9) A statement of the efforts that have been taken to assist the parents or Indian custodians so the Indian child
				  may safely be returned to their custody.
(10) The steps taken to consult and collaborate with the tribe and the outcome of that consultation and collaboration.
(c) (1) The court shall order the release of the child from custody unless a prima facie showing has been made that the child comes within Section 300, the court finds that continuance in the parent’s or guardian’s home is contrary to the child’s welfare, and any of the following circumstances exist:
(A) There is a substantial danger to the physical health of the child or the child is suffering severe emotional damage, and there are no reasonable means by which the child’s physical or emotional health may be protected without removing the child from the parent’s or guardian’s physical custody.
(B) There is substantial evidence that a parent, guardian, or custodian of the child is likely to flee the jurisdiction of the court, and, in the case of an Indian child, fleeing the jurisdiction will place the child at risk of imminent physical damage or harm.
(C) The child has left a placement in which the child was placed by the juvenile court.
(D) The child indicates an unwillingness to return home, if the child has been physically or sexually abused by a person residing in the home.
(2) (A) The court shall determine whether less disruptive alternatives to removal were considered by the agency, such as factors related to the impact of removal on the child, including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) A description of the relationship between the child and their parents, guardians, or Indian custodians, based on the child’s perspective, and the child’s response to removal and, where developmentally appropriate, their perspective on removal.
(ii) The relationship between the child and any siblings.
(iii) The relationship between the child and other members of the household.
(iv) Any disruption to the child’s schooling, social relationships, and physical or emotional health that may result from placement out of the home, and in the case of an Indian child, any impact on the child’s connection to their tribe, extended family members, and tribal community.
(B) If the court finds that
				  removal is necessary under paragraph (1), the court shall, in a written order or on the record, set forth all of the following:
(i) The basis for its findings and the evidence relied on.
(ii) Its determination regarding the child’s placement, including whether it complies with the placement preferences set forth in Section 361.31, and less disruptive alternatives.
(iii) Include any orders necessary to alleviate any disruption or harm to the child resulting from removal.
(C) Nothing in this paragraph permits a child to be released to a parent, legal guardian, or Indian custodian, or to be placed in an unsafe placement, due solely to the court determining the child was not offered less disruptive alternatives.
(d) If the court knows or there is reason to know the child is an Indian child, the court may only detain the Indian child if it also finds that detention is necessary to prevent imminent physical damage or harm. The court shall state on the record the facts supporting this finding.
(e) (1) If the hearing pursuant to this section is continued pursuant to Section 322 or for any other reason, the court shall find that the continuance of the child in the parent’s or guardian’s home is contrary to the child’s welfare at the initial petition hearing or order the release of the child from custody.
(2) If the court knows or has reason to know the child is an Indian child, the hearing pursuant to this section may not be continued beyond 30 days unless the court finds all of the following:
(A) Restoring the child to the parent, parents, or Indian custodian would subject the child to imminent physical damage or harm.
(B) The court is unable to transfer the proceeding to the jurisdiction of the appropriate Indian tribe.
(C) It is not possible to initiate an Indian child custody proceeding as defined in Section 224.1.
(f) (1) The court shall also make a determination on the record, referencing the social worker’s report or other evidence relied upon, as to whether reasonable efforts were made to prevent or eliminate the need for removal of the child from their home, pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 306, and whether there are available services that would prevent the need for further detention. Services to be
				  considered for purposes of making this determination are case management, counseling, emergency shelter care, emergency in-home caretakers, out-of-home respite care, teaching and demonstrating homemakers, parenting training, transportation, and any other child welfare services authorized by the State Department of Social Services pursuant to Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 16500) of Part 4 of Division 9. The court shall also review whether the social worker has considered whether a referral to public assistance services pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 11200) and Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 14000) of Part 3 of, Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17000) of Part 5 of, and Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 18900) of Part 6 of, Division 9 would have eliminated the need to take temporary custody of the child or would prevent the need for further detention. This determination shall apply to each child individually, and the considerations shall be tailored to the individual child.
(2) If the court knows or has reason to know the child is an Indian child, the court shall also determine whether the county welfare department made active efforts to provide remedial services and rehabilitation programs designed to prevent the breakup of the Indian family. The court shall order the county welfare department to initiate or continue services or programs pending disposition pursuant to Section 358.
(3) If the child can be returned to the custody of their parent, guardian, or Indian custodian through the provision of those services, the court shall place the child with their parent, guardian, or Indian custodian and order that the services shall be provided. If the child cannot be returned to the physical custody of their parent or guardian, the court shall determine if there is a relative who is able and willing to care for the child, and has been assessed pursuant to
				  Section 361.4.
(4) In order to preserve the bond between the child and the parent and to facilitate family reunification, the court shall consider whether the child can be returned to the custody of their parent who is enrolled in a certified substance abuse treatment facility that allows a dependent child to reside with their parent. The fact that the parent is enrolled in a certified substance abuse treatment facility that allows a dependent child to reside with their parent shall not be, for that reason alone, prima facie evidence of substantial danger. The court shall specify the factual basis for its conclusion that the return of the child to the custody of their parent would pose a substantial danger or would not pose a substantial danger to the physical health, safety, protection, or physical or emotional well-being of the child.
(g) If a court orders a child detained, the
				  court shall state the facts on which the decision is based, specify why the initial removal was necessary, reference the social worker’s report or other evidence relied upon to make its determination whether continuance in the home of the parent or legal guardian is contrary to the child’s welfare, order temporary placement and care of the child to be vested with the county child welfare department pending the hearing held pursuant to Section 355 or further order of the court, and order services to be provided as soon as possible to reunify the child and their family, if appropriate.
(h) (1) (A) If the child is not released from custody, the court may order the temporary placement of the child in any of the following for a period not to exceed 15 judicial days:
(i) The home of a relative, or a nonrelative extended family member, as
				  defined in Section 362.7, or, in the case of an Indian child, an extended family member, as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of Section 224.1, that has been assessed pursuant to Section 361.4.
(ii) The approved home of a resource family, as described in Section 16519.5, or a home licensed or approved by the Indian child’s tribe.
(iii) An emergency shelter or other suitable licensed place.
(iv) A place exempt from licensure designated by the juvenile court.
(B) A youth homelessness prevention center licensed by the State Department of Social Services pursuant to Section 1502.35 of the Health and Safety Code shall not be a placement option pursuant to this section.
(C) If the
				  court knows or has reason to know that the child is an Indian child, the Indian child shall be detained in a home that complies with the placement preferences set forth in Section 361.31 and in the federal Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. Sec. 1901 et seq.), unless the court finds good cause exists pursuant to Section 361.31 not to follow the placement preferences. If the court finds good cause not to follow the placement preferences for detention, this finding does not affect the requirement that a diligent search be made for a subsequent placement within the placement preferences.
(2) Relatives shall be given preferential consideration for placement of the child. As used in this section, “relative” means an adult who is related to the child by blood, adoption, or affinity within the fifth degree of kinship, including stepparents, stepsiblings, and all relatives whose status is preceded by the words “great,” “great-great,” or
				  “grand,” or the spouse of any of these persons, even if the marriage was terminated by death or dissolution.
(3) When placing in the home of a relative, nonrelative extended family member, or, in the case of an Indian child, an extended family member, as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of Section 224.1, the court shall consider the recommendations of the social worker based on the assessment pursuant to Section 361.4 of the home of the relative, extended family member, or nonrelative extended family member, including the results of a criminal records check and prior child abuse allegations, if any, before ordering that the child be placed with a relative or nonrelative extended family member. The court may authorize the placement of a child on a temporary basis in the home of a relative, regardless of the status of any criminal record exemption or resource family approval, if the court finds that the placement does not pose a risk
				  to the health and safety of the child. The court shall order the parent to disclose to the social worker the names, residences, and any known identifying information of any maternal or paternal relatives of the child. The social worker shall initiate the assessment pursuant to Section 361.3 of any relative to be considered for continuing placement.
(i) In the case of an Indian child, any order detaining the child pursuant to this section shall be considered an emergency removal under subdivision (g) of Section 305.5. The emergency proceeding shall terminate if the child is returned to the custody of the parent, parents, or Indian custodian, the child has been transferred to the custody and jurisdiction of the child’s tribe, or the agency or another party to the proceeding recommends that the child be removed from the physical custody of their parent or parents or Indian custodian pursuant to Section 361 or 361.2.
(j) (1) At the initial hearing upon the petition filed in accordance with subdivision (c) of Rule 5.520 of the California Rules of Court or anytime thereafter up until the time that the minor is adjudged a dependent child of the court or a finding is made dismissing the petition, the court may temporarily limit the right of the parent or guardian to make educational or developmental services decisions for the child and temporarily appoint a responsible adult to make educational or developmental services decisions for the child if all of the following conditions are found:
(A) The parent or guardian is unavailable, unable, or unwilling to exercise educational or developmental services rights for the child.
(B) The county placing agency has made diligent efforts to locate and secure the participation
				  of the parent or guardian in educational or developmental services decisionmaking.
(C) The child’s educational and developmental services needs cannot be met without the temporary appointment of a responsible adult.
(2) If the court limits the parent’s educational rights under this subdivision, the court shall determine whether there is a responsible adult who is a relative, nonrelative extended family member, or other adult known to the child and who is available and willing to serve as the child’s educational representative before appointing an educational representative or surrogate who is not known to the child.
(3) If the court cannot identify a responsible adult to make educational decisions for the child and the appointment of a surrogate parent, as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 56050 of the Education
				  Code, is not warranted, the court may, with the input of any interested person, make educational decisions for the child. If the child is receiving services from a regional center, the provision of any developmental services related to the court’s decision shall be consistent with the child’s individual program plan and pursuant to the Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Services Act (Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 4500)). If the court cannot identify a responsible adult to make developmental services decisions for the child, the court may, with the input of any interested person, make developmental services decisions for the child. If the court makes educational or developmental services decisions for the child, the court shall also issue appropriate orders to ensure that every effort is made to identify a responsible adult to make future educational or developmental services decisions for the child.
(4) A temporary appointment of a
				  responsible adult and temporary limitation on the right of the parent or guardian to make educational or developmental services decisions for the child shall be specifically addressed in the court order. An order made under this section shall expire at the conclusion of the hearing held pursuant to Section 361 or upon dismissal of the petition. Upon the entering of disposition orders, additional needed limitation on the parent’s or guardian’s educational or developmental services rights shall be addressed pursuant to Section 361.
(5) This section does not remove the obligation to appoint surrogate parents for students with disabilities who are without parental representation in special education procedures, as required by state and federal law, including Section 1415(b)(2) of Title 20 of the United States Code, Section 56050 of the Education Code, Section 7579.5 of the Government Code, and Rule 5.650 of the California Rules of Court.
(6) If the court appoints a developmental services decisionmaker pursuant to this section, the developmental services decisionmaker shall have the authority to access the child’s information and records pursuant to subdivision (u) of Section 4514 and paragraph (23) of subdivision (a) of Section 5328, and to act on the child’s behalf for the purposes of the individual program plan process pursuant to Sections 4646, 4646.5, and 4648 and the fair hearing process pursuant to Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 4700) of Division 4.5, and as set forth in the court order.
(k) For a placement made on or after October 1, 2021, each temporary placement of the child pursuant to subdivision (h) in a short-term residential therapeutic program shall comply with the requirements of Section 4096 and be reviewed by the court pursuant to Section 361.22.
(l) For a placement made on or after July 1, 2022, each temporary placement of the child pursuant to subdivision (h) in a community treatment facility shall comply with the requirements of Section 4096 and be reviewed by the court pursuant to Section 361.22.