SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.31
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.31 - Estimate of need and application of income

(a)
For applicant or recipient.
(1) The estimate of need for any applicant or
recipient shall include all items of need as specified in these regulations for
persons in the circumstances under which such items are allowed. The amount to
be included for each item of need shall be the appropriate amount provided in
accordance with schedules and other provisions of these regulations. To the
extent that an item offered is otherwise provided, it shall not be included in
the estimate of need, but the manner in which such item is provided shall be
recorded.
(2) All available and
unrestricted income of a legally responsible relative in the home and/or a
relative required to be in the public assistance household pursuant to section
352.30 of this Part must be
applied against his/her own needs and the needs of the other persons in the
public assistance household. In determining eligibility and standard of need,
if one of the relatives referenced in this paragraph is sanctioned under Part
347, 349, 352, 369, 370 or 385 of this Title, all of that person's income,
minus any appropriate disregards under section 352.19 or
352.20 of this Part, must be
applied against the needs of the public assistance household.
(3) The amount of income received by the
applicant or recipient in excess of $15 per month from a lodger, or in excess
of income of $60 per month from a boarding lodger, shall be considered as
income to the applicant or recipient, unless such applicant or recipient
documents that the actual out-of-pocket expenses incurred in providing the room
for the lodger exceed $15 per month, or that such expenses for room and board
for the boarding lodger exceed $60 per month. If documented expenses exceed $15
or $60, actual expenses shall be allowed and the excess considered income to
the applicant or recipient.
(4)
Support payments made pursuant to an order of the Family Court or other
appropriate court by an individual through a social services district's support
collection unit on behalf of a safety net assistance applicant or recipient,
must be applied in the safety net assistance category as follows: an amount of
current child or child and spousal support collected on behalf of the safety
net assistance household must be disregarded and paid to the safety net
assistance household pursuant to section
352.15 of this Part. The remaining
amount must be used for purposes of determining eligibility for public
assistance, and then applied as reimbursement for public assistance paid to the
safety net assistance household on whose behalf such support payments are
collected.
(5) Support payments
required to be made directly to a recipient by an individual pursuant to an
order of the Family Court or other appropriate court will be treated in the
safety net assistance category only as follows:
(i) If there has been habitual failure to
make court-ordered support payments or where the circumstances are such that
there are reasonable grounds to believe that such support payments will not be
made, the income therefrom may be considered as irregular as to amount or
uncertain as to receipt and the provisions of subdivision (c) of this section
shall be considered as applicable.
(ii) Failure to make at least three payments
in full during the preceding three-month period shall be deemed to constitute
an habitual failure to make payments.
(iii) The following shall constitute
reasonable grounds to believe that court-ordered support payments will not be
made by the individual who has been ordered to make such payments:
(a) the individual has failed to make at
least three consecutive court-ordered support payments in full; or
(b) the whereabouts of the individual are
unknown; or
(c) the individual is
known to be unemployed; or
(d) the
individual's sole means of support is known to be public assistance or
supplemental security income or both; or
(e) the individual is confined to a medical
institution or is obviously too ill or incapacitated to work; or
(f) the individual is incarcerated in a penal
institution.
(iv) In
cases in which the individual is making payments on a regularly recurring
basis, but in an amount less than the amount stated in the court order, such
lesser amount only shall be applied against the needs of the applicants or
recipients in determining the amount of the grant.
(v) For current child or child and spousal
support received directly by a safety net assistance household in a month, an
amount determined pursuant to section
352.15 of this Part must be
disregarded.
(6) Upon
notification by the support collection unit of the amount of current support
collected for a month for a recipient of public assistance, the public
assistance unit must review the household's eligibility to receive public
assistance. This review must be conducted no later than the second month after
the month in which the public assistance unit receives from the support
collection unit the report of the current support collected for the month. In
determining whether the amount of current support collected was sufficient to
make the family ineligible for assistance during the month for which the
support was collected, the public assistance unit must treat the amount of
support collected, less the portion disregarded pursuant to section
352.15 of this Part, as income. If
such treatment makes the family ineligible for assistance, the public
assistance unit must notify the family and the support collection unit of the
effective date of the household's ineligibility for assistance. If such
treatment does not make the household ineligible for an assistance payment, the
assistance payment will be calculated without regard to the amount of support
collected.
(7) If assistance which
is countable under the durational time limit provisions of section 369.4 or
370.4 of this Title continues to
be paid after the effective date of ineligibility pursuant to paragraph (6) of
this subdivision, the social services district shall adjust the time limit
count of trackable individuals in the case to remove the months of
ineligibility during which countable assistance was issued.
(8) Any amount of support paid to the
household pursuant to section
347.13(b)(3)(iv), (v), (vi), (vii), (c)(2)(iii),
(iv), or (v) of this Title must be treated as
income in the month after the month in which the payment is received by the
household.
(b)
[Reserved]
(c)
Temporary changes in earned income.
When there is a temporary change in earned income, no
adjustment will be made to the regularly recurring public assistance grant.
However, changes in earned income that last for less than 30 days must be
supplemented when the following conditions are met:
(1) a supplement has been
requested;
(2) verification of the
reduced earned income amount has been provided no later than 10 days after the
month in which the reduction occurred; and
(3) the recipient has established that the
reduction in earned income was beyond the recipient's control. Beyond
the recipient's control means that the reduction resulted from:
(i) a mental or physical problem that the
recipient had;
(ii) the employer's
determination to reduce hours of work or wages; or
(iii) other extenuating circumstances under
which the recipient could not reasonably be expected to earn the same amount of
income.
(d)
Recovery of overpayments.
(1)
Social services districts shall take all reasonable steps necessary to promptly
correct any overpayments, including overpayments resulting from assistance paid
pending a hearing decision, subject to the following conditions:
(i) Social services districts must recover an
overpayment from: (a) the assistance unit
that was overpaid;
(b) any
assistance unit of which an adult member of the overpaid assistance unit, as
defined in subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, has subsequently become a
member; and
(c) any adult
individual member of the overpaid assistance unit, as defined in subparagraph
(ii) of this paragraph, whether or not currently a recipient.
(ii) The term
adult, as used in this subdivision, refers to any member of
the assistance unit who at the time of overpayment occurrence exceeds the age
requirements of an eligible child as set forth in section
369.2(c) of this
Title. A child meeting the eligible child age requirements as set forth in
section 369.2(c) of this
Title who is a member of the assistance unit at the time of overpayment
occurrence must not be held liable for overpayment recoupment/recovery by
operation of clauses (i)(b) or (c) of this
paragraph.
(2) The
proportion of the current assistance grant that must be deducted for recoupment
must be 10 percent of the household's needs for family assistance and safety
net assistance. If undue hardship is claimed and substantiated, the recoupment
must not be less than five percent of the household's needs. However, when the
grant amount is less than 10 percent of such needs for family assistance or
safety net assistance, or less than five percent in undue hardship situations,
the full grant must be recouped. For purposes of this paragraph, the
household's needs include the following allowances:
(i) an allowance for regularly recurring
needs and home energy as contained in schedules SA-2a, SA-2b and SA-2c of
section 352.2(d) of this
Part;
(ii) an allowance for rent in
accordance with section
352.3(a) and (d)
of this Part;
(iii) an allowance
for fuel for heating as contained in schedules SA-6a, SA-6b and SA-6c of
section 352.5(b) of this
Part;
(iv) an allowance for
personal needs in accordance with section
352.8 of this Part;
(v) a restaurant allowance and an allowance
for home delivered meals as contained in schedule SA-5 of section
352.7(c) of this
Part;
(vi) an allowance for chattel
mortgages or conditional sales contracts in accordance with section
352.7(h) of this
Part;
(vii) a pregnancy allowance
in accordance with section
352.7(k) of this
Part; and
(viii) an allowance for
water in accordance with section
352.3(b) of this
Part.
(3) If through
recoupment, the amount payable to the assistance unit is reduced to zero,
members of the assistance unit are still considered recipients of family
assistance or safety net assistance.
(4) In cases which have both an underpayment
and an overpayment, the social services district shall offset one against the
other in correcting the payment.
(5) Recovery shall be made by appropriate
legal action against the income or resources of those individuals who are no
longer recipients. However, social services districts may waive recovery of an
overpayment from an individual no longer receiving assistance if the amount of
the overpayment is less than $125 and the overpayment was not the result of
fraud on the part of the recipient as defined in section
348.1 of this Title. In cases
involving fraud, social services districts must continue to make an effort to
recover the overpayment, regardless of the amount. When the overpayment is $125
or more and does not involve fraud, social services districts may elect to
discontinue collection procedures when it is determined that the cost of
recovery is greater than the cost of collection and reasonable efforts to
recover the overpayment have been made. Reasonable efforts
must include notification of the amount of and reason for the overpayment and
that repayment is required. If recovery is not made, the social services
district must recoup the amount of overpayment if the assistance unit reapplies
and is found eligible.
(6) When a
recipient who is subject to recoupment moves from one social services district
to another, the new district of residence shall recover overpayments made by
the social services district of original residence in accordance with the
provisions of this Part.
(7) Social
services districts shall take one of the following three actions by the end of
the quarter following the quarter in which the overpayment is first identified:
(i) recover the payment;
(ii) initiate action to locate and/or recover
the overpayment from a former recipient; or
(iii) initiate recoupment from a current
recipient's grant.
(8)
When an overpayment, or any portion of an overpayment, represents assistance
received during a period of ineligibility for such assistance, and when such
assistance was countable toward a time limit pursuant to the provisions of
section 369.4 or
370.4 of this Title, social
services districts shall take the following actions:
(i) identify the specific whole calendar
month(s) of ineligibility for countable assistance;
(ii) identify the amount of countable
assistance for each whole calendar month of ineligibility;
(iii) track repayment or recovery of the
amount of the overpayment to determine when a previous whole calendar month of
countable assistance has been fully recouped or recovered; and
(iv) adjust the individual's time limit count
to remove each calendar month of ineligible receipt of countable assistance as
the full amount of countable assistance for that month is recouped or
recovered.
(e)
Overpayments to aliens.
(1) Any sponsor of an alien and the alien
shall be jointly and severally liable for any overpayment of public assistance
made to the alien during the three years after the alien's entry into the
United States due to the sponsor's failure to provide correct information under
the provisions of section
352.33 of this Part.
(2) When a sponsor is found to have good
cause or to be without fault for not providing information to the social
services district, the sponsor will not be held liable for the overpayment and
recovery will not be made from such sponsor. The sponsor shall have good cause
or be without fault if the information requested was not known and could not
have been known to the sponsor or the documentation requested was not available
to the sponsor.
(3) An overpayment
for which the alien or the sponsor and the alien are liable shall be repaid to
the social services district or recovered in accordance with subdivision (d) of
this section. If the social services district is unable to recover the
overpayment through this method, funds to reimburse the agency shall be
withheld from future payment to which the alien or sponsor is entitled under:
(i) family assistance or safety net
assistance; or
(ii) any
federally-administered cash benefit program established by the Social Security
Act.
(f)
Correction of underpayments to current recipients.
(1) Social services districts must correct
any underpayments to current recipients, and to those who would be current
recipients if the error causing the underpayment had not occurred, by making
appropriate payments in each case within 30 days after discovery of the
underpayments. Such retroactive payments will not be considered as income or as
a resource in the month paid or in the next following month. Judicial
determinations which enjoin or declare invalid departmental policy do not
create an underpayment.
(2) Persons
who join an existing public assistance filing unit, who are required to be
members of the unit and, whose presence causes an underpayment to be made to
the case will have an underpayment adjustment made only:
(i) for those months in which the filing unit
met all eligibility requirements; or
(ii) for the period retroactive to the date
that the persons joined the existing filing unit when the change in household
composition is reported within 10 days of its occurrence, and if the
appropriate eligibility requirements are met within such 10-day
period.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.31
Amended
New
York State Register May 4, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 18, eff.
5/4/2016
