SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.16
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.16 - Exemption of income and resources-general policy

(a) When the terms of an award, the
legislative intent of a government benefit, the rules of an organization paying
a benefit, the nature of a trust fund, or the agreed upon intent of a friend,
nonlegally responsible relative, social agency or other organization limits the
use of cash income, the social services official shall abide by such
restriction, when verified. The restriction may limit the use of the income to
a specified purpose or to a particular member or members of the household.
However, whenever any contribution from a nonlegally responsible relative or
friend is sought to be restricted for the purpose of supplementing a
State-prescribed or -approved standard it shall not qualify as a permissible
restriction of income, unless the social services official determines that the
health and welfare of the recipient would be specifically and materially
enhanced thereby.
(b) No grant or
loan to an undergraduate student for educational purposes made or insured under
any program administered by the United States Secretary of Education shall be
considered as income or resources in determining need and amount of
assistance.
(c) No grants or loans,
including but not limited to undergraduate or graduate school grants, loans or
scholarships, which are obtained and used under conditions that preclude their
use for current living costs, shall be considered to be income or resources in
determining need and the amount of assistance.
(d) For SSI recipients applying for HR:
(1) in-kind income as determined by the
Social Security Administration must not be considered as available income
unless a separate verification of its availability is made; and
(2) that portion of the SSI grant being
recouped by the Social Security Administration must not be considered as
available income.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.16
