SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.8
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.8 - Standard of assistance and allowances for persons not living in their own homes; cost of residence for families living in shelters for families

(a) The
standard of need includes an allowance to be provided by each social services
district for persons residing in the following living situations: room and
board; approved residential programs for victims of domestic violence;
maternity homes; family homes or boarding homes; certified family care or
certified residential care facilities; certified substance use disorder
treatment facilities and residential facilities for the mentally disabled. With
respect to residential programs for victims of domestic violence operated in
accordance with the provisions of Parts 452 and 453 or 454 or 455 of this
Title, the allowance is established in accordance with the provisions of Part
408 of this Title.
(b) Each social
services official must establish: (1) An
allowance for each recipient or family purchasing room and/or board to cover
the cost of board, room rent and other expenses, except where such items and
services are furnished by a legally responsible relative or a recipient of
public assistance. This allowance, including but not limited to rates set for
entities governed by section
352.3(e) of this
Part, is subject to review and approval by the Office of Temporary and
Disability Assistance (the office) pursuant to a timetable established by the
office in accordance with paragraph (2) of this subdivision. For each recipient
or family purchasing room and/or board from an individual, family or from a
commercially operated boarding house, such allowance cannot exceed the sum of
the statewide monthly grant and allowance, the statewide monthly home energy
payments, the statewide monthly supplemental home energy payments and the local
agency monthly shelter allowance schedule without children as contained in
section 352.3(a)(1) of
this Part.
(2)
[Reserved]
(3) An
allowance for each person residing in a maternity home, at the lowest rate for
which suitable care can be purchased from such facility.
(4) An allowance for each recipient receiving
care in a Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 certified congregate care facility. The
allowance is based on the rates provided for care and maintenance under the
Supplemental Security Income Program for SSI beneficiaries residing in the same
facility, less the amount of any personal needs allowance included in the SSI
rate. The facilities included are:(i) Level
1. Family-type homes certified by the Office of Children and Family Services
and family care homes certified by the Office of Mental Health or the Office
for People With Developmental Disabilities.
(ii) Level 2. Residences for adults certified
by the Department of Health; programs providing intensive residential
rehabilitation services, community residential services or supportive living
services certified by the Office of Addiction Services and Supports; supportive
community residences, supervised community residences and individualized
residential alternatives certified by the Office for People With Developmental
Disabilities; and apartment treatment, congregate treatment and congregate
support facilities certified by the Office of Mental Health. For purposes of
this subparagraph, congregate care Level 2 facilities do not include
intermediate care facilities or respite care facilities.
(iii) Level 3. Adult homes and enriched
housing programs certified by the Department of Health and schools for persons
with intellectual/developmental disabilities certified by the Office for People
With Developmental Disabilities.
(5) An additional allowance for each public
assistance applicant/recipient who meets the requirements of section
349.4 or section
369.4(c) of this
Title concerning temporary absences from the home and who is receiving Level I,
Level 2 or Level 3 care in a certified congregate care facility listed in
paragraph (4) of this subdivision at the rates provided for care and
maintenance under the Supplemental Security Income Program for SSI
beneficiaries residing in the same facility, less the amount of any personal
needs allowance included in the SSI rate.
(6) A per diem rate to cover the costs of
shelter, care and other activities in an approved residential program for
victims of domestic violence for persons who are in receipt of public
assistance and care at the time of admission to the program or who apply for
emergency assistance to needy families, family assistance, safety net
assistance or any other form of public assistance and care under section
131 or
131-a of
the Social Services Law, during the time of residency in such program and are
found eligible for such assistance and care. This rate must be established in
accordance with the provisions of Part 408 of this Title.
(c)
(1)
Each social services official shall provide an allowance for monthly personal
needs for clothing and incidentals for recipients residing in:
(i) Boarding homes or under room and board
arrangements or approved residential programs for victims of domestic violence
in which three meals per day are provided, or facilities certified by the
Office of Addiction Services and Supports other than community residences, in
the amount of $45; infirmaries, nursing homes, intermediate care facilities, or
similar medical facilities, in the amount of $40.
(ii) Congregate care Level 1, Level 2 and
Level 3 at the amount included in the SSI payment level as the personal needs
allowance for SSI recipients residing in the particular facility. For
recipients of public assistance who are required to participate in appropriate
residential rehabiliation programs pursuant to section
351.2(i) and
section 370.2(c)(8)(ii)
of this Title, such allowances must be made as restricted payments to the
residential programs and must be conditional payments. If a public assistance
recipient required to participate in an appropriate residential rehabilitation
program pursuant to section
351.2(i) and
section 370.2(c)(8)(ii)
of this Title leaves the program prior to completion of the program, any
accumulated personal needs allowance which is held by the program on behalf of
the recipient must be considered to be an overpayment and must be returned by
the program to the social services district which provided the personal needs
allowance. The question of whether the recipient has left the program prior to
completion will be determined solely by using the guidelines and rules of the
program.
(2) When a
facility provides some or all or the items for which the allowance is intended
through an in-kind contribution, the value thereof shall be computed and shall
be applied to reduce the amount of the allowance.
(3) When a facility does not provide needed
personal items including clothing and a recipient is deemed incapable of
managing funds, a protective payment shall be made, if feasible; if not, the
social services official shall meet such needs in kind.
(d) If necessary to retain Level 1, Level 2
or Level 3 care in a certified congregate care facility listed in paragraph
(b)(4) of this section for a recipient expected to be in a medical facility for
no more than 30 days, the social services district must authorize an allowance
sufficient to retain such care. Such allowance must not be paid for more than
30 days.
(e) An allowance to meet
the cost of board and room or care in a maternity home, family-type home, adult
home, residence for adults, enriched housing program, intermediate care
facility, hostel for persons with intellectual/developmental disabilities or
residential facility for persons with intellectual/ developmental disabilities
shall be made for the entire month in which the case is accepted if essential
to retain the use of the facility. An allowance may be made to pay for the cost
of such care for a period prior to the month in which the case was opened, but
not prior to the date of application under the following specified conditions:
(1) such payment is essential to retain the
care in the facility and no other facilities are available; and
(2) the authorization for payment of such
back bill receives written approval by the social services official or such
other administrative officer as he may designate, provided such person is
higher in authority than the supervisor who regularly approves
authorization.
(f) The
standard of need for determining eligibility of a single person who has applied
for safety net assistance who resides in a public shelter for the homeless
other than a shelter for families operated under Part 900 of this Title is the
sum of the statewide monthly grant and allowance, the statewide monthly home
energy payments, the statewide supplemental home energy payments and the local
agency monthly shelter allowance schedule without children, as contained in
section 352.3(a)(1) of
this Part, each for a single person living alone. A single person who resides
in a shelter for the homeless who has applied for and is found eligible for
safety net assistance must be paid a monthly cash allowance of $45, reduced by
any available income in accordance with section
352.29 of this Part. The remainder
of said standard of need is to be met through the provision of items of need by
the shelter.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.8
Amended
New
York State Register June 22, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 25, eff.
6/22/2016
Amended
New
York State Register December 11, 2019/Volume XLI, Issue 50, eff.
1/1/2020
Amended
New
York State Register January 8, 2025/Volume XLVII, Issue 01, eff.
1/8/2025
