SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.33
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.33 - Deeming of sponsor's income and resources

(a) Except as provided in subdivisions (b)
and (c) of this section, all the income and resources of a sponsor of an alien
who has signed an affidavit of support pursuant to section 213a of the
Immigration and Nationality Act, and all the income and resources of such
sponsor's spouse is deemed available to such alien for purposes of determining
the eligibility of such alien for family assistance and federally funded safety
net assistance. A sponsor's income and resources will no longer be deemed
available to the alien when the alien: (1)
achieves United States citizenship through the naturalization process;
or
(2) has worked 40 qualifying
quarters of coverage as defined under title II of the Social Security Act or
can be credited with such qualifying quarters as provided under Federal law
and, in the case of any such qualifying quarter creditable for any period
beginning after December 31, 1996, did not receive any Federal means-tested
public benefit during any such period.
(b) If the social services district
determines that a sponsored alien would, in the absence of assistance provided
by the agency, be unable to obtain food and shelter, taking into account the
alien's own income plus any cash, food or housing or other assistance provided
by other individuals, including the actual amount of income and resources
provided by the sponsor or sponsor's spouse, the agency must:
(1) budget only the amount of income and
resources which the sponsor or the sponsor's spouse actually contributes to the
alien for a period beginning on the date of such determination and ending 12
months after such date; and
(2)
notify the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance of the department of
each such determination including the names of the sponsor and the sponsored
alien involved in the manner prescribed by the department.
(c) The social services district may not
apply subdivision (a) of this section for a 12-month period with respect to
battered aliens and their children described in section 421(f)(1)(A) of the
Federal Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996
and may not thereafter apply such subdivision if the alien demonstrates that
the battery or cruelty has been recognized by a court order or order of an
administrative law judge or by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. This
subdivision does not apply unless the battery or cruelty bears a substantial
connection to the need for benefits or if the person responsible for such
battery or cruelty resides in the same household as the individual who was
subject to the battery or cruelty.
(d) If and to the extent that family
assistance, safety net assistance, additional state payments in the
supplemental security income program, emergency assistance to aged, blind or
disabled adults or emergency assistance to needy families with children is paid
to or on behalf of an alien for whom an affidavit of support pursuant to
section 213a of the Immigration and Nationality Act has been signed, the social
services district must request reimbursement by the alien's sponsor in the
amount of such assistance, and, if the alien's sponsor does not within 45 days
of such request indicate a willingness to commence payments, such social
services district may commence an action against the sponsor pursuant to the
affidavit. Indications of a willingness to pay may include only: payment in
full, commencement of substantial periodic payments, entry into a payment
agreement or a written assurance of payments on a reasonable basis. Oral
assurance of payment shall not be sufficient. Remedies available to enforce an
affidavit of support include all of the remedies described in sections 3201,
3202, 3204, 3205 of title 28 of the United States Code, as well as an order for
specific performance and payment of legal fees and other costs of collection,
and include corresponding remedies available under State law; provided,
however, that no action shall be brought more than 10 years after assistance
was last given.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.33
