SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.6
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.6 - Miscellaneous shelter allowances and grants

(a)
(1) A
social services official shall provide funds for household moving expenses
utilizing the least costly practical method of transportation, a rent security
deposit, and/or a brokers' or finders' fee only when, in his judgment, one of
the following conditions exists: (i) the move
is to a less expensive rental property and the amount paid for a security
deposit and moving expenses is less than the amount of a two-year difference in
rentals; or
(ii) the move is
necessitated by one of the following criteria:
(a) the need to move results from a
disaster/catastrophe and/or a vacate order placed against the premises by a
health agency or code enforcement agency;
(b) the move is necessitated by a serious
medical or physical handicap condition. Such need must be verified by specific
medical diagnosis;
(c) the
individual or family is rendered homeless as a result of having been put out by
another occupant with whom they were sharing accommodations;
(d) the move is from temporary to permanent
housing;
(e) the move is from
permanent housing to temporary housing whenever necessary due to the
unavailability of permanent housing;
(f) the move is from one temporary
accommodation to another temporary accommodation whenever necessary due to the
unavailability of permanent housing;
(g) the move is from an approved relocation
site or to an approved cooperative apartment; or
(h) there is a living situation which
adversely affects the mental or physical health of the individual or family,
and the need for alternate housing is urgent, and not issuing a security
deposit, moving expenses and/or brokers' or finders' fees would prove
detrimental to the health, safety and well-being of the individual or
family.
(2) A
security deposit and/or brokers' or finders' fees shall be provided only when
an applicant or recipient is unable to obtain a suitable vacancy without
payment of such allowances.
(3)
Documentation of the need for a security deposit, moving expenses and/or
brokers' or finders' fees shall be fully recorded in the case record.
(b) Avoidance of abuses in
connection with rent security deposits. (1)
Whenever a landlord requires that he be secured against nonpayment of rent or
for damages as a condition to renting a housing accommodation to a recipient of
public assistance, a local social services official may secure the landlord by
either of the following means: (i) by means
of an appropriate agreement between the landlord and the social services
official; or
(ii) by depositing
money in an escrow account, not under the control of the landlord or landlord's
agent, subject to the terms and conditions of an agreement between the landlord
and the social services official in such form as the department may require or
approve; provided, however, that the provisions of this subparagraph do not
apply where a public assistance recipient resides in public housing.
(2) A social services official may
not pay money to a landlord to be held as a security deposit against the
payment of rent or for damages by a public assistance recipient, or issue a
grant to a recipient of public assistance therefor, except as provided in
paragraph (3) of this subdivision.
(3) When, in the judgment of a social
services official, housing accommodations available in a particular area are
insufficient to accommodate properly recipients of public assistance in need of
housing, and in order to secure such housing, it is essential that the official
pay money to landlords to be held as security deposits against the nonpayment
of rent or for damages by public assistance recipients or to issue grants to
recipients of public assistance therefor, such social services official may pay
or furnish funds for such security deposits until sufficient housing
accommodations are available in the particular area to accommodate properly
recipients of public assistance in need of housing. Social services officials
must not pay or furnish such funds where recipients of public assistance reside
in public housing. In no case will temporary residence in a shelter, including
those defined in Part 900 or 1000 of this Title, a hotel/motel or any other
such emergency or transitional residential facility be considered sufficient
housing accommodations for purposes of this paragraph. Landlords receiving such
security deposits must comply with the provisions of article seven of the
General Obligations Law. The recipient is required to assign to the social
services official any right the recipient may have to the return of the
security deposit and interest accrued thereon. Any social services official
paying or furnishing funds for a security deposit in accordance with this
paragraph must make diligent efforts to recover such payments or funds from the
landlord as allowed by law. Such efforts must not delay recoupment or recovery
from a recipient if recovery or recoupment from the recipient is required by
this section.
(c)
Recovery of rent security payments. (1) If as
a result of nonpayment of the shelter allowance, the security deposit or
security agreement for nonpayment of rent is required to be paid to the
landlord, such payment must be considered to be an overpayment made to the
recipient and as such, must be recovered according to the provisions of section
352.31(d) of this
Part. If rent has not been paid due to a legitimate landlord/tenant dispute, a
rent strike or as a result of the application of section
143-b of
the Social Services Law, such payment is not an overpayment and cannot be
recouped or recovered.
(2) When a
security deposit or monies under a security agreement are paid to a landlord
for damages caused by a recipient, such payment must be considered an
overpayment and must be recovered from a recipient pursuant to the provisions
of section
352.31(d) of this
Part provided that a social services official has conducted (or arranged for) a
pre-tenancy and post-tenancy inspection or survey of the premises, or verified
by some other means that the damages were caused by the recipient. The
condition of the premises when the recipient moves in and when the recipient
moves out must be documented and agreed to by signature of the landlord and the
recipient. If the verification does not confirm that there are damages caused
by the recipient, then cash must not be issued under a security agreement or,
if a cash security deposit had been issued and the landlord retains it for
alleged damages, the social services official must attempt to recover the
deposit from the landlord. When the verification confirms that the recipient
caused the damages, the district must recover the deposit amount from the
recipient.
(d) When
nonpayment of the shelter allowance or client-caused damages as confirmed by a
pre-tenancy inspection and post-tenancy inspection or survey conducted (or
arranged for) by the social services district or by some other means of
verifying that the damages were caused by the recipient pursuant to paragraph
(c)(2) of this section necessitates the authorization of finders' or brokers'
fees, or household moving expenses, such payments must be considered to be
overpayment made to the recipient and as such, must be recovered according to
the provisions of section
352.31(d) of this
Part. If rent has not been paid due to a legitimate landlord/tenant dispute, a
rent strike or as a result of the application of section
143-b of
the Social Services Law, such payments are not overpayments and cannot be
recouped or recovered.
(e) Unless
prohibited by State or Federal law or regulation, an allowance for expenses,
not otherwise authorized under this Title, for the repair, maintenance or
retention of housing occupied by, but not owned by, a recipient of public
assistance must be paid when necessary for the health and safety of the
recipient and his or her family, when other appropriate housing is not
available and when the payment is necessary to permit the recipient and his or
her family to remain in the housing. An allowance for expenses for repair and
maintenance shall be paid only when the owner of the housing is not obligated
to provide the repair or maintenance. An allowance under this subdivision does
not include payments for utility deposits for gas and electricity, payments
covered under subdivision (b) of this section, payments for rent, property
taxes or mortgage arrears and payments for litigation costs of any kind,
including attorney's fees.
(f) An
allowance for storage of furniture and personal belongings must be made when it
is necessary for circumstances such as relocation, eviction or temporary
shelter, so long as eligibility for public assistance continues and so long as
the circumstances necessitating the storage continue to exist, and no other
storage options exist. (1) Furniture to be
stored must not exceed the rooms and items in schedule SA-4a of section
352.7(a)(2) of
this Part. Furniture to be stored cannot exceed the amount needed for the
household size.
(2) Personal
belongings to be stored cannot exceed the amount needed for the household size
and should be reasonable in number and total volume. For the purpose of
storage, personal belongings are those items not found in schedule SA-4a of
section 352.7(a)(2) of
this Part, such as:(i) Legal and
identification documents;
(ii)
Kitchen items, such as tables and chairs, cookware, appliances, dishware,
glassware and utensils;
(iii)
Bedding and towels;
(iv) Clothing
of the household members ;
(v)
Washing machine and dryer;
(vi)
Assistive medical devices;
(vii)
Items needed for employment, excluding business inventory except as otherwise
provided for in section
352.12(a)(2) of
this Part;
(viii) Household
electronic devices;
(ix) Items
needed for educational purposes; and
(x) Personal keepsakes, including children's
toys, high chairs, and changing tables.
(3) Such allowance is limited to the
furniture and personal belongings, as provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
this subdivision, in the household's possession at the time the circumstance
necessitating the storage occurred.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.6
Amended,
New
York State Register March 1, 2017/Volume XXXIX, Issue 09, eff.
4/14/2017
