SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.17
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.17 - Definition and computation of earned income

(a) Earned income means income in cash or in
kind earned by an individual through the receipt of wages, salary, commissions,
or profit from activities in which he/she is engaged as a self-employed
individual or as an employee. Such earned income may be derived from his/her
own employment such as a business enterprise or farming; or derived from wages
or salary received as an employee. It may include earnings over a period of
time for which settlement is made at one given time, as in the instance of
sales of farm crops, livestock or poultry. Income received by an individual on
a contractual basis or income received intermittently on a quarterly,
semiannual or yearly basis must be prorated over the period of the contract or
the period covered by the income with appropriate monthly exclusions.
(1) With reference to commissions, wages or
salary, the term earned income means gross earned income prior to deduction of
any taxes or other personal and nonpersonal expenses incident to
employment.
(2) With respect to
self-employment, the term earned income means the total profit from a business
enterprise, farming, etc., resulting from the gross income received less the
business expenses, i.e.,total cost of the production of the income as defined
in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(b) Computation of net applicable income.
(1) In computing the amount of net applicable
income to be applied against the estimate of needs, the following must be
applied sequentially: (i) the applicable
amount of exempt earned income; and
(ii) the prescribed work expense disregard.
The net amount remaining must be applied against public
assistance needs in determining the amount of the assistance payment.
(2) For self-employed
individuals, those expenses directly related to producing the goods or
services, including expenses for inventory, and without which the goods or
services could not be produced must be excluded to determine the amount of
earned income. However, depreciation, personal business and entertainment
expenses, personal transportation, purchase of capital equipment, and payments
on the principal of loans for capital assets or durable goods are not
excluded.
(3) Where the gross
property cost of client-owned property used as the home exceeds the gross rent
receipts, the difference is the public assistance recipient' s shelter need
that is payable up to the agency maximum. When the gross rent received exceeds
the gross property cost, the difference is earned income from self-employment
and no amount is included as a shelter item in the client's budget estimate of
need.
(c) Projecting
average income. The amount of earned income used to determine the public
assistance grant will be based on an estimate of average monthly earnings. To
project average monthly income, the social services district must average the
most recent four weeks of earned income, or if there has been a change expected
to last at least 30 days, use the new information regarding the amount of pay
and the frequency of pay.
(d)
Average monthly earned income is applied against need to determine the grant
amount for each calendar month of an authorization period. The amount of
average earned income applied must be recalculated at recertification. No other
adjustments will be made, except as provided in section
352.31(c) of this
Part, unless one of the following occurs:
loss of employment;
change in status of the recipient from part-time to
full-time employment or the converse;
increase or decrease in income expected to last at least
30 days;
increase or decrease in number of hours worked per pay
period expected to last at least 30 days; or receipt of income from an
additional source of any kind.
(e) The recipient must report and certify any
changes in employment status which are set forth in subdivision (d) of this
section. The social services district must adjust the grant beginning with the
month in which the change occurred. However, when a report of a new or
increased earned income is made timely by the recipient, the district must
adjust the grant or calculate the amount of any overpayment only after a
reasonable administrative processing period has passed. A reasonable
administrative processing period means the semi-monthly payment cycle in which
the initial or increased earnings began and the following semi-monthly payment
cycle.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.17
Amended
New
York State Register May 10, 2023/Volume XLV, Issue 19, eff.
5/10/2023
