SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.20
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.20 - Exemption of earned income

(a) All of the earned income of a dependent
child in receipt of Family Assistance (FA) or Safety Net Assistance (SNA), who
is a full-time student or part-time student is exempt and must be disregarded
as income or resources in determining eligibility or degree of need. For the
purpose of this subdivision: (1) full-time
student means attending a school, college or university or a course of
vocational or technical training designed to fit a person for gainful
employment or participation in the Job Corps under the Job Training Partnership
Act; and
(2) part-time student
means attending a school, college or university or a course of vocational or
technical training designed to fit a person for gainful employment or
participation in the Jobs Corps under the Job Training Partnership Act equal to
at least one half of a full- time curriculum as determined by the educational
authority.
(b) All of
the earned income of an FA or SNA dependent child who is a full-time or
part-time student shall be exempt and disregarded.
(c) For all public assistance households, 50
percent of the recipient's monthly earned income is exempt and must be
disregarded as income or resources in determining eligibility and degree of
need; provided, however, that the percentage amount must be adjusted in June of
each year to reflect changes in the most recently issued poverty guidelines of
the United States Bureau of the Census, so that a household of three without
special needs and without unearned income, living in a heated apartment in the
City of New York, would become ineligible for assistance if gross earnings
equal the poverty level. This disregard will be allowed only if such person had
not:
(d) An applicant's eligibility
for public assistance must be determined without taking into consideration the
earned income exemption specified in subdivision (c) of this section, unless,
after applying the $150 work expense disregard, the applicant is determined
eligible, or the applicant's needs were met in whole or in part by public
assistance payments for any one of the four preceding months the earned income
disregard must be applied to the remaining earned income.
(e) The earned income exemption specified in
subdivision (c) of this section shall be applied against the earnings of a
legally responsible caretaker relative whose needs are not included in the
public assistance grant in determining the amount of such relative's earnings
which are available to such relative's public assistance dependents. When such
dependents are applicants for public assistance, the earned income of the
nonapplying, legally responsible caretaker relative shall be treated in
accordance with conditions set forth in subdivision (d) of this
section.
(f) Safety Net Assistance
(SNA) plan of self-support. All of the earned income and/or resources of an
SNA, or Veteran Assistance (VA) recipient which are necessary to fulfill a plan
of self-support, which has been authorized and approved by a social services
official, are exempt and must be disregarded when determining eligibility for
or degree of need for such assistance for a period not to exceed one
year.
(g) For either an applicant
or recipient of public assistance, the social services official must disregard
the Federal Earned Income Tax Credit received as either a refund or advance
payment.
(h) Provided that the
recipient's total income is not more than two hundred percent of the federal
poverty level for their household size, all of the earned income of an FA or
SNA recipient that is derived from participation in the following qualified
training or work activities is exempt and must be disregarded as income or
resources in determining eligibility or degree of need: subsidized employment,
work experience, job search, vocational education, secondary school, job skills
training, educational training, job readiness training, community service and
on-the-job training. Earned income from other activities may be subject to this
exemption if the activity is determined to be a qualified work activity or
training program by the Office of Temporary and Disability
Assistance.
(i) Once during the
lifetime of a FA or SNA recipient, all earned income from unsubsidized
employment of such recipient will be disregarded in determining eligibility or
degree of need following job entry, provided that such exemption shall be for
no more than six consecutive months from the initial date of obtaining such
unsubsidized employment and that the recipient's resulting total income shall
not be more than two hundred percent of the federal poverty level for their
household size. No other concurrent earned income disregards shall be applied
to the income the recipient earns from the unsubsidized employment subject to
this exemption during the six month period it applies.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.20
Amended
New
York State Register May 10, 2023/Volume XLV, Issue 19, eff.
5/10/2023
Amended
New
York State Register September 4, 2024/Volume XLVI, Issue 36, eff.
9/4/2024
