SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.21
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.21 - Individual development accounts

(a) Establishment. An individual development
account may be established by or on behalf of an individual eligible for Family
Assistance for the purpose of enabling the individual to accumulate funds for a
qualified purpose as specified below.
(b) Qualified purpose. A qualified purpose is
one or more of the reasons listed below: (1)
Postsecondary education expenses. Postsecondary educational expenses paid from
an individual development account directly to an eligible educational
institution.
(2) First home
purchase. Qualified acquisition costs with respect to a qualified principal
residence for a qualified first-time homebuyer, if paid from an individual
development account directly to the persons to whom the amounts are
due.
(3) Business capitalization.
Amounts paid from an individual development account directly to a business
capitalization account which is established in a federally insured financial
institution and is restricted to use solely for qualified business
capitalization expenses.
(c) Contributions to be made from earned
income. An individual may only contribute to an individual development account
such amounts as are derived from the disregarded portion of the reported earned
income of a recipient of family assistance. Contributions by the individual can
only be made while the individual is receiving Family Assistance.
(d) Withdrawal of funds. Funds may only be
withdrawn for one of the three reasons given above.
(e) Requirements for establishing accounts.
An individual development account established under these regulations and
Federal law and regulations is a trust created or organized in the United
States and funded through periodic contributions by the establishing individual
and which may be matched by or through a qualified entity for one of the
purposes described in this Part.
(f) Qualified entity. The term qualified
entity means: (1) an organization which meets
the definition of not-for-profit under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is
exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the code; or
(2) a local social services district acting
in cooperation with an organization described in paragraph (1) of this
subdivision. However, neither the State nor social services districts are
required to make or match contributions.
(g) No reduction in benefits. An individual
development account is disregarded for the purpose of determining eligibility
to receive, or the amount of, any assistance or benefit authorized under any
Federal program for the period during which the person maintains or makes
contributions into the account.
(h)
Definitions. The following definitions are used in this Part.
(1) Eligible educational institution. The
term eligible educational institution means the following:
(i) An institution described in section
481(a)(1) or 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 as such sections were
in effect on August 26, 1996.
(ii)
An area vocational education school (as defined in subparagraph [C] or [D] of
section 521[4] of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology
Education Act as such sections were in effect on August 26, 1996).
(2) Post-secondary educational
expenses. The term post-secondary educational expenses means:
(i) tuition and fees required for the
enrollment or attendance of a student at an eligible educational institution;
and
(ii) fees, books, supplies, and
equipment required for courses of instruction at an eligible educational
institution.
(3)
Qualified acquisition costs. The term qualified acquisition costs means the
costs of acquiring, constructing, or reconstructing a residence. The term
includes any usual or reasonable settlement, financing, or other closing
costs.
(4) Qualified business. The
term qualified business means any business that does not contravene any law or
public policy.
(5) Qualified
business capitalization expenses. The term qualified business capitalization
expenses means qualified expenditures for the capitalization of a qualified
business pursuant to a qualified plan.
(6) Qualified expenditures. The term
qualified expenditures means expenditures included in a qualified plan,
including capital, plant, equipment, working capital, and inventory
expenses.
(7) Qualified first-time
homebuyer and date of acquisition.(i) The
term qualified first- time home buyer means a taxpayer (and, if married, the
taxpayer's spouse) who has no present ownership interest in a principal
residence during the three-year period ending on the date of acquisition of the
principal residence to which this Part refers.
(ii) The term date of acquisition means the
date on which a binding contract to acquire, construct, or reconstruct the
principal residence to which this Part refers is entered into.
(8) Qualified plan. The term
qualified plan means business plan which: (i)
is approved by a financial institution, or by a nonprofit loan fund having
demonstrated fiduciary integrity;
(ii) includes a description of services or
goods to be sold, a marketing plan, and projected financial statements;
and
(iii) may require the eligible
individual to obtain the assistance of an experienced entrepreneurial
advisor.
(9) Qualified
principal residence. The term qualified principal residence means a principal
residence (within the meaning of section
1034 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986),
the qualified acquisition costs of which do not exceed 100 percent of the area
purchase price applicable to such residence (determined in accordance with
paragraphs [2] and [3] of section
143[e] of the Internal
Revenue Code).
(i)
Administration. Neither the State nor social services districts are required to
administer any individual development account.
(j) Penalties for unauthorized withdrawals.
Subject to any inconsistent Federal laws, rules, or regulations, the following
penalties will be imposed on the family assistance recipients who withdraw
funds from individual development accounts and use them for purposes other than
specified above. (1) The matching funds are
subject to the conditions specified by the terms of the trust, if these funds
are still available to the qualified entity.
(2) Penalties assessed under the terms of the
trust by the qualified entity must be paid, if these funds are still
available.
(3) After any penalties
are paid, all moneys retained by the recipient, including matching funds, are
treated as unearned income in the month the funds are withdrawn.
(4) The account is considered closed and any
moneys left in the account after settlement of any penalties under paragraphs
(1) and (2) of this subdivision are considered as unearned income as of the
date of the unauthorized withdrawal. Any moneys retained in the following month
are considered a resource in that month and subject to the resource limitations
found in this Part.
(5) The account
holder and his/her legal spouse are prohibited from establishing any other
individual development accounts in the future.
(k) Other provisions. The following
provisions, subject to Federal and State rules, apply.
(1) If the account holder dies, the account
may be transferred to a contingent beneficiary subject to the conditions of the
trust.
(2) The total of all
deposits by the recipient of family assistance paid into an individual
development account in a calendar year cannot exceed the amount of the earned
income disregarded in calculating the amount of assistance for the recipient's
household.
(3) The account holder
may, subject to the terms of the trust, transfer available moneys from one
individual development account to another without penalty under the family
assistance program.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.21
