SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.38
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.38 - Security measures in shelters for the homeless

(a) On an annual basis, the operator of each
emergency shelter that is not operating pursuant to an operational plan
approved by the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance (the office) as
required by section
491.3 or
900.3 of this Title, and each
emergency shelter that has not been issued an operating certificate pursuant to
either section
491.4 or
900.4 of this Title shall submit
to the office and the social services district in which the emergency shelter
is located a plan for the emergency shelter to provide security and help ensure
the physical safety of residents and staff. The social services district shall
assess the adequacy of the plan and shall share the results of that assessment
with the office. For purposes of this section, emergency
shelter shall mean any facility with overnight sleeping
accommodations, the primary purpose of which is to provide temporary shelter to
recipients of temporary housing assistance. Based upon the individual
characteristics of each emergency shelter, including, but not limited to, the
location of the emergency shelter and the extent to which the location is known
in the community, the size of the emergency shelter, construction
characteristics of the emergency shelter, the homeless population served by the
emergency shelter, and use of the building or site location for purposes other
than the provision of shelter and services to the homeless, the security plan
shall address, among other things: (1)
measures taken to control access to the emergency shelter, including but not
limited to admittance procedures in place for persons entering the facility and
the installation and use of safety locks on exit and entry doors, security
devices such as metal detectors, cameras and security or alarm
systems;
(2) the surveillance of
the grounds, facility and activities of the residents to prevent theft and
resident harm;
(3) the training and
deployment of staff responsible for security, and in the case of emergency
shelters with mental health or domestic violence programs, the availability of
security staff trained in recognizing and responding to mental health or
domestic violence issues;
(4) fire
safety measures, and the emergency shelter's emergency and disaster plans,
including but not limited to, procedures for conducting and supervising
facility evacuations and periodic evacuation drills; actions taken in advance
of an emergency to prepare emergency shelter employees to be ready for an
emergency;
(5) procedures for
handling and documenting individual emergencies, including arranging for
medical care or other emergency services, maintaining records of any special
medical needs or conditions, the prescribed regimens to be followed, and the
names and phone numbers of medical doctors to contact should an emergency arise
concerning these conditions; and
(6) safety measures provided for emergency
shelter staff.
(b) In
the event of a serious incident impacting upon the safety and well-being of any
resident of an emergency shelter or member of the emergency shelter's staff,
including, but not limited to, deaths by unnatural causes or suicides,
life-threatening injuries including drug overdoses, assaults, rapes, sexual
assaults, or attempted rapes or sexual assaults, arrests for alleged child
abuse, fires, disasters, or other events that cause evacuation of the building
or injury to shelter residents, heating, water, electrical failure that is more
than four hours in duration, discovery of any environmental hazard, such as
lead paint or asbestos, that threatens resident health or well-being, domestic
violence that results in injury of one or more residents, criminal activity on
the part of emergency shelter staff, or any misconduct on the part of emergency
shelter staff that results in harm to the residents or other staff members,
unless otherwise directed by the office, the operator of the emergency shelter
or the social services district shall immediately report the serious incident
to the office by e-mail or telephone. In the event the operator of the
emergency shelter reports the serious incident to the office, the operator also
must immediately notify the social services district. The social services
district shall then submit a copy of the office-prescribed incident report form
to the office within three business days.
(c) The operator must maintain a
chronological record of serious incidents of the type described in subdivision
(c) of this section using the office-prescribed incident report form. In the
case of injury, the operator must include a written statement of the resident's
version of the events leading to an accident or incident involving such
resident on all Incident reports unless the resident objects.
(d) Where a security incident has been
reported, or upon review of the operator's or social service district's annual
plan, the office may direct the social services district or the operator to
take additional security measures including, but not limited to, directing that
the emergency shelter deploy additional trained security staff or relocate
residents to another facility or emergency shelter. The office also may direct
the social services district or the operator to:
(1) engage a qualified third party, who has
been approved by the office, to conduct an evaluation of the security measures
employed by the facility; and
(2)
employ any or all of the recommendations made by the third party.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.38
Adopted
New
York State Register August 31, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 35,
eff. 8/31/2016
Amended
New
York State Register December 11, 2019/Volume XLI, Issue 50, eff.
1/1/2020
