SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.15
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.15 - Support payments

(a)
Child support disregard
payment.
An amount up to the first $100 or $200 per month of any
current child or child and spousal support payment(s) received by a public
assistance household directly from the support collection unit or directly from
the noncustodial parent prior to the requirement that payments toward the
support obligation be made through a support collection unit and retained by
the social services district, must be disregarded as income or resources in
determining eligibility.
(1) Effective
January 1, 2010, for public assistance households containing one public
assistance individual under the age of 21, the amount disregarded shall be up
to the first $100 of current support received or the monthly support
obligation, whichever is less.
(2)
Effective January 1, 2010, for public assistance households containing two or
more public assistance individuals under the age of 21, the amount disregarded
shall be up to the first $200 of current support received or the monthly
support obligation, whichever is less.
(b)
Pass-through payments.
An amount of child or child and spousal support
collections received by the support collection unit under an assignment applied
toward the current monthly support obligation for a public assistance
household, and retained by the social services district, must be paid to the
public assistance household as a pass-through payment. Any pass-through payment
made to the public assistance household shall be disregarded as income or
resources in determining eligibility or standard of need.
(1) Effective January 1, 2010, for public
assistance households containing one public assistance individual under the age
of 21, up to the first $100 of current support collections received or the
monthly support obligation, whichever is less, shall be paid to the public
assistance household as a pass-through payment.
(2) Effective January 1, 2010, for public
assistance households with two or more public assistance individuals under the
age of 21, up to the first $200 of current support collections received or the
monthly support obligation, whichever is less, shall be paid to the public
assistance household as a pass-through payment.
(3) Date of receipt for pass-through
payments. The date of receipt for support collections is the date on which the
payment is received by the support collection unit.
(c)
Excess support payments.
(1) Support collections retained by the
social services district must be used to reduce the amount of unreimbursed
assistance by the total amount of support collected. Collections which exceed
the cumulative amount of unreimbursed assistance must be paid to the
family.
(2) Payments made to the
family under paragraph (1) of this subdivision shall be made available to the
family within 15 calendar days of the end of month in which the support was
processed by the support collection unit.
(d) Any amount paid to the family pursuant to
subdivision (b) or (c) of this section shall not be identified as assistance
paid to the family.
(e) If a public
assistance recipient reports to a local social services official that a payment
pursuant to this section has been lost or stolen, the social services district
shall follow the procedures outlined in section
352.7(g) of this
Part.
(f) If the local social
services official establishes that the recipient received a payment pursuant to
this section that the recipient claimed was lost or stolen and which has been
replaced, the amount of such payment shall be recovered from a subsequent
payment or recouped from the recipient in accordance with section
352.31(d) of this
Part.
(g) If the payment pursuant
to this section is issued to the wrong individual, a payment to the correct
individual shall be issued immediately and recovery or recoupment from the
incorrect individual shall be made in accordance with section
352.31(d) of this
Part.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.15
Amended
New
York State Register May 4, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 18, eff.
5/4/2016
