SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.29
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.29 - Budgeting-the budgetary method

(a) The budgetary method shall be applied to
the individual case to determine eligibility and the amount of the grant and/or
the amount to be paid for a "purchase of service."
(b) When the estimate of regularly recurring
need based on the regulations of the department exceeds the available income
and/or resources, the difference shall be known as a "budget deficit." When the
available income and/or resources exceed the estimate of regularly recurring
need, the difference shall be known as a "budget surplus."
(c) An individual or family shall be entitled
to public assistance and care when a budget deficit exists; provided, however,
a household shall not be deemed in need and entitled to any cash assistance
when there is a budget deficit of less than $10.
(d) Where investigation has been completed
and need established on a continuing basis, the regularly recurring cash grant
shall meet the full budget deficit, if there is one, and/or provision shall be
made for the purchase of service when need is based on the need for such
service, except that when the estimate of regularly recurring need and/or the
amount of the assistance grant based on the regulations of the department do
not equal a whole dollar amount, the amount(s) shall be rounded down to the
next whole dollar amount.
(e) When
an item is paid by voucher or restricted grant, the amount paid must be
deducted from the ensuing regularly recurring cash grant. When payments for
heat and/or domestic energy (lights, cooking, hot water) are made by voucher,
amounts not to exceed the following are to be removed from the grant:
(1) For heat only bills, the fuel for heating
allowance, as defined in section
352.5(b) of this
Part, is to be removed from the grant for a recipient not residing in or
budgeted in accordance with Section 8 certificate housing provisions as
outlined in section
352.31(d)(2)(ii)
of this Part. An amount equal to the appropriate fuel allowance schedule set
forth in section
352.5(b) of this
Part for the appropriate heating type and public assistance household size is
to be removed from the grant for a recipient residing in Section 8 certificate
housing or budgeted in accordance with the Section 8 certificate housing
provisions outlined in section
352.31(d)(2)(ii)
of this Part.
(2) For domestic only
bills, an average monthly amount of the domestic energy cost is to be removed
from the grant. However, when the recipient's utility bill (heat and/or
domestic energy) is placed on voucher payment as a result of recipient
mismanagement, the provisions set forth in section
352.5(g) of this
Part apply. In the case where the amount paid is for a period of more than one
month, the deduction from the ensuing regularly recurring cash grants must be
for the same number of months for which the bill is being paid.
(f) When the budget deficit
increases between periods covered by the last regularly recurring grant, a
special grant shall be made for the difference. This shall include the
allowance necessary to provide on a prorated basis for an additional member of
the household or for a member of the public assistance household who returns
home for a visit.
(g) When an
applicant for public assistance or care is an essential person in an SSI case,
the amount of his/her essential person payment shall be considered as income
and available to the applicant in determining his/her eligibility and degree of
need.
(h) Treatment of income in
excess of standard of need. (1) For public
assistance households, when the assistance unit's monthly income after
application of applicable disregards exceeds the household's needs because of
receipt of non-recurring lump sum earned or unearned income, (including
retirement, survivors', and disability insurance benefits as provided for under
title II of the Social Security Act; other retroactive monthly benefits; and
payments in the nature of a windfall, e.g., inheritances or lottery winnings,
personal injury and workers' compensation awards), except to the extent that
such lump sum income is earmarked and used for the purpose for which it is paid
(e.g., monies for previously incurred medical bills resulting from an accident
or injury; funeral and burial costs; and replacement or repair of resources),
the family will be ineligible for aid for a calculated period. This period is
calculated by dividing the sum of the lump sum income and any other income
received during the month, after applicable disregards for the month, by the
household needs for a family which consists of the family assistance or safety
net assistance unit plus any other individual whose needs are taken into
account in determining eligibility and the amount of the grant. Any income
remaining from this calculation is income in the first month following the
period of ineligibility.
(2) The
local district shall shorten the period of ineligibility in any one or more of
the following cases and in the following manner:
(i) by excluding from any lump sum income for
which this subdivision applies any amount which would be exempt and disregarded
as cash and liquid or non-liquid resources because it does not exceed the
resource eligibility limit as established under section
352.23(b) of this
Part;
(ii) by recalculating the
period of ineligibility based upon the new standard of need and the amount of
the lump sum which would remain if a proportionate amount thereof had been
granted in each month of ineligibility, when an event occurs which, had the
family been receiving assistance for the month of occurrence, would result in a
change in the amount of assistance payable for such month; or
(iii) by recalculating the period of
ineligibility based upon the actual amount of the lump sum remaining when the
income received or a portion thereof has become unavailable to the members of
the family for reasons that were beyond the control of such members.
Unavailable shall mean the family no longer has the lump sum income. Reasons
which are considered to be beyond the control of the family shall include but
are not limited to any event or circumstances which the family did not foresee
or could not prevent, such as loss or theft of income or a life threatening
circumstance; or
(iv) by
recalculating the period of ineligibility based upon the actual amount of the
lump sum remaining when the family incurs, becomes responsible for, and pays
medical expenses as defined under the Medical Assistance Program in the month
of ineligibility; or
(v) by
recalculating the period of ineligibility based upon the actual amount of the
lump sum remaining if the family, within 90 days of receipt of the lump sum,
has used any or all of the lump sum for the following exempt resources:
(a) to purchase an automobile that is needed
to seek or retain employment or for travel to and from work activities and
which is exempt from the public assistance resource limit under section
352.23(b) of this
Part; or
(b) to open a separate
bank account or bank accounts that are exempt from the public assistance
resource limit under section
352.23(b) of this
Part for the purpose of purchasing an automobile to seek or retain employment
or for the purpose of paying tuition at a two-year or four-year accredited
post-secondary educational institution; or
(c) to purchase a burial plot that is exempt
from the public assistance resource limit under section
352.23(b) of this
Part; or
(d) to purchase a
bona-fide funeral agreement that is exempt from the public assistance resource
limit under section
352.23(b) of this
Part.
(3) In
instances when an individual makes a voluntary payment of excess income to a
local district as recovery for past assistance granted, the provisions of
paragraph (1) of this subdivision shall not apply; however, if the amount of
the excess income exceeds the amount of past assistance, the provisions of
paragraph (1) of this subdivision shall apply to the remainder.
(i) Residency.
(1) In accordance with section
131-a
(3) of the Social Services Law, the following
rules apply for persons entering this State and applying for home relief. For
the first six months after establishing residency in this State, home relief
benefits are limited to the standard of payment in the state in which the
applicant resides immediately prior to establishing residency in this State. In
no event can the grant be greater than the grant for which the applicant would
otherwise be eligible for under this Title. For purposes of this subdivision,
the standard of payment which would be available under the laws of another
state refers to a schedule of comparative grants which the department will
distribute to each social services district and other interested parties and
which will be effective on July 1st of each odd numbered year, beginning in
1995. The schedule will set forth, for any state which financially participates
in or mandates a program of assistance generally available to needy persons
meeting specified income and resource requirements, the amount of the state's
maximum standard of payment, if any, for each household size. If there is no
general assistance program in the state in which the applicant previously
resided, home relief will not be payable for the first six months after
establishing residency in this State. Home relief benefits are not payable for
persons entering this State from outside the United States, its territories or
possessions for the first six months after they establish residency in this
State.
(2) For purposes of this
subdivision, an individual establishes when his or her residency in this State
began by providing to the appropriate employee of the social services district
information showing when the individual entered the State and establishing that
the individual is currently residing in the State with a fixed intention to
remain here.
(3) This subdivision
will apply to recipients of aid to dependent children when all necessary
Federal approvals are obtained.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.29
Amended
New
York State Register December 20, 2017 /Volume XXXIX, Issue 51,
eff. 12/20/2017
