SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.32
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.32 - Calculating the budget

(a)
Using the State-prescribed form, a budget shall be prepared for each new or
reopened public assistance case at the time the application is approved for
assistance. This form contains budget data which constitutes an estimate of
regularly recurring needs and regularly recurring resources available to meet
them. These items are based on the circumstances in each individual case and
the policies and allowance schedules of the agency.
(b) The budget shall be recalculated whenever
there is a change in the needs and/or resources of the recipient and/or a
change in the allowance schedules of the agency.
(c)-(d) [Reserved]
(e) Cooperative cases. When two or more
persons in the same dwelling unit are eligible for separate grants of public
assistance, the following procedures shall be applied:
(1) When at least one individual in one
assistance unit is legally responsible for at least one member of the other
assistance unit: (i) the basic monthly
allowance, home energy allowance, supplemental home energy allowance, shelter
and water allowances and fuel allowance shall be prorated; and
(ii) allowances for any other recurring
special need included in the standard of need shall not be prorated.
(2) When no one in one assistance
unit is legally responsible for anyone in the other assistance unit:
(i) the basic monthly allowance, the home
energy allowance and the supplemental home energy allowance, and the fuel for
heating allowance must not be prorated unless the members of the assistance
units reside together as a single economic unit, generally sharing income and
resources as though they were one family;
(ii) the fuel for heating allowance is
provided to the unit containing the tenant and customer of record as defined in
section 352.5(a) of this
Part and reflects the number of persons in that unit;
(iii) allowances for water and fuel must be
prorated; and
(iv) allowances for
shelter and any other recurring special need included in the standard of need
must not be prorated.
(3) All available and unrestricted income of
an applicant or recipient shall be prorated and applied against his needs and
the needs of his legally dependent relatives in the household.
(f) In all other cases, all
available and unrestricted income of an applicant or recipient shall be
prorated and applied against his needs and the needs of his legally dependent
relatives in the household.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.32
