SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/18-NYCRR-352.22
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18 § 352.22 - Noncountable income and resources

Certain miscellaneous income and resources shall be
exempt and disregarded in determining eligibility and the standard of need for
public assistance, as follows:
(a)
Relocation adjustment payments.
Any payment received under title II of the Uniform
Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 shall
be exempt and disregarded as income and resources in determining eligibility or
standard of need.
(b)
Loans under title III of the Economic Opportunity Act.
The proceeds of a loan to a family made under title III
of the Federal Economic Opportunity Act shall be exempt and disregarded as
income and resources in determining eligibility or standard of need.
(c)
Loans.
For purposes of determining eligibility and standard of
need for federally funded public assistance, the principal amounts of bona fide
loans do not count as income or resources. Funds received by an applicant or
recipient of federally funded public assistance can be considered a bona fide
loan when the applicant or recipient submits to the social services district
one of the following types of documents:
(1) a signed written agreement between the
applicant or recipient and an individual who or establishment which is engaged
in the business of making loans which states that a loan was obtained from such
individual or establishment; or
(2)
a signed written agreement between a lender not normally engaged in the
business of making loans and the applicant or recipient, which expresses the
applicant's or recipient's intent to repay the loan within a specified time;
or
(3) a signed written agreement
between a lender not normally engaged in the business of making loans and the
applicant or recipient, which expresses the applicant's or recipient's express
intent to repay the loan either by specifying real or personal property which
will be used as collateral for the loan by promising to repay the loan from
anticipated income at the time that such income is received.
(d)
Energy assistance
payments.
Any Federal energy assistance payments received by
applicants for or recipients of public assistance shall not be considered
income or resources for any purpose in the determination of need, the amount of
assistance payment or any other purpose relating to any public assistance
program.
(e)
Trust
funds.
No application to the court need be made for the release
of trust funds when the value of the trust, combined with other countable
available resources, does not exceed the resource limits contained in section
352.23(b) of this
Part. If the value of the trust, when combined with other countable assets,
exceeds the resource limits contained in section
352.23(b) of this
Part, the social services district must determine if the terms of the trust and
the amount of funds in the trust warrant an application to the court to have
funds in the trust released for the basic maintenance of the beneficiary of the
trust. If the terms of the trust allow the trust funds to be used for basic
maintenance purposes and the amount of funds in the trust warrant, application
to the court must be made for release of the funds that exceed such resource
limits.
(f)
Major
disaster and emergency assistance.
The following assistance is exempt as income or resources
when determining eligibility and benefit amount for federally funded public
assistance:
(1) Federal major disaster
and emergency assistance provided under the Disaster Relief Act of 1974, as
amended by the Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Amendments of 1988 (
Public Law 100-707); or
(2)
comparable disaster assistance provided by states, local governments and
disaster assistance organizations.
(g)
Payments for board of child.
Payment received for a child boarded out in the home of a
recipient by an agency or a relative of the child shall not be considered in
estimating needs of the household or applying income.
(h)
Income from family day care.
In the case of applicants for or recipients of public
assistance and care who provide family day care for children, income of $5 per
day for each child, excluding their own child may not be applied against the
standard of need.
(i)
Income from garden or livestock.
Value of produce from a garden or livestock shall be
disregarded as income if the following conditions are met:
(1) the produce is for the exclusive use of
the recipient and his dependents, and not for sale;
(2) no provision is made in the assistance
plan for cost of production.
(j)
Meals as income.
(1) When school lunches are furnished free,
their value shall not be considered as income.
(2) When meals are furnished free, their
value shall not be considered as income, except when more than one meal per day
is furnished or when the recipient receives an allowance for meals away from
home.
(k)
Supplemental nutrition assistance program (SNAP) benefits.
The value of SNAP benefits shall be exempt.
(l)
Donated foods.
The value of federally donated foods shall be
exempt.
(m)
WIC
program.
The value of benefits or assistance under the special
supplemental program for women, infants and children (WIC program) shall not be
considered as income or resources for any purpose relating to public
assistance.
(n)
Seneca Nation Settlement Act payments.
Any payments made pursuant to
Public Law
101-503 (the Seneca Nation Settlement Act) are
exempt and disregarded as income and resources in determining eligibility or
standard of need for public assistance.
(o)
Payment under the Domestic
Volunteer Services Act.
(1)
Reimbursement received for out-of-pocket expenses made to individuals serving
as retired senior volunteers, foster grandparents, senior health aides, senior
companions or any other volunteer providing services under title II of the
Domestic Volunteer Services Act ( Public Law 93-113) are exempt and disregarded
in determining eligibility for and standard of need for public
assistance.
(2) Reimbursement
received for out-of-pocket expenses made to volunteers in the Service Corps of
Retired Executives (SCORE), Active Corps of Executives (ACE) or any other
programs under title III of Public Law 93-113 (as amended by Public Law 95-510
) are exempt and disregarded in determining eligibility for and standard of
need for public assistance.
(p)
Adoption subsidies.
An adoption subsidy payment received on behalf of a child
not receiving public assistance must be excluded as income or resources when
determining the amount of the public assistance grant for the remaining family
members, except in cases where including the child in the public assistance
household would increase the amount of the public assistance grant paid to the
family. In such instances, the child must be included in the public assistance
household and the adoption subsidy payment counted as income when determining
the amount of public assistance.
(q)
VISTA.
Any payments received by applicants for or recipients of
public assistance who are volunteers under part A of title I of Public Law
93-113 (VISTA) must be exempted and disregarded as income and resources in
determining eligibility and standard of need; provided, however, that all of
the VISTA payment is to be counted as income when the director of the ACTION
agency determines that the value of all such payments, adjusted to reflect the
number of hours such volunteers are serving, is equivalent to or greater than
the minimum wage.
(r)
HUD community development block grant funds.
Any funds received by an applicant or recipient from the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) community development block
grants shall be exempt and disregarded as income and resources in determining
eligibility or standard of need.
(s)
Needs-based support or
maintenance.
Any support or maintenance assistance (including home
energy assistance) which is provided on the basis of need and which is either
assistance furnished in kind by a private or nonprofit agency or assistance
furnished in cash or in kind by a supplier of home heating oil or gas, by an
entity whose revenues are primarily derived on a rate- of-return basis
regulated by a State or Federal governmental entity, or by a municipal utility
providing home energy, shall be exempt and disregarded as income and resources
in determining eligibility or standard of need.
(t)
Support disregard.
Current child or child and spousal support collections
received in a month by a household (including support collections received by
the support collection unit and paid to the family and payments made directly
to the family) shall be disregarded as income or resources in determining
eligibility or standard of need pursuant to section
352.15 of this Part.
(u)
Payments to dependent
children under the Job Training Partnership Act (JAPE).
Earned and unearned income derived through participation
in a program carried out under the JTPA and paid to a dependent child shall be
exempt and disregarded as income and resources in determining eligibility and
standard of need of a household containing the dependent child unless such
income is otherwise exempt and disregarded as student income under section
352.20 of this Part. Earned income
shall be disregarded under this subdivision six months per calendar year for
each such child.
(v)
Agent Orange payments.
Effective January 1, 1989, the following payments are
exempt as income or resources when determining public assistance eligibility
and benefit amount when such payments are received from any of the following
sources:
(1) payments provided from
the Agent Orange settlement fund;
(2) payments from any other fund established
pursuant to the settlement in the In re Agent Orange product liability
litigation; or
(3) payments from
court proceedings brought for personal injuries sustained by veterans resulting
from exposure to dioxin or phenoxy herbicides in connection with the war in
Indochina in the period of January 1, 1962 through May 7, 1975.
(w)
Radiation exposure
compensation.
Any payments received by applicants for or recipients of
federally funded public assistance made under the Radiation Exposure
Compensation Act (P.L.
101-426) for injuries or deaths resulting from
exposure to radiation from nuclear testing and uranium mining are exempt and
disregarded as income or resources in determining eligibility or standard of
need for federally funded public assistance benefits.
(x)
Restitution payments.
Any payments made pursuant to P.L. 100-383 and received
by individuals of Japanese ancestry and natives of the Aleutian and Pribilof
Islands for the purpose of restitution for wartime relocation and internment
will be exempt and disregarded in determining eligibility or standard of need
for federally funded public assistance benefits. Any such payments received by
individuals of Japanese ancestry will also be exempt and disregarded in
determining eligibility or standard of need for safety net assistance
benefits.
(y)
Alaskan
Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) distributions.
The following distributions from a native corporation
formed pursuant to ANCSA are exempt as income or resources when determining
eligibility for and benefit amount of federally funded public
assistance:
(1) cash, to the extent
that it does not, in the aggregate, exceed $2,000 per individual per
year;
(2) stock;
(3) a partnership interest;
(4) land or an interest in land;
and
(5) an interest in a settlement
trust.
(z)
Indian
tribe or tribe member trust funds held by the Secretary of the Interior.
All funds that are held in trust by the Secretary of the
Interior for an Indian tribe or are to be distributed per capita to members of
that tribe are exempt as income or resources when determining eligibility for
and benefit amount of federally funded public assistance.
(aa)
Nazi persecution income.
Any payments made to individuals because of their status
as victims of Nazi persecution as defined in
Public Law
103-286 shall be exempt and disregarded as income
and resources in determining the eligibility or standard of need for public
assistance.
(ab)
Veterans' assistance payments provided for under
Public Law
104-204.
Veterans' assistance payments made to or on behalf of
certain Vietnam veterans' natural adult or minor children for any disability
resulting from spina bifida suffered by such children are exempt and
disregarded as income or resources in determining eligibility or standard of
need for safety net assistance and federally funded public assistance
benefits.
(ac)
Veterans' assistance payments covering birth defects.
Veterans' assistance payments made for covered birth
defects to or on behalf of the adult or minor children of women Vietnam
veterans in service in the Republic of Vietnam during the period beginning on
February 28, 1961 and ending on May 7, 1975, are exempt and disregarded as
income or resources in determining eligibility or standard of need for safety
net assistance and federally funded public assistance benefits. Covered
birth defects means any birth defect identified by the veterans'
assistance program as a birth defect that is associated with the service of
women Vietnam veterans in the Republic of Vietnam during the period beginning
on February 28, 1961 and ending on May 7, 1975, and that has resulted or may
result, in permanent physical or mental disability.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 18
§
352.22
Amended
New
York State Register May 4, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 18, eff.
5/4/2016
