                               EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

AP‐05 Executive Summary ‐ 24 CFR 91.200(c), 91.220(b)

The Huntington Beach 2020/21‐2024/25 Consolidated Plan constitutes the City's strategy for
addressing its housing and community development needs utilizing federal entitlement funds.
The goals are to assist low‐ and moderate‐income persons, provide decent housing, create
suitable living environments, and expand economic opportunities. Included in the
Consolidated Plan are broad five‐year objectives and strategies to accomplish these goals.
Specific identifiable benchmarks for measuring progress in realizing the City’s strategy are
proposed in the Annual Action Plans.

The 2024/25 Annual Action Plan includes application for funds under two different HUD
entitlement programs ‐ Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) and the HOME
Investment Partnership Program (HOME). Current year entitlements combined with
reallocations and repayments from prior year activities (program income) bring the total
estimated funding for Program Year 2024/25 to $2.5 million. The following Annual Action Plan
describes resources, programs, activities and actions Huntington Beach will undertake in FY
2024/25 to implement its strategic plan and ultimately achieve its Consolidated Plan goals and
objectives, summarized in the table on the following page.




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          1
     Consolidated Plan                                                                            Outcome/
                                                                              2024/25
      5‐Year Priority                 Implementing Programs                                       Objective
                                                                               Goal
Households with Housing          Special Code Enforcement               600 Housing Units           SL‐3
Problems                          ($232,519)
                                 Homeowner Rehabilitation               8 Housing Units            DH‐1
                                  Loans and Grants Program
                                  ($287,000)
                                 Families Forward Tenant                15 Households              DH‐2
                                   Based Rental Assistance
                                   Program ($200,000)
                                 Mercy House Tenant Based
                                                                         15 Households              DH‐2
                                   Rental Assistance Program
                                   ($200,000)
                                 Mobile Home Tenant‐Based               25 Households              DH‐2
                                   Rental Assistance Program
                                   ($466,901)
                                 Housing Services for TBRA              45 Housing Units           DH‐2
                                  ($210,078)
Homelessness                     StandUp for Kids OC – Street           35 Persons                  SL‐1
                                  Outreach Program ($23,000)
                                 Robyne’s Nest ($50,000)                40 Persons                  SL‐1
                                 Project Hope Alliance ($37,500)        150 Persons                 SL‐1
Special Needs Populations        No projects in FY 2024/25


Priority Community Services     Youth Services
                                 Children’s Bureau ($65,250)            200 Persons                 SL‐1

Priority Community and           No projects in FY 2024/25
Public Facilities

Priority Infrastructure            ADA Curb Cuts in Maintenance         2,750 Persons               SL‐1
Improvements                        Zone 2 ($125,000)

Other Housing and                HOME Administration ($66,837)          Not Applicable             Not
Community Development            CDBG Administration ($234,334)         Not Applicable           Applicable
Needs
            2020‐2024 Consolidated Plan Priorities, Implementing Programs, and FY 2024/25 Goals

 Summarize the objectives and outcomes identified in the Plan

 The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has established three
 predetermined objectives and outcomes designed to capture the range of community


                            Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                                     2
impacts that occur as a result of CDBG and HOME‐funded programs. Each activity or program
funded with CDBG or HOME must fall under one of three objectives and one of three
outcomes. The framework of selecting these objectives and outcomes is known as HUD’s CPD
Outcome Performance Measurement System. Here are the objectives and outcomes to
choose from:

Objectives
    Creating Suitable Living Environments relates to activities that are designed to benefit
       communities, families, or individuals by addressing issues in their living environment,
       from physical problems with their environment to social issues.
    Providing Decent Housing covers the wide range of housing activities where the
       purpose is to meet individual family or community housing needs.
    Creating Economic Opportunities applies to activities related to economic
       development, commercial revitalization, or job creation.

Outcomes
    Availability/Accessibility applies to activities that make services, infrastructure, public
     services, public facilities, housing, or shelter available or accessible to low‐ and
     moderate‐income people, including persons with disabilities.
    Affordability applies to activities that provide affordability in a variety of ways to low‐
     and moderate‐income people and is appropriate to use whenever an activity is
     lowering the cost, improving the quality, or increasing the affordability of a product or
     service to benefit a low‐income household.
    Sustainability applies to activities that are aimed at improving communities or
     neighborhoods, helping to make them livable or viable by providing benefit to persons
     of low‐ and moderate‐income or by removing or eliminating slums or blighted areas,
     through multiple activities or services that sustain communities or neighborhoods.

The City of Huntington Beach has ambitious objectives for spending its federal entitlement
grant funding. The objectives are identified in the Consolidated Plan Needs Assessment which
was developed by reviewing census statistical data and building upon already adopted
planning documents, coupled with consultation with housing, homeless and service
providers, City Departments, and the public via community meetings, public hearings, and a
Community Needs Assessment Survey. The result was the formation of seven areas of priority
need, including:




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                           3
   1. Households with Housing Problems ‐ The need for affordable housing options in the
      City continue to be high, based on the proportion of households in the City
      experiencing cost burdens.
   2. Homelessness ‐ Homelessness continues to be a growing and pressing issue in
      Huntington Beach and regionally. The City will continue to fund and support efforts
      that address homelessness and serve persons experiencing homelessness.
   3. Special Needs Populations ‐ There are a number of special needs populations in the
      City that need continued services and support. These include, but are not limited to,
      persons with severe mental illness, veterans, persons with substance abuse
      addictions, and seniors.
   4. Priority Community Services ‐ There are a number of vital community services in the
      City that need continued services and support. These community services serve low‐
      to moderate‐income households and include activities, such as youth and senior
      services.
   5. Priority Community and Public Facilities ‐ The City recognizes the high need for public
      improvement activities throughout the City in order to provide for and maintain a safe
      and decent environment for its citizens. Identified priority needs include, but are not
      limited to, homeless shelters, parks and recreational centers, youth centers, and
      healthcare facilities.
   6. Priority Infrastructure Improvements ‐ The City recognizes the high need for public
      improvement activities throughout the City in order to provide for and maintain a safe
      and decent environment for its citizens. Identified priority needs include, but are not
      limited to, street and road improvements, sidewalk improvements, flood drainage
      improvements, and tree planting.
   7. Other Housing and Community Development Needs ‐ The City has identified the need
      to provide support for the HOME and CDBG programs in the City, as well as to
      affirmatively further fair housing. These activities are vital to the continuation of the
      City’s efforts to administer these programs.

Evaluation of past performance

The City reviews and evaluates its performance through its annual submission of the
Consolidated Annual Performance and Evaluation Report (CAPER). As the fourth year of the
FY 2020/21 – 2024/25 Consolidated Plan progresses, the City remains committed to achieving
its objectives and looks forward to capturing additional performance accomplishments in the
year‐end FY 2023/24 CAPER. However, below is a summary of performance to date.




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                           4
Decent Housing
    In FY 2020/21, the City allocated $2.8 million in HOME funding towards the
      development of a 43‐unit affordable senior housing project located at 18431 Beach
      Boulevard. This project, undertaken in partnership with the local Community Housing
      Development Organization (CHDO), Jamboree Housing Corporation, marks a
      significant step towards addressing the housing needs of the senior population. Out
      of the 43 units, nine will be HOME‐income and rent‐restricted, ensuring affordability
      for very‐low‐income households. Upon completion of this project, which is currently in
      progress, the City will have accomplished nearly 50% of its 20‐unit development goal
      for the 2020/21‐2024/25 Consolidated Plan timeframe.

      Since July 2020, the City has allocated close to $3 million in HOME funds to provide
       tenant‐based rental assistance (TBRA) to low‐ and moderate‐income households. This
       assistance has been crucial in addressing housing affordability challenges faced by
       vulnerable populations within the community. Over the first three years of the TBRA
       program, 146 households received assistance, demonstrating the program's
       effectiveness in supporting households in need. By mid‐year of FY 2023/24, an
       additional 52 households were enrolled in one of the three TBRA programs sponsored
       by the City, further expanding the reach and impact of rental assistance initiatives.

      The Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans and Grants Program offers vital assistance to
       eligible lower‐income Huntington Beach households. The Rehabilitation Grant
       Program provides one‐time grants of up to $10,000 to low‐income homeowners for
       deferred maintenance and health and safety‐related household repairs. In contrast,
       the Rehabilitation Loan Program offers deferred payment loans of up to $75,000 to
       low‐income homeowners. These programs aim to assist homeowners in making
       necessary repairs to maintain the safety and livability of their properties. To date, the
       City has funded 35 homeowner rehabilitation projects through these programs, with
       additional households currently on the waiting list. This demonstrates the City's
       commitment to supporting homeownership and preserving affordable housing
       options for its residents.

Suitable Living Environment
     The City's Special Code Enforcement program has consistently surpassed its goal of
       assisting 600 housing units each year in CDBG‐eligible areas. Since July 2020, the
       program has issued over 4,000 code violations, which in most cases, are voluntarily
       addressed by homeowners. This proactive approach to maintaining community
       standards and ensuring safe and habitable living conditions, underscores the City's

                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                           5
       commitment to ensuring compliance with housing standards and contributing to the
       overall well‐being and livability of neighborhoods within CDBG‐eligible areas.

      The City continues to prioritize providing quality and effective services to various
       segments of the Huntington Beach community, including youth, homeless individuals,
       seniors, the disabled, and illiterate adults. These efforts are funded through public
       service funding and contribute to enhancing the well‐being and accessibility of
       essential services for residents. Since July 2020, the City has made significant strides in
       its public service initiatives. For example, 669 youth have benefited from subsidized
       after‐school programming, enriching their educational experiences and providing
       valuable opportunities for growth and development. Additionally, a total of 1,903
       homeless individuals have received a range of services, including case management,
       emergency housing, outreach services, and other wrap around services. These efforts
       demonstrate the City's commitment to addressing homelessness and supporting
       vulnerable populations. Finally, approximately 1,500 seniors have accessed services
       provided through the City's Senior Care Services Program, catering to their unique
       needs and promoting active and healthy aging within the community.

      As part of its commitment to enhancing public facilities and community infrastructure,
       the City set a goal to assist 5,000 persons with improved or new public facilities during
       the 2020/21‐2024/25 Consolidated Plan period. In FY 2023/24, the City allocated CDBG
       funding to the Central Library Restrooms Project, which includes ADA improvements.
       Upon completion, this project will not only contribute to enhancing accessibility but
       will also exceed the goal by serving a larger number of individuals than initially
       targeted.

      The City used CDBG funding in FY 2020/21, 2021/22, and most recently in FY 2023/24 to
       make ADA curb cut improvements in various areas of the City. By the end of FY 2021/22,
       over 4,000 persons had already benefited from the handicap‐accessible curb cuts,
       surpassing the 5‐year goal of 2,000. An estimated 2,500 additional persons are set to
       benefit from the latest project in FY 2023/24.

Economic Opportunity
    In 2014, the City of Huntington Beach undertook the preparation of a comprehensive
     Economic Development Strategy. The purpose of the Strategy was to identify the
     highest priority economic development objectives in Huntington Beach, and to set
     goals, policies, and recommended actions that will set the framework for short‐term


                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                             6
       (0‐2 years), mid‐term (3‐5 years), and long‐term economic decisions. The Strategy
       contains a diverse range of core objectives and goals that support the City's Economic
       Development vision to focus on the retention, attraction, and expansion of the
       business community, consistent with the City Council's Strategic Goals to "Enhance
       Economic Development" and "Improve Financial Stability."

       In addition, in October 2023, the City Council adopted the 2023‐2027 Strategic Plan for
       the City of Huntington Beach. This 2023‐2027 Strategic Plan identifies various policies
       and programs that the City should prioritize, over and above normal operations, within
       the limited financial, human, and operational resources of the City. The goal of
       economic development is for greater business retention, investment, and job growth
       in Huntington Beach.

Summary of citizen participation process and consultation process

As a condition to receiving CDBG and HOME funds, the City of Huntington Beach must engage
stakeholders and the public regarding the community’s needs in the areas of community
development and housing. To guide in this effort, the City has adopted a Citizen Participation
Plan which outlines the citizen participation and consultation efforts necessary for the
development of the Consolidated Plan, Annual Action Plan, and CAPER.

All of Huntington Beach’s citizens are encouraged to participate in the planning,
development, and implementation of the Action Plan. Two public hearings and several public
meetings with the Citizen Participation Advisory Board are held by the City each year to
discuss issues related to the Consolidated Plan as well as the Action Plan.

A summary of the Annual Action Plan was presented to the CPAB and City Council on March
19, 2024 and subsequently on April 5, 2024, and the Draft Action Plan was posted to the City’s
website. A Public Hearing on adopt the FY 2024/25 Action Plan will be held on May 7, 2024
before the Huntington Beach City Council, following a 30‐day public comment period that
began on April 5, 2024 and culminated with the public hearing to approve the Plan on May 7,
2024.

Summary of public comments

See Appendix I for Citizen Participation comments made during the development of the FY
2024/25 Action Plan.



                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          7
Summary of comments or views not accepted and the reasons for not accepting them

All comments made are accepted and reviewed.

Summary

The Consolidated Plan for Huntington Beach outlines several top funding priorities over a five‐
year period, from 2020/21 to 2024/25. These priorities have been identified through a thorough
needs assessment process, including a housing market analysis, input from public meetings,
community surveys, and consultation with local stakeholders. The overarching goal is to align
these priorities with HUD's objectives of providing availability, sustainability, and affordability
for residents of Huntington Beach.

The top seven priorities and their implementing goals for CDBG and HOME funded projects
are as follows:

Households with housing problems
    Sustain and Strengthen Neighborhoods
    Preserve Existing and Create New Affordable Housing

Homelessness
   Support efforts to address homelessness

Special Needs Populations
    Support agencies that assist special needs populations

Priority Community Services
     Increase access to community services to low‐ and moderate‐income persons

Priority Community and Public Facilities
     Preserve existing and create new community and public facilities

Priority Infrastructure Improvements
     Provide needed infrastructure improvements

Other Housing and Community Development Needs
    Planning or housing and community development needs



                          Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                             8
PR‐05 Lead & Responsible Agencies 24 CFR 91.200(b)

Describe agency/entity responsible for preparing the Consolidated Plan and those
responsible for administration of each grant program and funding source

The following are the agencies/entities responsible for preparing the Consolidated Plan and
those responsible for administration of each grant program and funding source.

         Agency Role                   Name                          Department/Agency
  Lead Agency                  HUNTINGTON BEACH               Community Development
                                                              Department/Community
                                                              Enhancement Division
  CDBG Administrator            Jennifer Villasenor,          Community Development
                                Community Development         Department / Community
                                Director                      Enhancement Division
  HOME Administrator            Jennifer Villasenor,          Community Development
                                Community Development         Department / Community
                                Director                      Enhancement Division
                                 Table 1 – Responsible Agencies
Narrative
The Community Enhancement Division of the City of Huntington Beach serves as the lead
agency responsible for overseeing the development of the FY 2024/25 Action Plan. This
division plays a crucial role in coordinating the allocation of funding, monitoring community‐
based organizations, administering the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) and
HOME programs, and managing other housing and community development initiatives.


Annual Action Plan Public Contact Information

Gregory Hoang
Senior Housing Analyst
City of Huntington Beach
Community Enhancement Division
2000 Main Street, 5th Floor
Huntington Beach, CA 92648
Phone: (714) 563‐5473
Email: gregory.hoang@surfcity‐hb.org




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          9
AP‐10 Consultation ‐ 91.100, 91.200(b), 91.215(l)

Provide a concise summary of the jurisdiction’s activities to enhance coordination between
public and assisted housing providers and private and governmental health, mental health
and service agencies (91.215(I)).

The City of Huntington Beach developed its five‐year (2020/21 – 2024/25) Consolidated Plan
through a collaborative process that involved consultation with various stakeholders. These
stakeholders included the Orange County Housing Authority, City departments, health and
social service providers, and neighboring local governments. As part of this process, the City
sought input from housing, homeless, and social service providers that are active within
Huntington Beach.

To gather input from these service providers, the City distributed a brief survey to solicit their
perspectives on the services they offer, priority needs within the community, and any gaps in
services that exist. This survey served as a valuable tool for capturing the insights and
expertise of organizations working directly with residents in need of housing assistance,
homeless services, and social support.

By engaging with a diverse range of stakeholders and seeking input through surveys and
consultations, the City ensured that its Consolidated Plan was informed by the experiences
and perspectives of those directly involved in addressing housing and social service needs in
Huntington Beach. This collaborative approach helps to ensure that the Consolidated Plan
accurately reflects the community's priorities and guides the allocation of resources to
address key challenges effectively.

Describe coordination with the Continuum of Care and efforts to address the needs of
homeless persons (particularly chronically homeless individuals and families, families with
children, veterans, and unaccompanied youth) and persons at risk of homelessness

The City of Huntington Beach actively participates in the Orange County Continuum of Care
(CoC), which is led and coordinated by the Orange County Health Care Agency. This
partnership between public and nonprofit entities aims to ensure comprehensive and regional
coordination of efforts and resources to address homelessness and support individuals at risk
of homelessness throughout Orange County.

As part of the CoC, the City's Homeless Outreach Case Manager collaborates with other
stakeholders to promote community‐wide commitment to the goal of ending homelessness.


                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                            10
The CoC serves as a regional convener of year‐round planning processes and facilitates the
involvement of public and private agencies within the regional homeless system of care.

The Orange County Continuum of Care system is structured to achieve several key objectives:

   1. Promote Community‐wide Commitment: The CoC fosters a shared commitment
      among stakeholders to end homelessness through regional coordination and
      collaboration.

   2. Advocate for Funding and Resources: It advocates for funding and resources to
      support efforts aimed at quickly rehousing individuals experiencing homelessness
      while minimizing trauma and dislocation.

   3. Promote Access to Mainstream Programs: The CoC works to ensure that homeless
      individuals and families have access to and effectively utilize mainstream programs and
      services.

   4. Implement Best Practices: It promotes the implementation of best practices and
      evidence‐based approaches to homeless programming and services to ensure
      effectiveness and efficiency.

By actively participating in the Orange County Continuum of Care, the City of Huntington
Beach contributes to the collective efforts aimed at addressing homelessness and improving
outcomes for individuals and families experiencing housing instability in the region.

Describe consultation with the Continuum(s) of Care that serves the jurisdiction's area in
determining how to allocate ESG funds, develop performance standards and evaluate
outcomes, and develop funding, policies and procedures for the administration of HMIS

Not applicable. The City of Huntington Beach does not receive ESG funds.

Describe Agencies, groups, organizations and others who participated in the process and
describe the jurisdictions consultations with housing, social service agencies and other
entities




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                        11
                                                                                   How was the Agency/ Group/
                                                                                 Organization consulted and what
                                                                                 are the anticipated outcomes of
      Agency/Group/            Agency/Group/   What section of the Plan was        the consultation or areas for
       Organization           Organization Type addressed by Consultation?           improved coordination?
                                               Housing Need Assessment
                                               Homeless Needs                    Citizen Participation Advisory
                                               Homelessness Strategy             Board (CPAB), Mobile Home
                                               Non‐Homeless Special Needs        Advisory Board, and Homeless
                              Other government Market Analysis                   Collaborative meetings. City will
City of Huntington Beach
                              ‐ Local          Economic Development              continue maintaining its strong
                                               Non‐Housing Community             relationships with service
                                               Development Strategy              providers and local jurisdictions to
                                               Anti‐Poverty Strategy             implement the 5‐year strategy.
                                               Lead‐based Paint Strategy
                                               Housing Need Assessment
                                                                                 Public hearings. City Council
                                               Non‐Homeless Special Needs
                                                                                 members reflect the needs of
                                               Market Analysis
Huntington Beach City                                                            their constituents in the
                              Civic Leaders    Economic Development
Council                                                                          community, which are
                                               Non‐Housing Community
                                                                                 incorporated into the needs and
                                               Development Strategy
                                                                                 priorities identified in the Plan.
                                               Anti‐Poverty Strategy
                                               Housing Need Assessment
                              PHA
                                               Public Housing Needs              Invitation to participate in the
Orange County Housing         Housing
                                               Homelessness Strategy             survey, public input meeting, and
Authority                     Other government
                                               Non‐Homeless Special Needs        comment on the draft plan
                              – County
                                               Anti‐Poverty Strategy
                                                                                 Invitation to participate in the
AIDS Services Foundation
                              Services ‐ Health   Non‐Homeless Special Needs     survey, public input meeting, and
of Orange County
                                                                                 comment on the draft plan
                                                  Housing Needs Assessment
                                                                                 Invitation to participate in the
Alzheimer's Family Services                       Public Housing Needs
                              Services ‐ Health                                  survey, public input meeting, and
Center                                            Homelessness Strategy
                                                                                 comment on the draft plan
                                                  Anti‐Poverty Strategy
                                                  Homeless Needs ‐ Chronically   Invitation to participate in the
                                                  homeless                       survey, public input meeting, and
                                                  Homeless Needs ‐ Families      comment on the draft plan
                                                  with children
Beach Cities Interfaith       Services ‐
                                                  Homelessness Needs ‐
Services (BCIS)               Homeless
                                                  Veterans
                                                  Homelessness Needs ‐
                                                  Unaccompanied youth
                                                  Homelessness Strategy




                                Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                             12
                                                                                    How was the Agency/ Group/
                                                                                  Organization consulted and what
                                                                                  are the anticipated outcomes of
      Agency/Group/          Agency/Group/        What section of the Plan was      the consultation or areas for
       Organization         Organization Type     addressed by Consultation?           improved coordination?
                                                  Housing Need Assessment        Invitation to participate in the
                            Services ‐                                           survey, public input meeting, and
Build Futures                                     Non‐Homeless Special
                            Homeless                                             comment on the draft plan
                                                  Needs
                                                  Housing Need Assessment
                                                  Homelessness Strategy          Invitation to participate in the
                            Services –
Children's Bureau                                 Non‐Homeless Special Needs     survey, public input meeting, and
                            Children
                                                  Market Analysis                comment on the draft plan
                                                  Economic Development
                                                  Housing Need Assessment
                                                  Homelessness Strategy          Invitation to participate in the
                            Services ‐
Colette's Children's Home                         Non‐Homeless Special Needs     survey, public input meeting, and
                            Homeless
                                                  Market Analysis                comment on the draft plan
                                                  Economic Development
                                                  Housing Need Assessment
                                                  Homelessness Strategy          Invitation to participate in the
                            Services ‐ Elderly
Community SeniorServ                              Non‐Homeless Special Needs     survey, public input meeting, and
                            Persons
                                                  Market Analysis                comment on the draft plan
                                                  Economic Development
                                                  Housing Need Assessment
                                                                                 Invitation to participate in the
                            Services ‐            Homelessness Strategy
CrossPoint Church                                                                survey, public input meeting, and
                            Homeless              Market Analysis
                                                                                 comment on the draft plan
                                                  Economic Development
                                                  Housing Need Assessment
                                                                                 Invitation to participate in the
CSP, Huntington Beach       Services ‐            Homelessness Strategy
                                                                                 survey, public input meeting, and
Youth Shelter               Homeless              Market Analysis
                                                                                 comment on the draft plan
                                                  Economic Development
                                                  Housing Need Assessment
                                                                                 Invitation to participate in the
                            Services ‐ Persons    Non‐Homeless Special Needs
Dayle McIntosh Center                                                            survey, public input meeting, and
                            with Disabilities     Market Analysis
                                                                                 comment on the draft plan
                                                  Economic Development
                                                  Housing Need Assessment
                                                                                 Invitation to participate in the
                                                  Homelessness Strategy
Family Literacy Program     Services ‐ Literacy                                  survey, public input meeting, and
                                                  Market Analysis
                                                                                 comment on the draft plan
                                                  Economic Development
                                                  Housing Need Assessment
                                                                                 Invitation to participate in the
                                                  Non‐Homeless Special Needs
Huntington Beach Hospital   Services ‐ Health                                    survey, public input meeting, and
                                                  Market Analysis
                                                                                 comment on the draft plan
                                                  Economic Development
Huntington Beach Police     Services ‐            Homeless Needs                 Homeless Collaborative Meeting.
Department                  Homeless              Homelessness Strategy          CPAB meeting.



                              Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                              13
                                                                                          How was the Agency/ Group/
                                                                                        Organization consulted and what
                                                                                        are the anticipated outcomes of
      Agency/Group/             Agency/Group/         What section of the Plan was        the consultation or areas for
       Organization            Organization Type       addressed by Consultation?           improved coordination?
                                                      Housing Need Assessment
                                                                                        Invitation to participate in the
Huntington Beach Senior        Services ‐ Elderly     Non‐Homeless Special Needs
                                                                                        survey, public input meeting, and
Services/Senior Outreach       Persons                Market Analysis
                                                                                        comment on the draft plan
                                                      Economic Development
                                                      Homeless Needs ‐ Chronically
                                                      homeless                          Invitation to participate in the
                               Services ‐
Project Self‐Sufficiency                              Homelessness Needs ‐              survey, public input meeting, and
                               Homeless
                                                      Veterans                          comment on the draft plan
                                                      Homelessness Strategy
                                                      Housing Need Assessment
                                                                                        Invitation to participate in the
Regional Center of Orange                             Non‐Homeless Special Needs
                               Services ‐ Health                                        survey, public input meeting, and
County                                                Market Analysis
                                                                                        comment on the draft plan
                                                      Economic Development
                                                                                        Invitation to participate in the
Society of St. Vincent de      Services ‐             Homeless Needs
                                                                                        survey, public input meeting, and
Paul                           Homeless               Homelessness Strategy
                                                                                        comment on the draft plan
                                                                                        Invitation to participate in the
St. Vincent de Paul Society,   Services ‐             Homeless Needs
                                                                                        survey, public input meeting, and
St. Mary by the Sea            Homeless               Homelessness Strategy
                                                                                        comment on the draft plan
                                                      Housing Need Assessment
                                                      Non‐Homeless Special
                                                      Needs                             The U.S. Department of Housing
U.S. Department of
                               Government –           Market Analysis                   and Urban Development has been
Housing and Urban
                               Federal                Economic Development              consulted regarding the COVID‐19
Development
                                                      Non‐Housing Community             pandemic.
                                                      Development Strategy
                                                      Anti‐Poverty Strategy
                               Table 2 – Agencies, groups, organizations who participated


      Identify any Agency Types not consulted and provide rationale for not consulting

      The City of Huntington Beach diligently engaged in the development of its Consolidated Plan
      by consulting with a broad spectrum of stakeholders. These consultations included housing,
      social, and health service providers, as well as local agencies and governments, and the
      Orange County Housing Authority. By actively seeking input from these various entities, the
      City ensured that a comprehensive range of perspectives and expertise were considered in
      the planning process. The City is unaware of any Agency Types relevant to the Consolidated
      Plan that were not consulted.


                                  Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                                 14
Other local/regional/state/federal planning efforts considered when preparing the Plan
                                                                             How do the goals of your
                                                                            Strategic Plan overlap with
         Name of Plan                    Lead Organization                    the goals of each plan?
 Continuum of Care                 OC Partnership, 2‐1‐1 Orange           For the past several years,
                                   County and the OC Community            leadership and coordination of
                                   Services.                              Orange County’s Continuum of
                                                                          Care planning process has
                                                                          been the shared responsibility
                                                                          of OC Partnership, 2‐1‐1 Orange
                                                                          County and the OC Community
                                                                          Services. These organizations
                                                                          use housing and demographic
                                                                          data obtained through HMIS
                                                                          and Homeless Counts to
                                                                          determine needs and to
                                                                          pinpoint gaps in housing and
                                                                          services. This in turn helps to
                                                                          pool and coordinate resources
                                                                          with the County and cities to
                                                                          develop coordinated homeless
                                                                          access and assessment
                                                                          centers. Huntington Beach
                                                                          participates in building the
                                                                          regional continuum of care to
                                                                          address the homeless and
                                                                          persons at‐risk of
                                                                          homelessness.
 Huntington Beach 2013‐2021        City of Huntington Beach               Key housing policies and
 Housing Element                   Planning Division                      programs from the Housing
                                                                          Element have been reflected
                                                                          within the Consolidated Plan.
 Draft Huntington Beach 2021‐      City of Huntington Beach               Key housing policies and
 2029 Housing Element              Planning Division                      programs from the Housing
                                                                          Element have been reflected
                                                                          within the Consolidated Plan.
                        Table 3 – Other local / regional / federal planning efforts




                          Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                                       15
AP‐12 Participation ‐ 91.105, 91.200(c)

Summary of citizen participation process/Efforts made to broaden citizen participation

The Citizen Participation Plan established by the City of Huntington Beach demonstrates a
commitment to inclusive and transparent governance in its federal HOME and CDBG
programs. By encouraging and facilitating citizen participation in the planning, development,
and implementation of the Consolidated Plan and Action Plan, the City ensures that
community voices are heard and considered in decision‐making processes.

The City's practice of holding advertised public hearings and publishing Notices of Public
Hearing at least 15 days prior to the hearing provides residents with ample opportunity to
engage and provide input on community needs. Additionally, making public notices, staff
reports, and Action Plans accessible on the City's website enhances transparency and enables
residents to review relevant information at their convenience.

Housing and Community Development Needs Survey
In order to evaluate public opinion of specific housing and community development needs for
the 2020/21 – 2024/25 Consolidated Plan, the City utilized a Housing and Community
Development Needs Survey (in English and Spanish) in which the respondent was asked to
rank the level of need for a particular service, capital improvement, and public benefit. A total
of 417 responses were received and helped shape the outcome of the Plan’s Five‐Year Goals
and Objectives.

Community Meetings
For development of the Consolidated Plan, the Citizen Participation Advisory Board (CPAB)
conducted a series of public hearings on community needs on October 3, 2019, November 7,
2019, December 5, 2019, and February 20, 2020 at Huntington Beach City Hall and at the Oak
View Branch Library. The comments received are summarized in the Consolidated Plan
Appendix.

Public Comment and Final Adoption
A draft FY 2020/21 – 2024/25 Consolidated Plan (inclusive of the FY 2020/21 Annual Action Plan)
was made available for public comment for a 30‐day period beginning on June 5, 2020 and
concluding on July 6, 2020. A public hearing was held on July 6, 2020 providing residents and
interested parties a final opportunity to comment on the Plans prior to adoption and submittal
to HUD.


                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                           16
FY 2024/25 Annual Action Plan Citizen Participation
The City of Huntington Beach has a Citizen Participation Plan to guide the City's CDBG citizen
participation process. All of Huntington Beach’s citizens are encouraged to participate in the
planning, development, and implementation of the Annual Action Plan. Organizations
receiving direct CDBG funding are in regular contact with City staff. Other organizations are
consulted as needed or have been present at various public hearings held by the City. At least
two public hearings are held each year by the City to discuss issues related to the Consolidated
Plan, as well as the Annual Action Plan. The two hearings take place during the development
of the Annual Action Plan and focus on the needs of the community and a review/summary of
performance measures, and provide citizens with an opportunity to comment on the draft
Annual Action Plan. In all cases, a Notice of Public Hearing is published at least 15 days prior
to the hearing to provide residents with adequate notice.

A draft 2024/25 Action Plan was available for public comment for a minimum 30‐day period
(April 5 – May 7, 2024). The CPAB and City Council held public meetings or hearings on January
18, 2024, February 1, 2024, February 22, 2024, March 19, 2024 and May 7, 2024, providing
residents and interested parties a final opportunity to comment on the Annual Action Plan
prior to adoption and submittal to HUD.




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          17
    Citizen
 Participation                                                           Summary of
  Outreach                         Summary of         Summary of       Comments not
   Mode of          Target of      Response/           Comments           Accepted        URL (If
  Outreach          Outreach       Attendance           Received        and Reasons     applicable)
Newspaper Ad     Non‐targeted/     A newspaper       No comments       No comments    N/A
                 broad             advertisement     were received     received.
                 community         was published     as a result of
                                   on January 4,     publishing the
                                   2024 inviting     public notice.
                                   citizens to
                                   attend the
                                   Needs and
                                   Priorities
                                   public hearing
                                   on January 18,
                                   2024
Public Hearing   Minorities        The Citizen       See               No comments    N/A
                                   Participation     Huntington        received.
                 Non‐English       Advisory Board    Beach Citizen
                 Speaking ‐        (CPAB), a         Participation
                 Spanish           group of          Comments in
                                   appointed         Appendix I.
                 Persons with      Huntington
                 disabilities      Beach citizens,
                                   held a public
                 Residents of      hearing on
                 Public and        January 18,
                 Assisted          2024 to solicit
                 Housing           input on
                                   housing and
                 Non‐targeted/     community
                 broad             development
                 community         needs.
                 Other ‐ Service
                 providers and
                 faith‐based
                 organizations
                 representing
                 seniors, youth,
                 homeless, fair
                 housing, code
                 enforcement,
                 infrastructure
                 improvements,
                 and housing.



                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                           18
    Citizen
 Participation                                                          Summary of
  Outreach                       Summary of          Summary of       Comments not
   Mode of          Target of    Response/            Comments            Accepted        URL (If
  Outreach          Outreach     Attendance            Received        and Reasons      applicable)
Public           Non‐targeted/   Agencies           See               All comments    N/A
Meetings         broad           requesting         Huntington        received were
                 community       CDBG funding       Beach Citizen     accepted.
                                 were invited to    Participation
                                 give               Comments in
                                 presentations      Appendix.
                                 and answered
                                 questions from
                                 the Citizen
                                 Participation
                                 Advisory Board
                                 (CPAB) at
                                 three public
                                 meetings on
                                 1/18/24, 2/1/24,
                                 and 2/22/24.
Public Hearing   Non‐targeted/   A joint CPAB       See               All comments    N/A
                 broad           and City           Huntington        received were
                 community       Council study      Beach Citizen     accepted.
                                 session was        Participation
                                 held on 3/19/24    Comments in
                                 to go over         Appendix.
                                 CPAB funding
                                 recommend‐
                                 ations.




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                            19
    Citizen
 Participation                                                                Summary of
  Outreach                          Summary of           Summary of         Comments not
   Mode of          Target of       Response/             Comments              Accepted        URL (If
  Outreach          Outreach        Attendance             Received          and Reasons      applicable)
Newspaper Ad     Non‐targeted/      A newspaper         See                 All comments    N/A
                 broad              advertisement       Huntington          received were
                 community          was made            Beach Citizen       accepted.
                                    soliciting          Participation
                                    public              Comments in
                                    comment on          Appendix.
                                    the draft FY
                                    2024/25 Action
                                    Plan and to
                                    notify the
                                    public of a
                                    public hearing
                                    to adopt the
                                    Plan on 5/7/24.
                                    The public
                                    notice was
                                    published on
                                    April 4, 2024.
Public Hearing   Non‐targeted/      The City            See                 All comments    N/A
                 broad              Council will        Huntington          received were
                 community          hold a public       Beach Citizen       accepted.
                                    hearing to          Participation
                                    adopt the FY        Comments in
                                    2024/25 Action      Appendix.
                                    Plan on 5/7,
                                    2024.
                                 Table 4 ‐ Citizen Participation Outreach




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                                  20
                               EXPECTED RESOURCES

AP‐15 Expected Resources – 91.220(c) (1,2)

Huntington Beach is an entitlement jurisdiction and as such, will receive approximately
$1,171,668 in CDBG entitlement funds, will have approximately $60,013 in prior year CDBG
funds carried forward, and is estimated to receive around $33,000 in program income for a
total of $1,264,681. The City does not have any income from float‐funded activities or surplus
from urban renewal settlements, sale of real property, prior period adjustments, loans
outstanding or written off, CDBG‐acquired property available for sale, or lump sum drawdown
payments. Nor is the City funding any “urgent need activities.” CDBG funds will be used for
public services, housing services in support of eligible HOME activities, a single‐family
rehabilitation program, code enforcement, infrastructure improvements, and CDBG
administration.

The City will also receive a HOME entitlement allocation of approximately $668,370. Prior year
unallocated funds of $467,361 and approximately $100,000 in program income will also be
available, for a total of $1,235,731. The City will use HOME funds for administration of the
HOME program, and three tenant‐based rental assistance programs, and will reserve at least
15% for a future affordable housing project. The City is also proposing to use prior year HOME
administrative funds for current year fair housing services.

SB‐2, also known as the Permanent Local Housing Allocation funding, was implemented in
January 2019. It imposes an additional recording fee on property sales, with the aim of
collecting revenues that are then distributed by the state to local jurisdictions. These funds
are earmarked for financing affordable housing projects. Huntington Beach is set to receive
annual revenues from this source, but it's contingent upon the certification of the 2021‐2029
Housing Element by the State of California. Once the Housing Element is certified, Huntington
Beach can continue to access these funds. This funding serves as a crucial resource that can
be utilized to complement CDBG and HOME funds, particularly in addressing issues related to
affordable housing and homelessness within the community. Leveraging these various
funding sources can significantly bolster efforts to combat housing insecurity and
homelessness in Huntington Beach.

The Huntington Beach Housing Authority also contributes approximately $220,000 annually
from the Low‐ and Moderate‐Income Housing Asset Fund (LMIHAF) for homeless services




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                         21
personnel as part of the City’s Homeless Taskforce effort.

The City will pursue competitive public and private grants for the development and
preservation of programs, housing, and services and work to support legislation that
promotes funding for future affordable housing during the Consolidated Plan period.




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan               22
                                              Expected Amount Available Year 5                Expected
                                                                                              Amount
                                                                                              Available
          Source                       Annual                   Prior Year                   Remainder
            of                       Allocation:    Program     Resources:          Total:   of ConPlan     Narrative
Program   Funds     Uses of Funds         $        Income: $        $                 $           $        Description
 CDBG     Public‐ Acquisition,       $1,171,668     $33,000      $60,013      $1,264,681        $0        Entitlement
          Federal Planning,                                                                               funds
                  Economic                                                                                allocation
                  Development,                                                                            plus
                  Housing,                                                                                estimated
                  Public                                                                                  program
                  Improvements,                                                                           income and
                  Public Services                                                                         prior‐year
                                                                                                          resources.
HOME      Public‐ Acquisition,       $668,370      $100,000     $467,361       $1,235,731       $0        Entitlement
          Federal Homebuyer                                                                               allocation
                  assistance,                                                                             plus
                  Homeowner                                                                               estimated
                  rehab,                                                                                  program
                  Multifamily                                                                             income and
                  rental new                                                                              prior‐year
                  construction,                                                                           resources.
                  Multifamily
                  rental rehab,
                  New
                  construction
                  for ownership,
                  TBRA
                                    Table 5 ‐ Expected Resources – Priority Table




                                Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                                  23
Explain how federal funds will leverage those additional resources (private, state and local
funds), including a description of how matching requirements will be satisfied

Federal funds play a crucial role in implementing the Consolidated Plan. Local, private and non‐
federal funds are usually insufficient to meet the heavy demand for housing and services in
our community. Agencies receiving CDBG and HOME funds leverage significant financial and
in‐kind support from individual community members, foundations, and private organizations
that help meet the needs identified in this plan.

Likewise, the City also leverages other resources among the formula grant programs. For
example, the HOME program is matched by a variety of sources, including private and public
investment including the use of low‐income housing tax credits. Other future sources of
matching funds include inclusionary housing in‐lieu fees; residual receipts from loans of the
former Redevelopment Agency; and a State SERAF loan repayment of former Redevelopment
Low/Mod Housing Funds.

The City has also leveraged CDBG and CDBG‐CV funds with local monies to fund the operations
of the Navigation Center, an emergency homeless shelter that was constructed to provide a
safe place for homeless persons to live during the COVID‐19 pandemic.

The City of Huntington Beach has historically utilized former redevelopment tax increment
funds and match surplus from contributions by the former Redevelopment Agency to meet
the 25% match requirement on HOME funds drawn down for affordable housing. While
redevelopment tax increment funds are no longer available for future match requirements,
the City continues to leverage the match surplus for this purpose. As of September 30, 2022,
the City's match surplus is approximately $2,741,888. This surplus provides a valuable resource
for meeting the match requirement and supporting affordable housing development
initiatives.

If appropriate, describe publicly owned land or property located within the jurisdiction
that may be used to address the needs identified in the plan

The City Council authorized acquisition of property located at 17631 Cameron Lane that was
developed as an emergency homeless shelter to help meet the needs of the homeless
population, a priority need as described in the 2020/21‐2024/25 Consolidated Plan.




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          24
                                                   ANNUAL GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
AP‐20 Annual Goals and Objectives
Sort                Goal                   Start      End                           Geographic          Needs                              Goal Outcome
Order               Name                   Year       Year        Category             Area           Addressed        Funding               Indicator
                                                                                                                                           Homeowner Units
                                                                                                                                             Rehabilitated –
                                                                                                                       $287,000        8 Household Housing Units
                                                                                                                        (CDBG)                (Homeowner
                                                                                      Citywide                                          Rehabilitation Loans and
                                                                                                                                            Grants Program)
            Sustain and Strengthen                                                                  Households with
  1                                        2024       2025     Affordable Housing   Special Code
               Neighborhoods                                                                        Housing Problems
                                                                                    Enforcement                                               Housing Code
                                                                                        Area                                            Enforcement/ Foreclosed
                                                                                                                                             Property Care –
                                                                                                                       $232,519             600 Housing Units
                                                                                                                       (CDBG)                  (Special Code
                                                                                                                                              Enforcement)
                                                                                                                                           Tenant‐Based Rental
                                                                                                                       $200,000                 Assistance
                                                                                                                        (HOME)                15 Households
                                                                                                                                         (Families Forward TBRA
                                                                                                                                                 Program)

                                                                                                                                          Tenant‐Based Rental
                                                                                                                       $200,000                Assistance
                                                                                                                        (HOME)               15 Households
                                                                                                                                          (Mercy House TBRA
        Preserve Existing and Create New                                                            Households with                             Program)
  2                                        2024       2025     Affordable Housing     Citywide
               Affordable Housing                                                                   Housing Problems
                                                                                                                                          Tenant‐Based Rental
                                                                                                                       $466,901               Assistance
                                                                                                                       (HOME)               25 Households
                                                                                                                                          (Mobile Home TBRA
                                                                                                                                               Program)

                                                                                                                                                Other
                                                                                                                       $210,078            55 Housing Units
                                                                                                                        (CDBG)           (Housing Services for
                                                                                                                                                TBRA)




                                                      Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                                 25
                                                                                                                                         Public service activities
                                                                                                                                          other than Low/Mod
                                                                                                                       $23,000         Income Housing Benefit –
                                                                                                                       (CDBG)             35 Persons Assisted
                                                                                                                                        (StandUp for Kids Street
                                                                                                                                           Outreach Program)

                                                                                                                                         Public service activities
        Support Efforts to Address                                                                                                        other than Low/Mod
3                                        2024   2025         Homeless              Citywide         Homelessness
             Homelessness                                                                                              $50,000         Income Housing Benefit –
                                                                                                                       (CDBG)             40 Persons Assisted
                                                                                                                                            (Robyne’s Nest)

                                                                                                                                         Public service activities
                                                                                                                                          other than Low/Mod
                                                                                                                       $37,500         Income Housing Benefit –
                                                                                                                       (CDBG)             150 Persons Assisted
                                                                                                                                         (Project Hope Alliance)
                                                                                                                                         Public service activities
                                                           Non‐Housing                                                                    other than Low/Mod
       Increase Access to Community                                                               Priority Community   $65,250
4                                        2024   2025        Community              Citywide                                            Income Housing Benefit –
          Services to LMI Persons                                                                       Services       (CDBG)
                                                           Development                                                                    200 Persons Assisted
                                                                                                                                           (Children’s Bureau)
                                                                                                                                             Public Facility or
                                                                                                                                        Infrastructure Activities
                                                           Non‐Housing             Low‐ and              Priority                      other than Low/Moderate
       Provide Needed Infrastructure                                                                                   $125,000
5                                        2024   2025        Community           Moderate‐Income      Infrastructure                     Income Housing Benefit
              Improvements                                                                                              (CDBG)
                                                           Development              Areas           Improvements                         2,750 Persons Assisted
                                                                                                                                            (ADA Curb Cuts in
                                                                                                                                          Maintenance Zone 2)

                                                                                                                       $66,837
                                                                                                                                               Other –
                                                                                                   Other Housing and   (HOME)
    Planning for Housing and Community                                                                                                      Not Applicable
6                                        2024   2025    Other: Administration    Not Applicable       Community
                Development                                                                                                             (HOME Administration;
                                                                                                  Development Needs    $234,334
                                                                                                                                         CDBG Administration)
                                                                                                                        (CDBG)
                                                           Table 6 – Goals Summary




                                                Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                                       26
Goal Descriptions
 1   Goal Name          Sustain and Strengthen Neighborhoods
     Goal Description   Using CDBG funds, the City will sustain and strengthen neighborhoods by
                        eliminating unsafe conditions and blight while improving the quality of life
                        of residents within the community. (Project: Homeowner Rehabilitation
                        Loans and Grants Program; Special Code Enforcement)
 2   Goal Name          Preserve Existing and Create New Affordable Housing
     Goal Description   To the extent possible, based upon the availability of funds and a project’s
                        viability, HOME funds will be used to assist affordable housing developers
                        in the acquisition, construction and/or rehabilitation of low‐income rental
                        and/or owner housing units. HOME funds will also be used to fund tenant‐
                        based rental assistance efforts. (Projects: Families Forward Tenant Based
                        Rental Assistance; Mercy House Tenant Based Rental Assistance; Mobile
                        Home Tenant‐Based Rental Assistance Program; Housing Services for
                        Tenant Based Rental Assistance Program)
 3   Goal Name          Support Efforts to Address Homelessness
     Goal Description   Using CDBG funds, the City will provide assistance to homeless service
                        providers. (Projects: StandUp for Kids Street Outreach Program; Robyne’s
                        Nest; Project Hope Alliance)
 4 Goal Name            Increase Access to Community Services to LMI Persons
   Goal Description     Using CDBG public service funds, the City will provide assistance to various
                        social service agencies for programs for youth, anti‐crime, and general
                        public services. (Projects: Children’s Bureau)
 5   Goal Name          Provide Needed Infrastructure Improvements
     Goal Description   Using CDBG funds, the City will provide financial assistance to improve
                        public infrastructure. (Projects: ADA Curb Cuts in Maintenance Zone 2)
 6 Goal Name            Planning for Housing and Community Development
   Goal Description     The City will conduct the following administration/planning activities: (1)
                        General Administration of CDBG and HOME Program, including preparation
                        of budget, applications, certifications and agreements, (2) Coordination of
                        CDBG‐funded capital improvement projects, (3) Coordination of Public
                        Service Subrecipients, (4) Coordination of HOME‐funded housing projects,
                        (5) Monitoring of CDBG and HOME projects/programs to ensure
                        compliance with federal regulations, (6) Preparation of Annual Action Plan,
                        and (7) Preparation of the CAPER. Up to 20% of the annual CDBG
                        entitlement and up to 10% of the HOME entitlement is allowed for
                        administration activities. (Projects: HOME Administration, CDBG
                        Administration)




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                               27
Estimate the number of extremely low‐income, low‐income, and moderate‐income families
to whom the jurisdiction will provide affordable housing as defined by HOME 91.215(b)

In FY 2024/25, the City of Huntington Beach will continue addressing housing affordability
challenges by providing tenant‐based rental assistance (TBRA) to various households in need.
Specifically, the City plans to allocate HOME funding for TBRA through contracts with Families
Forward and Mercy House to assist 15 homeless, senior, Veteran, and/or family households
each. Additionally, a third TBRA program will be available to senior households requiring
assistance with mobile home space rents, with the Action Plan proposing to aid 25 mobile
home residents during the fiscal year.

Furthermore, in FY 2020/21, the City allocated $2,830,698 in HOME funds to support the
Huntington Beach Senior Housing Project situated at 18431 Beach Boulevard. This project,
developed in collaboration with the local Community Housing Development Organization
(CHDO), Jamboree Housing Corporation, will feature a total of 42 one‐bedroom/one‐bath
units and one two‐bedroom/one‐bath manager's unit. Of these, nine units will be HOME‐
restricted, contributing to the City's affordable housing inventory. Upon completion, this
project will fulfill 45% of the City's five‐year goal to provide 20 new affordable housing units.

Looking ahead to FY 2024/25, Huntington Beach has earmarked the necessary 15% CHDO
allocation for the development of additional affordable housing. The specific project for this
allocation is yet to be determined.




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                           28
                                        PROJECTS
AP‐35 Projects – 91.220(d)

The City plans to undertake the following CDBG and HOME funded activities during FY 2024/25
to address its priority housing and community development needs. All proposed activities are
eligible and meet program service targets. Additionally, the City of Huntington Beach has not
exceeded any of its maximum allocations for CDBG public services, CDBG administration, or
HOME administration. With an estimated CDBG allocation of $1,171,668, the City of Huntington
Beach will allocate $175,750 for public services, representing 15% of the CDBG entitlement. This
Action Plan proposes to allocate the following to 2024/25 public services: Stand Up for Kids
Street Outreach ($23,000); Robyne’s Nest ($50,000); Project Hope Alliance ($37,500); and
Children’s Bureau ($65,250). CDBG regulations also permit a maximum allocation of 20% of the
annual entitlement, or $234,334, for CDBG administration activities. The City has allocated this
entire amount to CDBG Administration. Lastly, a maximum of 10% of the annual HOME
entitlement, $66,837, will be allocated to HOME Program Administration in FY 2024/25.

Consistent with the City’s Citizen Participation Plan for 2020/21‐2024/25, the Annual Action
Plan may contain a list of “back‐up” projects to be activated during the given program year
due to one or more of the following circumstances:
     Additional funding becomes available during the program year from the close out of
       current projects that were completed under budget.
     More program income becomes available than originally estimated and budgeted in
       the Annual Action Plan.
     If, during the development of the Annual Action Plan, the City of Huntington Beach
       has not definitively decided which public facility or infrastructure improvement
       project to fund, the City may opt to categorize each option as a “back‐up” project until
       further project and budget planning is performed. Initiation and funding of one or
       more of the “back‐up” projects would not constitute a substantial amendment as
       defined in the Citizen Participation Plan. Preferential consideration will be given to
       those projects that demonstrate the ability to spend CDBG funds in a timely manner,
       consistent with the City’s goal to meet CDBG timeliness rules, as well as those projects




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          29
       that meet the needs of the community as defined in the Consolidated Plan.

Projects
            #                            Project Name
            1       Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans and Grants Program
            2                     Special Code Enforcement
            3     Families Forward Tenant Based Rental Assistance Program
            4       Mercy House Tenant Based Rental Assistance Program
            5      Mobile Home Tenant‐Based Rental Assistance Program
           6     Housing Services for Tenant Based Rental Assistance Program
            7            Stand Up for Kids Street Outreach Program
           8                            Robyne’s Nest
           9                         Project Hope Alliance
           10          Oak View Community Center – Children’s Bureau
           11             ADA Improvements in Maintenance Zone 2
           12                        CDBG Administration
           13                   HOME Program Administration
           14                      Unallocated HOME Funds
                                  Table 8 ‐ Project Information

Describe the reasons for allocation priorities and any obstacles to addressing underserved
needs

The Housing and Homeless Needs Assessment of the Consolidated Plan discusses housing
need by income category. Income levels identified are 1) extremely low‐income; 2) very low‐
income; and 3) low‐ and moderate‐income households. Based on HUD recommendations,
general relative priorities for funding will be as follows:

The highest priority is assigned to the needs of the lowest income residents, reflecting their
greater vulnerability to displacement, homelessness, or other serious housing situations due
to limited financial resources and other challenges they may face.

The Consolidated Plan identifies several obstacles to meeting underserved needs, including
the high and sustained demand for public services and the shortage of funding available to
address the community's needs.




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                         30
    AP‐38 Project Summary
    Project Summary Information
1    Project Name                                         Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans and Grants
                                                          Program
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Sustain and Strengthen Neighborhoods
     Needs Addressed                                      Households with Housing Problems
     Funding                                              CDBG: $287,000
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.202 ‐ Housing/Rehab:
                                                          Single Unit Residential
                                                          National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(3) ‐
                                                          Low Mod Housing Benefit

                                                          The Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans and Grants
                                                          Program offers assistance to lower income
                                                          households for much needed home repairs and
                                                          improvements. Available to eligible homeowners is
                                                          a $75,000 loan to pay rehabilitation costs for a
                                                          single‐family home, townhome, or condominium.
                                                          The City charges a 3% simple interest. Repayment of
                                                          the loan is deferred until the home is sold,
                                                          transferred, or refinanced.

                                                          The City also offers a one‐time grant not to exceed
                                                          $10,000 to low‐income homeowners for deferred
                                                          maintenance and health and safety‐related
                                                          household repairs. Qualified households may
                                                          include owners of mobile homes.

                                                          The Homeowner Rehabilitation Loans and Grants
                                                          Program will also fund operation costs associated
                                                          with the implementation program.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2025
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   8 housing units
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Citywide
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                             Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                                31
2   Project Name                                      Special Code Enforcement
    Target Area                                       Low‐ and Moderate‐Income Areas
    Goals Supported                                   Sustain and Strengthen Neighborhoods
    Needs Addressed                                   Households with Housing Problems
    Funding                                           CDBG: $232,519
    Description                                       Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.202 (c) ‐ Code
                                                      Enforcement
                                                      National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208 (a)(1) ‐
                                                      Low Mod Area Benefit

                                                      Funding will be used to support two (2) full‐time
                                                      Code Enforcement Officers (CEO) for all the CDBG
                                                      Districts. As the City ages, certain areas within the
                                                      City of Huntington Beach need ongoing, proactive
                                                      property maintenance inspections by code
                                                      enforcement to maintain a safe, habitable living
                                                      environment. Thus, with continued code
                                                      enforcement efforts and education, the quality of
                                                      life and housing standards are maintained. The
                                                      Code Enforcement Program benefits the
                                                      community overall by working to upgrade the
                                                      housing stock within deteriorating/ deteriorated
                                                      areas.
    Target Date                                        6/30/2025
    Estimate the number and type of families that     600 housing units
    will benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                              Special Code Enforcement Area
    Planned Activities                                Same as description.




                            Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                              32
3   Project Name                                         Families Forward Tenant Based Rental Assistance
                                                         (TBRA) Program
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Preserve Existing and Create New Affordable
                                                         Housing
    Needs Addressed                                      Households with Housing Problems
    Funding                                              HOME: $200,000
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 92.205(a)(1) – Tenant
                                                         Based Rental Assistance
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(3) ‐
                                                         Low Mod Housing Benefit

                                                         Families Forward will continue administering a
                                                         Tenant Based Rental Assistance Program with a
                                                         goal of assisting 15 households with short and
                                                         medium‐term rental assistance as well as housing
                                                         relocation and stabilization services.
    Target Date                                          06/30/2025
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   15 households
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide.
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                            Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                              33
4   Project Name                                         Mercy House Tenant Based Rental Assistance
                                                         (TBRA) Program
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Preserve Existing and Create New Affordable
                                                         Housing
    Needs Addressed                                      Households with Housing Problems
    Funding                                              HOME: $200,000
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 92.205(a)(1) – Tenant
                                                         Based Rental Assistance
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(3) ‐
                                                         Low Mod Housing Benefit

                                                         Mercy House will continue administering a Tenant
                                                         Based Rental Assistance Program with a goal of
                                                         assisting 15 households with short and medium‐
                                                         term rental assistance as well as housing
                                                         relocation and stabilization services.
    Target Date                                          06/30/2025
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   15 households
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide.
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                            Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                               34
5   Project Name                                         Mobile Home Tenant‐Based Rental Assistance
                                                         Program
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Preserve Existing and Create New Affordable
                                                         Housing
    Needs Addressed                                      Households with Housing Problems
    Funding                                              HOME: $466,901
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 92.205(a)(1) – Tenant
                                                         Based Rental Assistance
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(3) ‐
                                                         Low Mod Housing Benefit

                                                         The City of Huntington Beach will offer a Mobile
                                                         Home Tenant‐Based Rental Assistance Program to
                                                         seniors (age 62+) with at least one year of mobile
                                                         home residency. The homeowners must also be
                                                         very low income (50% area median income) or
                                                         below and preference will be given to veterans,
                                                         extremely low income, or to seniors who are
                                                         severely cost burdened (paying over 50% of their
                                                         income on housing). The program proposes to
                                                         assist 25 households with much needed rental
                                                         assistance.
    Target Date                                          06/30/2025
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   25 households
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide.
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                            Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                              35
6   Project Name                                         Housing Services for Tenant Based Rental
                                                         Assistance (TBRA) Program
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Preserve Existing and Create New Affordable
                                                         Housing
    Needs Addressed                                      Households with Housing Problems
    Funding                                              CDBG: $210,078
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201 (k) – Housing
                                                         Services
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(3) ‐
                                                         Low Mod Housing Benefit

                                                         The City will allocate $210,078 in CDBG funds to be
                                                         used to pay costs in support of activities eligible for
                                                         funding under the HOME program. This activity will
                                                         fund services such as housing counseling in
                                                         connection with tenant‐based rental assistance,
                                                         inspections, tenant selection, and management of
                                                         the three Huntington Beach Tenant Based Rental
                                                         Assistance Programs.
    Target Date                                          06/30/2025
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   55 households
    benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                                 Citywide.
    Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                            Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                                  36
7   Project Name                                      StandUp for Kids Street Outreach Program
    Target Area                                       Citywide
    Goals Supported                                   Support Efforts to Address Homelessness
    Needs Addressed                                   Homelessness
    Funding                                           CDBG: $23,000
    Description                                       Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201 (c) ‐ Operating
                                                      Costs of Homeless/AIDS Patients Programs
                                                      National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208 (a)(2) ‐
                                                      Low/Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                      StandUp for Kids Street Outreach provides wrap‐
                                                      around support aimed at moving youth facing
                                                      homelessness into safe and stable housing. Youth
                                                      are assessed for their immediate needs and
                                                      provided with food, clothing, hygiene products,
                                                      and transitional housing as needed. Youth are then
                                                      linked with a volunteer mentor who assists the
                                                      youth to create a pathway to self‐sufficiency and to
                                                      obtain safe and stable housing. This pathway can
                                                      include assistance, job search and resume
                                                      strategies, household and budget management,
                                                      and home‐finding assistance. Mentoring normally
                                                      continues for six months, and sometimes much
                                                      longer. Huntington Beach citizens will benefit
                                                      through creating new self‐supporting, contributing
                                                      members of their communities.
    Target Date                                        6/30/2025
    Estimate the number and type of families that     35 persons (homeless)
    will benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                              Citywide
    Planned Activities                                Same as description.




                            Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                             37
8   Project Name                                      Robyne’s Nest
    Target Area                                       Citywide
    Goals Supported                                   Support Efforts to Address Homelessness
    Needs Addressed                                   Homelessness
    Funding                                           CDBG: $50,000
    Description                                       Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201 (c) ‐ Operating
                                                      Costs of Homeless/AIDS Patients Programs
                                                      National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208 (a)(2) ‐
                                                      Low/Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                      The mission of Robyne's Nest is to identify at‐risk
                                                      and homeless high school students and provide
                                                      them a path to become stable and productive
                                                      citizens. Robyne's Nest helps high school students
                                                      in the Huntington Beach area who have little to no
                                                      parental support with academic, financial, and life
                                                      skills. They assist students with security, routine,
                                                      and a place to belong. Their purpose is to enable
                                                      students to complete their high school diploma
                                                      and continue onward with college, trade school, or
                                                      military programs. Robyne's Nest provides housing
                                                      resources; basic needs such as food, clothing, and
                                                      supplies; educational assistance such as tutoring,
                                                      Chromebooks, school supplies, and fees; and
                                                      overall help with health and wellbeing in the form
                                                      of counseling, therapy, mentoring, and life skills
                                                      classes.
    Target Date                                        6/30/2025
    Estimate the number and type of families that     40 persons (homeless)
    will benefit from the proposed activities
    Location Description                              Citywide
    Planned Activities                                Same as description.




                            Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                             38
9   Project Name                                         Project Hope Alliance
    Target Area                                          Citywide
    Goals Supported                                      Support Efforts to Address Homelessness
    Needs Addressed                                      Homelessness
    Funding                                              CDBG: $37,500
    Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201 (c) ‐ Operating
                                                         Costs of Homeless/AIDS Patients Programs
                                                         National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208 (a)(2) ‐
                                                         Low/Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                         Project Hope Alliance (PHA) utilizes a unique
                                                         program methodology ‐ placing full‐time,
                                                         professional case managers directly on school
                                                         campuses for the purpose of serving the
                                                         educational and social‐emotional needs of students
                                                         experiencing homelessness. Participants are
                                                         provided customized, wraparound support from
                                                         case managers who are available for their students
                                                         24 hours a day, which allows the PHA team to
                                                         create meaningful relationships and be available to
                                                         address unexpected and emergent needs or crises.
                                                         In the longer term, PHA offers continuity by staying
                                                         with students until the age of 24 as they go on to
                                                         college or trade school, find gainful employment,
                                                         and become self‐sufficient adults residing in stable
                                                         housing. In 2022, PHA established on‐site offices at
                                                         Huntington Beach High School, Valley Vista High
                                                         School, and Huntington Beach Adult School. With
                                                         additional funds from City of Huntington Beach
                                                         CDBG, PHA have been able to expand these
                                                         services to more students, including two new high
                                                         schools in 2023. This year, PHA has hired an
                                                         additional two case managers at Ocean View High
                                                         School and Westminster High School.
    Target Date                                          6/30/2024
    Estimate the number and type of families that will   90 persons (homeless)
    benefit from the proposed activities




                            Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                               39
Location Description                             Project Hope Alliance is located in Costa Mesa, CA;
                                                 however, services will be offered at various
                                                 schools in Huntington Beach, including:
                                                 Huntington Beach High School: 1905 Main Street,
                                                 Huntington Beach, CA 92648
                                                 Valley Vista High School: 9600 Dolphin Street,
                                                 Fountain Valley, CA 92708
                                                 Huntington Beach Adult School: 17231 Gothard
                                                 Street, Huntington Beach, CA 92647
                                                 Westminster High School, 14325 Goldenwest St.,
                                                 Westminster CA 92683
                                                 Oceanview High School: 17071 Gothard Street,
                                                 Huntington Beach, CA 92647
Planned Activities                               Same as description.




                       Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                            40
10   Project Name                                         Children’s Bureau
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Increase Access to Community Services for LMI
                                                          Persons
     Needs Addressed                                      Priority Community Services
     Funding                                              CDBG: $65,250
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201(e) ‐ Public
                                                          Services/Youth Services
                                                          National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(2) ‐
                                                          Low Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                          The Oak View Family Resource Center (FRC) is
                                                          located in the Oak View enhancement area where
                                                          many of the families are linguistically isolated,
                                                          which creates a need for specialized services. The
                                                          Children's Bureau provides after school recreation
                                                          in a safe environment, promoting healthy activity,
                                                          and social interaction, as an alternative to
                                                          unsupervised, unstructured, high‐risk activity.
                                                          CDBG funds pay for staffing for the after‐school
                                                          recreation program, as well as for related costs for
                                                          supplies, equipment and services.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2025
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   200 persons (youth)
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Citywide
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                             Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                               41
11   Project Name                                         ADA Curb Cuts in Maintenance Zone 2
     Target Area                                          Low‐ and Moderate‐Income Areas
     Goals Supported                                      Provide Needed Infrastructure Improvements
     Needs Addressed                                      Priority Infrastructure Improvements
     Funding                                              CDBG: $125,000
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.201(c) ‐ Public
                                                          Facilities and Infrastructure Improvements/Other
                                                          National Objective Citation: 24 CFR 570.208(a)(2) ‐
                                                          Low Mod Limited Clientele Benefit

                                                          Residents and visitors with disabilities utilize ADA
                                                          ramps to access street intersections when traveling
                                                          on city sidewalks. CDBG funds will be used to
                                                          construct approximately new curb ramps and
                                                          modify existing outdated ramps, at various
                                                          locations in the City within Maintenance Zone 2,
                                                          which has been evaluated for specific pavement
                                                          and concrete improvements.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2025
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   2,750 persons (disabled)
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Census tracts: 099402, 099404, 099412, and
                                                          099415
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                             Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                               42
12   Project Name                                         CDBG Program Administration
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Planning for Housing and Community
                                                          Development
     Needs Addressed                                      Other Housing and Community Development
                                                          Needs
     Funding                                              CDBG: $234,334
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 570.206(a) ‐
                                                          Administration and Planning/General Program
                                                          Administration
                                                          National Objective Citation: Not Applicable

                                                          The     City    will   conduct      the   following
                                                          administration/planning activities: (1) General
                                                          Administration of CDBG Program, including
                                                          preparation of budget, applications, certifications
                                                          and agreements; (2) Coordination of CDBG‐funded
                                                          capital improvement projects; (3) Coordination of
                                                          Public Service Subrecipients, (4) Coordination of
                                                          HOME‐funded housing projects; (5) Monitoring of
                                                          CDBG projects/programs to ensure compliance
                                                          with federal regulations; (6) Preparation of the
                                                          Annual Action Plan; and (7) Preparation of the
                                                          CAPER. Up to 20% of the annual CDBG entitlement
                                                          is allowed for administration activities.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2025
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   Not applicable.
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Not applicable.
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                             Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                              43
13   Project Name                                         HOME Program Administration
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Planning for Housing and Community
                                                          Development
     Needs Addressed                                      Other Housing and Community Development
                                                          Needs
     Funding                                              HOME: $66,837
     Description                                          Eligibility Citation: 24 CFR 92.207(a) ‐ General
                                                          Management, Oversight and Coordination
                                                          National Objective Citation: Not Applicable

                                                          The City of Huntington Beach Community
                                                          Enhancement Division is responsible for
                                                          administering the HOME program. Up to 10 percent
                                                          of the HOME allocation will be used to provide for
                                                          staffing and other program administration costs
                                                          associated with the HOME program, including
                                                          planning, reporting, monitoring, and IDIS setup and
                                                          maintenance.

                                                          In addition to the 2024/25 HOME Program
                                                          Administration activities identified above, available
                                                          2019/20 HOME Administration funds in the amount
                                                          of $168,387.41 will be allocated to additional
                                                          2024/25 administrative activities including City staff
                                                          salaries, preparation of the 2025‐2029 Consolidated
                                                          Plan and related Analysis of Impediments to Fair
                                                          Housing Choice Report, and for 2024/25 fair housing
                                                          services as provided by the Fair Housing
                                                          Foundation.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2025
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   Not applicable.
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Not applicable.
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                             Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                                 44
14   Project Name                                         Unallocated HOME Funds
     Target Area                                          Citywide
     Goals Supported                                      Not Applicable
     Needs Addressed                                      Not Applicable
     Funding                                              HOME: $301,993
     Description                                          Unallocated HOME Funds available for the
                                                          development of affordable housing with a local
                                                          CHDO.
     Target Date                                          6/30/2025
     Estimate the number and type of families that will   Not applicable.
     benefit from the proposed activities
     Location Description                                 Citywide.
     Planned Activities                                   Same as description.




                             Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          45
AP‐50 Geographic Distribution – 91.220(f)

Description of the geographic areas of the entitlement (including areas of low‐income and
minority concentration) where assistance will be directed

Huntington Beach, situated in northwestern Orange County, California, is an urbanized
coastal community characterized by extensive residential development. With much of the
residentially designated land already developed, future residential growth primarily depends
on the reuse of existing parcels and infill development. The city is bordered by Seal Beach to
the northwest, Westminster to the northeast, Fountain Valley and Costa Mesa to the east,
Newport Beach to the southeast, and the Pacific Ocean to the southwest.

CDBG and HOME funds in Huntington Beach are allocated for projects and programs citywide,
with a focus on addressing the needs of the most vulnerable neighborhoods, particularly
those where 51% or more of the residents are low‐ or moderate‐income.

For Code Enforcement efforts, the city conducted a visual survey of CDBG‐eligible areas to
identify properties, businesses, parkways, alleys, and structures with violations. This survey
identified areas within the vicinity bounded by Bolsa Chica Street to the west, Bolsa Avenue
to the north, Brookhurst Street to the east, and Atlanta Avenue to the south as having
significant deterioration issues. This designated area, known as the "Special Code
Enforcement Target Area," encompasses several census tracts with a total population of
46,650 people. Of these residents, 32,395 individuals, or 69.44%, fall within the low‐ to
moderate‐income bracket.




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                         46
                   SPECIAL CODE ENFORCEMENT TARGET AREA
         TOTAL POPULATION V. LOW AND MODERATE‐INCOME POPULATION
                2011‐2015 HUD LOW MOD INCOME SUMMARY DATA
                               Effective April 1, 2019

Census Tract      Total Persons           Total LMI Persons      Percentage
0992121           1,255                   810                    64.54%
0992123           1,495                   1,030                  68.90%
0992124           1,180                   655                    55.51%
0992144           765                     425                    55.56%
0992352           715                     515                    72.03%
0992353           2,190                   1,245                  56.85%
0992422           1,930                   1,185                  61.40%
0992442           1,645                   1,145                  69.60%
0992463           815                     490                    60.12%
0993051           1,710                   1,450                  84.80%
0993053           2,020                   1,330                  65.84%
0993055           1,080                   935                    86.57%
0993056           1,025                   560                    54.63%
0993061           1,485                   760                    51.18%
0993093           1,775                   915                    51.55%
0993103           1,170                   690                    58.97%
0994021           2,755                   2,300                  83.48%
0994022           2,720                   2,235                  82.17%
0994023           575                     330                    57.39%
0994024           3,375                   3,150                  93.33%
0994053           1,755                   1,070                  60.97%
0994103           2,605                   1,935                  74.28%
0994112           2,180                   1,890                  86.70%
0994113           1,300                   855                    65.77%
0994114           880                     655                    74.43%
0994121           1,810                   980                    54.14%
0994134           1,360                   1,240                  91.18%
0996031           3,080                   1,615                  52.44%
TOTAL             46,650                  32,395                 69.44%




                   Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                47
Geographic Distribution

                              Target Area              Percentage of Funds
                 Low/Mod Income Areas                          0%
                 Special Code Enforcement Target Areas         9%
                 Citywide                                      91%
                                 Table 10 ‐ Geographic Distribution

Rationale for the priorities for allocating investments geographically

The City is committed to using CDBG funds to improve all Huntington Beach communities.
Public services will reach eligible residents citywide, providing much needed services to
Huntington Beach’s youth and homeless populations. Over 91% of the City’s federal budget
for FY 2024/25 will be allocated to projects that provide citywide benefit.

Also, alleviating blight motivates investments in the Special Code Enforcement Target Area.
The Special Code Enforcement Program aims to transform the area by identifying substandard
residential and commercial properties and seeing to it that code deficiencies are resolved.
Nine percent of the City’s federal budget for 2024/25 will be used to fund these services.




                          Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                    48
                                AFFORDABLE HOUSING

AP‐55 Affordable Housing – 91.220(g)
                One Year Goals for the Number of Households to be Supported
               Homeless                                              30
               Non‐Homeless                                          0
               Special‐Needs                                         25
               Total                                                 55
               Table 11 ‐ One Year Goals for Affordable Housing by Support Requirement

               One Year Goals for the Number of Households Supported Through
               Rental Assistance                                     55
               The Production of New Units                           0
               Rehab of Existing Units                               0
               Acquisition of Existing Units                         0
               Total                                                 55
                  Table 12 ‐ One Year Goals for Affordable Housing by Support Type



In FY 2024/25, the City of Huntington Beach plans to allocate approximately $867,000 in HOME
funds to support three tenant‐based rental assistance programs. Families Forward and Mercy
House will operate two of these programs, each aimed at assisting 15 households comprising
homeless individuals, veterans, and victims of domestic violence. The third program, managed
by GRC Associates, is specifically designed to aid senior residents of mobile home
communities facing escalating space rent costs.

Additionally, the City anticipates having an unallocated balance of approximately $301,993 in
HOME funds, which it intends to allocate towards a new Community Housing Development
Organization (CHDO) affordable housing project in the future.




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                       49
AP‐60 Public Housing – 91.220(h)

The City of Huntington Beach does not have any public housing developments. However, it
benefits from the services of the Orange County Housing Authority (OCHA), which manages
Housing Choice Vouchers (Section 8) for residential units within Huntington Beach. Currently,
627 households in Huntington Beach receive Section 8 vouchers from OCHA, including 144
families, 102 disabled individuals, and 381 elderly households.

Additionally, OCHA administers various other voucher programs, including 30 Continuum of
Care, 17 Family Self‐Sufficiency, 20 Family Unification, two Non‐Elderly Disabled, 104
Portability, 81 Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing, and 30 Emergency Housing Vouchers.
However, the waiting list for these programs is currently closed.

Actions planned during the next year to address the needs to public housing

Not applicable.

Actions to encourage public housing residents to become more involved in management and
participate in homeownership

Not applicable.

If the PHA is designated as troubled, describe the manner in which financial assistance will
be provided or other assistance

Not applicable.




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                        50
AP‐65 Homeless and Other Special Needs Activities – 91.220(i)

Throughout the country and the Los Angeles and Orange County region, homelessness has
become an increasing challenge. Factors contributing to the rise in homelessness include a
lack of housing affordable to low‐ and moderate‐income persons, increases in people living
below poverty levels, reductions in subsidies to the poor, drug/alcohol abuse, de‐
institutionalization of the mentally ill, and an increase of persons making homelessness a
lifestyle choice.

Once every two years, Orange County undertakes an effort to enumerate all of the sheltered
and unsheltered homeless people within the county in a given twenty‐four‐hour period. This
effort, known as the Homeless Point‐in‐Time (PIT) Count, is congressionally mandated for all
communities that receive U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
funding for homeless programs. HUD’s requirement includes a count of both sheltered and
unsheltered homeless people, as well as the incidence of certain subpopulation
characteristics among the homeless population. HUD requires that the PIT be conducted
during the last ten days in January; and in 2024, the County of Orange and Orange County
Continuum of Care conducted the sheltered count the night of Monday, January 22, 2024, and
the unsheltered count starting the morning of Tuesday, January 23, 2024 through Thursday,
January 25, 2024. The results of the 2024 PIT are still not available.

The February 2022 PIT count enumerated 5,718 homeless individuals in Orange County,
reflecting a decrease of almost 17% from the 2019 tally of 6,860 homeless people. In
Huntington Beach specifically, there were 330 total persons counted, with 188 unsheltered,
and 142 that were sheltered.

Describe the jurisdictions one‐year goals and actions for reducing and ending homelessness
including

Reaching out to homeless persons (especially unsheltered persons) and assessing their
individual needs

The City of Huntington Beach has implemented an ambitious strategy to address and
ultimately end homelessness. In FY 2021/22, the City took significant steps by appointing a
Deputy Director of Homelessness & Behavioral Health Services and establishing the Homeless
& Behavioral Health System of Care. This comprehensive system aims to support individuals
experiencing homelessness or at risk of homelessness through outreach, engagement, case
management, and connecting them with essential services such as shelter, housing, and


                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                       51
behavioral health support. Although the Deputy Director’s position has evolved since
February 2022, the City continues to staff and support homelessness services.

The HB Cares Volunteers program is an integral part of the Homeless & Behavioral Health
System in Huntington Beach, serving as the backbone of the initiative and driving positive
change within the community. Since its launch in 2023, the HB CARES Program has
successfully recruited and trained 18 volunteers who have undergone various training
sessions, including de‐escalation techniques, trauma‐informed care, vicarious trauma, and
Mental Health First Aid. Volunteers answer the homeless outreach line daily and return calls,
so those in need have a streamlined means of communication with our outreach team.
Further, a licensed Marriage and Family Therapist started in December 2023 and assisted with
8 Disabling Condition Assessments. The therapist will continue to support mental health
services on an as‐needed basis.

The Homeless & Behavioral Health System also incorporates homeless outreach social
workers who actively engage with unhoused and at‐risk of being unhoused individuals,
families, veterans, and seniors. Social workers offer support by linking individuals to
resources, service providers, and aiding in securing necessary documents for County of
Orange housing programs. They maintain close collaboration with local and county shelters,
including the Huntington Beach Navigation Center, while also partnering with crisis response
teams like Be Well to provide comprehensive assistance and support to those in need.
Working in collaboration with Homeless Task Force officers, they ensure that individuals
receive the necessary care and resources to address their unique situations effectively.

Be Well OC in Huntington Beach (BWOC) is another component of the Homeless & Behavioral
Health System. BWOC employs a Mobile Crisis Response Team composed of two Crisis
Interventionists who drive to locations and provide in‐community assessment and
stabilization services. The teams are well‐trained and experienced in providing appropriate
information, referrals, transportation to services, and additional follow‐up support and case
management ‐ to help address mental health related situations.

In FY 2024/25, the City's CDBG Program will also continue its support for outreach and
assessment of homeless individuals through the StandUp for Kids Street Outreach Program.
StandUp for Kids is an organization dedicated to serving homeless and at‐risk youth aged 12
to 24 in Huntington Beach. Their Street Outreach program involves volunteer staff actively
scouting the streets to identify and assist youth who are unsheltered or unstably housed. The
program also offers essential services such as food, clothing, hygiene items, and survival kits
to homeless youth. Additionally, the program offers medical assistance and compassionate

                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                         52
mentoring to help these individuals transition from life on the streets to a stable and
promising future. In FY 2024/25, StandUp for Kids aims to assist 35 youth with the allocated
CDBG funding of $23,000.

In FY 2024/25, Robyne’s Nest will continue its crucial role in supporting homeless youth in
Huntington Beach by assessing their needs and assisting them in becoming stable and
productive citizens. This program identifies homeless youth and evaluates their individual
needs, working with them to develop personalized plans for stability and success. They
provide a wide range of services to homeless youth, including academic support, financial
guidance, and life skills development. The program offers assistance with housing resources,
basic needs such as food and clothing, and educational support such as tutoring, providing
Chromebooks, school supplies, and covering fees. Additionally, Robyne’s Nest offers
comprehensive support for the health and well‐being of these youth, including counseling,
therapy, mentoring, and life skills classes. With an allocation of $50,000 in FY 2024/25,
Robyne’s Nest aims to assist 40 homeless youth.

The third program that will be funded with CDBG is the Project Hope Alliance. With an
allocation of $37,500 in FY 2024/25, this program will assess the needs of approximately 150
homeless youth on school campuses. Participants are provided customized, wraparound
support from case managers who are available for their students 24 hours a day, which allows
the PHA team to create meaningful relationships and be available to address unexpected and
emergent needs or crises. PHA will commit 4 case managers to work with students
experiencing homelessness, providing intensive, individualized, and long‐term care that
includes resources for academic guidance, social‐emotional mentorship, transportation,
technology, basic needs, and external referrals for additional needs.

Addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons

In addressing the emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons, the
City of Huntington Beach developed the Navigation Center at 17642 Beach Boulevard which
opened its doors in December 2020. The Center can shelter up to 174 adults and couples with
ties to Huntington Beach. The Center, operated by Mercy House, provides access to vital
services that will help individuals experiencing homelessness on the path towards housing
security.

In FY 2021/22, the City of Huntington Beach collaborated with various governmental and non‐
profit organizations to initiate the HB Oasis project, a significant endeavor aimed at
addressing homelessness in the region. Through partnerships with the State of California

                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                       53
Homekey Program, the County of Orange, National CORE, and American Family Housing, the
City facilitated the acquisition and rehabilitation of the former Quality Inn & Suites motel
located at 17251 Beach Boulevard, Huntington Beach.

HB Oasis currently serves as interim housing for up to 62 adult individuals and households
experiencing homelessness in Orange County's Central Service Planning Area. Beyond
providing transitional housing, HB Oasis offers comprehensive property management and
residential support services tailored to meet the diverse and complex needs of its residents.
The project is committed to delivering trauma‐informed and evidence‐based interim
operations, with a focus on empowering participants and facilitating their reintegration into
the community through robust case management and linkages to permanent housing
solutions.

The City's substantial contribution of $1,804,704 in HOME‐ARP funds will primarily support the
provision of supportive services during Year 5 of the project. In May 2024, the HB Oasis project
will transition to permanent supportive housing, including the reconstruction of the individual
units to install kitchenettes and the use of project‐based vouchers. When this occurs, the
$1,804,704 in HOME‐ARP funds will be reallocated to the Navigation Center to cover eligible
operating costs.

Helping homeless persons (especially chronically homeless individuals and families, families
with children, veterans and their families, and unaccompanied youth) make the transition to
permanent housing and independent living, including shortening the period of time that
individuals and families experience homelessness, facilitating access for homeless
individuals and families to affordable housing units, and preventing individuals and families
who were recently homeless from becoming homeless again

In an ongoing effort to continue to address the needs of the homeless and those at risk of
homelessness, the City will focus on the development of sustainable and effective
programming, including: applying for short and long‐term available funding; partnerships with
experienced service providers capable of leveraging other funding; the ability to create or
secure affordable housing; perform homeless case management; and engage the homeless
through a street outreach component in order to better connect them to available
services. The City’s goal is to expand on current homeless programs and activities to assist
with their successful transition toward self‐sufficiency.

The conversion of the former Quality Inn Hotel into transitional housing/non‐congregate
shelter known as Huntington Beach Oasis exemplifies the City's commitment to providing
wraparound supportive services aimed at assisting individuals in transitioning to permanent

                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          54
housing and achieving self‐sufficiency. Services offered at Huntington Beach Oasis address a
wide range of issues including mental and physical health, substance use, trauma,
employment, and contact with the criminal justice system.

Additionally, the City is in the planning stages of repurposing the Navigation Center property
into a permanent navigation center and affordable housing development project in FY
2024/25, potentially providing affordable housing paired with supportive services to
chronically homeless individuals. Updates on this initiative will be available on the Navigation
Center's website.

Furthermore, the City will continue its Tenant Based Rental Assistance Program in FY 2024/25,
providing rental assistance to homeless, senior, Veteran, and family households in need. This
program, administered through partnerships with organizations like Families Forward, Mercy
House, and GRC Associates, has been instrumental in preventing homelessness for hundreds
of households in Huntington Beach since its inception in 2014.

Through these concerted efforts and ongoing initiatives, the City of Huntington Beach
remains dedicated to supporting its homeless population and working towards the goal of
ending homelessness in the community.

Helping low‐income individuals and families avoid becoming homeless, especially extremely
low‐income individuals and families and those who are: being discharged from publicly
funded institutions and systems of care (such as health care facilities, mental health
facilities, foster care and other youth facilities, and corrections programs and institutions);
or, receiving assistance from public or private agencies that address housing, health, social
services, employment, education, or youth needs.

In its efforts to prevent homelessness and support at‐risk populations, Huntington Beach
actively participates in the Orange County Continuum of Care System, which offers assistance
to individuals and families who are at risk of homelessness. This collaboration enables the City
to leverage resources and access support services for those in need.

Furthermore, Huntington Beach has demonstrated a commitment to providing rental
assistance to families facing housing instability. In FY 2024/25, the City will allocate a total of
$866,901 in HOME funding to organizations such as Mercy House, Families Forward, and the
Mobile Home Tenant‐Based Rental Assistance programs. These programs target income‐
eligible households, including those experiencing homelessness, at risk of homelessness,
veterans, victims of domestic violence, and mobile homeowners. Through these efforts, a


                          Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                            55
total of 55 households are expected to receive assistance in FY 2024/25.

While the City does not receive Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) or Housing Opportunities
for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) funding, it remains proactive in addressing discharge
coordination policies. Collaborating with the Orange County Housing Authority and the
Continuum of Care Homeless Issues Task Force, the City seeks to ensure smooth transitions
for individuals leaving emergency shelters or transitional housing programs, thereby
promoting housing stability within the community.




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                    56
AP‐75 Barriers to Affordable Housing – 91.220(j) –

Huntington Beach has demonstrated a strong commitment to supporting affordable housing
through various measures, including updates to its zoning ordinance and direct financial
assistance to affordable housing projects. In late 2021, the City conducted public meetings to
revise its Affordable Housing ordinance to better align with community needs and legal
requirements. These updates aimed to provide compliance options with the law, implement
Housing Element programs, and adjust in‐lieu fees and methodology to reflect current market
conditions.

Despite funding constraints resulting from the loss of Redevelopment Housing Funds, which
previously generated approximately $3 million annually for housing activities, the City remains
dedicated to developing affordable housing. However, one of the primary challenges faced
by Huntington Beach in this regard is the scarcity of vacant land suitable for residential
development. Much of the underdeveloped residentially zoned land is owned by separate
owners, making lot consolidation and the demolition of existing structures necessary to
accommodate higher density infill development.

To address this challenge, the City has adopted alternative policy tools, such as the Amended
Downtown and Beach and Edinger Corridors Specific Plans. These plans provide opportunities
for high‐density mixed‐use and residential infill development, facilitating the creation of
affordable housing units within the community. Through continued collaboration and
innovative approaches, Huntington Beach aims to overcome barriers and enhance the
availability of affordable housing for its residents.

Actions it planned to remove or ameliorate the negative effects of public policies that serve
as barriers to affordable housing such as land use controls, tax policies affecting land, zoning
ordinances, building codes, fees and charges, growth limitations, and policies affecting the
return on residential investment

Through the administration of the CDBG and HOME programs, every effort is made to remove
barriers to affordable housing through agreements with for‐profit and nonprofit affordable
housing developers. These efforts also include working with neighborhood residents to
ensure affordable housing projects are acceptable. Ongoing monitoring of “for sale”
affordable units is conducted by department staff by assuring that the affordable housing
covenants are recorded on title when the unit is sold. To address the decline in sources of
housing funds, the City will continue to advocate for and pursue federal, state, local and
private funding sources for affordable housing.


                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          57
Also, City staff is continuing to work towards certification of its 2021‐2029 Housing Element,
one of the State‐mandated elements of the City’s General Plan which must identify how the
City will accommodate its share of the regional housing need for all economic segments of
the community, commonly referred to as RHNA (Regional Housing Needs Allocation). For the
2021‐2029 planning period, the City must provide zoning capacity for 13,368 dwelling units
across all income levels. City staff has identified ways to accommodate the RHNA including
production of accessory dwelling units, conversion of hotels/motels to lower income housing,
and implementation of Affordable Housing Overlays. The proposed Affordable Housing
Overlays will allow for multi‐family residential uses at densities ranging from 35 – 70 dwelling
units per acre by right provided that at least 20 percent of the units are affordable to lower
income households.

While still in process of development, the Draft Housing Element also addresses the City’s
provisions for affordable housing, emergency shelters, transitional housing, and supportive
housing. The following policies in the City's Draft 2021‐2029 Housing Element specifically
address the variety of regulatory and financial tools used by the City to remove barriers and
facilitate the provision of affordable housing:

Program 1B. Multi‐family Acquisition and Rehabilitation
Schedule of Action: The acquisition/rehabilitation program will continue to be a part of the
City’s affordable housing program. The City intends to direct the majority of its housing funds
towards new construction of affordable housing. The City’s goal is to assist in the
acquisition/rehabilitation of a minimum of 30 units across all income levels with a focus on
housing available at the very low‐ and low‐income levels over the planning period.

Program 1D. Preservation of Assisted Rental Housing
Schedule of Action: Begin outreach to property owners in the first year of the planning period
and continue ongoing outreach to property owners one year prior to affordability contract
expiration. Staff will also continue the ongoing identification of qualified entities to acquire
and manage preserved affordable units. And finally, staff will utilize funding sources such as
HOME, Section 8, Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA), Housing Trust Fund, available
federal, state, and local financing subsidy programs to preserve assisted rental housing.

Program 1E. Housing Authority Rental Assistance
Schedule of Action: Seek to provide additional rental assistance for residents from the Orange
County Housing Authority (OCHA), and coordinate with OCHA to identify additional
apartment projects for participation in the Section 8 program. Continue to participate in

                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          58
meetings of the Cities Advisory to OCHA to maintain ongoing communication about the
Section 8 program and other affordable housing activities.

Program 1F. Tenant‐Based Rental Assistance
Schedule of Action: Continue the TBRA program with qualified service providers and assist
200 households during the eight‐year planning period.

Program 1G. Mobile Home Park Preservation
Schedule of Action: Implement the Mobile Home Park Conversion Ordinance as a means of
preserving mobile home parks as long‐term housing in the community. For residents/tenants
interested in purchasing their park space, provide information on available State Mobilehome
Park Rehabilitation and Resident Ownership Program (MPRROP) funding and assist with the
subdivision map waiver process consistent with the Subdivision Map Act.

Program 2A. Adequate Sites
Schedule of Action: Continually monitor candidate housing sites and overall development
within the City to ensure overall development capacity is maintained via the Annual Progress
Reporting process. If the City’s remaining inventory falls below its remaining housing needs,
the City will take the appropriate actions to rezone additional sites to accommodate the
shortfall.

Program 2B. Establish Affordable Housing Overlay Zone
Schedule of Action: Implement the development standards and regulations related to the
Affordable Housing Overlay.

Program 2C. Replacement Housing
Schedule of Action: The City will adopt replacement housing requirements within two years
of Housing Element adoption to ensure the replacement of any existing units occupied by
lower income households or households subject to affordability requirements in the last five
years that are demolished to construct new housing units.

Program 2D. Actively Promote, Encourage, and Facilitate the Development of Accessory
Dwelling Units
Schedule of action: The City will support and accommodate the construction of ADU’s and will
continue outreach and website updates, and will continue ongoing analysis of additional
incentives to reflect market needs. Staff will also monitor ongoing Zoning Code updates as
changes in legislation occur.


                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                        59
Program 2E. ADU Monitoring Program
Schedule of Action: Create a monitoring program to track ADU and JADU development and
affordability levels utilizing SCAG’s HCD certified pre‐approved affordability assumptions
throughout the planning peri. Review ADU and JADU development progress annually to
ensure production estimates are achieved. If the City finds they are not meeting
proportionate ADU development, the City will determine if this creates a shortfall in remaining
capacity to meet RHNA. If this is the case, the City will take the required actions needed to
supplement the shortfall in capacity within the required 180 days.

Program 2F. Candidate Sites Identified in Previous Housing Elements
Schedule of Action: The City will identify candidate housing sites within the sites inventory
which may be subject to by right provisions if certain criteria are met and the development
provides at least 20% of the proposed units affordable to lower income households
concurrently with implementation of the overall rezoning program.

Program 3A. Affordable Housing Program and Housing Trust Fund
Schedule of Action: Continue to utilize the Affordable Housing Ordinance as a tool to integrate
affordable housing within market rate developments, or alternatively, to generate fees in
support of affordable housing in off‐site locations.

Program 3B. Affordable Housing Development Assistance
Schedule of Action: Ongoing monitoring and adjustments to fees, development standards,
incentives, and development review processes, where legally and financially feasible, to
ensure such requirements do not unduly constrain housing development. Incorporate these
revisions as part of the first Zoning Code Maintenance amendment by December 2025 and the
second Zoning Code Maintenance amendment by June 2029. Ongoing financial and technical
assistance for the development of affordable and mixed‐income housing as development
projects are submitted and prospective developers present inquiries to the City throughout
the planning period. Financial sources may include HOME, Housing Trust Fund, PLHA, former
RDA housing set‐aside funds, Tax Credits, and other outside sources.

Program 3C. Residential Development on City Owned Property
Schedule of Action: The City will evaluate the feasibility of rezoning City owned properties for
future residential development and present this information to the City Council.




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          60
AP‐85 Other Actions – 91.220(k)

Actions planned to address obstacles to meeting underserved needs

The City of Huntington Beach has identified long‐range strategies, activities, and funding
sources to implement the goals in the areas of housing and community development services
for the benefit of the residents.

      The City will continue to seek other resources and funding sources to address the
       biggest obstacle to meeting the community's underserved needs, which is the lack of
       funding and/or inadequate funding.
      The City will look for innovative and creative ways to make its delivery systems more
       comprehensive and will continue existing partnerships with both for‐profit and not‐
       for‐profit organizations.
      The City will use HOME and CDBG funds to concentrate on both affordable rental
       housing, tenant‐based rental housing, and homeowner rehabilitation programs.
      The City is currently addressing certain housing needs with federal funds, such as
       availability, condition, and fair housing practices to prevent homelessness.
      The City is also addressing community development needs with federal funds, such as
       infrastructure, improving public facilities and code enforcement.
      The City is working with surrounding jurisdictions on a regional approach to meeting
       the underserved needs.

Actions planned to foster and maintain affordable housing

The City’s Consolidated Plan has identified the preservation of existing, and the creation of
new, affordable housing as an implementing goal during the 2020/21 – 2024/25 timeframe. The
City will continue to maintain the Affordable Housing Viewer on its website to allow the public
to view where affordable housing units are located in the City.

The City will continue to offer funding to tenant based rental assistance programs in
Huntington Beach through a combination of CDBG and HOME funds. In FY 2024/25, the City
will allocate $210,078 in CDBG and nearly $866,901 in HOME funds to assist 55 households with
rental assistance. The City will offer rental assistance to both eligible Huntington Beach
renters, as well as to senior mobile home residents to help with increasing space rents in




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                         61
Huntington Beach’s mobile home park communities.

The City also awarded $2.8 million in HOME funding to the development of a new affordable
senior permanent supportive housing (PSH) project. The City partnered with a local
community housing development organization, or CHDO, Jamboree Housing Corporation to
develop 43 units of senior housing at 18431 Beach Boulevard. Of the 43 units, nine will be
HOME‐restricted. The project will be completed in FY 2024/25.

Furthermore, the City will continue its residential rehabilitation programs available to
Huntington Beach homeowners. The first program offers a one‐time grant of up to $10,000 to
eligible lower income homeowners to make emergency and health or safety‐related
household modifications. The second program offers a loan of up to $75,000 with an interest
rate of 3% for single family home and multifamily rental housing improvements. Collectively,
the City is proposing to assist eight lower‐income households with rehabilitation assistance in
FY 2024/25.

Lastly, to supplement the cost of the City’s effort to update the streamlining process of
affordable housing, the City may be awarded an SB 2 Planning Grant Program grant funds
from the California Department of Housing and Community Development once the 2021‐2029
Housing Element is certified. Huntington Beach is slated to receive approximately $550,000
per year to leverage CDBG and HOME funds in the areas of affordable housing and
homelessness.

Actions planned to reduce lead‐based paint hazards

As a means of better protecting children and families against lead poisoning, in 1999 HUD
instituted revised lead‐based paint regulations focused around the following five activities:

      Notification
      Lead Hazard Evaluation
      Lead Hazard Reduction
      Ongoing Maintenance
      Response to Children with Environmental Intervention Blood Lead Level

The City has implemented HUD Lead Based Paint Regulations (Title X), which requires
federally funded rehabilitation projects to address lead hazards. Lead‐based paint abatement
is part of the City's Residential Rehabilitation Program and the Acquisition/Rehabilitation of


                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                         62
Affordable Rental Housing Program. Units within rental housing projects selected for
rehabilitation are tested if not statutorily exempt. Elimination or encapsulation remedies are
implemented if lead is detected and is paid for by either the developer of the project, or with
CDBG or HOME funds, as appropriate.

To reduce lead‐based paint hazards in existing housing, all housing rehabilitation projects
supported with federal funds are tested for lead and asbestos. When a lead‐based paint
hazard is present, the City or the City’s sub‐grantee contracts with a lead consultant for
abatement or implementation of interim controls, based on the findings of the report.
Tenants are notified of the results of the test and the clearance report. In Section 8 programs,
staff annually inspects units on the existing program and new units as they become available.
In all cases, defective paint surfaces must be repaired. In situations where a unit is occupied
by a household with children under the age of six, corrective actions will include testing and
abatement if necessary, or abatement without testing.

Actions planned to reduce the number of poverty‐level families


The City’s major objectives in reducing poverty within Huntington Beach are to:
      Reduce the number of families on welfare;
      Reduce the number of families needing housing subsidies; and
      Increase economic opportunities for low‐ and moderate‐income persons.


The City’s anti‐poverty strategy seeks to enhance the employability of residents through the
promotion and support of programs, which provide employment training and supportive
services, while expanding employment opportunities through the implementation of three
Business Improvement Districts, and its Economic Development Strategy. The City’s Economic
Development and Housing Division strives to ensure the public is made aware of any economic
development opportunities that can be found via the City’s official website and on
www.hbbiz.com , also maintained by the City.

In terms of employment training and supportive services, the City supports literacy programs
for families (Oakview Family Literacy Program) with General Funds that help enhance the
employability of low‐income persons with deficient English speaking, reading, and writing
skills. As funding permits, the City will continue to support the following public services to
increase family stability for lower income households:



                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          63
      Counseling
      Domestic Violence Prevention Services
      Provision of food
      Substance Abuse Services
      Job Training

Lastly, the City of Huntington Beach supports a variety of economic development activities
listed in the June 2017 Economic Development Implementation Plan , including retention and
creation of the job base, and proactivity attracting new business, industries, jobs, and
investment to Huntington Beach.

The City will fully comply with Section 3 of the Housing and Community Development Act,
which helps foster local economic development and individual self‐sufficiency. This set of
regulations require that to the greatest extent feasible, the City will provide job training,
employment, and contracting opportunities for low‐ or very low‐income residents in
connection with housing and public construction projects.

Actions planned to develop institutional structure

The City of Huntington Beach’s Community Enhancement Division plays a central role in
administering HUD grants, particularly CDBG and HOME funds. They are responsible for the
overall administration of HUD grants, including preparing key documents such as the
Consolidated Plan, Analysis of Impediments to Fair Housing Choice, Annual Action Plan, and
Consolidated Annual Performance and Evaluation Report (CAPER). These documents are
essential for outlining the City's priorities, strategies, and outcomes related to housing and
community development.

While the City's existing delivery system provides important oversight and coordination, the
Community Enhancement Division also collaborates with external partners to enhance service
delivery. This includes working with the Homeless & Behavioral Health Division, Mercy House,
and development teams such as American Family Housing, National Core, and the County of
Orange to address homelessness and create affordable housing. This coordinated approach
ensures that resources are effectively leveraged and services are tailored to meet the needs
of the community.

Further, the City actively engages with a wide range of stakeholders, including non‐profit
agencies, for‐profit developers, advocacy groups, neighborhood leadership groups, and the


                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                         64
private sector, to implement its five‐year strategy outlined in the Consolidated Plan. This
collaborative effort ensures that the priorities and needs of low‐ to moderate‐income
residents are addressed comprehensively and effectively. The City utilizes various channels
such as public notices, community workshops, the City's website, and other forms of media
to disseminate information and gather input on carrying out the strategies outlined in the
Consolidated Plan.

Actions planned to enhance coordination between public and private housing and social
service agencies

In an ongoing effort to bridge the gap of various programs and activities, the City has
developed partnerships and collaborations with local service providers and City departments
that have been instrumental in meeting the needs and demands of the homeless, low‐income
individuals and families, and other special needs. The array of partners include, but are not
limited to: the Huntington Beach Police Department, Library Services, Community Services,
and Public Works Departments; Habitat for Humanity, Interval House, Mercy House, Families
Forward, Colette’s Children’s Home, AMCAL, Orange County Community Housing
Corporation, Jamboree Housing, National CORE, Community SeniorServ, AIDS Services
Foundation, Project Self Sufficiency, Alzheimer’s Family Services, StandUp for Kids, Robyne’s
Nest, Project Hope Alliance, the Fair Housing Foundation, the Orange County Housing
Authority, 2‐1‐1 Orange County, and OC Community Services (Orange County Continuum of
Care). During FY 2024/25, the City will continue to develop these partnerships.




                        Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                        65
                      PROGRAM SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

AP‐90 Program Specific Requirements – 91.220(l) (1,2,4)
The City of Huntington Beach participates in HUD's CDBG Program that is used for creating
decent affordable housing, suitable living environments, and economic opportunities. The
program year (2024/25) will begin on July 1, 2024. The FY 2024/25 CDBG allocation of and
estimated $1,171,668 will be used to implement CDBG projects and programs during the
program year.

                   Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG)
                                 Reference 24 CFR 91.220(l)(1)
Projects planned with all CDBG funds expected to be available during the year are identified
in the Projects Table. The following identifies program income that is available for use that is
included in projects to be carried out.


  1. The total amount of program income that will have been received before             $0
  the start of the next program year and that has not yet been reprogrammed
  2. The amount of proceeds from section 108 loan guarantees that will be               $0
  used during the year to address the priority needs and specific objectives
  identified in the grantee's strategic plan
  3. The amount of surplus funds from urban renewal settlements                         $0
  4. The amount of any grant funds returned to the line of credit for which the         $0
  planned use has not been included in a prior statement or plan.
  5. The amount of income from float‐funded activities                                  $0
  Total Program Income                                                                  $0

                                 Other CDBG Requirements

  1. The amount of urgent need activities                                              $0




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                          66
                      HOME Investment Partnership Program (HOME)
                              Reference 24 CFR 91.220(l)(2)

The City of Huntington Beach participates in HUD’s HOME Program that can be used to
promote affordable housing in the City through activities such as rental housing development
and tenant‐based rental assistance. The 2024/25 Program Year will commence on July 1, 2024.
The FY 2024/25 HOME allocation is estimated to be $668,370.

1. A description of other forms of investment being used beyond those identified in Section
   92.205 is as follows:

   The City will provide grants, interest‐bearing and non‐interest‐bearing deferred payment
   loans or residual receipts loans permitted under 24 CFR 92.206 (b) (1). The City will not
   institute other forms of investment forms not described in the aforementioned section
   nor provide loan guarantees described under 24 CFR 92.206 (b) (21).

2. A description of the guidelines that will be used for resale or recapture of HOME funds
   when used for homebuyer activities as required in 92.254, is as follows:

   The City is not administering a homebuyer program with CDBG or HOME funds as part of
   its 2024/25 Annual Action Plan. The Annual Plan, therefore, does not describe resale or
   recapture guidelines as required in 92.254.

3. A description of the guidelines for resale or recapture that ensures the affordability of
   units acquired with HOME funds? See 24 CFR 92.254(a)(4) are as follows:

   The City is not administering a homebuyer program with CDBG or HOME funds as part of
   its 2024/25 Annual Action Plan. The Annual Plan, therefore, does not describe resale or
   recapture guidelines that ensure the affordability of units acquired with HOME funds as
   required in 92.254 (a)(4).

4. Plans for using HOME funds to refinance existing debt secured by multifamily housing
   that is rehabilitated with HOME funds along with a description of the refinancing
   guidelines required that will be used under 24 CFR 92.206(b), are as follows:

   The City is not proposing to use HOME funds to refinance existing debt secured by
   multifamily housing rehabilitated with HOME funds. Thus, since the City does not propose
   to undertake refinancing, the City is not required to discuss its financing guidelines
   required under 24 CFR 92.206(b).




                         Huntington Beach 2024/25 Annual Action Plan                           67
