SOURCE: https://www.afire.org/podcast/afirefuturepodcast1/
FETCHED_FROM: charset=UTF-8 https://www.afire.org/podcast/afirefuturepodcast1/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: AFIRE Podcast #22: The Future (Part 1) - AFIRE



AFIRE Podcast #22: The Future (Part 1) - AFIRE

Skip to content

AFIRE

Search for:

LinkedIn

YouTube

Podcast

Newsletter

Shop

Cart

Member Login

Primary Menu

About

Who We Are

Leadership

History

Staff

Sponsorship

Membership at AFIRE

Membership at AFIRE

Education

The Mentorship Program

Qualifications

House Rules

Members Only

Member Portal Login

Videos + Recordings

Decks + Presentations

Event Photos

Search the Archives

Resources

Recent Insights

Research Resources

Surveys and Reports

The Ethics Project

Summit Journal

About Summit Journal

Leadership + Editorial Board

Read the Latest Issue

Journal Archive

Journal Policies

Submissions and Media Kit

Events

About AFIRE Events

Up Next: Dinner at EXPO REAL

Upcoming Events

Past Events

Event Photos (Members Only)

News + Updates

Podcast

Shop

The AFIRE Guide to US Real Estate Investing

Contact

AFIRE Podcast #22: The Future (Part I)

3 November 2020
21 September 2021
AFIRE

(Featuring Clyde Holland, CEO, Chairman, Byron Carlock, Real Estate Leader, PwC US, Martin Lamb, Managing Director, Global Head, Acquisition and Sales, Credit Suisse, Christopher Merrill, Co-Founder, Chairman, CEO, Harrison Street, and Bryan Sanchez, CIO, Lionstone Investments)

After COVID-19, will we be facing the end of the world—or simply the end of the world
as we know it
?

Even as COVID-19 has heightened uncertainty in communities, economies, and international relations, it’s critical for investors to step back and look at the trends that the real estate has been following for the past several decades: urbanization of gateway cities and innovation centers; the concentration of the creative class; and the advent of the knowledge economy. Together, these three trends underscore the increasingly critical role of technology in advancing economic, business, and talent development.

COVID-19 doesn’t change these trends—it accelerates them.

In this first episode of our special, three-part podcast series focused on the future, members of AFIRE’s Future Committee—chaired by
Clyde Holland (Holland Partners Group), with Byron Carlock (PwC), Martin Lamb (Credit Suisse), Christopher Merrill (Harrison Street), and Bryan Sanchez (Lionstone Investments)
—discuss the importance of separating fear from reality when looking at and beyond our known horizons in real estate.

Listen to a continuation of the conversation here: AFIRE Podcast #24: The Future (Part II)

FEATURING

Martin Lamb
is Managing Director and global head of acquisitions and sales for
Credit Suisse
. Credit Suisse Group AG is a global wealth manager, investment bank and financial services firm founded and based in Switzerland. Headquartered in Zürich, it maintains offices in all major financial centers around the world and is one of the nine global “Bulge Bracket” banks providing services in investment banking, private banking, asset management, and shared services.

Clyde Holland
is the CEO of
Holland Partner Group
, which is active in developing, redeveloping, acquiring and managing multifamily communities in some of the Western U.S.’s most demanding markets. Recognized by the industry for excellence in urban planning and design, Clyde’s work has received numerous awards from the Urban Land Institute, the National Multi-Family Housing Council, and Multi-Family Executive. He has directed over 50,000 units of housing and $10 billion (USD) in transaction value.

Byron Carlock
leads
PwC
’s US Real Estate Practice. With 28 years of experience serving the industry, Byron brings extensive knowledge of the full real estate life cycle including matters ranging from strategic planning and property transaction advisory to capital formation, and business plan execution. In addition, Byron has expertise in governance, board matters, mergers and acquisitions and corporate conflict matters. Byron has experience advising major clients including corporate owners and users, developers, hospitality organizations, investors and REITs.

As Chief Investment Officer for
Lionstone Investments
,
Bryan Sanchez
serves as chair of the Investment committee and oversees the Acquisitions, Research and Analytics, and Investment Risk teams. Mr. Sanchez and his team use advanced analytic capabilities to pinpoint long-term demand, constrained supply, and attractive pricing. He has spent his entire career managing investments in the Real Assets space, including real estate and energy assets. Prior to joining Lionstone Investments in 2005, he worked for Verde Realty, a real estate investment firm focused on the US–Mexico border, as well as for a publicly-traded oil exploration company with operations in Latin America. Mr. Sanchez is a graduate of Georgetown University and received an MBA from Harvard Business School.

Christopher Merrill
is the Co-founder, Chairman, and CEO of
Harrison Street
, a real assets investment management firm he co-founded in 2005 that has completed approximately $35 billion in transactional volume and as of 2Q20 has over $27 billion in AUM. Prior to co-founding Harrison Street, Chris was a partner, owner and Managing Director of a large US Pension Fund Advisory firm where he developed the firm’s presence in Europe, creating the first ever real estate funds exclusively targeting the markets of Central Europe. This initial fund was one of the Top 10 performing global funds during vintage years 1996-2000 as noted by Preqin.

AFIRE
·
The Future (Part I)

SUBSCRIBE TO THE AFIRE PODCAST

Amazon Music

Apple Podcasts

Google Podcasts

Pandora

Podchaser

Spotify

Stitcher

TuneIn

INTERESTED IN COLLABORATING ON AN AFIRE PODCAST?
LET US KNOW.

DISCLAIMER

The publisher of AFIRE Podcasts is not engaged in providing tax, accounting, or legal advice through this publication. No content published in the AFIRE Podcast is to be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell any asset. Some information included in the AFIRE Podcast has been obtained from third-party sources considered to be reliable, though the publisher is not responsible for guaranteeing the accuracy of third-party information. The opinions expressed in the AFIRE Podcast are those of its respective contributors and sources and do not necessarily reflect those of the publisher.

QUESTIONS?

Benjamin van Loon
, Communications Director
bvanloon@afire.org
|
+1 202 312 1405

Subscribe to the AFIRE Newsletter

Subscribe

Close

Subscribe

*
indicates required

Email Address
*
First Name
Last Name
Company
Marketing Permissions
Please select all the ways you would like to hear from AFIRE:
Email
Direct Mail
You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. For information about our privacy practices, please visit our website.
We use Mailchimp as our marketing platform. By clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to Mailchimp for processing.
Learn more
about Mailchimp's privacy practices.

Home

About

Membership at AFIRE

Events

Summit Journal

Contact

Member Portal

LinkedIn

YouTube

Podcast

Newsletter

AFIRE

510 King Street, Suite 240,
Alexandria, VA 22314

info@afire.org
|

+1 202 312 1400

Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use

© AFIRE 2026

Tomikawa served as Managing Officer and Chief Operating Officer of the Real Estate Solution Services Division until 2015. Between 1989 and 1995 he was Vice President at Mitsui Fudosan (New York). He was one of the founding members of Mitsui Fudosan Investment Advisors established in October of 1997, President & CEO in 2015 and Chairman from 2023.

Tomikawa was an adjunct lecturer at Keio University between 1998 and 2007, a member of University of Cambridge’s Real Estate Finance Advisory Board between 2004 and 2007, and Chairman of ULI Japan between 2016 and 2018. Tomikawa received B.A. in Economics from Keio University and MBA from Harvard Business School.

×

Member Login

Enter your email address and password associated with your membership to log into
AFIRE.org
.  If you are unable to login through this popup, go to
https://members.afire.org
to reset your password. For questions,
contact us
.

Username

Password

Log In

Forgot your password?
