SOURCE: https://arapahoe.legistar.com/View.ashx?GUID=90F03AB4-4F8A-487B-894B-550DC264DD56&ID=13396322&M=F
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
METHOD: public PDF downloaded and pdftotext -layout, no login

                                    Colorado Division of Housing
                Colorado Emergency Rental Assistance Program (CERA)
                                   Case Review and Administration
                                   Request for Applications (RFA)


Request for Applications (RFA) Purpose
The State of Colorado Department of Local Affairs (DOLA)’s Division of Housing (hereafter referred to
as “DOH”) is seeking organization(s) to provide Case Review and Administration as part of the
statewide Colorado Emergency Rental Assistance program (CERA) (see Section II, Program Module for
further information).
   ● Case Review and Administration: Reviewing and approving/denying rental assistance
     applications for the CERA program, subject to final approval by DOH; working with approved
     tenants and their landlords to prevent eviction; and providing payment to third party entities on
     behalf of eligible tenants.

Please note that there is a separate Request for Applications (RFA) to provide Housing Stability
Services as part of the statewide Colorado Emergency Rental Assistance program (CERA).

Total Allocated Funds:
DOH intends to allocate funds for eviction prevention based on dollars allocated through Proposition
123 (C.R.S. 29-32-101). The allocation amount is subject to change based on the amount the Division
receives annually and determination of annual program budgets. Currently the funding amount is
estimated to be between $15M and $30M annually, depending on budgetary determinations.

RFA Questions:
For specific questions, please contact Maria Stein in DOH at maria.stein@state.co.us.

Release Date:
Tuesday, October 1, 2024




                                                    1
Informational Session: Colorado Emergency Rental Assistance (CERA) Case Review and
Administration Q & A
                        Tuesday, October 8 · 11:00am – 12:00pm
                        Time zone: America/Denver
                        Google Meet joining info
                        Video Call Link
                        Or dial: (US) +1 574-404-7446 PIN: 804 629 351#

Application Deadline: October 31, 2024.
The application must be submitted via email as a single PDF document to maria.stein@state.co.us. Any
applications received after 11:59 p.m. MST on October 31, 2024, will not be accepted.

Award and Determination Announcements:
RFA determinations will be made by December 2, 2024. Selected agencies/organizations may be
required to attend a DOH State Housing Board meeting (in person or via phone) to give a brief
description of the proposed program(s) and respond to board member questions to assist in the funding
decision.

Colorado Open Records Act:
RFA applications received by DOH are subject to the Colorado Open Records Act (CORA) and are
considered public documents.

DOH Administration of CERA:
While granting out program duties to selected agencies/organizations, DOH will remain the
administrator for CERA. As program administrator, DOH will be responsible for the following:
   ● Creating program guidelines and overall program intent
   ● Determining the program budget
   ● Running a random selection process
   ● Setting application review requirements
   ● Approving waivers
   ● Managing grants
   ● Reviewing and making final decisions for appeals
   ● Managing program software



                                                   2
  ● Managing communications and reporting



 I.   Program Background/Overview
      In November 2022, Colorado voters authorized Proposition 123, which allocated several hundred
      million dollars toward the creation and preservation of affordable housing and the prevention of
      homelessness throughout Colorado. As a part of this funding source, the Colorado Department of
      Local Affairs (DOLA), through its Division of Housing (DOH), has established the Colorado
      Emergency Rental Assistance program (CERA) to distribute the funds. Through this RFA, DOH
      is requesting applications from agencies/organizations to operationalize the Case Review and
      Administration portion of the statewide CERA program.

      CERA funds outlined in this RFA will be allocated to provide assistance to eligible tenants in
      accordance with the requirements of Proposition 123 and DOH’s CERA Program Guidelines
      (See Exhibit A, Section II - Program Eligibility), which may be revised or modified at any time.

      Program Timeframe: This award for the Colorado Emergency Rental Assistance program is
      expected to launch on February 1, 2025, and expected to end on January 31, 2026.

      For detailed information regarding applicant eligibility and eligible payments, please refer to the
      CERA Program Guidelines (See Exhibit A). Note that these guidelines are subject to change at
      the State’s discretion.

II.   Program Module
      For the purposes of this RFA, the administration of CERA will consist of Case
      Review/Administration. Proposals must include and address the following module:

         a. Case Review and Administration:
             The administering agency/organizations applying to do Case Review and Administration
             will be responsible for processing CERA applications submitted by tenants in a DOH-
             provided software portal. The scope of work for Case Review and Administration
             includes the following:
                i.   Self-assign available applicants selected through the State-determined selection
                     list, based on organizational capacity


                                                   3
                ii.   Verify tenant occupancy by matching the rental agreement, IDs, and income
                      documentation
               iii.   Verify income to meet AMI guidelines by county; analyze tax returns, paystubs,
                      W-2s, award letters, bank statements and other forms of income verification to
                      determine eligibility
               iv.    Verify that the applicants are eligible in accordance with DOH’s program
                      guidelines
                v.    Detect, review, and prevent fraudulent applications
                         1. Administering agency/organization is responsible for taking reasonable
                             steps to ensure fraudulent applications are not paid.
                         2. Administering agency/organization is responsible for conducting fraud
                             reviews for irregular applications.
                         3. Applications that are determined to have suspected irregularities are
                             flagged for DOH review.
               vi.    Assist tenants through eviction and displacement proceedings by providing
                      expedited payments, which will include hand-delivered payments to court clerks
                      throughout the state on an as-needed basis
              vii.    Issue payments to property management companies, property owners, utilities
                      providers, public trustees, or any other entity as part of the assistance payment
                      process
              viii.   Provide DOH appeal information to all denied tenants
               ix.    Ensure rental assistance is distributed equitably throughout the state
                x.    Complete monthly budget invoices, monitor completeness of all fields in the
                      application system to ensure accurate reporting, and complete budget and draw
                      requests in the application system in a timely manner
III.   Program Data Metrics
       DOH will work with awarded agencies/organizations to develop a program outcomes and
       outputs plan based on the following data metrics. Awarded agencies/organizations must describe
       how data and metrics will be collected.




                                                    4
        a. Program outputs:
              i.   Length of time for tenant to receive assistance through the program, from initial
                   inquiry/application submission to disbursement of funds (or denial of application,
                   if applicable)
             ii.   Number of overall eligible tenants served
            iii.   Number and percentage of tenants that receive assistance (compared with the
                   number and percentage denied assistance)
            iv.    Number of households served and the dollar amount of CERA assistance
                   provided
             v.    The dollar amount of CERA assistance utilized to assist tenants at the following
                   AMI percentages: 60 percent AMI, 50 percent, and 30 percent
            vi.    Breakdown of assistance by geographic location
            vii.   Breakdown of assistance by whether applicants had previously received rental
                   assistance from the State of Colorado, and duration since that prior assistance


IV.   General Requirements for All Applying Agencies/Organizations

        a. Applying agencies/organizations must meet the following criteria to be considered
           for funding:
              i.   Operate within the State of Colorado and engage in business that is not primarily
                   property management
             ii.   Have a standing DUNS (Data Universal Numbering System) number
            iii.   Have experience in administering local, state, or federal funds

        b. Organizational Capacity:
           All agencies/organizations seeking to administer the CERA program must provide and
           maintain adequate staff and all necessary workspace, equipment, supplies, and hardware
           to provide CERA services and handle expected case volume in a timely manner.

        c. Project Location:
           Agencies/organizations must be within DOH’s jurisdiction, which is the entire State of
           Colorado. Agencies/organizations should demonstrate the willingness and ability to serve
           all counties in Colorado. If unable to serve the entire state, agencies/organizations must




                                                 5
          list the counties they are able and willing to serve. Priority will be given to
          agencies/organizations willing to serve the entire state and/or who serve rural areas.

       d. Organizational Experience:
          Either through direct experience or memorandums of understanding (MOUs) with partner
          organizations, agencies/organizations should demonstrate experience, ability, and
          expertise in the following:
             i.   Experience providing emergency rental assistance to households
            ii.   Capacity and staffing to provide near-immediate assistance to households in need
           iii.   An understanding of eviction and housing-loss processes in order to navigate
                  assisting participants in these situations
           iv.    Experience analyzing all forms of income documentation to ensure
                  tenants/program participants meet AMI guidelines by county
            v.    Ability to assist participants with completing applications, technological issues,
                  language barriers or other accessibility issues
           vi.    Ability to attend DOH-sponsored meetings and trainings regarding familiarity
                  with federal and state funding requirements and procedures specific to CERA
          vii.    Financial stability and administrative capacity to manage the timely submission of
                  pay requests to DOH for eligible expenses, and timely remittance of payments to
                  all 3rd parties
          viii.   Experience in providing monthly/quarterly reports to DOH and/or other
                  government entities
           ix.    Experience working with a required data management system as a system of
                  record
V.   System of Record Requirements

       a. Reporting and Documentation:
          DOH currently utilizes the Neighborly software platform to track and review all CERA
          tenant applications, and to track and approve payments made through the CERA
          program. DOH reserves the right to procure a new software platform to collect and track
          applications at any time.




                                                 6
         b. Neighborly Grant Administration, Application Processing, and Reporting:
             Selected agencies/organizations must have the ability to collect and report information
             related to services provided in the Neighborly software system in accordance with DOH
             requirements. This may include entering tenant information, uploading documents,
             completing the review/approval process for tenant applications, documenting payments
             made to third parties on behalf of tenants, and requesting fees for provided agency
             services.

         c. Neighborly Training/Access:
             Selected agencies/organizations shall work with DOH to get set up in the Neighborly
             system, to review and approve tenant applications for assistance, and/or for grant funding
             agreement administration. As needed, selected agency/organization staff will be trained
             in Neighborly in an onboarding program provided by one or more Neighborly and DOH
             staff.

         d. Collection of Documents:
             All beneficiary documentation for this program shall be stored in the Neighborly system,
             or any other system utilized by DOH for the purpose of collection and reviewing tenant
             applications for the CERA program.

         e. Recordkeeping Requirements:
             Generally, selected agencies/organizations must maintain records and financial
             documents for five years after all award funds have been expended or returned.
VI.   Qualifications for Case Review and Administration
      Respondents must demonstrate experience or expertise in the following to be considered for
      funding:
         a. Reviewing income and other documentation to determine program participant eligibility
             for state-funded programs
         b. Maintaining appropriate confidentiality of all records
         c. Issuing payments electronically (ideally) or by check to property owners, property
             management companies, or any other entity as part of the assistance payment process to
             prevent eviction
                 i.   Ability to hand-deliver payments to court clerks throughout the state on an as-
                      needed basis


                                                   7
          d. Assisting program participants requesting reasonable accommodations with completing
              paperwork and/or applications
          e. Maintaining data quality of program participant files, and ensuring fidelity and
              compliance to grant requirements
          f. Completing monthly budget invoices and draw requests in a timely manner
          g. Providing referrals to other agencies/organizations for further assistance, such as Housing
              Counseling services
VII.   RFA Application Selection Criteria
       The following is the selection criteria to determine CERA awards to agencies/organizations. The
       agency/organization's current and historical performance administering other local, state, or
       federally-funded programs may be considered as well.

       An application submitted by agencies/organizations will be rejected if it: (1) fails to receive the
       minimum score in each individual Category A to F below or (2) fails to achieve a total score of
       at least 48 out of the 100 possible. This is intended to ensure that approved plans and budgets are
       minimally adequate in each category, and that the entire score reflects a level of competence and
       quality above the bare minimum category scores (which total to 48 points), (3) is incomplete or
       turned in after 11:59PM MST on October 31, 2024.




                                                     8
General Organizational Criteria

Scoring Criteria                                     Minimum Points   Maximum Points

Organization’s current and historical
performance administering other local, state, or           6                14
federally-funded rental assistance programs

Demonstrates experience in serving the defined
                                                           4                8
population

Demonstrates adequate staff and equipment to
                                                           4                8
handle volume

Demonstrates experience in providing
monthly/quarterly reports to DOH and/or other              4                8
government entities

Demonstrates financial stability and
administrative capacity to manage the timely
submission of pay requests to DOH for eligible             3                8
expenses, and/or timely remittance of payments
to all 3rd parties

Demonstrates experience in partnering with a
state-administered emergency rental assistance             5                10
program

Demonstrated experience of creating and
implementing a system of record; or                        4                8
demonstrates access to existing system of record




                                                 9
Rental Assistance Administration Experience

Scoring Criteria                                         Minimum Points     Maximum Points

Demonstrates understanding of eviction and
                                                               6                  12
housing loss processes

Demonstrates ability to effectively review cases
for eligibility, including analyzing all forms of              6                  12
income documentation

Demonstrates experience in detecting and
                                                               6                  12
preventing fraud

                       Total Points (both tables)              48                100



      a. Agency/Organization Interviews:
      If needed, DOH will conduct an interview with or ask for additional information from
      agencies/organizations applying for funding prior to finalizing scoring.




                                                    10
                                   Colorado Division of Housing


                     Colorado Emergency Rental Assistance (CERA) Program
                                  Case Review and Administration
                                      Request for Applications


                                Required RFA Application Contents


Please complete and submit the following as one PDF for all documents and one separate budget
template to DOH at maria.stein@state.co.us by 11:59pm MST on October 31, 2024. Any applications
received after 11:59 p.m. MST will not be accepted.

☐ Cover Page (Page 12)


☐ Narratives (Sections 1-5, pages 13-14)


☐ Services Budget (Sections 1-2, page 15)




                                                  11
 CERA Case Review and Administration Request for Applications Cover Sheet

Selected Program Module:                                        ☐ Case Review & Administration
Amount Requested for Case Review & Administration:              $
Total Amount Requested:             $                           $
Type of Agency/Organization: ☐ Non-Profit            ☐ For-Profit        ☐ Unit of Local Government

Applying Agency/Organization Information

Legal Organization Name and Address:

Name:                                                           Title:

Address:                                                        Phone #:

Fax #:                                                          Email:

Organization Contact Person:
(the person most knowledgeable and available to answer questions about the proposal)

Name:                                                           Title:

Address:                                                        Phone #:

Fax #:                                                          Email:

Agency/Organization Federal Tax ID #:                             DUNS #:
                                                                To register: www.dnb.com
Chief Elected Official, Executive Director, or President:
(the person who has signature authority for contracts)

Name:                                                           Title:

Address (if different from above):

Phone #:                                                        Fax #:

Email:


 This Area for DOH Staff Use Only
 Date Received:                                           Project #:




                                                     12
                CERA Case Review and Administration Narrative Form

Please complete the CERA Request for Applications Narrative Form, taking care to answer all of the
following questions (Sections 1-5 below), and submit as a PDF document to DOH at
maria.stein@state.co.us by 11:59pm MST on October 31, 2024.


   1. Agency Capacity, Experience and Qualifications
          a. Provide an overview of the agency/organization including mission, history, years in
              operation, and staff size.
          b. Describe the agency/organization’s experience administering federal, state, or local
              funds.
          c. Describe the agency/organization’s financial stability and administrative capacity to
              submit pay requests to DOH for eligible expenses, and/or timely remittance of payments
              to third parties.
          d. Describe agency/organization’s experience in serving individuals/households as
              described in this RFA.
          e. Describe agency/organization’s experience in preventing eviction and displacements of
              participants experiencing financial hardship. If the organizational experience is not
              substantial in this area, list how this expertise would be incorporated in the proposed
              program through external partnerships and MOUs.


   2. Program Modules
          a. Describe the agency/organization’s experience with rental assistance case review and
              administration.
          b. Describe the agency/organization’s staffing structure for implementing services,
              including staff credentials and experience.
          c. Describe services/resources to be leveraged through collaborative partnerships.
          d. Describe the systems your agency/organization has in place to ensure efficient and
              effective delivery of eviction prevention services that adhere to program and grant
              requirements. Include a description of how your organization will ensure that tenants:
                          1. Are educated about CERA
                          2. Receive assistance with applying for CERA


                                                   13
                     3. Receive outside resources/referrals or legal services if they are not eligible
                         for CERA funds


3. Inclusive Service Provision
      a. Describe how your agency/organization will provide inclusive services for people from
          diverse backgrounds, languages, ethnicities, income levels, regions and other factors that
          influence equity in services.
      b. Describe your agency/organization’s methods for providing services to households with
          limited or no access to internet service or virtual tools.


4. Service Area
      a. Describe the agency/organization's willingness and/or ability to serve tenants in all
          counties in Colorado. If unable to serve the entire state, agencies/organizations must list
          the counties they are able and willing to serve. Priority will be given to
          agencies/organizations willing to serve the entire state and/or who serve rural areas.


5. Reporting and Documentation
      a. Describe agency/organization’s experience utilizing a software system to enter and
          manage program data and documentation.
      b. Describe agency/organization’s experience with collecting and reporting on data metrics
          referenced in Section III, including program outcomes and outputs.




                                                14
CERA Case Review and Administration Request for Applications Services Budget
                                         (Sections 1-2 Below)


 1. Services Budget
       a. Fill out the provided budget template. Please include how many tenants/participants are
           anticipated to be served in the funding period.


 2. Budget Narrative (if applicable)
       b. Describe any expenses requested by the agency/organization in the “Other Costs”
           category on the budget template (if applicable).




                                                15
Exhibit A - CERA Case Review and Administration Program Guidelines


                                        Division of Housing
                      Colorado Emergency Rental Assistance (CERA)
                                Case Review and Administration
                                        Program Guidelines
    I. Definitions                                                  17
    II. Program Eligibility                                         17
      Criteria for Tenant                                           17
         Tenant Participation                                       17
         Demonstrates Risk of Homelessness or Housing Instability   17
         Tenant as Primary Resident                                 18
         No Rent Assistance in Past 24 Months                       19
      Eligible Types of Assistance                                  19
         Rental Assistance                                          19
         Late Fees                                                  21
         Other Fees                                                 21
         Duplication of Benefits is Prohibited                      22
      Documentation Requirements                                    22
         Identification                                             23
         Proof of Income                                            23
         Evidence of Rent Due                                       26
    III. Additional Guidelines                                      27
      Communications with Landlord                                  27
      Fraud Protection and Quality Assurance                        28
      Application Prioritization                                    27
      Fair Housing                                                  27
      Coordination with Other Programs                              27
    IV. Change Log                                                  27




                                                  16
I. Definitions

For purposes of these guidelines, terms are defined as follows:
1. Tenant – the individual(s) or household(s) who meet criteria set forth in these Program
   Guidelines and who have obtained rental housing or rent land on which to park their mobile
   home from a Property Owner
2. Landlord or Property Manager – the individual or entity contracted by the Property Owner to
   manage the rental housing or mobile home park, who may also be the Property Owner, and
   completes the landlord portion of the application
3. Property Owner – the individual or entity that is the fee simple or leasehold owner of rental
   housing used as the primary residence for tenants or of a mobile home park on which tenants
   may park a mobile home which is their primary residence
4. Agency – the organization providing application review and processing services on behalf of the
   Division of Housing
5. Case Review and Administration – the work of agencies to review and approve/deny rental
   assistance applications for the Colorado Emergency Rental Assistance program
6. Colorado Department of Local Affairs | Division of Housing – abbreviated as DOH
7. Colorado Emergency Rental Assistance program – abbreviated as CERA


II. Program Eligibility

Criteria for Tenant
Tenant Participation
This program is a tenant-driven program and requires tenant participation. Landlords are not
permitted to apply on behalf of a tenant. If a tenant fails to participate or becomes unresponsive
during any part of the application process, the application will be denied due to non-responsiveness.

Eligibility appeals will only be considered if coming directly from the tenant.

Demonstrates Risk of Homelessness or Housing Instability
One or more individuals within the household must demonstrate a risk of experiencing homelessness
or housing instability.

This should be demonstrated by:



                                                 17
1. Provision of one of the following:
       a. A demand for compliance (example) showing past-due rent balance
       b. An eviction notice (example), or provision of documentation showing the tenant is
           currently in process of mediation as required by HB 23-1120
2. And self-attestation on the application confirming all of the following:
       a. Tenant does not have another source of funds with which they could pay that rent
       b. Tenant has experienced a substantial life event that negatively impacted their ability to
           pay rent, which could include:
                   i. A healthcare event, including mental health
               ii. A loss or decrease in income
              iii. A death in the family
               iv. A need to leave their home due to domestic abuse
                v. A substantial, unexpected expense, such as a car repair
       c. Tenant or a member of the household have not received a rental assistance benefit
           through an emergency program that is funded in whole or in part by state or federal
           funding in the last 24 months
Tenant as Primary Resident
Tenant and/or Landlord must provide evidence that Tenant resides at the property for which they are
requesting residential rental assistance. Tenant must reside at the property at the time the rental
assistance payment is made or for 30 days after a substantially complete application is submitted.
Landlord will only be paid for rent while Tenant resides at the property and/or for the period Tenant
did reside at the property.

1. Tenant must attest that the property is their primary residence.
2. Tenant must provide the following:
       a. Executed residential lease (signed by BOTH Tenant and Landlord/Agent) that names
           Tenant as tenant of property. A residential lease is a requirement of the program. On
           occasion, if Tenant does not have a lease, other documentation may be considered
           through a waiver process submitted by the administering agency to DOH such as one of
           the following:
              i.      Other written document that names Tenant as tenant of property
             ii.      Tenant driver’s license or other government-issued ID shows address of property



                                                  18
            iii.   Income information (e.g., most recent tax return, check stubs, etc.) in Tenant’s
                   name and current address of property
            iv.    Current utility bill (dated within 30 days) or other official business mail addressed
                   to Tenant at property

DOH reserves the right to request additional documentation to fulfill any residency requirement and
ensure property ownership.


Other Rental Arrangements

Rental assistance may also be available to tenants that are renting their residence under a “Rent-to-
Own” agreement, under which the renter has the option (or obligation) to purchase the property at
the end of the lease term, provided that a member of his or her household:

1. Is not a signer or cosigner to the mortgage on the property
2. Does not hold the deed or title to the property
3. Has not exercised the option to purchase
4. Meets all other CERA eligibility requirements

DOH reserves the right to request additional documentation to ensure these requirements are met.


Relocation / Rehousing Assistance

Relocation assistance will be permitted under the Colorado Emergency Rental Assistance program
on a case by case basis. Waiver requests must be made to DOH directly.

No Rent Assistance in Past 24 Months
A household is eligible if the household has not received a rental assistance benefit through an
emergency program that is funded in whole or in part by state or federal funding in the last 24
months.

Eligible Types of Assistance
Rental Assistance
1. Past due (arrears) and current month rent. Two months of prospective rental assistance will be
   permitted.



                                                19
       a. “Current month” = If approved 16th or later of any month, the following month is
           considered the current month to allow adequate time for processing (i.e., if application is
           approved on April 16th, May rent will be considered the current month; if approved on
           April 15th, April rent will be considered the current month).
2. Must be the household's current primary residence.
3. Maximum assistance will be the lesser of:
       a. Seven months of rent and fees, not to exceed 130% of the Adjusted Fair Market Rent by
           bedroom size as described below
       b. $10,000 in assistance
4. Assistance provided for a given month will be the lesser of:
       a. The cost of the rent for one month (monthly rental agreement), 5 weeks (weekly rental
           agreement), or 30 days (daily agreement), plus eligible fees
       b. Up to 130% of the Adjusted Fair Market Rent (“FMR”) by bedroom size for the county
           in which the applicant resides, unless a waiver is provided by DOH

The rental assistance approved will be paid directly to the landlord.

1. Tenant will provide contact information for Landlord on their application, with additional
   remittance information to be provided by Landlord.
2. Agency shall verify who shall receive the funds using evidence of prior rent payments made and
   information provided by the landlord.
3. Agency shall verify property ownership by reviewing property records.
4. In roommate situations where payment is typically made to the person named in the lease,
   Landlord information must be provided for direct remittance.
5. If Landlord is unwilling to participate in the program, or such action is necessary to ensure
   housing stability, payment can be written directly to the court to satisfy an eviction requirement.
6. Tenant direct payments are not permitted unless all other options have been exhausted and a
   waiver has been approved by DOH.


Tenant with More Than One Landlord

Payments to more than one landlord are prohibited. The program shall only pay the current landlord
where ongoing housing stability will be achieved.



                                                20
 Housing Choice Voucher, Public Housing, or Project-Based Rental Assistance Programs

Public Housing Authorities (PHAs) and Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) landlords may accept
funds from CERA for rental arrearages for HUD-assisted families, provided that CERA funds are
not applied to costs that have been or will be reimbursed under any other federal assistance. An
applicant may receive CERA assistance for the tenant-owed portion of rent that is not subsidized, as
long as all other program eligibility requirements are met.

Prospective rent payments paid directly to PHAs or landlords are not allowable under the U.S.
Housing Act of 1937 because participating families are statutorily obligated to pay their share of the
rent. Public housing and HCV families experiencing a loss of income or other financial hardships
should request an interim recertification to have their rent adjusted downward as required by statute
and regulations for any family that has reduced family income.




                                                21
Late Fees
As of October 1, 2021, late fees in residential Colorado leases are limited to the greater of: (i) $50, or
(ii) up to 5% of the past due base rent payment. The late fees are eligible expenses if described in the
lease and documented on the rent ledger or statement and they abide by the maximums determined
by state law. Late fees in excess of this amount will not be permitted.

Other Fees
Utilities and home energy costs that are covered by the landlord will be treated as rent if documented
on the lease as paid with rent to the landlord and documented on the rental ledger. Other reasonable
fees that are described in the lease and are documented on the rental ledger or statement are eligible
for assistance (e.g., pet fees, parking fees, and common area fees). Utilities are not considered in the
fair market rent calculation; however, other ongoing lease fees should be included.

Attorney fees are not eligible expenses unless they are related to eviction proceedings to maintain
housing stability, they have documentation of reasonableness and allowance in the lease, and there is
proof that the legal process was allowable under state law at the time the fees were charged.
Allowable attorney/legal fees cannot exceed $450.00 except in a case where a Writ of Restitution
has been issued, in which case an additional $200.00 in fees may be permissible, bringing the total to
$650.00. A waiver may be requested to allow payment of excess fees if there is documentation of
reasonableness and the fees are associated with previous eviction proceedings to bring the tenant’s
balance current.

Up to three (3) months of month-to-month fees (not to exceed $300 per month) are allowable based
on reasonableness if covering them ensures housing stability and the fees are explicit in the
lease/lease renewal. A month-to-month lease is a contract between a landlord and a tenant that
establishes tenancy with no scheduled end date. Instead, either the landlord or the tenant may
terminate the contract at will, as long as proper notice is given. A waiver may be requested to allow
these fees in excess, with documentation of reasonableness, allowance in the lease, and proof that the
legal process was allowable under state law at the time the fees were charged.

Duplication of Benefits is Prohibited
Applicants (Landlord and/or Tenant) must disclose other local, state, and federal rental assistance received for
the property. These benefits will be taken into consideration when determining the amount that will be
provided to the applicant for rental assistance.


                                                     22
CERA Recipients (the entity(ies) which received the payments) will be required to repay funds if duplicate
benefits are received. Methods for determining duplication of benefits are described below.

To ensure compliance with federal requirements and program policies and ensure funds are available to as
many eligible applicants as possible, DOH requires duplicate, ineligible, and erroneous payments to be
returned. Funds must be returned to DOH whenever a recipient receives a notice to return funds or self-
identifies with any of the following scenarios:



Eligibility (include but are not limited to)

1. The recipient received a duplicate payment from another government or charitable organization
    for rent or utility assistance for the same months of assistance covered by CERA and has not
    repaid the other program for the duplicate assistance.
2. Landlord received an assistance payment from one source and Tenant received an assistance
    payment from another source, those payments were for the same expense and same months of
    assistance, and the assistance from the other source has not been repaid.
3. The recipient received duplicate payments from CERA for the same expense in the same months
    of assistance.
4. Tenant is no longer occupying the unit. If the tenancy ended due to Tenant being issued an
    eviction judgment or a writ of possession from the unit, all payments after Tenant leaves the
    residence are deemed ineligible and must be returned. If the tenancy ended for a reason other
    than eviction, whomever received eligible payments should apply the funds to approved
    expenses for the months.
5. Tenant did not meet established eligibility criteria.
6. Tenant misrepresented material facts in the application.


Instances of Fraud (include but are not limited to)

1. Eligibility verification was completed using misleading information and/or fictitious
    documentation.
2. The recipient was not the tenant or the tenant’s landlord or the verified property owner.

Documentation Requirements
Identification



                                                   23
Agency must confirm Tenant identity by requiring Tenant to produce at least one of the following:
1. Valid driver’s license or identification card issued from any U.S. State or Territory
2. US military or a military dependent identification card
3. US Coast Guard Merchant Mariner card
4. Native American Tribal Document
5. Document issued by any instrumentality of government (US or foreign)
6. Document issued by an educational institution (US or foreign)


NOTE: To reduce the risk of fraudulent applications, all out-of-state identification will result in a
second layer of review.

Where applicant differs from the leaseholder, the identity of the household member named on the
lease must also be documented. All household members aged 18 or older who are claiming cash
income or zero income must also upload identification documentation.

Proof of Income
To be eligible for rental assistance, each tenant household must provide documentation that the
household annualized income is at or below 60% of the AMI.

The AMI guidelines should be used to determine 60% of AMI for the particular county where the
home of the applicant is located and for the size of the applicant’s household. DOH allows the
following methods to determine whether a household income-qualifies for the benefit. Only one
method is required:
1. Submitted most recent year tax return filings for all employed household members
2. A household can be determined to be income-qualified for assistance if the applicant provides a
   written attestation that the household income is at or below 60% AMI, and the household resides
   within a Qualified Census Tract (QCT), using the HUD-identified QCT reference map.
   Colorado’s Qualified Census Tracts can be found at
   https://www.huduser.gov/portal/sadda/sadda_qct.html. A Qualified Census Tract (QCT) is any
   census tract (or equivalent geographic area defined by the Census Bureau) in which at least 50%
   of households have an income less than 60% of the Area Median Gross Income (AMGI). HUD
   has defined 60% of AMGI as 120% of HUD’s Very Low-Income Limits (VLILs), which are




                                                 24
    based on 50% of area median family income, adjusted for high cost and low-income areas
    (obtained from Data.Gov on 03/01/24, at https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/qualified-census-tracts).
3. Documentation indicating categorical eligibility:
        a. Documentation from a Public Housing Authority indicating that the household income
            was verified using third party sources to be at or below 60% AMI within the last 12
            months
        b. Or determination letter indicating eligibility made in the last 12 months for SNAP, LEAP
            or TANF when these programs serve households that are below 60% AMI for the
            household size and county where the applicant lives
4. Calculated annual household income based on the month directly prior to the date of the
    application (current income) using the HUD Part 5 methodology for Gross Income using the
    HOME Adjusted Income and Rental Assistance (instructions can be found at
    www.hudexchange.info/incomecalculator/), with the exceptions:
        a. Calculate gross income without making adjustments/deductions. (Stop at completion of
            calculation of Gross Income, rather than continuing to calculate the Adjusted Gross
            Income.)
        b. Each household member claiming cash income (e.g., odd jobs, baby-sitting, etc.) must fill
            out the tenant certification form and provide an acceptable form of identification (listed
            below). Additional information may be requested by the reviewer.
        c. Each household member aged 18 and over claiming zero income must fill out the Income
            Self-Attestation Form and provide an acceptable form of identification (listed below).
            Additional information may be requested by the reviewer.
        d. Acceptable income documentation is listed in the next section.
5. In cases of zero income, a written attestation may be accepted with documented efforts to obtain
    income documentation from all other sources above.

The methods of income verification should be attempted and documented. If none of the tax-return
documents, categorical eligibility documents, or the documents listed below (numbers 1-6), are
available and documented attempts have been made, a self attestation for proof of income should be
used only as a last resort and in situations the applicant cannot gain access to other forms of
verification.




                                                 25
Documents to verify income for all household members 18 years and older include, but are not
   limited to the following:
1. Employed Household Members: All current pay stubs, current pay summary received for the
   entire month directly prior to the date of application, and/or current year tax return / current year
   W-2 (Example: Effective January 31, 2025, the 2024 W-2 can be used to calculate monthly
   income, but not the 2023 W-2 or prior years.)
2. Other Financial Benefits: Current year social security statement, disability letter, retirement,
   pension, or annuity; letter of benefits must include benefit amount
3. Unemployed Household members: Unemployment benefits statement
4. Unemployment Insurance benefits are included in income calculations. Federal stimulus
   payments are not included as income, or as a potential duplication of benefit. Submitted 2024 tax
   return filings for all employed household members
5. Current Income Documentation: For household income determined using methods 2-4 income
   eligibility must be re-determined every 3 months.
6. Self-Employed Household Members: Income Self-Attestation for self-employment, the Year-to-
   Date Profit & Loss Statement, and the file tax return from the most recent year
7. Other Income and/or Cash Income: Child support benefits documentation, alimony
   documentation, current bank statements with transaction history that reflects income (deposits)
8. Household Members with No Income: Income Self-Attestation including certification of zero
   income

Evidence of Rent Due
The tenant must provide information to prove the amount of their rent payment. This must include
   one of the following:
1. A copy of a fully executed lease or other written agreement with Tenant named that reflects the
   rent amount, the full ledger of unpaid rent amount, and the respective due date (if available)
2. If Tenant is not named in the lease but is listed in the household and/or has a sublease agreement,
   proof of at least one payment made to Landlord (and/or Agent) or named leaseholder for the
   month immediately prior to the first month for which assistance is requested in addition to one of
   the following:
       a. Documentation of the tenancy agreement between the sublessee and sublessor – This can
            be accomplished by a copy of a fully executed sublease agreement between the sublessor



                                                 26
           and the sublessee. This must include verification of the terms and conditions of the
           sublease (rental period, payment amount, etc.).
       b. Documentation of the tenancy agreement between the sublessor and their
           landlord/property owner – This can be accomplished by a copy of the original active
           lease agreement. This must include verification of the terms and conditions of the
           sublease (rental period, payment amount, etc.) and permission to sublease.
       c. Full Ledger of unpaid rent
       d. Proof of payments from the sublessee to the sublessor prior to the request for rental
           assistance, which can be verified via one of the following:
               i. Copy of a cleared check(s)
              ii. Ledger from electronic payment (Venmo, Paypal, Zelle, CashApp, etc.) or
                  financial institution (may include hotel/motel occupancy ledger report)
              iii. Bank statements reflecting deposits
              iv. Receipt of money order/ or cashier’s check
               v. Handwritten and/or typed receipts are not allowable as the only evidence.
       e. Certification from the sublessor verifying that the assistance payment(s) will be used for
           the purposes intended
       f. Notarized proof of rights to sublease / rent out a room from the property owner or
           property manager (if it is an apartment complex) with the Property Manager / Owner’s ID
           and sublessor’s ID
       g. In roommate situations, receipt or self-attestation from the person who is named in the
           lease plus proof of deposit of that payment is also required.

DOH reserves the right to request additional documentation to fulfill these requirements.


III. Additional Guidelines

Communications with Landlord
During the review and verification process, the review agency must communicate with Landlord for
the following purposes:
1. Verify the current rent amount, past due rent unpaid, and date due
2. Verify information about household occupants, if known
3. Verify current tenancy if the lease agreement expired


                                                27
4. Verify property ownership and/or rights to manage a property
5. Verify rental payments were made prior to the month of rental assistance requested (if needed)

These communications should be documented (e.g., audit log, uploads to the CERA program system
of record, retain emails, text screenshots, written letter, and/or document conversations with
date/time and what was said by whom). The participation of Landlord in the CERA application
portal meets the criteria of this section.

Fraud Protection and Quality Assurance
To protect against potential fraud, additional documentation will be required from the tenant and/or
landlord for certain circumstances. Some of these circumstances include (but are not limited to) the
following:
1. The Property Owner is related to and/or lives in the same household as Tenant.
2. An out-of-state ID is presented.
3. A passport is presented as the primary form of identification.
4. A duplication of benefit is suspected.
5. Conflicting information is received from either Tenant and/or Landlord.

DOH may request Tenant and/or Landlord to prove that payment has been made prior to the request
for rental assistance. This may include copies of cleared checks (from bank deposits) front and back,
valid ledger/statement from electronic payment (Venmo, Paypal, Zelle, CashApp, etc.) or financial
institution, signed Property Owner tax documents showing rental income (for the most current year),
and/or receipt of money order/cashier’s check from financial institution. Handwritten and/or typed
receipts are not allowable as the only evidence.

DOH reserves the right to request additional documentation to satisfy this requirement (including but
not limited to - copies of Landlord and/or Property Owner Government-issued Photo IDs, bank
statements, tax returns, property management agreements, notarized statements allowing rights to
lease, etc.).

Application Prioritization
The CERA Program will serve households on a random-selection based system. Assignments should
be based on an agency’s designated region and the urgency/age of application* (from oldest
submitted forward). DOH and/or its contractors may assign additional applications at any time, as


                                                   28
needed, to assist with and/or prioritize for assistance. Within that tranche, Agency will prioritize the
review the applications based on the following, when this information is available:
1. Households where an imminent risk of displacement exists
2. The rest of the weekly tranche

*All applications selected should be processed within the 4-6 weeks following selection.

Fair Housing
Program assistance must be provided according to Fair Housing requirements that protect people
from discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion or creed, national origin, ancestry, age, sex,
gender, sexual orientation, gender expression, marital or familial status, military status, or physical
or mental disability.

Coordination with Other Programs
Agencies are encouraged to work with and/or refer tenants to apply for other available assistance,
including but not limited to Unemployment Insurance, housing assistance, and employment
assistance to ensure their housing stability into the future. Please note, application for and/or
approval of Unemployment Benefits (UI) is not an eligibility requirement for this program.


IV. Change Log

This document logs changes made to guidance since the start of the Colorado Emergency Rental
Assistance Program:




                                                  29
