SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/team/strategic-advisor-or-independent-director
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/team/strategic-advisor-or-independent-director
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: Team Member | Holland Partner Group



Team Member | Holland Partner Group

ABOUT US
SERVICES
LEADERSHIP
CAREERS
SUSTAINABILITY
CULTURE
PRESS
DIANA REID
BOARD MEMBER
Diana Reid has been a leader in the financial services and real estate industries for over 40 years, most recently serving as Chief Executive Officer of Freddie Mac (September 2024 to March 2025), and as independent director of Welltower, Inc. (July 2020 to December 2024).  She served as Executive of the PNC Financial Services Group’s commercial real estate business between July 2007 and April 2019, navigating the lending, loan administration, and multifamily capital businesses through the Great Financial Crisis and into significant growth and impact nationwide.   She began her career at Citicorp before joining First Boston’s (now Credit Suisse) mortgage trading department founded and led by Larry Fink. In her 19 years there, she succeeded in trading, capital markets, and advisory roles. In 2003, Ms. Reid founded Beekman Advisors, providing CEOs, owners, and directors of privately held real estate finance companies with strategic advice and sell-side representation for owners and their boards.  She negotiated new capital standards with Fanne Mae on behalf of the 25 Delegated Underwriting and Servicing multifamily finance companies. Committed to the advancement of under-represented groups in business, Ms. Reid led PNC Bank’s Board of Women’s Business Development and served as executive sponsor for the first corporate cohort of the PNC Men as Allies. Ms. Reid served on the Mortgage Banker’s Association’s Commercial / Multifamily Board of Governors for a decade and was a Founding Governor of the Commercial Real Estate Finance Council. She’s served on the Urban Land Institute’s (ULI) global board of directors, elected Trustee in 2012 and ULI Foundation Governor in 2015. She also served as Co-Chair on the Capital Markets Committee of the Real Estate Roundtable and is Chair of the ULI Urban Development Mixed Use Product Council. She is on the board of Pittsburg Opera. Ms. Reid earned a BS from California State University and an MBA from University of Virginia Darden School of Business.
LET US HELP YOU!
Holland Partner Group
is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at
[email protected]
or
[email protected]
. You may also call
(360) 694-7888
.
CONTACT US
(360) 694-7888
808 Washington St, #500
Vancouver, WA 98660
Holland Residential (California), Inc. -
California DRE License No. 01378119
SOCIAL
Holland Partner Group
| All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy
ESG Policy
Press
Transparency in Coverage
Happily Made by
Razz
