SOURCE: https://financialservices.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-114-ba04-wstate-cholland-20160322.pdf
FETCHED_FROM: https://financialservices.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-114-ba04-wstate-cholland-20160322.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 application/pdf
PROVENANCE: live

                        TESTIMONY BY
                       CLYDE HOLLAND
             CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                   HOLLAND PARTNER GROUP

                       ON BEHALF OF THE
             NATIONAL MULTIFAMILY HOUSING COUNCIL
                            AND THE
                NATIONAL APARTMENT ASSOCIATION

                          BEFORE THE
             HOUSE COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES
             HOUSING AND INSURANCE SUBCOMMITTEE

                    FOR A HEARING ENTITLED
THE FUTURE OF HOUSING IN AMERICA: GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND
                   THE HIGH COST OF HOUSING

                         MARCH 22, 2016
Chairman Luetkemeyer, Ranking Member Cleaver, esteemed members of the Subcommittee, it is
my distinct privilege to appear before you today to provide testimony on the important issues
surrounding multifamily housing. My name is Clyde Holland, I am the Chairman and CEO of
Holland Partner Group, based in Vancouver, Washington. We are a fully integrated real estate
investment firm in the Western United States with current assets under management and
development representing approximately $7.5 billion in 30,000 apartment homes. I appear
before the committee today on behalf of the National Multifamily Housing Council and the
National Apartment Association.

For more than 20 years, NMHC and NAA have partnered in a joint legislative program to provide
a single voice for America's apartment industry. Our combined memberships are engaged in all
aspects of the apartment industry, including ownership, development, management and finance.
NMHC represents the principal officers of the apartment industry’s largest and most prominent
firms. As a federation of nearly 170 state and local affiliates, NAA encompasses over 69,000
members representing more than 8.1 million apartment homes throughout the United States and
Canada.

Rental Housing – The Supply-Demand Imbalance

Housing affordability is a significant challenge facing many Americans today who are seeking to
rent an apartment. The number of families renting their homes stands at an all-time high placing
significant pressure on the apartment industry to meet the demand. This is making it challenging
for millions of families nationwide to find quality rental housing that is affordable at their income
level. For many families, the shortage of rental housing that is affordable creates significant
hurdles that make it even more difficult to pay for basic necessities like food and transportation.
Ultimately, this also impacts their future financial success.

This issue is not unique to households receiving federal subsidies and, in fact, is encroaching on
the financial wellbeing of households earning up to 120 percent of area median income. Consider
that the median asking rent for an apartment constructed in 2014 was $1,372. For a renter to
afford one of those units at the 30 percent of income standard, they would need to earn at least
$54,880 annually. As a basis of comparison, the median household income in 2014 was $53,657.
Accordingly, this is an issue impacting those supporting the very fabric of communities
nationwide, including teachers, firefighters, nurses and police officers.

According to a report by Harvard’s Joint Center for Housing Studies, in 2013 more than one in
four renter households – approximately 11.2 million – paid more than half of their income for
rental housing. Setting aside that real (inflation adjusted) incomes in the U.S. have not risen in
over three decades – clearly the key factor driving the affordability crisis – housing industry
leaders agree that promoting construction, preservation and rehabilitation are three of the vital
ways to meet the surging demand for apartment homes.



Changing Housing Dynamics

The U.S. is in the midst of a fundamental shift in our housing dynamics as changing demographics
and housing preferences drive more people toward renting as their housing of choice. Rising
demand is not just a consequence of the bursting of the housing bubble. In the five years ending
2015, the number of renter households was up by 7 million while the number of homeowner
households was up by less than 400,000. Going back 10 years, we have added 11 million new
renter households and approximately 605,000 new owner households.

Almost 75 million young adults, aged 18 – 34 are entering the housing market, primarily as
renters. Almost one-third of adults in this age group still live at home with their parents, meaning
there is a lot of potential pent-up demand remaining for rentals. The trends are dramatic given
that the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies estimates that younger Americans will create
24 million new households between 2015 and 2025.

Renting is not just for the younger generations. Baby Boomers and other empty nesters are
trading single-family houses for rental apartments. Over half (57 percent) of the net increase in
renter households from 2005 to 2015 came from householders 45 years or older.

Today, there are over 43 million renter households. The dynamics previously cited could increase
demand by as much as four million additional renter households over the next decade according
to Harvard’s Joint Center for Housing Studies. NMHC/NAA estimate that we currently need
between 300,000 and 400,000 newly constructed apartments each year to keep up with demand;
yet, an annual average of just 208,000 apartments were delivered from 2011-2015. The
completion of 310,700 units in 2015 suggests that new construction is finally approaching the
level needed to meet the continuing increase in demand. However, the headwinds described in
this document could put a damper on sustaining this trend.




Building more apartment homes will help improve the supply-demand imbalance that drives
these affordability challenges, but developers and localities must work together to remove
obstacles to development. Even if local officials and planning boards agree that new, affordable
apartments must be built, land costs, entitlement expenditures, labor expenses and property taxes
all contribute to making their construction extremely costly.
Why are Rents So High?

As the Multifamily Completions chart above demonstrates, the nation faces a significant shortage
of rental housing. Addressing this challenge will require new development and the preservation
and rehabilitation of the existing housing stock. Barriers to these activities, described below, only
serve to slow down the market response to our housing supply challenges. Before discussing these
barriers, however, it is worthwhile to assess the reasons why Americans are facing high rents and
why there is too little available rental housing that is affordable.

First and foremost, America’s affordable housing shortage is more than just a housing problem.
It is not only that rental housing has gotten more expensive to produce and operate, but also that
other economic factors have suppressed household income growth. On an inflation-adjusted
basis, median renter household income today is virtually the same as it was in 1981.




Because income stagnation is such a big part of the equation, simply building more housing
cannot be the sole solution to this affordable housing shortage. In fact, in many markets where
demand is strongest, even if, hypothetically, developers agreed to take no profit, the cost to build
still exceeds what people can afford to pay.

Second, today’s strong rent growth is a temporary situation in what is a highly cyclical market
driven by factors largely outside of the industry’s control. For example, the collapse of the U.S.
financial markets in 2008 virtually shut down new apartment construction for a number of years,
severely constricting supply right at a time when rental demand surged to levels not seen for
decades. Development is only now beginning, seven years later, to meet the annual increase in
apartment demand.

Finally, as mentioned above, apartment construction has increased. As new units are delivered,
rent growth will moderate. That said, even with more apartments in the pipeline, construction
activity remains at best, at the low end of the level needed to make up for supply deficits in
previous years. Many non-financial obstacles to new development continue to stifle new
construction and raise the costs of those properties that do get built, contributing to higher rents
for our residents. Many of these are imposed by localities and have to be addressed by those
jurisdictions.

Barriers to Multifamily Development

Developing real estate, whether it is multifamily, single-family or commercial, is difficult.
Production of any kind has its natural barriers. Those are for the most part objective barriers that
can, and often do, fluctuate, but are predictable enough to still meet a pro forma. Multifamily
however, brings with it a level of entitlement subjectivity layered on top of these common barriers
and is much more difficult to predict.

Plainly stated, many municipalities have a development preference that works against multifamily
housing production. Multifamily development often faces stiff community resistance, competes
with other forms of real estate that produce sales tax revenue desired by municipalities, and is
subject to increasing regulatory barriers.

Community resistance to proposed multifamily developments typically takes the form of
organized community resistance efforts commonly known as “Not In My Back Yard” or NIMBY.
The narrative of NIMBY typically focuses on a handful of themes outside of the normal zoning
approval process, including:

         Traffic impact;
         Homeowner property values;
         School overcrowding; and
         Community character.

There is also a revenue subjectivity often found at the municipal level when it comes to multifamily
versus other forms of real estate. Local governments faced with the annual task of balancing
budgets feel obligated to derive as much tax revenue as possible from scarce developable land.
This places multifamily in stiff competition with commercial real estate developments that
produce sales tax revenue.

All these factors contribute to the uncertainty of any multifamily development. In a speech before
the Urban Institute in November 2015, Jason Furman, chairman of The White House Council of
Economic Advisers said that the U.S. could build a lot more apartments, but noted “multifamily
housing units are the form of housing supply that is most often the target of regulation.” As an
industry, we agree with this assessment.

Below is a brief summary of the most notable barriers to development within several broad
categories: location, time, bureaucracy, cost and environmental assessment. Also included is a
brief review of affordability mandates, which can actually depress development of new
multifamily homes in addition to complicating projects that proceed.
Location

            Land Cost: In an attractive market—take any major metropolitan area as an
             example—land can account for a significant portion of total development costs.
             Land in those markets is not only fundamentally more expensive to purchase than
             land in secondary or tertiary markets, but it also typically attracts multiple bidders,
             each seeking to deploy the land for diverse purposes, which further drives up costs.
             This cost increase can stretch or stress other financial assumptions and, in some
             extreme cases, even make the property impossible right out of the gate.

            Zoning Laws: Zoning laws impact what is permitted to be built at a site. In some
             places, zoning requirements can make it extremely difficult to build new
             multifamily housing. Changing zoning can be onerous and expensive if it is even
             possible.

Time

            Entitlements: The entitlement process, which covers approvals, zoning and
             nearly everything in between, is an amalgam of outright costs, additional fees,
             land-use regulation (some of which can date back to the first half of last century)
             and code compliance. During the navigation of this often lengthy process, an
             apartment developer bears both direct and indirect costs with no assurance of a
             successful outcome. In some high-barrier-to-entry markets, entitlements can take
             four, five, six years or more before construction actually begins. Some
             municipalities have tried to fast track this process, but they have been met with
             only varying degrees of success.

              The long lead time and significant upfront investment required to obtain
              entitlement on land is leading some investors to rethink continued interest in
              multifamily development. Reduced investor demand for multifamily development
              may lead to fewer units delivered in the future and increased cost per unit delivered
              as remaining investor capital becomes scarce.

Bureaucracy

            Regulations: As a highly regulated sector, the apartment industry is governed by
             a flood of regulations stemming from diverse federal agencies such as the
             Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Environmental
             Protection Agency (EPA), Department of Labor (DOL), Occupational Safety and
             Health Administration (OSHA), and the Department of Energy (DOE), as well as
             state and local jurisdictions. Excessive regulation and compliance uncertainty
             results in costly mandates that divert resources from the production and operation
             of multifamily housing.
              Regulations must have demonstrable benefits that justify the cost of compliance
              and federal agencies should be aware that broad-stroke regulations often have
              disproportionate effects on various industries. Therefore, those rules and
              regulations affecting housing should reflect the industry’s diverse business and
              operational structure and must rely on the latest scientific and/or economic
              evidence.
          For example, NMHC/NAA have an extensive history of service in the development
          of national model building codes and standards. However, research shows that
          over-reaching codes negatively impact apartment affordability and can quell new
          apartment construction and building renovation.
          Similarly, policymakers continue to seek ways to improve energy efficiency
          through legislative and regulatory efforts to establish a building rating system that
          would grade buildings on their energy performance and publicly disclose that
          information. These labels raise valuation concerns and transactional uncertainty,
          especially since the accuracy of these labels is not proven in the apartment
          sector. NMHC/NAA oppose the development of mandatory building performance
          labeling programs and continue to work with federal partners to expand well-
          known and voluntary energy management tools, such as the federal Energy Star
          program, in apartment properties.

Cost

        Construction Costs: The cost of construction in terms of labor and materials are
         a critical component to the cost of building apartments. Depending upon market
         and materials used, these have a significant impact on the viability of a given
         project.

        Cost of Capital: New regulatory regimes, such as Dodd-Frank and Basel III, are
         making access to capital more difficult and costlier. Increased capital requirements
         and conflicting new regulations are driving up the cost of borrowing from banks,
         as well as constricting lending in certain markets.

        Labor Costs: Federal building programs, as well as some state level programs,
         require the use of prevailing Davis-Bacon wages that have proven to be difficult to
         manage, complex to accurately incorporate in preliminary planning and often do
         not reflect the going market. Additionally, as a result of the economic downturn
         skilled labor migrated away from the construction industry, producing an
         environment today where wages have increased well in excess of inflation, which
         directly impacts the cost of development.

        Impact Fees: Impact fees are payments required of new development by local
         governments for the purpose of providing new or expanded public capital facilities
         required to serve that development. These fees typically require cash payments in
         advance of the completion of development, are based on a methodology and
         calculation derived from the cost of the facility and the nature and size of the
         development, and are used to finance improvements offsite from, but to the benefit
         of, the development.

        Linkage Fees: A linkage fee is assessed on a development to pay for the cost of
         providing a public service. These fees are attributed to select developments to pay
         for a benefit deemed outside of what is recovered from property taxes.

        Business License Taxes: These are additional municipal taxes assessed on
         property owners that is not assessed on other forms of housing. These are used to
         justify the cost of impacts not covered by property tax assessments.
            Assessment and Inspection Fees: These are additional municipal fees
             assessed on property owners to inspect rental housing for habitability. While these
             fees are often assessed annually, the rental housing communities often do not
             realize additional benefits reflecting the cost.

            Parking Space Requirements: The requirement to build or offer parking
             spaces, especially in urban settings, can significantly impact site use and cost.

Environmental Assessment

            Environmental Site Assessment: An environmental site assessment is a
             report that identifies potential or existing environmental contamination liabilities.
             The analysis typically addresses both the underlying land and physical
             improvements to the property. In many local jurisdictions, each development site
             requires an environmental site assessment, the results of which could require
             costly remediation and/or project reconfiguration. Additionally, these
             assessments have been used by development opponents to frustrate planning and
             can serve to severely hamper or defeat the entitlement process.

Affordability Mandates

            Rent Control: There are various forms of rent control outside of the traditional
             version that most are accustomed to seeing: a rent control board that sets
             maximum rent for a unit or the maximum amount that rent can be raised annually.
             Rent control, in this context, is any mechanism that obligates a property owner to
             set rental rates for all or a portion of the units on a property. In any form, this
             policy works as a disincentive to investing and developing the diversity of housing
             units that a community requires. There are alternatives to rent control that take
             slightly different approaches but have the same effect. The most common form of
             these is inclusionary zoning.

            Inclusionary Zoning: Inclusionary zoning refers to municipal and county
             planning ordinances that require a given share of new construction to be affordable
             to people with low to moderate incomes without an investment from the
             municipality. It is normally a condition of approval of the development.
             Depending on the requirements, the overall feasibility of a project could be
             threatened.

Bottom Line for Policymakers

The bottom line is that policymakers at all levels of government must recognize that addressing
local workforce housing needs requires a partnership between government and the private sector.
Municipalities have the difficult task of trying to most efficiently manage their resources to the
greatest benefit of their constituents, often challenged with balancing shrinking budgets and
growing needs. However, local governments also have a tool box of approaches they can take to
support affordable housing production. They can do this by incentivizing for-profit entities to
produce the necessary multifamily units at a price point that households can afford.

Municipalities can defer taxes and other fees for a set period of time to help the developer reduce
the price point. They also own tangible assets – buildings, raw land and entitled parcels – some
of which can be leveraged to bring down the cost of construction or redevelopment. Finally, they
can help streamline the development and approval processes with fast-tracking programs.

As is outlined in the following section, however, the Federal Government also has a key role to
play. When both the public and private sides bring all their tools and assets into play, then there
will be a greater likelihood of finding viable solutions to meet our rental housing challenges.

Key Solutions to the Nation’s Housing Challenges

The nation’s challenge is to reduce the barriers and obstacles that inhibit the expansion of the
housing stock. While the preceding section made it clear that new construction is often impeded
at the local level, there are federal solutions that may be beneficial as well. At NMHC/NAA, we
believe the solution at the federal level requires a three-pronged answer of new development,
preservation and rehabilitation:

           1. New development is absolutely critical to address the scarcity of units
              available for the population of Americans whose household incomes
              are below the average for their areas – and the one receiving the
              majority of attention and criticism. There are too many instances where
              communities acknowledge that they have an affordability problem, but then hide
              behind “Not in My Back Yard” rhetoric to prevent the development of much-
              needed apartment homes. States and local communities can work together with
              the private sector to identify and quantify the costs associated with building
              affordable rental housing. Then, local officials and developers can help reduce the
              barriers and encourage new construction.

           2. Preservation means ensuring that the financing and subsidy programs
              that currently keep units available at below market rents continue to
              be there in the future, providing some degree of certainty in the
              affordable housing market. This means not only stemming budget cuts for
              local, state and federal housing programs, but also continuing to support programs
              like the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC).

           3. Rehabilitation is vital because it can keep existing apartment stock
              from dwindling further. Every year, the industry loses between 100,000 and
              150,000 units to obsolescence and other factors. Most lost units are likely at the
              lower end of the market, disproportionately hurting the affordable supply that
              exists. Consider also that the nation’s apartment stock is aging; in fact, more than
              half (51.9 percent) of all apartments were built before 1980. Without resources
              dedicated to support rehabilitation efforts, more stock will continue to leave the
              available pool.

Federal Initiatives and Programs Vital to Addressing Affordability

Congress and key agencies should play an integral role in addressing housing affordability.
NMHC/NAA support the initiatives and programs outlined below designed to address the
shortage of affordable housing:
GSE Reform

The first and foremost priority is getting multifamily right in housing finance reform and
recognizing its unique characteristics; it is the single most important factor to ensuring that the
apartment industry can meet the nation’s growing rental housing demand.

The bursting of the housing bubble exposed serious flaws in our nation’s housing finance system.
The very successful multifamily programs of the Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs),
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, were not part of the meltdown and have actually generated over
$30 billion in net profits since the two firms were placed into conservatorship. Preservation of the
mortgage liquidity currently provided by the GSEs in all markets during all economic cycles is
critical. NMHC/NAA urge lawmakers to recognize the unique needs of the multifamily industry.

We believe the goals of a reformed housing finance system should be to:

            Maintain an explicit federal guarantee for multifamily-backed mortgage
             securities available in all markets at all times;

            Ensure that the multifamily sector is treated in a way that recognizes the
             inherent differences of the multifamily business; and

            Retain the successful components of the existing multifamily programs in
             whatever succeeds them.

These principles can be achieved through a reformed structure that preserves the high quality and
value of the current multifamily secondary mortgage market’s activities.

Multifamily Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Programs

FHA Multifamily is best known for offering an alternative source of construction debt to
developers that supplements bank and other private construction capital sources. It also serves
borrowers with long-term investment goals as the only capital provider to offer 35-40-year loan
terms. FHA lending is essential to borrowers in secondary markets, borrowers with smaller
balance sheets, new development entities, affordable housing developers and non-profit firms, all
of which are often overlooked or underserved by private capital providers.

In normal capital markets, FHA plays a limited, but important, role in the rental housing sector.
During the most recent economic crisis, however, FHA became virtually the only source of
apartment construction capital. Applications increased from $2 billion annually to $10 billion,
and HUD anticipates that demand for FHA multifamily mortgage insurance will remain high for
the next several years.

FHA’s Multifamily Programs have continually generated a net profit, and have met all losses
associated with the financial crisis with reserves generated by premiums paid through the loan
insurance program structure. Because premiums have consistently reflected the risk associated
with the underlying loans, and because underwriting requirements have remained strong within
the program, FHA’s Multifamily Programs are able to operate as self-funded, fully covered lines
of business at HUD. A few programs struggled during the real estate downturn; however, any
losses have been covered by the capital cushion the multifamily programs collectively generate.
It is important to the apartment industry that FHA continues to be a credible and reliable source
of construction and mortgage debt. FHA not only insures mortgages, but it also builds capacity in
the market, providing developers with an effective source of construction and long-term mortgage
capital. The FHA Multifamily Programs provide a material and important source of capital for
underserved segments of the rental market, and do so while maintaining consistently high loan
performance standards. NMHC/NAA encourage Congress to continue funding FHA’s Multifamily
Programs, including:

      HUD 221 (d)(4) Multifamily Loans – New Construction and Substantial Rehabilitation
       of Multifamily Properties

      HUD FHA 223 (f) Multifamily Loans for the Refinance or Acquisition of Multifamily
       Properties

      HUD FHA 241(a) Supplemental Loans

      HUD FHA 223(a)(7) Refinance of an Existing FHA Insured Multifamily Mortgages and
       Healthcare Mortgages

Finally, we believe a special note is warranted regarding the 221(d)(4) program. Providing flexible
loan terms, including leverage from 80 percent to 90 percent and 40-year fixed rate non-recourse
debt, for the construction or rehabilitation of multifamily properties is beneficial in supporting
the development of workforce housing. However, we note that the program includes a bevy of
restrictions, including loan size, allowable prevailing Davis-Bacon wage requirements, and other
associated fees and disbursement restrictions. We ask to have a dialogue with this Committee
regarding feasible ways to make modest modifications to this program to make it even more
effective in encouraging the production of workforce housing.

Funding for Affordable Housing Programs

Housing costs continue to grow, demand for rental housing continues to escalate, but incomes for
many low income families remain stagnant. Given these realities, demand for subsidized
affordable housing has increased dramatically through the economic crisis and into the recovery
years since. However, federal funding for the primary programs serving low income households
has been virtually flat or declining.

Programs like Tenant Based Section 8 and Project Based Rental Assistance allow low income
families to rent market rate housing, taking advantage of the broad offering of privately owned
and operated properties in a given market.
      Section 8 Rental Assistance Funding
      Amounts in $Billions
 25

 20

 15

 10

  5

  0
          FY10         FY11         FY12         FY13         FY14         FY15         FY16
                                           TBRA      PBRA




Programs like HOME and CDBG allow developers to address financing shortfalls often associated
with affordable housing properties, and stimulate meaningful development and preservation
activity as a result. In order to address housing affordability challenges for all Americans, across
the income spectrum, adequate funding for these programs is essential.


   HOME & CDBG Funding
   Amounts in $Billions
   5
 4.5
   4
 3.5
   3
 2.5
   2
 1.5
   1
 0.5
   0
           FY10        FY11         FY12          FY13        FY14         FY15         FY16
                                           HOME      CDBG
Multifamily Transformation Initiative

NMHC/NAA encourage HUD to complete the Multifamily Transformation Initiative. HUD’s
Office of Multifamily Programs provides mortgage insurance to HUD-approved lenders to
facilitate the construction, substantial rehabilitation, purchase and refinancing of multifamily
housing projects. Completing the Transformation Initiative will restructure the organization and
improve transactional and operational efficiency, enhance risk management tools and implement
procedures that will result in significant savings across the organization.

Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program

This public-private partnership has the potential to be one of the most effective means of
addressing our nation’s affordable housing needs and supporting mixed-income communities.
However, the program’s potential success is limited by too many inefficient and duplicative
requirements, which discourage private providers from accepting vouchers. These include a
required three-way lease between the provider, resident and the public housing authority;
repetitive unit inspections; resident eligibility certification; and other regulatory paperwork.
Collectively, these make it more expensive for a private owner to rent to a Section 8 voucher
holder.

The program has also been plagued with a flawed and volatile funding system that has
undermined private-sector confidence in the program. With Congress focused on austerity
measures, insufficient funding is expected to be worse in the near-term budget cycles. Common-
sense reforms that could help control costs, improve the program for both renters and property
owners, and increase private housing participation include:

            Establishing a reliable funding formula;
            Streamlining the property inspection process;
            Simplifying rent and income calculations;
            Reducing costly Limited English Proficiency (LEP) translation requirements;
             and
            Extending the contract term for project-based vouchers from 15 to 20 years.

NMHC/NAA support the common-sense provisions included in H.R. 3700, the “Housing
Opportunity through Modernization Act of 2015.” We thank Chairman Luetkemeyer and Ranking
Member Cleaver for their leadership in ensuring this critical bill passed the House in February,
and we strongly urge the Senate to approve it without delay so that President Obama may sign it
into law.

As NMHC/NAA work with industry participants to identify new and creative ways to improve
these programs Congress should consider the additional measures identified that will reduce
inefficiencies and burdensome regulatory requirements.

It is also imperative for lawmakers to reinforce the voluntary nature of the program. Congress
specifically made participation voluntary because of the regulatory burdens inherent in the
program. However, state and local governments are enacting laws that make it illegal for a private
owner to refuse to rent to a Section 8 voucher holder. Recent examples include “source of income
discrimination” provisions passed by a number of cities. While often well intentioned, such
mandates are self-defeating because they greatly diminish private-market investment and reduce
the supply of affordable housing.

Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) Program

NMHC/NAA support RAD, which was established in 2011 as an affordable housing preservation
strategy for public housing authorities (PHAs). The program allows PHAs to convert public
housing properties at risk of obsolescence or underfunding into project-based vouchers or rental
assistance contracts under the Section 8 program. Once the units are re-designated from public
housing (Section 9 of the 1937 Housing Act) to Section 8 housing, housing authorities are able to
leverage private capital to address capital needs. This allows housing authorities to work with
private sector developers and managers to preserve their affordable housing stock. RAD is
designed to reverse the trend of lost affordable units by accessing private capital to make up for
related funding shortfalls.

Government-Supported Preferred Equity

Investor equity for development transactions is the most expensive type of capital. Reducing the
required return for this portion of capital, however, would reduce the cost of developing
multifamily units and could help spur the construction of additional workforce housing.
NMHC/NAA would like to work with this Committee on a plan that would enable a federal entity
to provide developers with preferred equity to help offset the cost of workforce housing
production. NMHC/NAA believe that such a program could be integrated into the very successful
multifamily programs run by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and implemented at minimal cost.

Modifying the Community Reinvestment Act

The CRA could be modified to include greater incentives for banks to provide loans for multifamily
apartments that include workforce housing. CRA guidelines currently allow banks to obtain
Community Development (CD) credit for multifamily units serving occupants with incomes of up
to 80 percent of area median income. While this level captures a significant portion of workforce
households, the rules themselves make it difficult to obtain the CD credit due to a requirement to
report incomes, information that is not captured.

The three main banking regulators – Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, and Federal Reserve – control the regulations around CRA. We urge this
Committee to work with the multifamily industry to encourage these regulators to make common-
sense, modest changes that would remove impediments to obtaining CRA credit for workforce
multifamily housing. For example, rather than relying on income to determine CRA eligibility, the
determination of affordability could be based on rent levels. Notably, the Federal Housing Finance
Agency (FHFA) and HUD use this type of measure for programs they administer.

Davis-Bacon Wage Determination

Under current law, developers must adhere to Davis-Bacon wage rates for construction financed
by federal dollars. Unfortunately, the Department of Labor’s methodology of determining these
so-called prevailing wages suffers from structural defects related to the availability of data. For
example, the methodology frequently produces wage rates that exceed prevailing market-based
wages, which only exacerbates the cost of developing multifamily housing. NMHC/NAA request
that the Committee urge the Department of Labor to reexamine and modify its methodology.
Pro-Development Tax Policy

Given that apartment firms pay tax when they build, operate, sell or transfer communities to their
heirs, the nation’s tax system plays a considerable role when multifamily developers and operators
evaluate the viability of a given property. Tax policy that extracts too high a burden or leads to a
misallocation of capital has the potential to disrupt the very construction and development that is
so critical to housing America’s workforce.

Leverage the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) to Support Workforce
Housing

While the multifamily industry supports tax reform that promotes economic growth and
investment in rental housing without unfairly burdening apartment owners and renters relative
to other asset classes, this debate is likely to take some time to resolve. In the shorter term, we
encourage Congress to take incremental, but nonetheless significant steps, to leverage the
current-law LIHTC to promote workforce housing.

Under the current LIHTC program, which has financed nearly 2.8 million apartments and served
13.3 million residents since its inception in 1986, state housing agencies issue credit allocations
to developers who then sell the credits to investors. Investors receive a dollar-for-dollar reduction
in their federal tax liability over a 10-year period, and developers invest the equity raised to build
or acquire apartments. This equity allows apartment firms to operate the properties at below-
market rents for qualifying families. LIHTC-financed properties must be kept affordable for at
least 30 years.

The LIHTC has two components:

              A 9 percent tax credit that subsidizes 70 percent of new construction and
               cannot be combined with any additional federal subsidies.
              A 4 percent tax credit that subsidizes 30 percent of the unit costs in an
               acquisition of a project and can be paired with additional federal subsidies.
Program rules require owners to either rent 40 percent of their units to households earning no
more than 60 percent of area median income (AMI) or 20 percent to those earning no more
than 50 percent of AMI.

The following proposals could help further leverage the LIHTC and promote workforce housing:

           1. Income Averaging: NMHC/NAA believe that the LIHTC program could be
              bolstered to serve a wider array of households and increase the financial viability
              of certain projects if Congress enacted so-called income averaging. Under this
              proposal, which President Obama has also included in his Fiscal Year 2017 Budget,
              program rules would be revised to allow owners to reserve 40 percent of the units
              for people whose average income is below 60 percent of AMI with the proviso that
              no LIHTC unit could be occupied by individuals earning over 80 percent AMI.
              Thus, if this proposal were enacted, the LIHTC program could serve a wider array
              of households, including those who are traditionally defined as comprising
              America’s workforce. Additionally, the ability to use the program to house slightly
              higher-income families could help cross subsidize families further down the
              income scale.
           2. Leveraging the LIHTC Model for Preservation: Every year, the multifamily
              industry loses between 100,000 and 150,000 units to obsolescence and other
              factors. Most lost units are likely at the lower end of the market, disproportionately
              hurting the affordable portion of the market. Furthermore, the nation’s apartment
              stock is aging; in fact, as noted above, just over half of all apartments were built
              before 1980. Without resources dedicated to support rehabilitation efforts, more
              stock will evaporate from the available pool.

Although new construction will be critical to ensuring a sufficient supply of workforce housing,
preservation of units is far less costly than new construction. Accordingly, NMHC/NAA believe
Congress should look to using resources to maximize the preservation of existing units. We believe
that the LIHTC program could be expanded to enable the acquisition of units that could be
renovated and maintained as workforce housing. Furthermore, given that workforce housing
supports higher rents than traditional LIHTC units, the subsidy rates could be adjusted downward
and, therefore, limit the cost to taxpayers.

Tax Reform Must Not Disrupt the Industry’s Ability to Construct and Operate
Workforce Housing

Congress is rightly continuing to develop proposals to reform the nation’s overly complex tax code
to foster economic competitiveness and economic growth. That said, much is potentially at stake
for the apartment industry and its ability to meet the nation’s workforce housing needs given that
apartment firms pay tax when they build, operate, sell or transfer communities to their heirs. We
believe that any tax reform legislation should not disrupt the industry’s ability to construct and
operate affordable and workforce housing and, therefore, must:

            Protect Flow-Through Entities. The multifamily industry is dominated by
             “flow-through” entities (e.g., LLCs, partnerships, S Corporations, etc.) instead of
             publicly held corporations. This means that the company’s earnings are passed
             through to the partners who pay taxes on their share of the earnings on their
             individual tax returns. Accordingly, Congress must not reduce corporate tax rates
             financed by forcing flow-through entities to pay higher taxes through subjecting
             them to a corporate-level tax or by denying credits and deductions.

            Maintain Like-Kind Exchanges. Largely unchanged since 1928, like-kind
             exchange rules enable property owners to defer capital gains tax if, instead of
             selling their property, they exchange it for another comparable property. These
             rules encourage property owners to remain invested in the real estate market while
             providing them with the flexibility to shift resources to more productive properties,
             different geographic locations or to diversify or consolidate holdings. Any
             proposal to revise or restrict like-kind exchanges may have a significantly harmful
             effect on the value and trading of property. As a result, Congress should not change
             present law.

            Ensure Depreciation Rules Avoid Harming Real Estate. Some have
             sought to raise revenue by significantly extending the 27.5-year depreciation
             period of multifamily buildings and increasing the 25 percent depreciation
             recapture tax rate applicable to sales. By creating a discriminatory cost recovery
             system that is detached from the life of multifamily buildings, these proposals
             would reduce development and investment, result in lower real estate values and
             stifle the industry’s ability to create new jobs.
            Retain the Deduction for Business Interest. Efforts to prevent companies
             from overleveraging are leading to calls to scale back the current deduction for
             business interest expenses. Unfortunately, reducing this deductibility would
             greatly increase the cost of debt financing necessary for large-scale projects,
             curbing development activity when the nation is suffering from a shortage of
             apartment homes.

Conclusion

In closing, NMHC/NAA look forward to working with the Financial Services Committee and the
entire Congress to address the nation’s affordable workforce housing challenges. On behalf of the
apartment industry and our 38 million residents, we stand ready to work with Congress to ensure
that every American has a safe and decent place to call home at a price that enables individuals to
afford life’s necessities.
