SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/about-us
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/about-us
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: About Us | Holland Partner Group



About Us | Holland Partner Group

ABOUT US
SERVICES
LEADERSHIP
CAREERS
SUSTAINABILITY
CULTURE
PRESS
ABOUT US
Our story
Holland Partner Group works with world-class lifestyle experience designers, architects, interior designers, sustainable consultants, landscape artists, and technologists to conceive exceptional new residential communities and transform existing properties to speak to the most discerning tastes and emotional needs. We work to create unique, vibrant, and engaging communities that help create lasting bonds between our residents, their neighbors, and the properties they live in.
Our secret is our people. Holland Partner Group works with people who are collaborative, passionate, and innovative. People who model integrity in everything they do. People who empathize with customers and anticipate needs, always ready to solve problems and exceed expectations. People who embrace challenges as opportunities and celebrate shared wins as a team. This is how we continue to win awards, receive glowing reviews, and earn business from our investors, partners, and, most importantly, our residents. If this sounds like you, come join us.
View Our Leaders
OUR PRINCIPLES
RESIDENTS
We must operate our communities as platforms for our residents’ success. Everything we do must center around our mission of inspiring people to reach for their full potential — by meeting their needs, addressing issues promptly, and putting kindness at the core of our relationship with them.
TEAM MEMBERS
We must provide a workplace where we celebrate our teams and recognize their achievements. We must foster an environment of fulfillment and ensure we hear from various perspectives, so we get to the best results.  We must demonstrate a productive work-life balance, so our team members can fulfill their personal responsibilities. We must provide a culture of safety and innovation where collaboration is not only encouraged but required. We must provide clear direction at every level, as well as training and support to encourage our team members to reach for their full potential. Our leaders must be capable, fair, and honest.
COMMUNITIES
Our communities must provide value to society and help solve the housing crisis in our nation. We must actively support policies that enable housing to become more affordable to renters. We must concentrate our efforts on building housing near job centers and promoting walkability and use of public transportation, thereby reducing the carbon impacts in our environment and in our communities. We must be environmentally conscious, ensuring our buildings are always built and operated to a standard that promotes sustainability. We must deliver the best quality buildings in the locations where they are needed most.
PARTNERS
In our endeavors, we must earn a responsible return. We must be an industry leader in our research. We must continuously promote technology and process innovations. We must maintain reserves to weather unfavorable times and conduct ourselves in ways that minimize risk to our partners. We must add value to our partnerships by finding and executing on the best investment opportunities that meet their objectives.
These principles are the foundation of what we believe and who we are.
Vision
To create the home of choice for employees, residents, and partners.
Mission
We build and operate communities that inspire each person to reach for their full potential.
Responsibility
It’s personal; my actions are important to the success of the Holland team.
Values
We hire great people, pursue great business, provide exceptional service, practice sustainability, and have fun in the work we do together.
Great People
We surround ourselves with people who model integrity in everything they do.
Great Business
We achieve exceptional results through maintaining an innovative approach, reflecting, applying continuous learning, and being strategic about the opportunities we pursue.
Exceptional Service
We care about people, seek to understand their needs, and provide solutions that exceed expectations.
Sustainable Approach
We embrace our responsibility for evolving sustainably built environments that create socially connected places where people want to live, work, and enjoy life.
We Have Fun
We cultivate a positive environment, embrace teamwork, work well together, and have fun!
Join Our Team
LET US HELP YOU!
Holland Partner Group
is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at
[email protected]
or
[email protected]
. You may also call
(360) 694-7888
.
CONTACT US
(360) 694-7888
808 Washington St, #500
Vancouver, WA 98660
Holland Residential (California), Inc. -
California DRE License No. 01378119
SOCIAL
Holland Partner Group
| All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy
ESG Policy
Press
Transparency in Coverage
Happily Made by
Razz
