SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: Home | Holland Partner Group



Home | Holland Partner Group

ABOUT US
SERVICES
LEADERSHIP
CAREERS
SUSTAINABILITY
CULTURE
PRESS
A Better Place to Live
Our goal is to create sustainable, socially connected places where people work, live, and enjoy life. We create communities that inspire each person to become their best self.
About Us
SUPERIOR QUALITY
Holland Partner Group
(HPG) is a fully-integrated real estate investment company with more than two decades of experience, 700 team members, and more than 55,000 units built, developed, acquired, and transacted since its founding. Recognized as the most consistent and reliable delivery mechanism in the real estate industry, HPG’s vertically integrated platform consists of five operating companies with expertise in development, construction, acquisition, redevelopment, and property management.
Our Leaders
OUR HISTORY
Founded in 2000,
Holland Partner Group
is a recognized leader in the development of high-quality investment properties in the Western United States. Led by talented professionals seasoned in all phases of the development and construction of mixed-use properties, including residential, office, parking garages, and retail assets, we endeavor to create residential and commercial projects that meet the highest standards in terms of quality, value creation, and innovation. Our goal is to create sustainable, socially connected places where people work, live, and enjoy life. We create communities that inspire each person to become their best self.
More About Us
0
EMPLOYEES
0+
Units Under Management
0 BILLION+
Transaction Value
0+
Managed Properties
INDUSTRY EXPERTISE
Holland Partner Group
principals have completed a development and acquisition transaction volume that represents more than 55,000 apartment homes and exceeds $20 billion. Maintaining an unwavering focus on the most exceptional markets and properties,
Holland Partner Group
has demonstrated success time and time again on projects in the most high-growth Western U.S. markets including Seattle, Portland, Los Angeles, Denver, San Diego, and the San Francisco Bay Area.
Careers
OUR PARTNERS
LET US HELP YOU!
Holland Partner Group
is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at
[email protected]
or
[email protected]
. You may also call
(360) 694-7888
.
CONTACT US
(360) 694-7888
808 Washington St, #500
Vancouver, WA 98660
Holland Residential (California), Inc. -
California DRE License No. 01378119
SOCIAL
Holland Partner Group
| All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy
ESG Policy
Press
Transparency in Coverage
Happily Made by
Razz
