SOURCE: https://www.hollandresidential.com/
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://www.hollandresidential.com/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: Love the Place You Live | Holland Residential



Love the Place You Live | Holland Residential

Projects
Leadership
Careers
Love the place you live
Headquartered in
Vancouver
,
WA
,
Holland Residential
is a proud part of Holland Partner Group. It's our mission to create and manage superior living environments that exceed expectations and enhance quality of life. Our dedication to providing residents with satisfaction and pride of home through our industry-leading customer service is the foundation of the
Holland Residential
culture. When you live in a Holland community, you are not just a resident you are part of the Holland Family. We are dedicated to making every Holland experience memorable.
Explore Our Properties
Scroll Down
Location is Key
Holland Residential
communities can be found in some of the hottest markets in the U.S. including Scottsdale, Los Angeles, San Diego, San Francisco, Oakland, Denver, Portland, Seattle, and many more. We develop, build, and manage communities that support active, connected, and balanced lifestyles.
View All Properties
1717 Webster
Oakland, CA
kiara
Seattle, WA
The society
San Diego, CA
The Rodney
Portland, OR
Lydian
Oakland, CA
Platform at Union Station
Denver, CO
01
/
06
To Our Residents
We promise to elevate how people live their lives by providing a stage for engagement and personal success. We create great environments. We draw from all ends of culture, design, and work with experts to present the most compelling range of residential experiences. We connect residents to their passions. We ensure that every project & resident experience is interesting, friendly and thoughtful.
0
STATES
0
EMPLOYEES
0
CITIES
0
UNITS MANAGED
Your browser does not support the
video
element. However, you can
download
the video.
Work with Us
Our secret is our people. Holland Partner Group only works with people who are collaborative, passionate, and innovative. People who model integrity in everything they do. People who empathize with customers and anticipate needs, always ready to solve problems and exceed expectations. People who embrace challenges as opportunities and celebrate shared wins as a team. This is how we continue to win awards, receive glowing reviews, and earn business from our investors, partners, and, most importantly, our residents. If this sounds like you, come join us.
Explore Careers
RESIDENTIAL
Holland Residential
is now engaged in the management of over 55 communities with ancillary office and retail space in Washington, Oregon, California, Arizona and Colorado. We consistently outperform our peers in revenue growth with our fully integrated operating platform that maximizes asset value, drives qualified demand, attracts high rent payers, and elevates tenant retention. This translates to a higher NOI and ultimately a higher asset value.
Each regional office is led by a Vice President who is directly supported by Regional Property Managers. The regional teams are directly linked with Holland’s corporate office through dedicated property-specific accountants, multi-layered support divisions and policy-driven processes dedicated to accuracy and accountability. The Holland organization currently employs over 750 associates with over 100 associates located at the corporate headquarters.
INVESTMENT
Holland Investments is comprised of two entities, Acquisition and Asset Management, which are charged with securing and executing the most attractive multi-family investment opportunities in each of the primary, Western US target markets. Holland Investments seeks to achieve superior risk-adjusted returns through a process of fundamental, bottom-up analysis. This philosophy allows us to invest across the different multi-family risk spectrum. Investments typically involve the purchase of multifamily assets that we believe offer long-term, predictable, sustainable cash flow or are undervalued or inefficiently managed or financed. Our goal is to create sustainable, socially connected places where people work, live, and enjoy life. We create communities that inspire each person to become their best self.
DEVELOPMENT
Holland Development has established itself as a premier developer of core urban infill residential and mixed-use trophy communities with a disciplined focus on high barrier-to-entry markets that appeal to the rising creative class. Within these markets we select locations that are walkable to rapidly expanding employment centers or transit hubs that serve these targeted employment centers.
Through a unique combination of entitlement, finance and design expertise, we consistently deliver superior returns to our partners and financial participants. We set ourselves apart as leaders and teammates through creative design, construction expertise, and a detailed approach to the development process. Leveraging our financial acumen with the operational skills of our in-house management company, we optimize project performance by specifically targeting our communities to the changing demands of prospective residents. By balancing the economic demands of each deal with the politics of the entitlement process and a respect for neighboring uses, our unique expertise enables us to find recognized value in exceptional development opportunities.
REDEVELOPMENT
The Holland Partner Group’s Redevelopment team has been involved in the acquisition and reposition of over 50 assets spanning over 12,000 units. The team has successfully deployed over $125M in capital improvements including roof replacement on over 5,000 units, complete residing of six properties, numerous exterior repaints, and over 30 clubhouse renovations, among other exterior enhancements. In addition, in conjunction with
Holland Residential
, the group has managed the interior renovation of 10,000 unit interiors. We have refined our interior unit renovation scope to two primary packages based on customer feedback and ROI analysis. By standardizing our approach to interior renovation, we are able to streamline purchasing and installations across five states and allow the team to execute our strategy immediately upon transition.
The Holland redevelopment team takes a very active role in the acquisition process. We are able to quickly review the exterior needs of an asset from a cursory review and give our acquisition team necessary and swift feedback on the estimated capital needs of the property for use in underwriting. Once an asset is under contract, the team is involved in a thorough due diligence process that includes an extensive exterior review of the physical plant and a full interior unit evaluation. As needed, destructive testing is conducted when substantial structural or system issues are in question. In many cases, we are able to identify hidden damage that is not easily identified during a cursory review.
CONSTRUCTION
Holland Construction manages all construction activities of Holland Partner Group. On new construction projects, Holland Construction functions hand in hand with Holland Development to manage the entire project development process from conception through completion. This unparalleled collaboration ensures a smooth transition from design development through the construction process to project closeout and transition into property management. Since inception, Holland Construction has facilitated the re-position of 48 assets representing over $1.3 billion in total asset value.alue in exceptional development opportunities.
01
05
CONTACT US
808 Washington St, Suite 500
Vancouver, WA 98660
(360) 694-7888
[email protected]
SOCIAL

Privacy Policy
Corporate Lease Application
Press
©
Holland Residential
| All Rights Reserved | Holland Residential (California), Inc. - California DRE License No. 01378119
Happily Made by
Razz
