SOURCE: https://caminobluff.com/workspread/job/director-of-multifamily-technology-at-holland-partner-group-vancouver-wa-98660-fef71ba4ed98434djktk-Y2FtaW5vYm
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
PROVENANCE: live, rendered in browser
TITLE: 🐴 Director of Multifamily Technology job at Holland Partner Group in Vancouver, WA 98660 - Job Search

caminobluff.com
Home
	
 Sign Up
Director of Multifamily Technology Job at Holland Partner Group

 Holland Partner Group  Vancouver, WA 98660

$140,000 - $160,000 a year
Job Information
Date Posted
2026-09-09
Location
Vancouver, WA 98660
Job Title
Director of Multifamily Technology
Gender
Both
Offered Salary
$140,000 - $160,000 a year
Overview:

Salary range: $140,000 - $160,000 annually, plus potential for bonus.

The Director of Multifamily Technology is responsible for partnering with Residential leadership and their teams to develop, manage, and execute property management technology strategy, specific goals, and an evolving roadmap. This individual will be responsible to help ensure alignment with the technology stacks of our other platforms in Development and Construction in accordance with Holland Partner Group’s Core Values.

Responsibilities:
Work as liaison between Technology and Residential teams to ensure partnership and alignment on timelines, system selection, and execution.
Serve as Subject Matter Expert (SME) on multifamily technology, infrastructure, and software for all Holland communities, introducing emerging technologies into the design and development teams Collaborate on best practices surrounding the technology of back-office, marketing, unit, and property-level execution, and ensure expectations are clearly communicated to project and property teams.
Be a champion for new game-changing product ideas and facilitate the ideas/concepts/projects through the development phases.
Partner with key stakeholder(s) to define pilot KPI’s and monitor progress/performance. Proactively communicate any areas of opportunity identified to the appropriate stakeholder(s).
Work with stakeholders to determine timing of projects and thoughtfully prioritize as determined by business needs.
Drive technology experimentation and proof-of-concept efforts to identify and recommend new platforms or services that have potential scalable impact for Hollands’s communities.
Stay informed on the latest consumer-facing technology trends, bringing choice, relevancy, transparency.
Actively engage and partner with Residential team on technology innovation discussions.
Support Training and Residential team in ensuring proper training and adoption are in place for all software and systems used by Holland communities.
Develop and strengthen team’s relationships with all business units, through open communication and partnership throughout the organization.
Support Holland’s desire to incorporate new technology into current and upcoming developments by evaluating technologies and methodologies (i.e., smart home/smart building platforms, access and security control, voice/video/data, property management systems, CRM, call centers, reputation management, etc.) and developing a roadmap to test and potentially implement.
Represent Holland Partner Group in a professional manner at all times.
Perform all other duties as directed and assist the overall team effort in any way possible.
Qualifications:
Education : Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science or related field required.

Experience : Eight years of relevant multifamily experience and five years in technology required. Experience consulting with large cross-functional teams across a variety of business units required.


Knowledge, Skills and Abilities Required:

Proven track record of aligning and partnering with key stakeholders across the organization.
Ability to successfully manage multiple strategic initiatives across a large group of cross-functional teams and internal/external partners.
Exemplary organizational and interpersonal skills.
Strong problem solver with ability to leverage analytics and consumer knowledge to identify opportunities.
Possess a high level of curiosity about upcoming technology with a focus on how technologies can benefit Holland.
Knowledge of smart units/homes/buildings/cities technology a plus.
Understand Holland company structure and lead with a passion for making all business units successful through innovation.
Ability to maneuver between high-level strategic thinking and detailed project work.
Ability to approach existing and newly implemented technology with a continual improvement approach.
Ability to maintain high level of confidentiality.
Ability to support and perpetuate company culture.
Must be proactive, flexible, responsible and resourceful.
Strong verbal and written communication skills.
Demonstrated leadership skills with a degree of creativity.
Proficient knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite.
Attendance : This full-time position is exempt and requires the ability to be present and available during business hours to meet company and department needs. Additional hours or flexible schedule may be required.


This position also requires:

Valid driver’s license
Travel and overnight stays.
Ability to lift or move up to 20 pounds.
Hearing and visual ability to observe and detect signs of emergency situations.
Fluency in English both verbally and non-verbally.
Benefits: Holland is proud to offer a competitive and comprehensive benefits package including health care benefits (Medical, Dental, Vision, HSA, FSA), income replacement (Life Insurance, Long-term Disability) and retirement savings through our 401(k), including employer match. Supplemental benefits are also available (Accident, Hospital Indemnity, Critical Illness, Short-term Disability) and we are proud to offer our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and Tuition Reimbursement. We offer PTO in addition to Paid Sick Leave, paid holidays and a generous Sabbatical after every 5 years of service. There are also opportunities to share in the success of the company through our profit share programs.



Please Note :
caminobluff.com is the go-to platform for job seekers looking for the best job postings from around the web. With a focus on quality, the platform guarantees that all job postings are from reliable sources and are up-to-date. It also offers a variety of tools to help users find the perfect job for them, such as searching by location and filtering by industry. Furthermore, caminobluff.com provides helpful resources like resume tips and career advice to give job seekers an edge in their search. With its commitment to quality and user-friendliness, Site.com is the ideal place to find your next job.
Top Jobs
Related Jobs
QMA at The Waters of Rockport / 29 days ago

 The Waters of Rockport  Rockport, IN 47635

NEW WAGE SCALE!! NOW HIRING - QUALIFIED MEDICATION AIDE (QMA) COME JOIN OUR TEAM!! ** NEW WAGES** FULL TIME Day and Night shift BENEFITS & REWARDS: Excellent Pay

New
Job Detail
Summer Day Camp Director at KE Camps / 10 days ago

 KE Camps  Westhampton Beach, NY 11978

KE Camps is the leading provider of summer camps for country clubs nationwide. We partner with over 200 private clubs all over the country to implement traditional-style day camps for

New
$800 - $1,000 a week
Job Detail
Dental Hygienist at Walsh Dental Group / 1 days ago

 Walsh Dental Group  Shawano, WI 54166

Dental hygienist needed for two day a week position. Busy dental office with two full-time doctors (2 chairs each), one part-time doctor (1 chair) and four full-time hygiene chairs. The hygienist

New
Job Detail
Senior IAM Engineer at Kyruus / 12 days ago

 Kyruus  Boston, MA

Kyruus' mission is to connect people to the right care, in pursuit of our vision: a better healthcare system- one that's transparent and accessible- where everyone gets the care they need.

New
Job Detail
School Licensed Master Social Worker at Healthpro Heritage, LLC / Today

 Healthpro Heritage, LLC  Austin, TX 78703

Overview: School Licensed Social Worker (LMSW) School Social Work position available to begin ASAP to May 26, 2023! Austin, Texas Full Time / 7.5 Hours daily / 37.5 hours

New
Job Detail
Surgical Technology Concentration Coordinator at Jackson College / 12 days ago

 Jackson College  Jackson, MI 49201

Description Provide guidance to the Chair of Allied Health and Dean of Health Sciences, Career and Technical trades in the development of the Surgical Technology Program. This is

New
Job Detail
CLERK DISPATCHER I - SHIFT WORK - DANIEL K. INOUYE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - OAHU at State of Hawaii / 17 days ago

 State of Hawaii  Oahu Island, HI

Recruitment Information Recruitment Number 22-0823 The immediate vacancies are with the Department of Public Safety. THIS JOB POSTING WILL REMAIN OPEN UNTIL 30 APPLICATIONS ARE

New
Job Detail
Floor Technician at Elizabeth Seton Residence / 16 days ago

 Elizabeth Seton Residence  Wellesley Hills, MA 02481

We are an 84-bed skilled nursing facility looking for a full-time Floor Technician to join our environmental services team. Primary duties include cleaning, dusting, mopping, stripping and waxing

New
Job Detail
Copyright © 2022 All Rights Reserved.