SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/november-2025-holland-partner-group-appoints-david-greenberg-as-president-of-residential
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/november-2025-holland-partner-group-appoints-david-greenberg-as-president-of-residential
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: 



ABOUT US
SERVICES
LEADERSHIP
CAREERS
SUSTAINABILITY
CULTURE
PRESS
Share with friends

NOVEMBER 2025 - HOLLAND PARTNER GROUP APPOINTS DAVID GREENBERG AS PRESIDENT OF RESIDENTIAL
11.20.2025
VANCOUVER, Wash. (November 20th, 2025) — Holland Partner Group, a fully integrated real estate investment company, announced the appointment of David Greenberg as its President of Residential Operations.
Greenberg joins Holland with close to two decades of experience in multifamily operations, asset management, portfolio strategy, and organizational leadership. His career includes senior roles with Griffin Capital, and Brookfield Properties. Greenberg led high-performing teams, oversaw multi-billion-dollar portfolios, and helped direct investment and reinvestment, along with operational initiatives across major U.S. markets.
"We are confident that David’s multifamily leadership and proven ability to guide high performing teams will ensure we continue delivering exceptional experiences for our residents," said Clyde Holland, Founder and CEO of Holland Partner Group. "We're looking forward to the positive impact he will have across our residential platform."
In his role as President of Residential, Greenberg will lead Holland’s residential operations across all markets, guiding platform strategy, portfolio performance, and organizational development. He will work closely with senior leadership to enhance operational systems, strengthen resident experience, grow cash flows and drive long-term asset values.
About Holland Partner Group
Founded in 2000, Holland Partner Group is a fully integrated real estate investment company acquiring and developing high-quality investment properties in the Western United States, with expertise in development, construction, acquisition, redevelopment, and property management. Holland creates sustainable, socially connected, and vibrant communities for residents to work, live, and enjoy life.
The company’s seasoned 700-plus-member team works together to create innovative, value-driven communities, championing every phase of development, construction and management of its mixed-use properties, including residential, retail, and mixed-use communities. Headquartered in Vancouver, Wash., Holland has offices in Seattle, Northern California, Los Angeles, Denver, and San Diego. For more information, visit
www.hollandpartnergroup.com
.
All Posts
LET US HELP YOU!
Holland Partner Group
is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at
[email protected]
or
[email protected]
. You may also call
(360) 694-7888
.
CONTACT US
(360) 694-7888
808 Washington St, #500
Vancouver, WA 98660
Holland Residential (California), Inc. -
California DRE License No. 01378119
SOCIAL
Holland Partner Group
| All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy
ESG Policy
Press
Transparency in Coverage
Happily Made by
Razz
