SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/holland-partner-group-releases-first-sustainability-report-highlights-significant-growth-in-gresb-scoring
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/holland-partner-group-releases-first-sustainability-report-highlights-significant-growth-in-gresb-scoring
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: 



ABOUT US
SERVICES
LEADERSHIP
CAREERS
SUSTAINABILITY
CULTURE
PRESS
Share with friends

OCTOBER 2024 - HOLLAND PARTNER GROUP RELEASES FIRST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
10.24.2024
Holland Partner Group Releases First Sustainability Report, Highlights Significant Growth in GRESB Scoring
VANCOUVER, Wash. — October 24th, 2024 — Holland Partner Group is pleased to announce the release of its
inaugural
Sustainability Report, a significant step forward in the company’s commitment towards its environmental, social, and governance plus resiliency (ESG+R) strategy. The report reveals remarkable progress within GRESB (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) scoring, illustrating Holland’s emphasis on improving sustainability practices within the real estate sector.

The report highlights several key achievements, including a 17% increase in Holland's GRESB Development Score, now at 84, and a 15% improvement in the Real Estate Benchmark Score, which stands at 69. These results are based on the 2023 reporting year and reflect Holland’s dedication to integrating sustainability across all business lines.

The Sustainability Report outlines the successful execution of ESG+R practices across the company’s diverse portfolio, featuring 60 projects that are LEED certified or in the process of becoming so. The
Lark
, located in Oakland’s Uptown District, exemplifies Holland’s innovative approach to sustainable building. This award-winning high-rise project employs a hybrid light-gauge and concrete shear wall system, which addresses seismic challenges and reduces carbon emissions by 40%.
WEST
, San Diego’s first true mixed-use high-rise, earned
LEED Silver certification
and is on track to achieve
WELL certification
for its 280,000 square feet of office space.

Beyond its environmental accomplishments, the report highlights Holland Partner Group’s dedication to enhancing employee and community engagement. The Holland Cares volunteer program provides employees with 16 hours of volunteer time off annually. The program saw a 52% rise in volunteer hours utilized in 2024 compared to the previous year, furthering its mission to support the communities where its employees and residents live and work.
"Sustainability is a core value that permeates every aspect of our operations and guides our decision-making process. It reflects our collective commitment to reducing carbon footprints, promoting energy efficiency, and creating healthier living spaces for our residents and communities. It is an approach that will enhance long-term value for our investors, and we believe this report reflects that responsibility,” said
Clyde Holland, Founder and CEO of Holland Partner Group.

The full 2024 Sustainability Report can be viewed on Holland Partner Group’s Sustainability Page by visiting
Sustainability | Holland Partner Group
.

About Holland Partner Group

Founded in 2000, Holland is a fully integrated real estate investment company developing high-quality investment properties in the Western United States, with expertise in development, construction, acquisition, redevelopment, and property management. Holland creates sustainable, socially connected, and vibrant communities to work, live, and enjoy life.

The company’s seasoned 750-plus-member team creates innovative, quality, and value-driven residential and commercial projects, championing every phase of development and construction of its mixed-use properties, including residential, office, parking garages, and retail assets.

Headquartered in Vancouver, Wash., Holland has offices in Denver, Seattle, Southern California, Northern California, and San Diego.

For more information, visit
www.hollandpartnergroup.com
.

Media Contacts:
Dan Tremaine-McCarthy, Holland Partner Group
[email protected]
|
360-949-3652

All Posts
LET US HELP YOU!
Holland Partner Group
is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at
[email protected]
or
[email protected]
. You may also call
(360) 694-7888
.
CONTACT US
(360) 694-7888
808 Washington St, #500
Vancouver, WA 98660
Holland Residential (California), Inc. -
California DRE License No. 01378119
SOCIAL
Holland Partner Group
| All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy
ESG Policy
Press
Transparency in Coverage
Happily Made by
Razz
