SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/october-2025-holland-partner-group-announces-opening-of-paxton-a-new-coastal-living-destination-in-huntington-beach
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/october-2025-holland-partner-group-announces-opening-of-paxton-a-new-coastal-living-destination-in-huntington-beach
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: 



ABOUT US
SERVICES
LEADERSHIP
CAREERS
SUSTAINABILITY
CULTURE
PRESS
Share with friends

OCTOBER 2025 - HOLLAND PARTNER GROUP ANNOUNCES OPENING OF PAXTON, A NEW COASTAL LIVING DESTINATION IN HUNTINGTON BEACH
10.29.2025
HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. (October 29, 2025)
— Holland Partner Group is proud to announce the opening of
Paxton
, a new luxury apartment community in Huntington Beach that captures the essence of modern coastal living. Ideally located near the corner of Beach Boulevard and Delaware Street, this striking 6-story development features 346 luxury apartment homes thoughtfully designed to capture the spirit of Southern California’s laid-back coastal lifestyle with modern sophistication.
Paxton offers residents convenient access to Huntington Beach’s iconic shoreline, vibrant retail and dining scenes, and nearby employment centers throughout Southern California. The community’s architecture and interiors reflect a timeless, coastal aesthetic - blending clean lines, natural textures, and airy, light-filled spaces.
Residents can enjoy a resort-inspired experience every day, with a collection of amenities that cater to relaxation, wellness, and connection. Paxton features a sparkling swimming pool & spa with cabanas and lounge seating, an expansive fitness center with state-of-the-art equipment and dedicated yoga space, outdoor courtyards with fire pits, and a stylish clubhouse designed for entertaining. Additional amenities include co-working and collaboration lounges, pet-friendly spaces, EV charging stations, and secure parking.
“With Paxton, we set out to create a community that embodies the best of Huntington Beach; introducing a modern, luxurious design to its timeless coastal character,” said George Elum, Managing Director of Development at Holland Partner Group. “We’re thrilled to welcome residents to a community where they can unwind, gather, and enjoy the best that this area has to offer.”
Paxton offers a range of studio, one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartment homes with open layouts, premium finishes, and private outdoor spaces in select residences. Leasing is now open, with model homes available for tours.
For more information, visit
Paxton's website.
About Holland Partner Group
Founded in 2000, Holland Partner Group is a fully integrated real estate investment company developing high-quality investment properties in the Western United States, with expertise in development, construction, acquisition, redevelopment, and property management. Holland creates sustainable, socially connected, and vibrant communities to work, live, and enjoy life.
The company’s seasoned 700-plus-member team creates innovative, quality, and value-driven residential and commercial projects, championing every phase of development and construction of its mixed-use properties, including residential, office, parking garages, and retail assets. Headquartered in Vancouver, Wash., Holland has offices in Denver, Seattle, Northern California, Los Angeles, and San Diego. For more information, visit
www.hollandpartnergroup.com
.
Media Contacts:
Dan Tremaine-McCarthy, Holland Partner Group
[email protected]
|
360-949-3652
Additional photos available by request (Credit: Steven J. Magner Photography)
All Posts
LET US HELP YOU!
Holland Partner Group
is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at
[email protected]
or
[email protected]
. You may also call
(360) 694-7888
.
CONTACT US
(360) 694-7888
808 Washington St, #500
Vancouver, WA 98660
Holland Residential (California), Inc. -
California DRE License No. 01378119
SOCIAL
Holland Partner Group
| All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy
ESG Policy
Press
Transparency in Coverage
Happily Made by
Razz
