SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/may-2026-holland-partner-group-names-benjamin-meeker-as-chief-financial-officer
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/may-2026-holland-partner-group-names-benjamin-meeker-as-chief-financial-officer
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: 



ABOUT US
SERVICES
LEADERSHIP
CAREERS
SUSTAINABILITY
CULTURE
PRESS
Share with friends

MAY 2026 - HOLLAND PARTNER GROUP NAMES BENJAMIN MEEKER AS CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
05.15.2026
VANCOUVER, Wash. (May 15, 2026) — Holland Partner Group, a fully integrated real estate investment company, announced the appointment of Benjamin Meeker as its Chief Financial Officer.
Meeker joins Holland with more than two decades of experience in real estate finance, capital markets, and strategic leadership. Most recently, he served as Chief Financial Officer at Taubman, where he oversaw all financial functions and played a key leadership role in the company’s $10 billion merger with Simon Property Group (NYSE: SPG). During his tenure, Meeker led over $18 billion in financings, acquisitions, dispositions, and joint ventures, helping position the company for long-term growth and stability. He also delivered more than $20 million in annual cost savings while strengthening financial transparency and operational performance across the organization.
"Ben’s depth of experience in real estate capital markets and corporate finance will be a strong addition to Holland as we continue to scale our platform and execute on our long-term strategy," said Clyde Holland, Founder and CEO of Holland Partner Group. "He has navigated complex transactions, built high-performing finance teams, and delivered results at every level. His experience will support our continued focus on disciplined growth and value creation.”
In his role as Chief Financial Officer, Meeker will serve as a key member of the executive leadership team, overseeing the company’s financial strategy and capital markets activities. He will also be responsible for supporting the optimization of capital structure and ensuring financial stability across the organization. Meeker will also play a critical role in financial reporting, ESG initiatives, investor relations, risk management, and capital allocation while reinforcing Holland’s commitment to a customer-focused approach.
About Holland Partner Group
Founded in 2000, Holland Partner Group is a fully integrated real estate investment company developing high-quality investment properties in the Western United States, with expertise in development, construction, acquisition, redevelopment, and property management. Holland creates sustainable, socially connected, and vibrant communities to work, live, and enjoy life.
The company’s seasoned 700-member team creates innovative, quality, and value-driven residential and commercial projects, championing every phase of development and construction of its mixed-use properties, including residential, office, parking garages, and retail assets. Headquartered in Vancouver, Wash., Holland has offices in Denver, Seattle, Northern California, Los Angeles, and San Diego. For more information, visit
www.hollandpartnergroup.com
.
All Posts
LET US HELP YOU!
Holland Partner Group
is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at
[email protected]
or
[email protected]
. You may also call
(360) 694-7888
.
CONTACT US
(360) 694-7888
808 Washington St, #500
Vancouver, WA 98660
Holland Residential (California), Inc. -
California DRE License No. 01378119
SOCIAL
Holland Partner Group
| All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy
ESG Policy
Press
Transparency in Coverage
Happily Made by
Razz
