SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/holland-partner-group-unveils-hallasan-in-koreatown-los-angeles-california
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/holland-partner-group-unveils-hallasan-in-koreatown-los-angeles-california
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: 



ABOUT US
SERVICES
LEADERSHIP
CAREERS
SUSTAINABILITY
CULTURE
PRESS
Share with friends

SEPTEMBER 2023 - HALLASAN: A NEW ICONIC HIGH-RISE LIVING EXPERIENCE IN KOREATOWN
09.07.2023
Holland Partner Group
, is thrilled to announce the recent opening of
Hallasan
, an extraordinary high-rise apartment tower positioned in the heart of Koreatown.
Positioned at 696 S. New Hampshire Avenue, Hallasan stands as a stunning architectural masterpiece that has transformed a former surface parking lot into a 36-story vertical oasis. With its contemporary design, thoughtful amenities, and prime location, Hallasan offers a remarkable living experience to its residents.
The tower features 375 thoughtfully designed residences, ranging from studio to three-bedroom layouts, catering to a diverse array of lifestyles. Boasting exceptional views and abundant natural light, Hallasan's residences have been meticulously crafted to provide comfort and luxury. Monthly rents range from $2,491 for a stylish 468-square-foot studio unit to $9,884 for a lavish three-bedroom penthouse.
"Hallasan represents a new era of sophisticated urban living in Koreatown. Our team is thrilled to introduce this remarkable addition to the community, offering residents a unique blend of modern design, convenience, and vibrant amenities," said Dan DeMitro, Senior Vice President of Asset Strategy and Operations at Holland Partner Group.
MVE + Partners, renowned for their innovative architectural designs, have brought Hallasan to life. The tower's upper levels are adorned with sleek glass facades, while a transparent screen envelops the parking podium, seamlessly blending aesthetics and functionality. The tower also boasts amenity decks on both its podium and rooftop levels, offering residents the ultimate spaces for relaxation and socializing. Residents can enjoy a state-of-the-art fitness center, a sparkling swimming pool, and a collaborative co-working lounge.
“We are thrilled to have had this opportunity to design once again for longtime partner Holland Partner Group,” said Sherwin Pineda, Principal & Director of Design Los Angeles at MVE + Partners. “Hallasan is an important part of Koreatown’s renaissance, and it’s inspiring to see their investment in this historic Los Angeles neighborhood.”
Holland Partner Group's commitment to creating exceptional living spaces is evident in Hallasan's innovative design, thoughtful amenities, and prime location. With the grand opening of Hallasan, Koreatown welcomes a new symbol of contemporary luxury living.
For leasing inquiries and more information about Hallasan, please visit
HollandResidential.com
About Holland Partner Group:
Founded in 2000, Holland is a fully integrated real estate investment company developing high-quality investment properties in the Western United States, with expertise in development, construction, acquisition, redevelopment and property management. Holland creates sustainable, socially connected and vibrant communities to work, live and enjoy life.
The company’s seasoned 750-plus-member team creates innovative, quality, and value-driven residential and commercial projects, championing every phase of development and construction of its mixed-use properties, including residential, office, parking garages and retail assets. Headquartered in Vancouver, Wash., Holland has offices in Denver, Seattle, Southern California, Northern California, and San Diego.
Media Contacts:
Dan Tremaine-McCarthy, Holland Partner Group
[email protected]
| 360-949-3652
Heather Villanueva, Weinstein PR
[email protected]
|503-753-9193
All Posts
LET US HELP YOU!
Holland Partner Group
is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at
[email protected]
or
[email protected]
. You may also call
(360) 694-7888
.
CONTACT US
(360) 694-7888
808 Washington St, #500
Vancouver, WA 98660
Holland Residential (California), Inc. -
California DRE License No. 01378119
SOCIAL
Holland Partner Group
| All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy
ESG Policy
Press
Transparency in Coverage
Happily Made by
Razz
