SOURCE: https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/holland-honored-with-prestigious-2023-leed-homes-power-builder-award
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://www.hollandpartnergroup.com/blog/holland-honored-with-prestigious-2023-leed-homes-power-builder-award
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: 



ABOUT US
SERVICES
LEADERSHIP
CAREERS
SUSTAINABILITY
CULTURE
PRESS
Share with friends

JULY 2023 - HOLLAND HONORED WITH LEED POWER BUILDER AWARD
07.17.2023
Holland Partner Group is thrilled to announce that the company has been honored with the esteemed LEED Home Builder Award for the current year. This recognition serves as a testament to Holland's unwavering commitment to sustainable building practices and dedication to creating environmentally friendly homes.
LEED, known as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is a globally recognized green building certification program that sets the benchmark for sustainable construction. The LEED Home Builder Award is granted to companies that demonstrate exceptional leadership and innovation in constructing energy-efficient, resource-conscious, and healthy homes.
According to LEED, a 2023 Homes Power Builder belongs to "an elite group of developers and builders who have exhibited an outstanding commitment to LEED and residential green building. At least 75% of each Power Builder's homes/unit count from 2022 achieved LEED certification. Homes at any LEED certification level are eligible for consideration."
“This esteemed award not only celebrates Holland's accomplishments as a sustainable home builder but also highlights the collaborative efforts and hard work of every team member involved,” said Melissa von Borstel, Director of Sustainability and Resiliency for Holland Partner Group. “It reflects the collective commitment to reducing carbon footprints, promoting energy efficiency, and creating healthier living spaces.”
Moving forward, Holland will continue to embrace the principles of sustainability and innovation, continually seeking new ways to surpass industry standards and enhance the quality of life for the community while minimizing the environmental impact. This accolade will serve as a constant reminder of Holland's responsibility to build a greener, more sustainable future.
About Holland Partner Group:
Founded in 2000, Holland is a fully integrated real estate investment company developing high-quality investment properties in the Western United States, with expertise in development, construction, acquisition, redevelopment and property management. Holland creates sustainable, socially connected and vibrant communities to work, live and enjoy life.
The company’s seasoned 750-plus-member team creates innovative, quality, and value-driven residential and commercial projects, championing every phase of development and construction of its mixed-use properties, including residential, office, parking garages and retail assets. Headquartered in Vancouver, Wash., Holland has offices in Denver, Seattle, Southern California, Northern California, and San Diego.

Media Contacts:
Dan Tremaine-McCarthy, Holland Partner Group
[email protected]
| 360-949-3652
Heather Villanueva, Weinstein PR
[email protected]
|503-753-9193
All Posts
LET US HELP YOU!
Holland Partner Group
is committed to facilitating the accessibility and usability of our website for all individuals with disabilities. If at any time you require assistance with accessing our website, career site, or services, or if you have specific questions or concerns about the accessibility of a particular web page, please contact us at
[email protected]
or
[email protected]
. You may also call
(360) 694-7888
.
CONTACT US
(360) 694-7888
808 Washington St, #500
Vancouver, WA 98660
Holland Residential (California), Inc. -
California DRE License No. 01378119
SOCIAL
Holland Partner Group
| All Rights Reserved.

Privacy Policy
ESG Policy
Press
Transparency in Coverage
Happily Made by
Razz
