SOURCE: https://www.sekisuihouse.co.jp/library/english/topics/datail/__icsFiles/afieldfile/2013/11/06/20111107e.pdf
FETCHED_FROM: https://www.sekisuihouse.co.jp/library/english/topics/datail/__icsFiles/afieldfile/2013/11/06/20111107e.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 application/pdf
PROVENANCE: live

                                                                                        News Release


Sekisui House launches five new urban multi-family rental residence development projects
in the U.S. jointly with the Holland Partner Group.


November 7, 2013 – Sekisui House, Ltd. is going to embark on five real estate development
projects jointly with the Holland Partner Group (“Holland”), through its subsidiary, North America
Sekisui House, LLC (“NASH”). These projects are centered on building rental apartments with
approximately 2,300 residential units in urban areas in the U.S. While Sekisui House has already
been engaged in suburban master-planned community (MPC) development projects in the U.S.,
the company is about to enter the field of urban multi-family rental residence development with its
new business partner.
    In the U.S., rental housing residents currently account for thirty-five percent of the population,
and this percentage has been growing over the years. Recently, more people have been moving
from suburbs to urban areas, which is especially true for the so-called “Generation Y.” In the
mid-term, this trend is expected to lead to a growth in demand for high-quality rental housing with
convenient access to urban centers where employment opportunities are abundant. Both having a
proven track record of developing housing with high added value in an eco-friendly and
sustainable manner in strategic locations, Sekisui House and Holland have seized this business
opportunity and agreed to carry out five projects jointly on a group-wide basis.
    Among the five projects, the project in Portland, Oregon, will be launched first, with
construction scheduled to be started by the end of 2013 and completed in November 2014. Upon
completion, the residential units will be offered for rent. The remaining projects will follow soon in
the same manner. After the rental housing business becomes profitable, the residential units will
be offered for sale in or after 2017, depending on market conditions.


Market/project site                                                  Scale of development
Seattle, Washington:                                                 370 residential units for rent
 Located in the northern part of Seattle that has been growing       and commercial facilities
 rapidly over the years, adjacent to an area that has a
 concentration of IT-related companies including head offices of
 Internet-related companies.
Portland, Oregon:                                                    370 residential units for rent
 Located in the center of the western part of Portland where         and commercial facilities
 employment opportunities are abundant especially for technical
 personnel.
Denver, Colorado:                                                    650 residential units for rent
 Located in the central part of Denver with a concentration of       and commercial facilities
 employment opportunities, in the railway station and bus
 terminal redevelopment area. Extremely close to the existing
 local commercial center.
Denver, Colorado:                                                  300 residential units for rent
 Located in a part of southern Denver which has the greatest       and commercial facilities
 amount of employment opportunities available.
Los Angeles, California:                                           640 residential units for rent
 Downtown LA is within walking distance.                           and commercial facilities
Total                                                              2,330 residential units for rent
                                                                   and other facilities


    Group-wide, Holland is capable of handling the entire process of the housing business from
development and construction to property management, and is well-informed on the markets
where these projects are conducted. Backed by these strengths, Holland will work with the Sekisui
House Group to develop high-quality real estate that satisfies customer and market needs.
    With a track record of delivering more housing products than any other Japanese housing
manufacturer, Sekisui House will foster a mutually beneficial partnership with Holland and promote
the above joint projects through its wholly owned subsidiary, NASH.
■Outline of the five projects and project sites
Since July 2010, Sekisui House has been promoting real estate development in the U.S. through
NASH. The first project is being carried out in Loudoun County in Virginia, in which a
master-planned community (MPC) named One Loudoun has been developed in the suburbs
jointly with a local developer, Miller and Smith. This project was quickly followed by twenty-seven
MPC development projects, including Cinco Ranch in the suburbs of Houston, Texas. Most of
these projects have been conducted in the suburbs of large cities with strong local economies and
abundant job opportunities, in partnership with another developer, Newland Communities. With
the addition of the five joint projects with Holland, a total of thirty-three projects are underway as of
November 7, 2013.


     Seattle, Washington
      ワシントン州シアトル




    オレゴン州ポートランド
    Portland, Oregon
                               コロラド州
                             Denver,
                               デンバーColorado
                                              コロラド州
                                           Denver,
                                             デンバー  Colorado


                  カリフォルニア州
                 Los Angeles, California
                   ロサンゼルス




                                                                                          New project
                                                                                          今回の対象案件     site


                                                                                          NASHプロジェクト
                                                                                          NASH’s project site


                                                                                          NASHオフィス
                                                                                          NASH’s office




                                                        Housing development project in Los Angeles

                                                        (Artist’s rendering)




■Company profile
   Holland Partner Group
   Holland Partner Group is a major real estate developer headquartered in Washington, with
   development of urban multi-family housing at the core of its business. The company owns
   24,000 rental residential units in the western part of the U.S., and its property management and
   development fund amounts to five billion dollars. While Holland is basically a developer, it has
   five subsidiaries each in charge of property development, construction, acquisition,
   redevelopment and management, which enables the company to offer services across the
   entire range of the property business on a group-wide basis. Rather than expanding the scope
   of its business, the company places greater importance on delivering higher quality and optimal
   solutions in limited target markets, which include Seattle, Portland, Los Angeles, Denver, San
   Diego and Phoenix. In these target markets, the company has established a huge presence
   and garnered a great reputation with its track record of successfully implementing competitive
   projects.


   Sekisui House, Ltd.
   Headquartered in Kita-ku, Osaka, Sekisui House is the largest housing manufacturer in Japan,
   having delivered a total of 2,159,345 homes by the end of July 2013 since its inception. In 1999,
   the company adopted a management policy that placed special importance on the environment,
   and has since offered a lot of eco-friendly industrialized housing as a leader of the Japanese
   housing industry. The company also has successfully implemented a number of urban
   development projects to create pleasant, sustainable and eco-friendly residential areas that
   constitute a natural part of existing local environments and communities. Its wholly owned
   subsidiary, North America Sekisui House, LLC (NASH), is responsible for the company’s
   operations in the U.S.



For further information, please contact:
Mr. Hitoshi Kuroyanagi
Chief Manager of Investor Relations Office
Sekisui House, Ltd.
Tel: 06-6440-3445 Fax: 06-6440-3369
Email: info-ir@qz.sekisuihouse.co.jp
