SOURCE: https://therealdeal.com/national/2025/10/03/artbothell-mixed-use-development-sells-to-mesirow/
FETCHED_FROM: charset=utf-8 https://therealdeal.com/national/2025/10/03/artbothell-mixed-use-development-sells-to-mesirow/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
HTTP: 200 text/html;
PROVENANCE: live

TITLE: Bothell Mixed-Use Development Sells to Mesirow

Bothell Mixed-Use Development Sells to Mesirow
Skip to content
Skip to site index
Sign in
Subscribe
Subscribe
search
Residential
National
A
Mesirow notches one of Seattle metro’s top multifamily buys this year
Chicago investor paid $177M for Bothel property
Mesirow interim CEO Richard Price and  Holland Partner Group CEO Clyde Holland with  The Villas at Beardslee (Mesirow, Basalite, Holland)
Oct 3, 2025, 10:00 PM UTC
Save article
SHARE THIS ARTICLE
FONT SIZE
A
A
A
By
TRD Staff
A Chicago-based real estate investment firm registered the Seattle region’s second biggest multifamily deal of the year so far.
Mesirow
acquired a mixed-use apartment complex in Bothell for $177 million, the Puget Sound Business Journal
reported
. The firm picked up the 451-unit Villas at Beardslee from Vancouver, Washington-based seller Holland Partner Group.
Holland Partner Group
bought the buildings in separate transactions between 2017 and 2018, paying a total of nearly $165.5 million for the property, the Business Journal reported. The Villas at Beardslee’s four parcels have a total tax assessment value of $184 million, per the Business Journal.
The development was completed in phases between 2014 and 2017 with Rush Construction Company and Sierra Construction serving as general contractors on the project. Prior to groundbreaking, an entity linked to Valstand Private Equity bought the land from the City of Bothell.
The Villas at Beardslee complex spans 486,000 square feet across five buildings on 7.5 acres of land. In addition to residences, the development includes 62,000 square feet of commercial space. Those tenants include Beardslee Public House, Wildwood Spirits Company, Starbucks, Milan Laser Hair Removal, White Lotus, Marlowe Boutique and Livewell Animal Urgent Care. Residents can choose between studios, one- and two-bedroom units at the property.
SIGN UP
The year might be mostly over, but records are still being set in the Seattle region for the priciest sales this year.
Last month, Security Properties
acquired five Seattle-area multifamily properties
from
Washington Holdings
for $400.8 million, marking the biggest real estate transaction by sale price so far this year.
The portfolio contains a total of 903 units. In Seattle, those properties include the Liza apartments in Eastlake, The Hemlock apartments in Greenwood and The Hayes on Stone Way in Fremont. The transaction also included Carter on the Park and Heron Flats & Lofts in downtown Redmond. In total, the buildings boast more than 900,000 square feet.
—
Chris Malone Méndez

Read more

Commercial

South Florida

Mesirow buys Fort Lauderdale multifamily complex for $84M

Commercial

Chicago

Tax stability, retail galore grease Mesirow’s multifamily listing

Commercial

Chicago

Mesirow downsizes Chicago HQ in lease extension

Companies and People
Holland Partner Group
Mesirow
Security Properties
Starbucks
Chris Malone Méndez
Tags
Acquisition
Apartment complex
Construction
Mixed Use Development
Property sale
Tax assessment
Recommended
All Markets
All Markets
Chicago
Los Angeles
National
New York
San Francisco
South Florida
Texas
Recommended For You
The Real Deal

About us
Contact us
Careers
Markets

New York
South Florida
Los Angeles
Chicago
Latest News
Sections

Commercial
Residential
Development
Video
Newsletters
Products & Services

Advertise
Subscribe
Customer Service
Corporate Subscriptions
Data
Licensing & Reprints
Shop
Legal

Trademark Use
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Privacy Preferences
All rights reserved © 2026 The Real Deal is a registered Trademark of Korangy Publishing Inc.
450 West 31st Street, New York, NY 10001 Phone: 212-260-1332