SOURCE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aXS8IB0OKTI
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
PROVENANCE: live; video title and description read from the page's embedded player data (the video itself was not transcribed)
TITLE: Spotlight on Silicon Valley CRE | Clyde Holland, Holland Partner Group - YouTube
PUBLISHED: 2026-09-11T14:49:50-07:00

DESCRIPTION:
Is Bay Area commercial real estate development headed for the biggest cost spike in decades? That’s the argument Holland Partner Group CEO Clyde Holland makes in our latest AFIRE POV interview, a spotlight on property market trends in San Jose, San Francisco, Mountain View and environs. 

“Demand has shifted back to the innovation centers,” Holland says. The problem is that the construction labor left Silicon Valley during COVID, and Silicon Valley has just 2,500 units coming online over three and a half years. “We're producing about 10% of the annual demand that's happening in that marketplace.”

The Silicon Valley development cycle, from permit to move-in, takes about five years, according to Holland. “During this five-year period, we expect 148,000 units of undersupply in those collective markets,” he says, calling San Francisco the best market in the country. “We think that then leads to about 10% compounded annually for the next five years.”

Holland wraps his interview with a checklist for investors. He suggests that investors should ask themselves four questions: 
• Do you really understand the level of demand in the marketplace that you're building? 
• Is the marketplace demanding the product that you're putting forward? 
• Are you putting your capital structure together anticipating that there might be some volatility, which we're seeing a lot of? 
• Do you have an operations focus that knows how to operate even in tough times? 

If you can respond “yes” to each of the four questions, Holland says, move forward. Because “without really understanding the product, the market, location, and operations, you really subject yourself to hoping everything works out—and for many people, hope hasn't been a very good strategic plan.”

For more from CRE experts on the US market, register for the AFIRE Annual Member Meeting in New York on Sept. 15-17, 2026:
https://www.afire.org/events/amm2026/
See the agenda:
https://www.afire.org/events/amm2026/#agenda
