SOURCE: https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-12/part-1005#p-1005.14
API: https://www.ecfr.gov/api/versioner/v1/full/2026-09-25/title-12.xml?part=1005
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from the eCFR versioner API (up to date as of 2026-09-25); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/ecfr.py

§ 1005.14 Electronic fund transfer service provider not holding consumer's account.
(a) Provider of electronic fund transfer service. A person that provides an electronic fund transfer service to a consumer but that does not hold the consumer's account is subject to all requirements of this part if the person:
(1) Issues a debit card (or other access device) that the consumer can use to access the consumer's account held by a financial institution; and
(2) Has no agreement with the account-holding institution regarding such access.
(b) Compliance by service provider. In addition to the requirements generally applicable under this part, the service provider shall comply with the following special rules:
(1) Disclosures and documentation. The service provider shall give the disclosures and documentation required by §§ 1005.7, 1005.8, and 1005.9 of this part that are within the purview of its relationship with the consumer. The service provider need not furnish the periodic statement required by § 1005.9(b) if the following conditions are met:
(i) The debit card (or other access device) issued to the consumer bears the service provider's name and an address or telephone number for making inquiries or giving notice of error;
(ii) The consumer receives a notice concerning use of the debit card that is substantially similar to the notice contained in appendix A of this part;
(iii) The consumer receives, on or with the receipts required by § 1005.9(a), the address and telephone number to be used for an inquiry, to give notice of an error, or to report the loss or theft of the debit card;
(iv) The service provider transmits to the account-holding institution the information specified in § 1005.9(b)(1), in the format prescribed by the automated clearinghouse (ACH) system used to clear the fund transfers;
(v) The service provider extends the time period for notice of loss or theft of a debit card, set forth in § 1005.6(b)(1) and (2), from two business days to four business days after the consumer learns of the loss or theft; and extends the time periods for reporting unauthorized transfers or errors, set forth in §§ 1005.6(b)(3) and 1005.11(b)(1)(i), from 60 days to 90 days following the transmittal of a periodic statement by the account-holding institution.
(2) Error resolution. (i) The service provider shall extend by a reasonable time the period in which notice of an error must be received, specified in § 1005.11(b)(1)(i), if a delay resulted from an initial attempt by the consumer to notify the account-holding institution.
(ii) The service provider shall disclose to the consumer the date on which it initiates a transfer to effect a provisional credit in accordance with § 1005.11(c)(2)(ii).
(iii) If the service provider determines an error occurred, it shall transfer funds to or from the consumer's account, in the appropriate amount and within the applicable time period, in accordance with § 1005.11(c)(2)(i).
(iv) If funds were provisionally credited and the service provider determines no error occurred, it may reverse the credit. The service provider shall notify the account-holding institution of the period during which the account-holding institution must honor debits to the account in accordance with § 1005.11(d)(2)(ii). If an overdraft results, the service provider shall promptly reimburse the account-holding institution in the amount of the overdraft.
(c) Compliance by account-holding institution. The account-holding institution need not comply with the requirements of the Act and this part with respect to electronic fund transfers initiated through the service provider except as follows:
(1) Documentation. The account-holding institution shall provide a periodic statement that describes each electronic fund transfer initiated by the consumer with the access device issued by the service provider. The account-holding institution has no liability for the failure to comply with this requirement if the service provider did not provide the necessary information; and
(2) Error resolution. Upon request, the account-holding institution shall provide information or copies of documents needed by the service provider to investigate errors or to furnish copies of documents to the consumer. The account-holding institution shall also honor debits to the account in accordance with § 1005.11(d)(2)(ii).
