SOURCE: https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-12/part-1005#p-1005.15
API: https://www.ecfr.gov/api/versioner/v1/full/2026-09-25/title-12.xml?part=1005
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from the eCFR versioner API (up to date as of 2026-09-25); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/ecfr.py

§ 1005.15 Electronic fund transfer of government benefits.
(a) Government agency subject to regulation. (1) A government agency is deemed to be a financial institution for purposes of the Act and this part if directly or indirectly it issues an access device to a consumer for use in initiating an electronic fund transfer of government benefits from an account, other than needs-tested benefits in a program established under state or local law or administered by a state or local agency. The agency shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Act and this part except as modified by this section.
(2) For purposes of this section, the term “account” or “government benefit account” means an account established by a government agency for distributing government benefits to a consumer electronically, such as through automated teller machines or point-of-sale terminals, but does not include an account for distributing needs-tested benefits in a program established under state or local law or administered by a state or local agency.
(b) Issuance of access devices. For purposes of this section, a consumer is deemed to request an access device when the consumer applies for government benefits that the agency disburses or will disburse by means of an electronic fund transfer. The agency shall verify the identity of the consumer receiving the device by reasonable means before the device is activated.
(c) Pre-acquisition disclosure requirements. (1) Before a consumer acquires a government benefit account, a government agency shall comply with the pre-acquisition disclosure requirements applicable to prepaid accounts as set forth in § 1005.18(b).
(2) Additional content for government benefit accounts—(i) Statement regarding consumer's payment options. As part of its short form pre-acquisition disclosures, the agency must provide a statement that the consumer does not have to accept the government benefit account and directing the consumer to ask about other ways to receive their benefit payments from the agency instead of receiving them via the account, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “You do not have to accept this benefits card. Ask about other ways to receive your benefits.” Alternatively, an agency may provide a statement that the consumer has several options to receive benefit payments, followed by a list of the options available to the consumer, and directing the consumer to indicate which option the consumer chooses using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “You have several options to receive your payments: [list of options available to the consumer]; or this benefits card. Tell the benefits office which option you choose.” This statement must be located above the information required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(i) through (iv). This statement must appear in a minimum type size of eight points (or 11 pixels) and appear in no larger a type size than what is used for the fee headings required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(i) through (iv).
(ii) Statement regarding state-required information or other fee discounts and waivers. An agency may, but is not required to, include a statement in one additional line of text in the short form disclosure directing the consumer to a particular location outside the short form disclosure for information on ways the consumer may access government benefit account funds and balance information for free or for a reduced fee. This statement must be located directly below any statements disclosed pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(3)(i) and (ii), or, if no such statements are disclosed, above the statement required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(x). This statement must appear in the same type size used to disclose variable fee information pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(3)(i) and (ii), or, if none, the same type size used for the information required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(x) through (xiii).
(3) Form of disclosures. When a short form disclosure required by paragraph (c) of this section is provided in writing or electronically, the information required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(i) through (ix) shall be provided in the form of a table. Except as provided in § 1005.18(b)(6)(iii)(B), the short form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(2) shall be provided in a form substantially similar to Model Form A-10(a) of appendix A of this part. Sample Form A-10(f) in appendix A of this part provides an example of the long form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(4) when the agency does not offer multiple service plans.
(d) Access to account information—(1) Periodic statement alternative. A government agency need not furnish periodic statements required by § 1005.9(b) if the agency makes available to the consumer:
(i) The consumer's account balance, through a readily available telephone line and at a terminal (such as by providing balance information at a balance-inquiry terminal or providing it, routinely or upon request, on a terminal receipt at the time of an electronic fund transfer);
(ii) An electronic history of the consumer's account transactions, such as through a Web site, that covers at least 12 months preceding the date the consumer electronically accesses the account; and
(iii) A written history of the consumer's account transactions that is provided promptly in response to an oral or written request and that covers at least 24 months preceding the date the agency receives the consumer's request.
(2) Additional access to account information requirements. For government benefit accounts, a government agency shall comply with the account information requirements applicable to prepaid accounts as set forth in § 1005.18(c)(3) through (5).
(e) Modified disclosure, limitations on liability, and error resolution requirements. A government agency that provides information under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall comply with the following:
(1) Initial disclosures. The agency shall modify the disclosures under § 1005.7(b) by disclosing:
(i) Access to account information. A telephone number that the consumer may call to obtain the account balance, the means by which the consumer can obtain an electronic account history, such as the address of a Web site, and a summary of the consumer's right to receive a written account history upon request (in place of the summary of the right to receive a periodic statement required by § 1005.7(b)(6)), including a telephone number to call to request a history. The disclosure required by this paragraph (e)(1)(i) may be made by providing a notice substantially similar to the notice contained in paragraph (a) of appendix A-5 of this part.
(ii) Error resolution. A notice concerning error resolution that is substantially similar to the notice contained in paragraph (b) of appendix A-5 of this part, in place of the notice required by § 1005.7(b)(10).
(2) Annual error resolution notice. The agency shall provide an annual notice concerning error resolution that is substantially similar to the notice contained in paragraph (b) of appendix A-5 of this part, in place of the notice required by § 1005.8(b). Alternatively, the agency may include on or with each electronic or written history provided in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a notice substantially similar to the abbreviated notice for periodic statements contained in paragraph (b) in appendix A-3 of this part, modified as necessary to reflect the error resolution provisions set forth in this section.
(3) Modified limitations on liability requirements. (i) For purposes of § 1005.6(b)(3), the 60-day period for reporting any unauthorized transfer shall begin on the earlier of:
(A) The date the consumer electronically accesses the consumer's account under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, provided that the electronic history made available to the consumer reflects the unauthorized transfer; or
(B) The date the agency sends a written history of the consumer's account transactions requested by the consumer under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section in which the unauthorized transfer is first reflected.
(ii) An agency may comply with paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section by limiting the consumer's liability for an unauthorized transfer as provided under § 1005.6(b)(3) for any transfer reported by the consumer within 120 days after the transfer was credited or debited to the consumer's account.
(4) Modified error resolution requirements. (i) The agency shall comply with the requirements of § 1005.11 in response to an oral or written notice of an error from the consumer that is received by the earlier of:
(A) Sixty days after the date the consumer electronically accesses the consumer's account under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, provided that the electronic history made available to the consumer reflects the alleged error; or
(B) Sixty days after the date the agency sends a written history of the consumer's account transactions requested by the consumer under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section in which the alleged error is first reflected.
(ii) In lieu of following the procedures in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, an agency complies with the requirements for resolving errors in § 1005.11 if it investigates any oral or written notice of an error from the consumer that is received by the agency within 120 days after the transfer allegedly in error was credited or debited to the consumer's account.
(f) Disclosure of fees and other information. For government benefit accounts, a government agency shall comply with the disclosure and change-in-terms requirements applicable to prepaid accounts as set forth in § 1005.18(f).
(g) Government benefit accounts accessible by hybrid prepaid-credit cards. For government benefit accounts accessible by hybrid prepaid-credit cards as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, a government agency shall comply with prohibitions and requirements applicable to prepaid accounts as set forth in § 1005.18(g).
[81 FR 84326, Nov. 22, 2016]
