SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.43
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.43 - References of triable issues and proceedings to judicial hearing officers or referees

(a) No application to refer an action or
special proceeding to a judicial hearing officer or referee will be entertained
unless a note of issue, where required, has been filed and the index number is
set forth in the moving papers and the proposed order.
(b) The proposed order of
reference shall be presented in duplicate, and a signed original order shall be
delivered to the referee. If such order is not presented for signature within
20 days after the court directs a reference, the application shall be deemed
abandoned.
(c) The
proposed order of reference, and the actual order of reference, shall indicate
whether the reference is one to hear and determine or to hear and
report.
(d) Every
order of reference which does not set forth a date certain for commencement of
the trial or hearing shall contain the following provision:
and it is further ORDERED that if trial of
the issue or action hereby referred is not begun within 60 days from the date
of this order, or before such later date as the referee or judicial hearing
officer may fix upon good cause shown, this order shall be cancelled and
revoked, shall be remitted by the referee or judicial hearing officer to the
court from which it was issued, and the matter hereby referred shall
immediately be returned to the court for trial.
(e) The term referee in this
section shall include, but not be limited to, commissioners of appraisal, and
shall not include receivers or referees in incompetency proceedings or mortgage
foreclosure proceedings.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.43
