SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.15
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.15 - Videotape recording of civil depositions

(a) When permitted. Depositions
authorized under the provisions of the Civil Practice Law and Rules or other
law may be taken, as permitted by section
3113
(b) of the Civil Practice Law and Rules, by
means of simultaneous audio and visual electronic recording, provided such
recording is made in conformity with this section.
(b) Other rules applicable.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, or where the nature of videotaped
recording makes compliance impossible or unnecessary, all rules generally
applicable to examinations before trial shall apply to videotaped recording of
depositions.
(c)
Notice of taking deposition. Every notice or subpoena for the taking of a
videotaped deposition shall state that it is to be videotaped and the name and
address of the videotape operator and of the operator's employer, if any. The
operator may be an employee of the attorney taking the deposition. Where an
application for an order to take a videotaped deposition is made, the
application and order shall contain the same information.
(d) Conduct of the examination.
(1) The deposition shall begin
by one of the attorneys or the operator stating on camera:
(i) the operator's name and
address;
(ii) the name
and address of the operator's employer;
(iii) the date, the time and place of the
deposition; and
(iv)
the party on whose behalf the deposition is being taken.
The officer before whom the deposition is
taken shall be a person authorized by statute and shall identify himself or
herself and swear the witness on camera. If the deposition requires the use of
more than one tape, the end of each tape and the beginning of each succeeding
tape shall be announced by the operator.
(2) Every videotaped deposition
shall be timed by means of a time-date generator which shall permanently record
hours, minutes and seconds. Each time the videotape is stopped and resumed,
such times shall be orally announced on the tape.
(3) More than one camera may be
used, either in sequence or simultaneously.
(4) At the conclusion of the deposition,
a statement shall be made on camera that the recording is completed. As soon as
practicable thereafter, the videotape shall be shown to the witness for
examination, unless such showing and examination are waived by the witness and
the parties.
(5)
Technical data, such as recording speeds and other information needed to replay
or copy the tape, shall be included on copies of the videotaped
deposition.
(e) Copies and transcription. The parties
may make audio copies of the deposition and thereafter may purchase additional
audio and audio-visual copies. A party may arrange to have a stenographic
transcription made of the deposition at his or her own expense.
(f) Certification. The officer
before whom the videotape deposition is taken shall cause to be attached to the
original videotape recording a certification that the witness was fully sworn
or affirmed by the officer and that the videotape recording is a true record of
the testimony given by the witness. If the witness has not waived the right to
a showing and examination of the videotape deposition, the witness shall also
sign the certification in accordance with the provisions of section
3116 of the Civil Practice Law and
Rules.
(g) Filing and
objections. (1) If no objections
have been made by any of the parties during the course of the deposition, the
videotape deposition may be filed by the proponent with the clerk of the trial
court and shall be filed upon the request of any party.
(2) If objections have been made
by any of the parties during the course of the deposition, the videotape
deposition, with the certification, shall be submitted to the court upon the
request of any of the parties within 10 days after its recording, or within
such other period as the parties may stipulate, or as soon thereafter as the
objections may be heard by the court, for the purpose of obtaining rulings on
the objections. An audio copy of the sound track may be submitted in lieu of
the videotape for this purpose, as the court may prefer. The court may view
such portions of the videotape recording as it deems pertinent to the
objections made, or may listen to an audiotape recording. The court, in its
discretion, may also require submission of a stenographic transcript of the
portion of the deposition to which objection is made, and may read such
transcript in lieu of reviewing the videotape or audio copy.
(3)
(i) The court shall rule on the
objections prior to the date set for trial and shall return the recording to
the proponent of the videotape with notice to the parties of its rulings and of
its instructions as to editing. The editing shall reflect the rulings of the
court and shall remove all references to the objections. The proponent, after
causing the videotape to be edited in accordance with the court's instructions,
may cause both the original videotape recording and the deleted version of the
recording, clearly identified, to be filed with the clerk of the trial court,
and shall do so at the request of any party. Before such filing, the proponent
shall permit the other party to view the edited videotape.
(ii) The court may, in respect
to objectionable material, instead of ordering its deletion, permit such
material to be clearly marked so that the audio recording may be suppressed by
the operator during the objectionable portion when the videotape is presented
at the trial. In such case the proponent may cause both the original videotape
recording and a marked version of that recording, each clearly identified, to
be filed with the clerk of the trial court, and shall do so at the request of
any party.
(h) Custody of tape. When the tape is
filed with the clerk of the court, the clerk shall give an appropriate receipt
for the tape and shall provide secure and adequate facilities for the storage
of videotape recordings.
(i) Use at trial. The use of videotape
recordings of depositions at the trial shall be governed by the provisions of
the Civil Practice Law and Rules and all other relevant statutes, court rules
and decisional law relating to depositions and relating to the admissibility of
evidence. The proponent of the videotaped deposition shall have the
responsibility of providing whatever equipment and personnel may be necessary
for presenting such videotape deposition.
(j) Applicability to audio taping of
depositions. Except where clearly inapplicable because of the lack of a video
portion, these rules are equally applicable to the taking of depositions by
audio recording alone. However, in the case of the taking of a deposition upon
notice by audio recording alone, any party, at least five days before the date
noticed for taking the deposition, may apply to the court for an order
establishing additional or alternate procedures for the taking of such audio
deposition, and upon the making of the application, the deposition may be taken
only in accordance with the court order.
(k) Cost. The cost of videotaping or
audio recording shall be borne by the party who served the notice for the
videotaped or audio recording of the deposition, and such cost shall be a
taxable disbursement in the action unless the court in its discretion orders
otherwise in the interest of justice.
(l) Transcription for appeal. On appeal,
visual and audio depositions shall be transcribed in the same manner as other
testimony and transcripts filed in the appellate court. The visual and audio
depositions shall remain part of the original record in the case and shall be
transmitted therewith. In lieu of the transcribed deposition and, on leave of
the appellate court, a party may request a viewing of portions of the visual
deposition by the appellate court but, in such case, a transcript of pertinent
portions of the deposition shall be filed as required by the court.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.15
