SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.63
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.63 - Assignment for benefit of creditors

(a) Records and papers.
(1) In assignments for the
benefit of creditors, the clerk shall keep a register and docket. The clerk
shall enter in the register in full every final order according to date; the
docket shall contain a brief note of each day's proceedings under the
respective title.
(2)
Every petition, order, decree or other paper shall have endorsed on the outside
the nature of such paper, the date of filing, and the name, number and page of
the book in which the proceedings are entered by the clerk.
(3) The papers in each
proceeding shall be kept in a separate file, as required by section
18 of
the Debtor and Creditor Law. No paper shall be removed from the files of the
court except by order of the court.
(4) Except as otherwise provided by law,
every notice or citation, subpoena, and all process shall issue out of the
court under seal and be attested by the clerk.
(b) Appearances.
(1) Any person interested in an
assignment for the benefit of creditors may appear either in person or by
attorney. If in person, his or her address and telephone number, and if by
attorney, the name, address and telephone number, shall be endorsed on every
appearance filed by such attorney. The name of such person or attorney shall be
entered in the docket.
(2) The assignee's attorney shall file a
written notice of appearance as soon as possible, but not later than 10 days
after being retained.
(3) When an assignee is removed,
voluntarily or involuntarily, and another person has been appointed as
assignee, a certified copy of the order shall be filed with the clerk of the
county where the original assignment was recorded. The clerk shall make an
entry on the record of the original assignment to show the appointment of the
substituted assignee, and the copy of the order of substitution shall be
attached to the original assignment.
(c) Duties of the assignor and assignee.
(1) The assignor shall deliver
all books, records and documents to the assignee immediately upon filing the
assignment, but the assignee shall make them available to the assignor to
prepare the schedules.
(2) The assignee's attorney shall require
the person in charge of the assignor's business to submit to examination under
oath and shall complete such examinations within 30 days, unless extended by
the court for good cause.
(3) The assignee shall promptly require
the assignor, if an individual, or its officers and persons in charge of its
finances, if a corporation, to pay to the assignee all trust funds withheld for
accounting to any governmental authorities, together with any preferential
payments paid to them or to others by the assignor.
(4)
(i) Upon the filing of an assignment, the
court, upon application, may stay any prospective sale or transfer to enforce a
lien against property in the custody of the court, whether by a secured
creditor, a judgment creditor, a lienor or otherwise.
(ii) With respect to property
not in the custody of the court, possession having been acquired by the secured
creditor, judgment creditor or lienor, the assignee may, upon notice to the
adverse party, apply to the court where such assignment proceedings are pending
to enjoin any prospective sale and to permit the assignee to conduct the sale,
whether private or a public auction, upon such terms and conditions as in its
discretion will not prejudice the interest of the secured party and yet
preserve the interest of the assigned estate by affording the assignee an
opportunity to liquidate the assets under the most favorable terms and
conditions.
(5) Every assignee shall keep full, exact
and regular books of account of all receipts, payments and expenditures of
monies.
(6) In making
sales at auction of personal property, the assignee shall give at least 10
days' notice of the time and place of sale and of the articles to be sold, by
advertisement in one or more newspapers. Such sale shall be held within 15 days
after the entry of the order authorizing the same, unless in the meantime an
order of the court has been obtained granting an extension of the time for such
sale; and he or she shall give notice of the sale at auction of any real estate
at least 20 days before such sale. Upon such sale, the assignee shall sell by
printed catalogue, in parcels, and shall file a copy of such catalogue, with
the prices obtained for the goods sold, within 20 days after the date of such
sale.
(7)
(i) Notwithstanding subdivision
(f) of this section, upon receipt of an offer for all or a substantial part of
the assets, an assignee may for good cause shown make application to the court
for leave to sell at a private sale in lieu of a public auction sale. A hearing
thereon shall be scheduled for the purpose of considering that offer or any
higher or better offers that may be submitted upon such notice and advertising
as the court may deem appropriate.
(ii) Upon application by an assignee or a
creditor, setting forth that a part or the whole of the estate is perishable,
the nature and location of such perishable property, and that there will be a
loss if the same is not sold immediately, the judge presiding, if satisfied of
the facts stated and that the sale is required in the interest of the estate,
may order the same to be sold with or without notice to creditors.
(8) Upon an
application made for a notice of filing of his or her account and for a hearing
thereon, the assignee shall file with his or her petition his or her account
with the vouchers.
(d) Accounting and schedules.
(1) The assignee must file an
account in all cases.
(2) Failure to file an interim accounting
in a pending proceeding within six months after the filing of an assignment may
cause a forfeiture of commissions and fees of the assignee and his or her
attorney and shall constitute grounds for their removal.
(3) Where more than one sheet of
paper is necessary to contain the schedule of liabilities and inventory of
assets required to be filed by the assignor or assignee, each page shall be
signed by the person or persons verifying the same. Contingent liabilities
shall appear on a separate sheet of paper. The sheets on which such schedule
and inventory are written shall be securely fastened before the filing thereof
and shall be endorsed with the full name of the assignor and assignee; and when
filed by an attorney, the name and address of such attorney shall also be
endorsed thereon. Such schedule and inventory shall fully and fairly state the
nominal and actual value of the assets and the cause of differences between
such values. A separate affidavit will be required explaining such stated cause
of difference. If it is deemed necessary, affidavits of disinterested experts
as to the claimed values must be furnished; and if such schedule and inventory
are filed by the assignee, they must be accompanied by affidavits made by such
assignee and by some disinterested expert showing, in detail, the nature and
value of the property assigned. The name, residence, occupation and place of
business of the assignor, and the name and place of residence of the assignee
must be annexed to the schedule and inventory or incorporated in the affidavit
verifying the same. There shall be a recapitulation at the end of such schedule
and inventory, as follows:
Debts and liabilities amount to ............
$
Fair value of assets ............ $
Assets realized on liquidation ............
$
(4)
Application to amend the schedule shall be made by verified petition in which
the amendment sought to be made shall appear in full, and such amendment shall
be verified in the same manner as the original schedule.
(5) The account of the assignee
shall be in the nature of a debit and credit statement; he or she shall debit
himself or herself with the assets as shown in the schedule, as filed, and
credit himself or herself with any decrease and expenses.
(6) The statement of
expenditures shall be full and complete and the vouchers for all payments shall
be attached to the account.
(7) The affirmative on the accounting
shall be with the assignee; the objections to the account may be presented to
the court or designated referee in writing or be brought out on a
cross-examination. In the latter case, they must be specifically taken and
entered in the minutes.
(8) The testimony taken and all exhibits
marked in evidence shall be filed with the report of the referee.
(9) It shall be the duty of the
assignee to close up the estate as expeditiously as possible; and, unless good
cause for greater delay can be shown and authorized by an order of the court
obtained prior to the expiration of the permissible time, the assignee's
account shall be filed within 15 months from the date of the execution of the
assignment deed.
(10)
The court may order notice to creditors by publication to present their claims
as provided in section
5 of the
Debtor and Creditor Law.
(e) Court-appointed referee.
(1) The court may appoint a
referee to take and state any contested account or to hear and report on any
issue of fact raised in an application to the court by any interested
party.
(2) Notice of
the time and place of the hearing before a referee appointed to take and state
an assignee's account or to hear and report on a referred issue of fact shall
be given by mail, with the postage thereon prepaid, at least 20 days before the
date specified in said notice, to the assignor, the assignee's surety and to
each creditor whose name appears on the books of the assignor or on the
schedule, or who has presented his or her claim or address to the assignee, and
to each attorney who has appeared for any person interested in the assigned
estate.
(3) A notice
or a copy of an advertisement, requiring the creditors to present their claims,
with the vouchers therefor duly verified to the referee, must be mailed to each
creditor whose name appears on the books of the assignor or on the schedule,
with the postage thereon prepaid, at least 10 days before the date specified in
such notice or advertisement. Proof of such mailing shall be required on the
application for a final decree approving the account of the assignee unless
proof is furnished that personal service of such notice or a copy of such
advertisement has been made upon the creditor.
(4) The report of the referee shall show
all the jurisdictional facts necessary to confer power on the court, such as
the proper execution and acknowledgment of the assignment, its recording, the
filing of the schedule and bond, the publication and mailing of notice to
creditors to present claims, the filing of the assignee's account, the issuance
and service of notice of application for settlement of the account, and, where
any items in the account of the assignee are disallowed, the same shall be
fully set out in the report, together with the reason therefor.
(5) The report of the referee
after a hearing of a disputed claim under the statute shall be filed with the
clerk of the court and a copy served on each party to the proceeding. The court
shall, on application of any party, or on its own motion, confirm or disaffirm
the referee's report; such report shall then be reviewed only by appeal to the
Appellate Division.
(f) Discharge of assignee.
(1) No discharge shall be
granted an assignee who has not advertised for claims pursuant to section
5 of the
Debtor and Creditor Law and the applicable provisions of this
section.
(2) No
discharge shall be granted an assignee and his or her sureties in any case,
whether or not the creditors have been paid, or have released, or have entered
into composition, except in a regular proceeding for an accounting under the
applicable provisions of the Debtor and Creditor Law, commenced by petition,
and after due and timely notice thereof to all persons interested in the
estate.
(3)
Provisional and final bond. The affidavit upon which application is made for
leave to file a provisional bond must show fully and fairly the nature and
extent of the property assigned, and good and sufficient reason must be shown
why the schedule and inventory cannot be filed. It must appear satisfactorily
to the court that a necessity exists for filing of such provisional bond; and
the affidavits filed shall be deemed a schedule and inventory of the assigned
property until such time as the regular schedule and inventory of the assigned
property shall be filed. Upon the filing of the schedule and inventory, the
amount of the bond shall be determined finally. Should the provisional bond
already filed be deemed sufficient, an order may be granted making such bond,
as approved, the final bond.
(4) Upon all applications made to the
court by assignees under general assignments for the benefit of creditors for
the filing of a provisional bond, or for permission to sell the property of the
assignor, the applicant shall present proof by affidavit whether any petition
in bankruptcy has been filed by or against the assignor.
(5) The final bond shall be
joint and several in form and must be accompanied by the affidavit prescribed
by CPLR 2502, and also by the affidavit of each surety, setting forth his
business, where it is carried on, and the amount in which he or she is required
to justify over and above his debts and liabilities.
(g) Justification of sureties.
The court may in its discretion require any surety to appear and justify. If
the penalty of the bond be $20,000 or over, it may be executed by two sureties
each justifying in that sum, or by more than two sureties, the amount of whose
justification, united, is double the penalty of the bond.
(h) Application to continue
business of assignor. An application for authority to continue the business of
an assignor must be made upon duly verified petition and upon notice given to,
or order to show cause served upon, the assignor, the assignee' s surety and
all creditors, secured, general or otherwise, of the assigned estate. If more
than one application for such authority is subsequently made, the petition must
set forth, by a statement of receipts, disbursements and expenses, the result
of the continuance of such business for or during the period for which the same
was previously authorized.
(i) Involuntary petition in bankruptcy of
the assigned estate. Where an order for relief pursuant to
section
503 of title 11 of the United States Code has
been entered, the assignee shall file with the clerk a certified copy of such
petition in bankruptcy, together with proof by affidavit on the part of the
assignee showing that he has turned over all assets of the assigned estate to
the trustee or receiver in bankruptcy.
(j) Assignee's commissions and attorney's
fees. Assignee's allowances and attorney fees are to be fixed by the court upon
a motion to settle and approve the assignee's account or upon the confirmation
of the referee's report regarding the account. No allowances, fees or
commissions shall be paid out until so fixed and directed by the
court.
(k) Service of
notice by mail. When any notice is served by mail on the creditors of the
insolvent debtor pursuant to the provisions of the applicable statute or this
section, every envelope containing such notice shall have upon it a direction
to the postmaster at the place to which it is sent, to return the same to the
sender whose name and address shall appear thereon, unless called for or
delivered.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.63
