SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.50
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.50 - Proposed Judgments in Matrimonial Actions; Forms

(a) Form of judgments. Findings and
conclusions shall be in a separate paper from the judgment, which papers shall
be labelled "FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW" and "JUDGMENT,"
respectively.
(b) Approved Forms
(1) Contested actions. The
paragraphs contained in Chapter III, Subchapter B of Subtitle D (Forms) of this
Title, modified or deleted as may be necessary to conform to the law and facts
in a particular action, shall be used in the preparation of " FINDINGS OF FACT
AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW," "JUDGMENT," or "REFEREE'S REPORT OF FINDINGS OF FACT
AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW." Parenthesized portions indicate alternative
provisions.
(2)
Uncontested actions. Parties in uncontested matrimonial actions shall use the
forms in the Unified Court System Uncontested Divorce Packet as set forth in
section 202.21(i)(2) of
this Part, unless the court permits otherwise pursuant to that
section.
(3) Additional Requirement
with Respect to Uncontested and Contested Judgments of Divorce. In addition to
satisfying the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subdivision,
every judgment of divorce, whether uncontested or contested, shall include
language substantially in accordance with the following decretal paragraphs
which shall supersede any inconsistent decretal paragraph s currently required
for such forms:
Fill in Box A or Box B, whichever, applies;
A. [] ORDERED AND ADJUDGED that the
Settlement Agreement entered into between the parties on the ___ day of
___________, [] an original OR [] a transcript of which is on file with this
Court and incorporated herein by reference, shall survive and shall not be
merged into this judgment, and the parties are hereby directed to comply with
all legally enforceable terms and conditions of said agreement as if such terms
and conditions were set forth in their entirety herein;
OR
B. []
There is no Settlement Agreement entered between the parties; and it is further
ORDERED AND ADJUDGED, that the Supreme Court shall retain
jurisdiction to hear any applications to enforce the provisions of said
Settlement Agreement, if any, or to enforce or modify the provisions of this
judgment, provided the court retains jurisdiction of the matter concurrently
with the Family Court for the purpose of specifically enforcing, such of the
provisions of that (separation agreement) (stipulation agreement, if any) as
are capable of specific enforcement. to the extent permitted by law, and of
modifying such judgment with respect to maintenance, support, custody or
visitation to the extent permitted by law, or both; and it is further
ORDERED AND ADJUDGED, that any applications brought in
Supreme Court to enforce the provisions of said Settlement Agreement, if any,
or to enforce or modify the provisions of this judgment shall be brought in a
County wherein one of the parties resides; provided that if there are minor
children of the marriage, such applications shall be brought in a county
wherein one of the parties or the child or children reside, except. in the
discretion of the judge, for good cause. Good cause applications shall be made
by motion or order to show cause. Where the address of either party and any
child or children is unknown and not a matter of public record, or is subject
to an existing confidentiality order pursuant to DRL § 254 or FCA §
154-b, such applications may be brought in the county where the judgment was
entered; and it is further
(c) Judgments submitted to the
court shall be accompanied by a complete form UCS 111 (Child Support Summary
Form).

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.50
Amended
New
York State Register August 9, 2017 /Volume XXXIX, Issue 32, eff.
8/1/2017
Amended
New
York State Register October 31, 2018/Volume XL, Issue 44, eff.
9/30/2018
