SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.20-b
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.20-b - Limitations on Depositions

(a) Unless
otherwise stipulated to by the parties or ordered by the court:
(1) the number of depositions taken by
plaintiffs, or by defendants, or by third-party defendants, shall be limited to
10; and
(2) depositions shall be
limited to 7 hours per deponent.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1) of this
Rule, the propriety of and timing for depositions of non-parties shall be
subject to any restrictions imposed by applicable law.
(c) For the purposes of subsection (a)(1) of
this Rule, the deposition of an entity through one or more representatives
shall be treated as a single deposition even though more than one person may be
designated to testify on the entity's behalf.
(d) For the purposes of this Rule, each
deposition of an officer, director, principal or employee of an entity who is
also a fact witness, as opposed to an entity representative pursuant to CPLR
3106(d), shall constitute a separate deposition.
(e) For the purposes of subsection (a)(2) of
this Rule, the deposition of an entity shall be treated as a single deposition
even though more than one person may be designated to testify on the entity's
behalf. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the cumulative presumptive durational
limit may be enlarged by agreement of the parties or upon application for leave
of Court, which shall be freely granted.
(f) For good cause shown, the court may alter
the limits on the number of depositions or the duration of an
examination.
(g) Nothing in this
Rule shall be construed to alter the right of any party to seek any relief that
it deems appropriate under the CPLR or other applicable law.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.20-b
Adopted
New
York State Register February 10, 2021/Volume XLIII, Issue 06,
eff. 2/1/2021
