SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.72
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.72 - Actions revived pursuant to CPLR 214-g

(a) There shall be a dedicated part(s) of
Supreme Court in each Judicial District which shall be assigned all actions
revived pursuant to CPLR 214-g (214-g Part).
(b) Justices, judicial hearing officers,
referees and alternative dispute resolution (ADR) neutrals in 214-g Parts shall
receive training in subjects related to sexual assault and the sexual abuse of
minors, pursuant to a curriculum and format approved by the Office of Court
Administration.
(c) Judges and
other court personnel involved in actions revived pursuant to CPLR 214-g, in
the exercise of their discretion in any matter relating to such action, shall
be mindful of the statutory directive that such actions be adjudicated in a
timely fashion (Judiciary Law section 219-d) and shall aspire to the following
schedule in such actions:
Assignment to Part:
immediately upon filing of the RJI.
Preliminary conference (PC):
within 30 days of filing the RJI.
Status conferences (SC):
every 60 days after the PC or prior SC.
Conclusion of discovery and note of issue:
within 365 days of PC.
Dispositive motions:
fully submitted within 90 days of conclusion of
discovery; decided within 30 days of briefing.
Trial:
scheduled to be held within 60 days of note of issue,
except with leave of court on good cause shown; or if dispositive motions have
been filed, within 60 days of the decision of those motions.
(d)
In setting schedules for the conduct of litigation of actions revived pursuant
to CPLR 214-g, and in a manner consistent with the goal of timely adjudication
of such actions, judges and other court personnel should be mindful of:
(1) the impact upon the litigation of pending
proceedings addressing insurance coverage issues relating to the
parties;
(2) the difficulties
inherent in document, deposition, and other discovery in matters of this type
and age; and
(3) the benefits of
appropriate use of ADR programs to facilitate early resolution of
disputes.
(e) Counsel for
all parties shall consult prior to any preliminary or status conference on all
issues likely to be addressed at the conference, including but not limited to:
(1) resolution of the case in whole or in
part and early ADR;
(2) outstanding
issues relating to insurance coverage of the parties;
(3) outstanding discovery issues, including
the voluntary informal exchange of information for settlement
purposes;
(4) adoption of a
confidentiality order;
(5)
scheduling;
(6) anticipated use of
experts; and
(7) anticipated
requests to obtain records from earlier cases related to the allegations in the
revived case.
(f) Counsel
at all court appearances should be fully familiar with the case, fully prepared
to discuss pending matters competently, authorized to enter into substantive
and procedural agreements on behalf of their clients, and authorized to enter
into a disposition of the case.
(g)
Any party claiming a preference under CPLR 3403(7) may apply to the court in
the manner prescribed by that section.
(h) Any person who intends to appear without
a lawyer in a case revived under CPLR 214-g is advised to review the
information set forth at http://www.nycourts.gov/courthelp/.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.72
Adopted
New
York State Register August 14, 2019/Volume XLI, Issue 33, eff.
7/31/2019
