SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.61
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.61 - Exchange of appraisal reports in eminent domain proceedings

(a)
(1) In all proceedings for the
determination of the value of property taken pursuant to eminent domain, the
exchange of appraisal reports shall be accomplished in the same manner as
provided for the exchange of such reports by section
202.59(g) and
202.60(g) of this
Part, except that such reports shall be filed no later than nine months after
service of the claim, demand or notice of appearance required by section
503 of the Eminent Domain Procedure Law
unless otherwise extended by the court. A note of issue may not be filed until
such reports have been filed.
(2) If a party intends to offer at trial
expert evidence in rebuttal to any report, an expert's report shall be filed
within 60 days after receipt of the document sought to be rebutted.
(3) Upon application of any
party upon such notice as the court in which the proceeding is pending shall
direct, the court may, upon good cause shown, relieve a party of a default in
filing a report, extend the time for filing reports, or allow an amended or
supplemental report to be filed upon such conditions as the court may
direct.
(b)
In proceedings where more than one parcel is involved, the appraisal reports
shall be distributed only to the taking authority and to the claimant or
claimants who are owners of parcels which are the subject of the appraisal
report. In the event that a party defaults in filing an appraisal report within
the time limitation prescribed, the clerk shall return the filed copies of each
party's appraisal report, with notice to the party in default.
(c) The contents and form of
each appraisal report, including any rebuttal, amended or supplementary report,
shall conform to the requirements of sections
202.59(g) and
202.60(g) of this
Part.
(d) All
appraisals of fixtures submitted on behalf of the claimants and the condemnor
for which claim is made shall be filed and distributed as provided by these
rules with respect to appraisal reports and shall set forth the appraisal value
of each item in the same numerical order as in the inventory annexed to the
claim. (1) Where the condemnor
puts in issue the existence of any item in the inventory, the appraisal
submitted on its behalf shall so state.
(2) Where the condemnor puts in issue the
description of any item in the inventory, the appraisal submitted on behalf of
the condemnor shall state its appraiser's description of such item and his or
her estimate of value.
(3) Where the condemnor puts in issue the
compensability of any item in the inventory, the appraisal report submitted by
the condemnor shall so state and shall state the ground therefor, as well as
its appraiser's estimate of the value of such item for consideration in the
event that the court should determine that it is compensable.
(e) Upon trial, all
parties shall be limited in their affirmative proof of value to matters set
forth in their respective appraisal reports. Any party who fails to file an
appraisal report as required by this section shall be precluded from offering
any appraisal testimony on value.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.61
