SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.54
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.54 - Proceedings relating to appointments of guardians with respect to patients in facilities defined in the Mental Hygiene Law

Where a patient in a facility defined in the
Mental Hygiene Law is the subject of a proceeding for the appointment of a
guardian, pursuant to the Mental Hygiene Law or article 17-A of the Surrogate's
Court Procedure Act, or for any substitute for or successor to such
person:
(a) A copy of the
notice of application for the appointment shall be served on the director of
the Mental Hygiene Legal Service in the department in which the facility is
located. The director shall submit to the court for its consideration such
papers as the director may deem appropriate.
(b) Within 10 days after the order
determining the application is signed, a copy shall be served on the
director.
(c) Within
10 days after qualification of the guardian, proof of qualification shall be
served on the director.
(d) A notice of an application for a
judicial accounting by the guardian shall be served on the director.
(e) With respect to a patient in
a facility located in a judicial department other than the department where the
proceeding is initiated, copies of the application, order or proof of
qualification shall be served upon the directors in both departments.
(f) Whenever the patient, or a
person on behalf of the patient, or the director requests a court hearing, at
least five days notice, if notice is given personally or by delivery at the
home of the person receiving notice, or eight days notice, if notice is given
by mail, excluding Sundays and holidays, of the date and place of the hearing,
shall be given to the patient and any person requesting the hearing.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.54
