SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.1
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.1 - Application of Part; waiver; additional rules; application of CPLR; definitions

(a) Application. This Part shall be
applicable to civil actions and proceedings in the Supreme Court and the County
Court.
(b) Waiver. For
good cause shown, and in the interests of justice, the court in an action or
proceeding may waive compliance with any of the rules in this Part, other than
sections 202.2 and
202.3, unless prohibited from
doing so by statute or by a rule of the Chief Judge.
(c) Additional rules. Local
court rules, not inconsistent with law or with these rules, shall comply with
Part 9 of the Rules of the Chief Judge (22 NYCRR Part 9).
(d) Application of CPLR. The
provisions of this Part shall be construed consistent with the Civil Practice
Law and Rules (CPLR), and matters not covered by these provisions shall be
governed by the CPLR.
(e) Definitions. (1) Chief Administrator of the Courts in
this Part also includes a designee of the Chief Administrator.
(2) The term clerk shall mean
the chief clerk or other appropriate clerk of the trial court unless the
context otherwise requires.
(3) Unless otherwise defined in this
Part, or the context otherwise requires, all terms used in this Part shall have
the same meaning as they have in the CPLR.
(f) Counsel who appear before the court must
be familiar with the case with regard to which they appear and be fully
prepared and authorized to discuss and resolve the issues which are scheduled
to be the subject of the appearance. Failure to comply with this rule may be
treated as a default for purposes of Rule 202.27 and/or may be treated as a
failure to appear for purposes of Rule 130.2.1.
(g) It is important that counsel be on time
for all scheduled appearances.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.1
Amended
New
York State Register February 10, 2021/Volume XLIII, Issue 06,
eff. 2/1/2021
