SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.6
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.6 - Request for judicial intervention

(a) At any time after service of process,
a party may file a request for judicial intervention. Except as provided in
subdivision (b) of this section, in an action not yet assigned to a judge, the
court shall not accept for filing a notice of motion, order to show cause,
application for ex parte order, notice of petition, note of issue, notice of
medical, dental or podiatric malpractice action, statement of net worth
pursuant to section
236 of
the Domestic Relations Law or request for a preliminary conference pursuant to
section 202.12(a) of this
Part, unless such notice or application is accompanied by a request for
judicial intervention. Where an application for poor person relief is made,
payment of the fee for filing the request for judicial intervention
accompanying the application shall be required only upon denial of the
application. A request for judicial intervention must be submitted, in
duplicate, on a form authorized by the Chief Administrator of the Courts, with
proof of service on the other parties to the action (but proof of service is
not required where the application is ex parte).
(b) A request for judicial intervention
shall be filed, without fee, for any application to a court not filed in an
action or proceeding, as well as for a petition for the sale or finance of
religious/not-for-profit property, an application for change of name or change
of sex designation, a habeas corpus proceeding where the movant is
institutionalized, an application under CPLR 3102(e) for court assistance in
obtaining disclosure in an action pending in another state, a retention
proceeding authorized by article 9 of the Mental Hygiene Law, a proceeding
authorized by article 10 of the Mental Hygiene Law, an appeal to a county court
of a civil case brought in a court of limited jurisdiction, an application to
vacate a judgement on account of bankruptcy, a motion for an order authorizing
emergency surgery, or within the City of New York, an uncontested action for a
judgment for annulment, divorce or separation commenced pursuant to article 9,
10 or 11 of the Domestic Relations Law, and an application for an extreme risk
protection order.
(c)
In the counties within the City of New York, when a request for judicial
intervention is filed, the clerk shall require submission of a copy of the
receipt of purchase of the index number provided by the county clerk, or a
written statement of the county clerk that an index number was purchased in the
action. Unless otherwise authorized by the Chief Administrator, the filing of a
request for judicial intervention pursuant to this section shall cause the
assignment of the action to a judge pursuant to section
202.3 of this Part. The clerk may
require that a self-addressed and stamped envelope accompany the request for
judicial intervention.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.6
Amended,
New
York State Register January 28, 2015/Volume XXXVII, Issue 04,
eff. 1/5/2015
Amended
New
York State Register August 21, 2019/Volume XLI, Issue 34, eff.
8/21/2019
Amended
New
York State Register February 2, 2022/Volume XLIV, Issue 05, eff.
2/1/2022
