SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.12a
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.12a - Residential Mortgage Foreclosure Actions; Settlement Conference

(a)
Applicability. This section shall be applicable to residential mortgage
foreclosure actions involving a home loan secured by a mortgage on a one- to
four-family dwelling or condominium, in which the defendant is a resident of
the property subject to foreclosure.
(b) Request for judicial intervention.
(1) At the time that proof of service of the
summons and complaint is filed with the county clerk, plaintiff shall file with
the county clerk a specialized request for judicial intervention (RJI), on a
form prescribed by the Chief Administrator of the Courts, applicable to
residential mortgage foreclosure actions covered by this section. The RJI shall
contain the name, address, telephone number and e-mail address, if available,
of the defendant in the action, and the name of the mortgage servicer, and
shall request that a settlement conference be scheduled. Any P.O. Box or other
alternate addresses associated with the defendant of which the servicer or its
attorney is aware shall also be listed. If the mortgage servicer involved in
the case and listed on the RJI is changed at any time following the filing of
the RJI, plaintiff shall file with the court and serve on all the parties a
notice setting forth the name and contact information of the new or substituted
mortgage servicer.
(2) Upon the
filing of the RJI, the court shall send either a copy of the RJI, or the
defendant's name, address and telephone number (if available), to a housing
counseling agency or agencies funded by the New York State Office of the
Attorney General's Homeowner Protection Program for the judicial district in
which the defendant resides, for the purpose of that agency making the
homeowner aware of free foreclosure prevention services and options available
to the parties.
(3) In such county
or counties as the Chief Administrator shall direct, in the event that a
plaintiff fails to file proof of service of the summons and complaint in a
residential mortgage foreclosure action with the county clerk within one
hundred twenty days after the commencement of the action, or fails to file the
RJI at the time of the filing of proof of service, the county clerk shall
provide the Chief Administrator with the case name, index number, property
address, and contact information of parties and counsel in the action. The
Chief Administrator may take such further action as she deems fit with respect
to such case or cases, including but not limited to
(a) placing a case on a delinquency
calendar;
(b) providing case
information to a housing counseling agency or agencies; and
(c) ordering a status conference.
(c) Settlement
conference. (1) The court shall promptly send
to the parties a Notice scheduling a settlement conference to be held within 60
days after the date of the filing of the RJI. The Notice shall be mailed to all
parties or their attorneys, which must include mailing to the address of the
property subject to the mortgage. The Notice shall be on a form prescribed by
the Chief Administrator, and it shall set forth the purpose of the conference,
the requirements of CPLR Rule 3408, instructions to the parties on how to
prepare for the conference, and what information and documents to bring to the
conference as specified in CPLR Rule 3408(e). The Notice shall further provide
that the defendant contact the court by telephone, no later than seven days
before the conference is scheduled, to advise whether the defendant will be
able to at tend the scheduled conference. The court shall also provide in such
mailing a copy of the current Consumer Bill of Rights published by the New York
State Department of Financial Services pursuant to RPA PL §
1303-3-a.
(2) The conference shall
be held to conduct settlement discussions pertaining to the relative rights and
obligations of the parties under the mortgage loan documents, including
determining whether the parties can reach a mutually agreeable resolution to
help the defendant avoid losing his or her home, and evaluating the potential
for a resolution in which payment schedules or amounts may be modified or other
workout options may be agreed to, including but not limited to loan
modifications, "short sales" and "deeds in lieu of foreclosure" or any other
loss mitigation options. The court may also use the conference for whatever
other purposes the court deems appropriate. Where appropriate, the court may
permit representatives of either party to attend the conference telephonically
or by video-conference. Any representative participating in the conference,
whether in person, telephonically or by video conference, shall be fully
authorized to dispose of the case, as required by CPLR Rule 3408(c).
(3) If the parties appear by counsel, such
counsel must be fully authorized to dispose of the case. If the defendant
appears at the conference without counsel, the court shall treat the defendant
as having made a motion to proceed as a poor person and shall determine whether
permission to so appear shall be granted pursuant to the standards set forth in
CPLR § 1101. If the court appoints defendant counsel pursuant to CPLR
§ 1102(a), it shall adjourn the conference to a date certain for
appearance of counsel and settlement discussions, and otherwise shall proceed
with the conference.
(4) The
parties shall engage in settlement discussions in good faith to reach a
mutually agreeable resolution, including a loan modification if possible,
consistent with CPLR Rule 3408(f) . The court shall ensure that each party
fulfills its obligation to negotiate in good faith and shall see that
conferences not be unduly delayed or subject to willful dilatory tactics so
that the rights of both parties may be adjudicated in a timely manner. The
court shall ensure that procedures are in place to enforce the duty to
negotiate in good faith, as defined in CPLR Rule 3408(f), consistent with the
mandates of CPLR Rule 3408(i), (j) and (k).
(5) Documents.
(i) Plaintiff and Defendant shall bring all
documents enumerated in CPLR Rule 3408(e) to each conference held pursuant to
CPLR Rule 3408, in addition to any other documents require d by the judge,
referee or judicial hearing officer presiding over the case.
(6) At the first conference held
pursuant to CPLR Rule 3408, the court shall determine if the defendant has
answered the complaint and shall provide defendants who have not answered
information as mandated by CPLR Rule 3408(1). The court shall ensure that
procedures are in place to note the vacatur of any defaults upon service and
filing of answers pursuant to CPLR Rule 3408(m). The court shall schedule such
other conferences as may be necessary to help resolve the action.
(7) All motions, other than motions
addressing compliance with CPLR Rule 3408 or this rule, shall be held in
abeyance while settlement conferences are being held pursuant to this section.
A party may not charge, impose or otherwise require payment from the other
party for any cost, including but not limited to attorneys' fees, for
appearance at or participation in the settlement conference.
(8) Plaintiff must file a notice of
discontinuance or stipulation of discontinuance and vacatur of the notice of
pendency within 90 days after any settlement agreement or loan modification
agreement is fully executed.
(d) Training. The Chief Administrator shall
establish requirements for education and training of all judges and nonjudicial
personnel assigned to conduct foreclosure conferences pursuant to this section.
(e) Reports. The Chief
Administrator shall submit a report no later than the first day of November of
each year to the Governor, and to the legislative leaders set forth in section
10-a(2) of chapter 507 of the Laws of 2009, on the adequacy and effectiveness
of the settlement conferences, which shall include number of adjournments,
defaults, discontinuances, dismissals, conferences held and the number of
defendants appearing with and without counsel.
(f) The Chief Administrator of the Courts may
continue to require counsel to file affidavits or affirmations confirming the
scope of inquiry and the accuracy of papers filed in residential mortgage
foreclosure actions addressing both owner-occupied and (not with standing
section supra) non-owner-occupied residential properties.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.12a
Amended,
New
York State Register December 3, 2014/Volume XXXVI, Issue 48, eff.
11/1/2014
Amended
New
York State Register January 4, 2017/Volume XXXIX, Issue 01, eff.
12/20/2016
Amended
eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended
New
York State Register July 20, 2022/Volume XLIV, Issue 29, eff.
7/1/2022
