SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.52
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.52 - Deposit of funds by receivers and assignees

(a) Every receiver or assignee who, as
such, receives any funds shall promptly deposit them in a checking account or
in an interest-bearing account, as determined by the court, in a bank or trust
company designated by the court. Such account shall be in his or her name as
receiver or assignee and shall show the name of the case. The depository shall
furnish monthly statements to the receiver or assignee and to the attorney for
the receiver or the assignee.
(b) No funds shall be withdrawn from a
receiver's or assignee's account, and no check thereon shall be honored, unless
directed by court order or the check is countersigned by the receiver's or
assignee's surety.
(c)
The order appointing a receiver or assignee shall incorporate subdivisions (a)
and (b) of this section.
(d) All checks by a receiver or assignee
for the withdrawal of moneys shall be numbered consecutively. On the stub of
each check shall be noted the number, the date, the payee's name and the
purpose for which the check is drawn. Checkbooks, stubs, cancelled checks and
bank statements of such bank accounts shall be maintained at the office of the
receiver or assignee, or his or her attorney, and shall be available for
inspection by creditors or parties during business hours.
(e) Receivers shall file with
the court an accounting at least once each year. An application by a receiver
for final settlement of his or her account, or by an assignee for leave to sell
assets, shall include a county clerk's certificate stating the date that the
bond of the applicant was filed, that it is still on file and that no order has
been entered cancelling the bond or discharging the surety thereon.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.52
