SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.20-c
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.20-c - Requests for Documents

(a) For
each document request propounded, the responding party shall, in its Response
and Objections served pursuant to CPLR 3122(a) (the "Response"), either:
(1) state that the production is made as
requested; or
(2) state with
reasonable particularity the grounds for any objection to production.
(b) Each Response shall state:
(i) whether the objection(s) interposed
pertains to all or part of the request being challenged;
(ii) whether any documents or categories of
documents are being withheld, and if so, which of the stated objection(s) forms
the basis for the responding party's decision to withhold otherwise responsive
documents or categories of documents: and
(iii) the manner in which the responding
party intends to limit the scope of its production.
(c) The Response shall contain, at the
conclusion of thereof, the affidavit of the responding party stating:
(i) whether the production of documents in
its possession, custody or control and that are responsive to the individual
requests is complete; or
(ii) that
there are no documents in its possession, custody or control that are
responsive to any individual requests.
(d) Nothing contained herein is intended to
conflict with a party's obligation to supplement its disclosure obligations
pursuant to CPLR 3101(h).
(e) The
parties are encouraged to use the most efficient means to review documents,
including electronically stored information ("ESI"), that is consistent with
the parties' disclosure obligations under Article 31 of the CPLR and
proportional to the needs of the case. Such means may include
technology-assisted review, including predictive coding, in appropriate cases.
The parties are encouraged to confer, at the outset of discovery and as needed
throughout the discovery period, about technology-assisted review mechanisms
they intend to use in document review and production.
(f) Absent good cause, a party may not use at
trial or otherwise any document which was not produced in response to a request
for such document or category of document, which request was not objected to
or, if objected to, such objection was overruled by the court.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.20-c
Adopted
New
York State Register February 10, 2021/Volume XLIII, Issue 06,
eff. 2/1/2021
Amended
eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended
New
York State Register July 6, 2022/Volume XLIV, Issue 27, eff.
7/1/2022
Amended
eff. 7/27/2022.
Amended
New
York State Register August 31, 2022/Volume XLIV, Issue 35, eff.
8/31/2022
