SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.19
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.19 - Differentiated case management

(a) Applicability. This section shall
apply to such categories of cases designated by the Chief Administrator of the
Courts as being subject to differentiated case management, and shall be
implemented in such counties, courts or parts of courts as designated by the
Chief Administrator. The provisions of section
202.12 of this Part, relating to
the preliminary conference, and section
202.26 of this Part, relating to
the pretrial conference, shall apply to the extent not inconsistent with this
section.
(b)
Preliminary conference. (1) In
all actions and proceedings to which this section of the rules is applicable, a
preliminary conference shall be ordered by the court to be held within 45 days
after the request for judicial intervention is filed.
(2) At the preliminary
conference, the court shall designate the track to which the case shall be
assigned in accordance with the following: (i) expedited--discovery to be completed
within eight months;
(ii) standard--discovery to be completed
within 12 months; and
(iii) complex--discovery to be completed
within 15 months.
The timeframes must be complied with unless
otherwise shortened or extended by the court depending upon the circumstances
of the case.
(3) No later than 60 days before the date
fixed for completion of discovery, a compliance conference shall be held to
monitor the progress of discovery, explore potential settlement, and set a
deadline for the filing of the note of issue.
(c) Pretrial conference.
(1) A pretrial conference shall
be held within 180 days of the filing of the note of issue.
(2) At the pretrial conference,
the court shall fix a date for the commencement of trial, which shall be no
later than eight weeks after the date of the conference.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.19
