SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.17
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.17 - Exchange of medical reports in personal injury and wrongful death actions

Except where the court otherwise directs, in
all actions in which recovery is sought for personal injuries, disability or
death, physical examinations and the exchange of medical information shall be
governed by the provisions hereinafter set forth.
(a) At any time after joinder of issue
and service of a bill of particulars, the party to be examined or any other
party may serve on all other parties a notice fixing the time and place of
examination. Unless otherwise stipulated, the examination shall be held not
less than 30 nor more than 60 days after service of the notice. If served by
any party other than the party to be examined, the notice shall name the
examining medical provider or providers. If the notice is served by the party
to be examined, the examining parties shall, within five days of receipt
thereof, submit to the party to be examined the name of the medical providers
who will conduct the examination. Any party may move to modify or vacate the
notice fixing the time and place of examination or the notice naming the
examining medical providers, within 10 days of the receipt thereof, on the
grounds that the time or place fixed or the medical provider named is
objectionable, or that the nature of the action is such that the interests of
justice will not be served by an examination, exchange of medical reports or
delivery of authorizations.
(b) At least 20 days before the date of
such examination, or on such other date as the court may direct, the party to
be examined shall serve upon and deliver to all other parties the following,
which may be used by the examining medical provider: (1) copies of the medical reports of
those medical providers who have previously treated or examined the party
seeking recovery. These shall include a recital of the injuries and conditions
as to which testimony will be offered at the trial, referring to and
identifying those X-ray and techniciansreports which will be offered at the
trial, including a description of the injuries, a diagnosis and a prognosis.
Medical reports may consist of completed medical provider, workers'
compensation, or insurance forms that provide the information required by this
paragraph;
(2) duly
executed and acknowledged written authorizations permitting all parties to
obtain and make copies of all hospital records and such other records,
including X-ray and technicians' reports, as may be referred to and identified
in the reports of those medical providers who have treated or examined the
party seeking recovery.
(c) Copies of the reports of the medical
providers making examinations pursuant to this section shall be served on all
other parties within 45 days after completion of the examination. These shall
comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(d) In actions where the cause
of death is in issue, each party shall serve upon all other parties copies of
the reports of all treating and examining medical providers whose testimony
will be offered at the trial, complying with the requirements of paragraph
(b)(1) of this section, and the party seeking to recover shall deliver to all
other parties authorizations to examine and obtain copies of all hospital
records, autopsy or post-mortem reports, and such other records as provided in
paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Copies of these reports and the required
authorizations shall be served and delivered with the bill of particulars by
the party seeking to recover. All other parties shall serve copies of the
reports of their medical providers within 45 days thereafter. In any case where
the interests of justice will not be promoted by service of such reports and
delivery of such authorizations, an order dispensing with either or both may be
obtained.
(e) Parties
relying solely on hospital records may so certify in lieu of serving medical
providers' reports.
(f) No case otherwise eligible to be
noticed for trial may be noticed unless there has been compliance with this
rule, or an order dispensing with compliance or extending the time therefor has
been obtained; or, where the party to be examined was served a notice as
provided in subdivision (a) of this section, and the party so served has not
responded thereto.
(g)
In the event that the party examined intends at the trial to offer evidence of
further or additional injuries or conditions, nonexistent or not known to exist
at the time of service of the original medical reports, such party shall,
within 30 days after the discovery thereof, and not later than 30 days before
trial, serve upon all parties a supplemental medical report complying with the
requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and shall specify a time, not
more than 10 days thereafter, and a place at which a further examination may be
had. Further authorizations to examine and make copies of additional hospital
records, other records, X-ray or other technicians'reports as provided in
paragraph (b)(2) of this section must also be delivered with the medical
reports. Copies of the reports of the examining medical providers, complying
with the requirements of subdivision (c) of this section, shall be served
within 10 days after completion of such further examination. If any party
desires at the trial to offer the testimony of additional treating or examining
medical providers, other than whose medical reports have been previously
exchanged, the medical reports of such medical providers, complying with the
requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall be served upon all
parties at least 30 days before trial.
(h) Unless an order to the contrary is
made, or unless the judge presiding at the trial in the interests of justice
and upon a showing of good cause shall hold otherwise, the party seeking to
recover damages shall be precluded at the trial from offering in evidence any
part of the hospital records and all other records, including autopsy or post
mortem records, X-ray reports or reports of other technicians, not made
available pursuant to this rule, and no party shall be permitted to offer any
evidence of injuries or conditions not set forth or put in issue in the
respective medical reports previously exchanged, nor will the court hear the
testimony of any treating or examining medical providers whose medical reports
have not been served as provided by this rule.
(i) Orders transferring cases pending in
other courts which are subject to the provisions of this section, whether or
not such cases are consolidated with cases pending in the court to which
transferred, shall contain such provisions as are required to bring the
transferred cases into compliance with this rule.
(j) Any party may move to compel
compliance or to be relieved from compliance with this rule or any provision
thereof, but motions directed to the sufficiency of medical reports must be
made within 20 days of receipt of such reports. All motions under this rule may
be made on affidavits of attorneys, shall be made on notice, and shall be
granted or denied on such terms as to costs, calendar position and dates of
compliance with any provision of this rule as the court in its discretion shall
direct.
(k) Where an
examination is conducted on consent prior to the institution of an action, the
party to be examined shall deliver the documents specified in paragraphs (b)(1)
and (2) of this section, and the report of the examining medical provider shall
be delivered as provided in subdivision (c) of this section. In that event,
examination after institution of the action may be waived. The waiver, which
shall recite that medical reports have been exchanged and that all parties
waive further physical examination, shall be filed with the note of issue. This
shall not be a bar, however, to proceeding under subdivision (g) of this
section in a proper case.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.17
