SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.22
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.22 - Calendars

(a) A
judge to whom cases are assigned under the individual assignment system may
establish such calendars of cases as the judge shall deem necessary or
desirable for proper case management. These calendars may include:
(1) Preliminary conference
calendar. A preliminary conference calendar is for the calendaring for
conference of cases in which a note of issue and certificate of readiness have
not yet been filed.
(2) Motion calendar. A motion calendar is
for the hearing of motions.
(3) General calendar. A general calendar
is for actions in which a note of issue and a certificate of readiness have
been filed but which have not as yet been transferred to a pretrial conference
calendar or a calendar containing cases that are ready for trial.
(4) Pretrial conference
calendar. A pretrial conference calendar is for actions awaiting conference
after the note of issue and certificate of readiness have been filed.
(5) Reserve calendar. A reserve
calendar is for actions that have had a pretrial conference or where such
conference was dispensed with by the court, but where the actions have not yet
been transferred to a ready calendar.
(6) Ready calendar. A ready calendar is
for actions in which a trial is imminent.
(7) Military calendar. A military
calendar is for cases where a party to an action or a witness necessary upon
the trial is in military service, and is not presently available for trial, and
a deposition cannot be taken, or, if taken, would not provide adequate
evidence.
(8)
Continuous calendars. In any court not continuously in session, the calendars
at the close of one term shall be used to open the following term and actions
on the calendars shall retain their positions.
(b) Calendar progression. With
due regard to the requirements of statutory preferences and of section
202.24 of this Part, when actions
are advanced from one calendar to another they shall progress from the head of
one calendar to the foot of the next calendar and otherwise progress in order
insofar as practicable unless otherwise determined by the court.
(c) Call of calendars. Judges to
whom actions and proceedings are assigned pursuant to the individual assignment
system may schedule calls of any calendars they have established at such times
as they deem appropriate.
(d) Readiness for trial. When an action
has been announced "ready" but a trial is not immediately available, counsel
may arrange with the judge to be summoned by telephone, provided they agree to
hold themselves available and to appear on one hour's notice, or at such other
time as the court may order, at the time assigned for trial.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.22
