SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.20-f
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.20-f - Disclosure Disputes. Disclosure Disputes

(a) To the maximum extent possible, discovery
disputes should be resolved through informal procedures, such as conferences,
as opposed to motion practice.
(b)
Absent exigent circumstances, prior to contacting the court regarding a
disclosure dispute, counsel must first consult with one another in a good faith
effort to resolve all disputes about disclosure. Such consultation must take
place by an in-person or telephonic conference. In the event that a discovery
dispute cannot be resolved other than through motion practice, each such
discovery motion shall be supported by an affidavit or affirmation from counsel
attesting to counsel having conducted an in-person or telephonic conference,
setting forth the date and time of such conference, persons participating, and
the length of time of the conference. The unreasonable failure or refusal of
counsel to participate in a conference requested by another party may relieve
the requesting party of the obligation to comply with this paragraph and may be
addressed by the imposition of sanctions pursuant to Part 130. If the moving
party was unable to conduct a conference due to the unreasonable failure or
refusal of an adverse party to participate, then such moving party shall, in an
affidavit or affirmation, detail the efforts made by the moving party to obtain
such a conference and set forth the responses received.
(c) The failure of counsel to comply with
this rule may result in the denial of a discovery motion, without prejudice to
renewal once the provisions of this rule have been complied with, or in such
motion being held in abeyance until the informal resolution procedures of the
court are conducted.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.20-f
Adopted
New
York State Register February 10, 2021/Volume XLIII, Issue 06,
eff. 2/1/2021
