SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.8
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.8 - Motion procedure

(a) All motions shall be returnable
before the assigned judge, and all papers shall be filed with the court on or
before the return date.
(b) Special procedure for unassigned
cases. If a case has not been assigned to a judge, the motion shall be made
returnable before the court, and a copy of the moving papers, together with a
request for judicial intervention, shall be filed with the court, with proof of
service upon all other parties, where required by section
202.6 of this Part, within five
days of service upon the other parties. The moving party shall give written
notice of the index number to all other parties immediately after filing of the
papers. Copies of all responding papers shall be submitted to the court, with
proof of service and with the index number set forth in the papers, on or
before the return date. The case shall be assigned to a judge as soon as
practicable after the filing of the request for judicial intervention pursuant
to section
202.6 of this Part, but in no
event later than the return date. After assignment to the judge, the court
shall provide for appropriate notice to the parties of the name of the assigned
judge. Motion papers noticed to be heard in a county other than the county
where the venue of the action has been placed by the plaintiff shall be
assigned to a judge in accordance with procedures established by the Chief
Administrator.
(c) The
moving party shall serve copies of all affidavits and briefs upon all other
parties at the time of service of the notice of motion. The answering party
shall serve copies of all affidavits and briefs as required by CPLR 2214.
Affidavits shall be for a statement of the relevant facts, and briefs shall be
for a statement of the relevant law.
(d) Motion papers received by the clerk
of the court on or before the return date shall be deemed submitted as of the
return date. The assigned judge, in his or her discretion or at the request of
a party, thereafter may determine that any motion be orally argued and may fix
a time for oral argument. A party requesting oral argument shall set forth such
request in its notice of motion or in its order to show cause or on the first
page of the answering papers, as the case may be. Where all parties to a motion
request oral argument, oral argument shall be granted unless the court shall
determine it to be unnecessary. Where a motion is brought on by order to show
cause, the court may set forth in the order that oral argument is required on
the return date of the motion.
(e)
(1) Stipulations of adjournment of the
return date made by the parties shall be in writing and shall be submitted to
the assigned judge. Such stipulation shall be effective unless the court
otherwise directs. No more than three stipulated adjournments for an aggregate
period of 60 days shall be submitted without prior permission of the
court.
(2) Absent
agreement by the parties, a request by any party for an adjournment shall be
submitted in writing, upon notice to the other party, to the assigned judge on
or before the return date. The court will notify the requesting party whether
the adjournment has been granted.
(f) Where the motion relates to
disclosure or to a bill of particulars, and a preliminary conference has not
been held, the court shall notify all parties of a scheduled date to appear for
a preliminary conference, which shall be not more than 45 days from the return
date of the motion unless the court orders otherwise, and a form of a
stipulation and order, prescribed by the Chief Administrator of the Courts,
shall be made available which the parties may sign, agreeing to a timetable
which shall provide for completion of disclosure within 12 months, and for a
resolution of any other issues raised by the motion. If all parties sign the
form and return it to the court before the return date of the motion, such form
shall be "so ordered" by the court, and the motion shall be deemed withdrawn.
If such stipulation is not returned by all parties, the conference shall be
held on the assigned date. Issues raised by the motion and not resolved at the
conference shall be determined by the court.
(g) Unless the circumstances require
settlement of an order, a judge shall incorporate into the decision an order
effecting the relief specified in the decision.
(h) Reports of pending motions in the
Supreme Court.(1) To assist in
preparing the quarterly report of pending civil matters required by section
4.1 of the Rules of the Chief
Judge, the Chief Administrator of the Court or his or her designee shall
provide to a justice of the Supreme Court, upon request, an automated open
motion report of all motions pending before the justice which appear undecided
60 days after final submission. This open motion report may be used by the
justice to assist in the preparation of his or her official quarterly
report.
(2) Since
motions are decided on a daily basis and further submissions may be received on
a pending motion, the only report that shall be considered current is the
official quarterly report submitted by the particular justice.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.8
