SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.33
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.33 - Conduct of the voir dire

(a) Trial judge. All references to the
trial judge in this section shall include any judge designated by the
administrative judge in those instances where the case processing system or
other logistical considerations do not permit the trial judge to perform the
acts set forth in this section.
(b) Pre-voir dire settlement conference.
Where the court has directed that jury selection begin, the trial judge shall
meet prior to the actual commencement of jury selection with counsel who will
be conducting the voir dire and shall attempt to bring about a disposition of
the action.
(c) Method
of jury selection. The trial judge shall direct the method of jury selection
that shall be used for the voir dire from among the methods specified in
subdivision (f) of this section.
(d) Time limitations. The trial judge
shall establish time limitations for the questioning of prospective jurors
during the voir dire. At the discretion of the judge, the limits established
may consist of a general period for the completion of the questioning, a period
after which attorneys shall report back to the judge on the progress of the
voir dire, and/or specific time periods for the questioning of panels of jurors
or individual jurors.
(e) Presence of judge at the voir dire.
In order to ensure an efficient and dignified selection process, the trial
judge shall preside at the commencement of the voir dire and open the voir dire
proceeding. The trial judge shall determine whether supervision of the voir
dire should continue after the voir dire has commenced and, in his or her
discretion, preside over part of or all of the remainder of the voir
dire.
(f) Methods of
jury selection. Counsel shall select prospective jurors in accordance with the
general principles applicable to jury selection set forth in subdivision (g) of
this section and using the method designated by the judge pursuant to
subdivision (c) of this section. The methods that may be selected are:
(1) "White's method," as set
forth in subdivision (g) of this section;
(2) "struck method," as set forth in
subdivision (g) of this section;
(3) "strike and replace method," in
districts where the specifics of that method have been submitted to the Chief
Administrator by the Administrative Judge and approved by the Chief
Administrator for that district. The strike and replace method shall be
approved only in those districts where the Chief Administrator, in his or her
discretion, has determined that experience with the method in the district has
resulted in an efficient and orderly selection process; or
(4) other methods that may be
submitted to the Chief Administrator for use on an experimental basis by the
appropriate Administrative Judge and approved by the Chief
Administrator.
(g) Procedures for questioning,
challenging and selecting jurors authorized by section
202.33 of the Rules of the Chief
Administrator of the Courts.
APPENDIX E
Procedures for questioning, challenging and
selecting jurors authorized by section
202.33 of the Rules of the Chief
Administrator of the Courts.
A. General principles applicable to jury
selection.Selection of jurors pursuant to any of the methods authorized by
section 202.33(e) of the
Rules of the Chief Administrator shall be governed by the following:
(1) If for any reason jury
selection cannot proceed immediately, counsel shall return promptly to the
courtroom of the assigned trial judge or the Trial Assignment Part or any other
designated location for further instructions.
(2) Generally, a total of eight jurors,
including two alternates, shall be selected. The court may permit a greater
number of alternates if a lengthy trial is expected or for any appropriate
reason. Counsel may consent to the use of "nondesignated" alternate jurors, in
which event no distinction shall be made during jury selection between jurors
and alternates, but the number of peremptory challenges in such cases shall
consist of the sum of the peremptory challenges that would have been available
to challenge both jurors and designated alternates.
(3) All prospective jurors shall
complete a background questionnaire supplied by the court in a form approved by
the Chief Administrator. Prior to the commencement of jury selection, completed
questionnaires shall be made available to counsel. Upon completion of jury
selection, or upon removal of a prospective juror, the questionnaires shall be
either returned to the respective jurors or collected and discarded by court
staff in a manner that ensures juror privacy. With Court approval, which shall
take into consideration concern for juror privacy, the parties may supplement
the questionnaire to address concerns unique to a specific case.
(4) During the voir dire each
attorney may state generally the contentions of his or her client, and identify
the parties, attorneys and the witnesses likely to be called. However, counsel
may not read from any of the pleadings in the action or inform potential jurors
of the amount of money at issue.
(5) Counsel shall exercise peremptory
challenges outside of the presence of the panel of prospective
jurors.
(6) Counsel
shall avoid discussing legal concepts such as burden of proof, which are the
province of the court.
(7) If an unusual delay or a lengthy
trial is anticipated, counsel may so advise prospective jurors.
(8) If counsel objects to
anything said or done by any other counsel during the selection process, the
objecting counsel shall unobtrusively request that all counsel step outside of
the juror's presence, and counsel shall make a determined effort to resolve the
problem. Should that effort fail, counsel shall immediately bring the problem
to the attention of the assigned trial judge, the Trial Assignment Part judge
or any other designated judge.
(9) After jury selection is completed,
counsel shall advise the clerk of the assigned Trial Part or of the Trial
Assignment Part or other designated part. If counsel anticipates the need
during trial of special equipment (if available) or special assistance, such as
an interpreter, counsel shall so inform the clerk at that time.
B. "White's Method"
(1) Prior to the identification
of the prospective jurors to be seated in the jury box, counsel shall ask
questions generally to all of the jurors in the room to determine whether any
prospective juror in the room has knowledge of the subject matter, the parties,
their attorneys or the prospective witnesses. A response from a juror that
requires elaboration may be the subject of further questioning of that juror by
counsel on an individual basis. Counsel may exercise challenges for cause at
this time.
(2) After
general questions have been asked to the group of prospective jurors, jury
selection shall continue in rounds, with each round to consist of the
following: (1) seating
prospective jurors in the jury box;
(2) questioning of seated prospective
jurors; and (3) removal of seated prospective jurors upon exercise of
challenges. Jurors removed for cause shall immediately be replaced during each
round. The first round shall begin initially with the seating of six
prospective jurors (where undesignated alternates are used, additional
prospective jurors equal to the number of alternate jurors shall be seated as
well).
(3) In each
round, the questioning of the seated prospective jurors shall be conducted
first by counsel for the plaintiff, followed by counsel for the remaining
parties in the order in which their names appear in the caption. Counsel may be
permitted to ask follow-up questions. Within each round, challenges for cause
shall be exercised by any party prior to the exercise of peremptory challenges
and as soon as the reason therefor becomes apparent. Upon replacement of a
prospective juror removed for cause, questioning shall revert to the
plaintiff.
(4)
Following questioning and the exercise of challenges for cause, peremptory
challenges shall be exercised one at a time and alternately as follows: In the
first round, in caption order, each attorney shall exercise one peremptory
challenge by removing a prospective juror's name from a "board" passed back and
forth between or among counsel. An attorney alternatively may waive the making
of a peremptory challenge. An attorney may exercise a second, single peremptory
challenge within the round only after all other attorneys have either exercised
or waived their first peremptory challenges. The board shall continue to
circulate among the attorneys until no other peremptory challenges are
exercised. An attorney who waives a challenge may not thereafter exercise a
peremptory challenge within the round, but may exercise remaining peremptory
challenges in subsequent rounds. The counsel last able to exercise a peremptory
challenge in a round is not confined to the exercise of a single challenge but
may then exercise one or more peremptory challenges.
(5) In subsequent rounds, the
first exercise of peremptory challenges shall alternate from side to side.
Where a side consists of multiple parties, commencement of the exercise of
peremptory challenges in subsequent rounds shall rotate among the parties
within the side. In each such round, before the board is to be passed to the
other side, the board must be passed to all remaining parties within the side,
in caption order, starting from the first party in the rotation for that
round.
(6) At the end
of each round, those seated jurors who remain unchallenged shall be sworn and
removed from the room. The challenged jurors shall be replaced, and a new round
shall commence.
(7)
The selection of designated alternate jurors shall take place after the
selection of the six jurors. Designated alternate jurors shall be selected in
the same manner as described above, with the order of exercise of peremptory
challenges continuing as the next round following the last completed round of
challenges to regular jurors. The total number of peremptory challenges to
alternates may be exercised against any alternate, regardless of
seat.
C. "Struck Method" (1) Unless otherwise ordered by the
Court, selection of jurors shall be made from an initial panel of 25
prospective jurors, who shall be seated randomly and who shall maintain the
order of seating throughout the voir dire. If fewer prospective jurors are
needed due to the use of designated alternate jurors or for any other reason,
the size of the panel may be decreased.
(2) Counsel first shall ask questions
generally to the prospective jurors as a group to determine whether any
prospective juror has knowledge of the subject matter, the parties, their
attorneys or the prospective witnesses. A response from a juror that requires
further elaboration may be the subject of further questioning of that juror by
counsel on an individual basis. Counsel may exercise challenges for cause at
this time.
(3) After
the general questioning has been completed, in an action with one plaintiff and
one defendant, counsel for the plaintiff initially shall question the
prospective jurors, followed by questioning by defendant's counsel. Counsel may
be permitted to ask follow-up questions. In cases with multiple parties,
questioning shall be undertaken by counsel in the order in which the parties'
names appear in the caption. A challenge for cause may be made by counsel to
any party as soon as the reason therefor becomes apparent. At the end of the
period, all challenges for cause to any prospective juror on the panel must
have been exercised by respective counsel.
(4) After challenges for cause are
exercised, the number of prospective jurors remaining shall be counted. If that
number is less than the total number of jurors to be selected (including
alternates, where non-designated alternates are being used) plus the maximum
number of peremptory challenges allowed by the court or by statute that may be
exercised by the parties (such sum shall be referred to as the "jury panel
number"), additional prospective jurors shall be added until the number of
prospective jurors not subject to challenge for cause equals or exceeds the
jury panel number. Counsel for each party then shall question each replacement
juror pursuant to the procedure set forth in paragraph (3).
(5) After all prospective jurors
in the panel have been questioned, and all challenges for cause have been made,
counsel for each party, one at a time beginning with counsel for the plaintiff,
shall then exercise allowable peremptory challenges by alternately striking a
single juror's name from a list or ballot passed back and forth between or
among counsel until all challenges are exhausted or waived. In cases with
multiple plaintiffs and/or defendants, peremptory challenges shall be exercised
by counsel in the order in which the parties' names appear in the caption,
unless following that order would, in the opinion of the court, unduly favor a
side. In that event, the court, after consulting with the parties, shall
specify the order in which the peremptory challenges shall be exercised in a
manner that shall balance the interests of the parties. An attorney who waives
a challenge may not thereafter exercise a peremptory challenge. Any Batson or
other objections shall be resolved by the court before any of the struck jurors
are dismissed.
(6)
After all peremptory challenges have been made, the trial jurors (including
alternates when non-designated alternates are used) then shall be selected in
the order in which they have been seated from those prospective jurors
remaining on the panel.
(7) The selection of designated alternate
jurors shall take place after the selection of the six jurors. Counsel shall
select designated alternates in the same manner set forth in these rules, but
with an initial panel of not more than 10 prospective alternates unless
otherwise directed by the court. The jury panel number for designated alternate
jurors shall be equal to the number of alternates plus the maximum number of
peremptory challenges allowed by the court or by statute that may be exercised
by the parties. The total number of peremptory challenges to alternates may be
exercised against any alternate, regardless of seat.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.33
