SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.57
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.57 - Judicial review of orders of the State Division of Human Rights; procedure

(a)
Any complainant, respondent or other person aggrieved by any order of the State
Commissioner of Human Rights or the State Division of Human Rights may obtain
judicial review of such order by commencing a special proceeding, within 60
days after service of the order, in the Supreme Court in the county where the
alleged discriminatory practice which is the subject of the order occurred or
where any person required by the order to cease and desist from an unlawful
discriminatory practice or to take other affirmative action resides or
transacts business. Such proceeding shall be commenced by the filing of a
notice of petition and petition naming as respondents the State Division of
Human Rights and all other parties appearing in the proceeding before the State
Division of Human Rights.
(b) Except as set forth in subdivision
(c) of this section, and unless otherwise ordered by the court, the State
Division of Human Rights shall have 20 days after service of the notice of
petition and petition to file with the court the written transcript of the
record of all prior proceedings upon which its order was made.
(c) Where the petition seeks
review of an order issued after a public hearing held pursuant to section
297
(4)(a) of the Executive Law:
(1) the petition shall have
annexed to it a copy of such order;
(2) the Supreme Court, upon the filing of
the petition, shall make an order directing that the proceeding be transferred
for disposition to the Appellate Division in the judicial department embracing
the county in which the proceeding was commenced; and
(3) the time and manner of the
filing of the written transcript of the record of all prior proceedings shall
be determined by the Appellate Division to which the proceeding is
transferred.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.57
