SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.65
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.65 - Registration of title to real property; sales of real estate under court direction

(a) Petitions for registration. Petitions
for the registration of titles to land made pursuant to article 12 of the Real
Property Law shall be made to the Supreme Court in the county where the land or
portion thereof affected by the petition is situated. Where a particular part
has been designated for this purpose as a title part under the provisions of
section 371 of such law, all petitions to register titles to land under the law
must be returnable at the said title part. If there is no such part, petitions
shall be returnable before the judge is assigned. Such title part or assigned
judge is hereinafter denominated as the appropriate part or judge in this
section.
(b)
Application for final order and judgment of registration. After the time
provided in the notice of hearing shall have expired, or within such further
time as may have been allowed by the court, if there have been no appearances
or answers to the petition, the petitioner may apply to the appropriate part or
judge for a final order and judgment of registration, as provided for in the
law. In all applications for such final order and judgment of registration, the
applicant or petitioner must present to the court proof by affidavit that all
the provisions of the law entitling the petitioner to such final order and
judgment of registration have been complied with.
(c) Application for jury trial.
Where an answer is interposed which raises an issue of fact which in an action
relating to the title to real property would be triable by a jury, either or
any party to the registration proceeding who is entitled to have such issue
determined may apply to the appropriate part or judge within 20 days after the
issue has been joined to have the issues framed to be tried by a jury, as
provided by CPLR 4102(b). The trial of such issues shall be had and the
subsequent proceedings in relation thereto shall be such as are prescribed by
the CPLR. After such issues are disposed of, either or any party to the
registration proceeding may apply to the appropriate part or judge, upon eight
days' notice to all who have appeared in the registration proceeding, for a
final order and judgment of registration, and on such application the court
shall try all other issues in the proceeding not disposed of by the jury, or
may refer any such issues undisposed of to be tried by an official examiner of
title as referee. Where all issues have been disposed of, any party, upon eight
days' notice to all who have appeared in the proceeding, may apply for the
final order and judgment of registration at the appropriate part or before the
appropriate assigned judge.
(d) Applications; notice requirements.
All applications to the court after a certificate of registration of title has
been issued under the provisions of the law must be made at the appropriate
part or before the appropriate assigned judge hereinbefore designated upon 20
days' notice to all persons interested in the said application. All
applications to the court under sections
404-a and
422 of the
Real Property Law shall be made to the appropriate part or judge upon eight
days' notice to all persons in interest, as provided by that section. All
applications made to the court under section
428 of the
Real Property Law shall also be made to the appropriate part or judge, upon
eight days' notice to the city or county treasurer and all other parties who
have appeared in the proceeding to recover for loss or damage or deprivation of
real property out of the assurance fund provided for by law.
(e) Sales of real estate. All
sales of real estate or an interest therein, made pursuant to a judgment,
decree or order, or by an officer of the court under its direction, shall be
made pursuant to section
231 of the Real Property Actions and
Proceedings Law, after notice as prescribed in that section. An auctioneer
selected for this purpose must be an attorney, or a licensed real estate
broker, or a salesman licensed for at least five years. The auctioneer's fee
for conducting the sale shall be as prescribed by law.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.65
