SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.16-c
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.16-c - Rules Governing the Electronic Filing of Matrimonial Actions in Supreme Court

(a) Application
(1) Pursuant to 22 NYCRR §
202.5 -b, documents may be filed
and served by electronic means in matrimonial actions in the Supreme Court of
authorized counties subject to the conditions set forth below. Except as
otherwise required by this rule, the provisions of 22 NYCRR §
202.5 -b shall apply.
(2) For purposes of this rule:
(i) ''Matrimonial actions'' shall mean those
actions set forth in CPLR § 105(p) and DRL § 236, as well as plenary
actions for child support, custody or visitation, an order of protection
pursuant to the Domestic Relations Law or an application pursuant to the Child
Parent Security Act, wherein:(A) the action
is contested, and addresses issues including, but not limited to, alimony,
counsel fees, pendente lite, maintenance, custody and visitation, child
support, the equitable distribution of property, or domestic violence, abuse,
paternity, or parental rights; or
(B) the action is uncontested; or
(C) the action is a post-judgment application
that was initiated electronically that addresses an underlying matrimonial
action previously filed in hard copy or electronically.
(ii) A ''party'' or ''parties'' shall mean
the party or parties to the action or counsel thereto (as set forth in 22 NYCRR
§
202.5 -b(a)(2)(viii)) and the
attorney(s) for the minor child(ren).
(3) No paper or document filed by electronic
means in a matrimonial action shall be available for public inspection on-line
or at any computer terminal in the courthouse or the office of the County
Clerk; provided that nothing herein shall restrict access by a party whether or
not such party is self-represented or access by a party's attorney, to a paper
or document in the matrimonial action in which the party is involved on-line or
at any such computer terminal.
(4)
Nothing in this section shall be construed to abrogate existing personal
service requirements as set forth in the domestic relations law, family court
act or civil practice law and rules.
(5) Unless otherwise directed by the court,
evaluations or investigations of the parties or a child by a forensic mental
health professional (including underlying notes), and reports by a probation
service or a child protective service in proceedings involving custody,
visitation, neglect or abuse, and other matters concerning children, shall not
be filed electronically.
(6) Unless
the Court authorizes service to be effectuated via NYSCEF, service of the
initiating documents in post-judgment applications subject to consensual
e-filing must be effectuated in hard copy and accompanied by a notice of
electronic filing. Proof of hard copy service shall be filed by electronic
means.
(7) In a matrimonial action,
attorneys appointed by the court as attorneys for minor children of the parties
may register as an authorized e-filing user of the NYSCEF site and consent to
e-file.
(8) In a matrimonial
action, attorneys for the parties or for minor children of the parties must
remove their representation of such parties or such minor children from the
NYSCEF record by following the instructions on the NYSCEF website for such
removal in an e-filed action, within sixty (60) days after the earlier of:
(i) a judgment of divorce, separation,
annulment or action to declare a marriage void or voidable has been signed and
entered in the office of the County Clerk, with notice of entry also signed and
served; and where any post-judgment or plenary proceedings before the Court in
which the attorney represented the party have concluded by stipulation, final
order or withdrawal of the post-judgment or plenary proceeding, and there are
no other such proceedings pending; and where any Qualified Domestic Relations
Orders or Domestic Relations Orders have been signed and served with notice of
entry, and no notice of appeal has been filed in which attorneys for the
parties or the minor children have been retained as counsel. If counsel is
retained on an appellate issue, they may remain on NYSCEF for the duration of
the appellate proceeding or as may be otherwise ordered by the Court;
or
(ii) they cease to be the
attorney of record in the action or cease to be associated with the law firm
that is the attorney of record in the action; or
(iii) they have filed a properly executed
consent to change attorney pursuant to CPLR 321(b)(1); or
(iv) an order of the Court authorizing the
withdrawal or change of attorney has been filed and entered pursuant to CPLR
321(b)(2); or
(v) they have filed a
notice of completion of limited scope representation in the action pursuant to
CPLR 321(d).
(9) Counsel
shall promptly comply with any requirements in CPLR 321 for counsel to provide
notices to parties or self-represented litigants or attorneys or anyone else
directed by the Court as to a change in or authorized withdrawal of
representation or as to completion of limited scope representation in the
action. Counsel shall also promptly provide notice of any consent to change
attorney or notice of completion of limited scope representation to the Court,
unless otherwise directed by the Court.
(10) In a matrimonial action, attorneys for
non-parties to the action must remove their consent from NYSCEF and the right
to receive notices in an e-filed action by following the instructions for such
removal on the NYSCEF website within ten (10) days after the matters before the
Court related to the non-party application or any cross application have
concluded, except in the event of a pending appeal on the issue.
(11) Notwithstanding anything contained in
this rule or in Part 202 containing the Uniform Rules for Supreme and County
Courts, counsel may apply to the court before whom proceedings are filed, on
notice to all parties and counsel, for an order pursuant to DRL 235(1) granting
permission:(i) not to remove their
representation of the parties or the minor children from the NYSCEF record if
they have a pending application or order of the court for the recovery of legal
fees and expenses, including but not limited to a charging lien, fee award,
security interest, judgement, or other judicially recognized acknowledgement of
such fees and expenses owed to counsel; or
(ii) to apply or reapply for access to seek
enforcement; or
(iii) until further
order of the court.
(12)
Any issue regarding non-compliance with the provisions of this rule shall be
addressed to the assigned Judge handling the matter on notice to all parties
and counsel.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.16-c
Adopted
New
York State Register May 29, 2024/Volume XLVI, Issue 22, eff.
5/29/2024
