SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-202.59
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 202.59 - Tax assessment review proceedings in counties outside the City of New York; special rules

(a) Applicability. This section shall
apply to every tax assessment review proceeding brought pursuant to title 1 of
article 7 of the Real Property Tax Law in counties outside the City of New
York.
(b) Statement of
income and expenses. Before the note of issue and certificate of readiness may
be filed, the petitioner shall have served on the respondent, in triplicate, a
statement that the property is not income-producing, or a copy of a verified or
certified statement of the income and expenses on the property for each tax
year under review. For the purposes of this section, a cooperative or
condominium apartment building shall be considered income-producing property;
an owner-occupied business property shall be considered income-producing as
determined by the amount reasonably allocable for rent, but the petitioner is
not required to make an estimate of rental income.
(c) Audit. Within 60 days after
the service of the statement of income and expenses, the respondent, for the
purpose of substantiating petitioner's statement of income and expenses, may
request in writing an audit of the petitioner's books and records for the tax
years under review. If requested, the audit must be completed within 120 days
after the request has been made unless the court, upon good cause shown,
extends the time for the audit. Failure of the respondent to request or
complete the audit within the time limits shall be deemed a waiver of such
privilege. If an audit is requested and the petitioner fails to furnish its
books and records within a reasonable time after receipt of the request, or
otherwise unreasonably impedes or delays the audit, the court, on motion of the
respondent, may dismiss the petition or petitions or make such other order as
the interest of justice requires.
(d) Filing note of issue and certificate
of readiness; additional requirements. (1) A note of issue and certificate of
readiness shall not be filed unless all disclosure proceedings have been
completed and the statement of income and expenses has been served and
filed.
(2) A separate
note of issue shall be filed for each property for each tax year.
(e) Pretrial
conference. (1) At any time
after filing of the note of issue and certificate of readiness, any party to a
tax assessment review proceeding may demand, by application served on all other
parties and filed with the court, together with proof of such service, a
pretrial conference, or the court on its own motion may direct a pretrial
conference at a time and date to be fixed by the court. At the pretrial
conference, the judge shall take whatever action is warranted to expedite final
disposition of the proceedings, including but not limited to:
(i) directing the parties to
obtain appraisals and sales reports, and to exchange and file appraisal reports
and sales reports by dates certain before the trial, provided that if the court
dispenses with a pretrial conference, such exchange and filings shall be
accomplished at least 10 days before trial;
(ii) fixing a date for trial, or by which
the parties must be ready for trial;
(iii) signing any order
required;
(iv)
conducting conferences for the purpose of facilitating settlement;
and
(v) limiting
issues and recording stipulations of counsel.
(2) Failure to comply with any
order or directive of the court authorized by this subdivision shall be subject
to the appropriate sanctions.
(f) Consolidation or joint trial.
Consolidation or joint trial of real property tax assessment review proceedings
in the discretion of the court shall be conditioned upon service having been
made of the verified or certified income and expense statement, or a statement
that the property is not income-producing, for each of the tax years under
review.
(g) Exchange
and filing of appraisal reports.(1) The exchange and filing of appraisal
reports shall be accomplished by the following procedure: (i) The respective parties shall file
with the clerk of the trial court one copy, or in the event that there are two
or more adversaries, a copy for each adversary, of all appraisal reports
intended to be used at the trial.
(ii) When the clerk shall have received
all such reports, the clerk forthwith shall distribute simultaneously to each
of the other parties a copy of the reports filed.
(iii) Where multiple parties or
more than one parcel is involved, each appraisal report need be served only
upon the taxing authority and the party or parties contesting the value of the
property which is the subject of the report. Each party shall provide an
appraisal report copy for the court.
(2) The appraisal reports shall contain a
statement of the method of appraisal relied on and the conclusions as to value
reached by the expert, together with the facts, figures and calculations by
which the conclusions were reached. If sales, leases or other transactions
involving comparable properties are to be relied on, they shall be set forth
with sufficient particularity as to permit the transaction to be readily
identified, and the report shall contain a clear and concise statement of every
fact that a party will seek to prove in relation to those comparable
properties. The appraisal reports also may contain photographs of the property
under review and of any comparable property that specifically is relied upon by
the appraiser, unless the court otherwise directs.
(3) Where an appraiser appraises
more than one parcel in any proceeding, those parts of the separate appraisal
reports for each parcel that would be repetitious may be included in one
general appraisal report to which reference may be made in the separate
appraisal reports. Such general appraisal reports shall be served and filed as
provided in paragraph (1) of this subdivision.
(4) Appraisal reports shall comply with
any official form for appraisal reports that may be prescribed by the Chief
Administrator of the Courts.
(h) Use of appraisal reports at trial.
Upon the trial, expert witnesses shall be limited in their proof of appraised
value to details set forth in their respective appraisal reports. Any party who
fails to serve an appraisal report as required by this section shall be
precluded from offering any expert testimony on value; provided, however, upon
the application of any party on such notice as the court shall direct, the
court may, upon good cause shown, relieve a party of a default in the service
of a report, extend the time for exchanging reports, or allow an amended or
supplemental report to be served upon such conditions as the court may direct.
After the trial of the issues has begun, any such application must be made to
the trial judge and shall be entertained only in unusual and extraordinary
circumstances.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
202.59
