SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-208.14
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 208.14 - Calendar default; restoration; dismissal

(a) Applicability. This section governs
calendar defaults, restorations and dismissals, other than striking a case from
the calendar pursuant to a motion under section
208.17 of this Part relating to
the notice of trial and certificate of readiness.
(b) At any scheduled call of a
calendar or at a pretrial conference, if all parties do not appear and proceed
or announce their readiness to proceed immediately or subject to the engagement
of counsel, the judge presiding may note the default on the record and enter an
order as follows:(1) If the
plaintiff appears but the defendant does not, the judge may grant judgment by
default or order an inquest.
(2) If the defendant appears but the
plaintiff does not, the judge may dismiss the action and may order a severance
of counterclaims or cross-claims.
(3) If no party appears, the judge may
strike the action from the calendar or make such other order as appears
just.
(c)
Actions stricken from the calendar may be restored to the calendar only upon
stipulation of all parties so ordered by the court or by motion on notice to
all other parties, made within one year after the action is stricken. A motion
must be supported by affidavit by a person having firsthand knowledge,
satisfactorily explaining the reasons for the action having been stricken and
showing that it is presently ready for trial.
(d) If an order of restoration is
granted, it shall provide that a new notice of trial be filed forthwith and
that the case be placed on the general trial calendar in its regular place as
of the date of filing the new notice of trial, unless the court in its
discretion orders otherwise. A copy of the order shall be served on the
calendar clerk and the case shall receive a new calendar number followed by the
letter "R" to designate the case as having been restored. Absent exceptional
circumstances, if a restored case is not ready when reached, it shall forthwith
be dismissed or an inquest or judgment ordered as provided in subdivision (b)
of this section.
(e)
Applications to restore an action to the ready calendar in the event of a
reversal or a direction of a new trial by an appellate court, shall be made
returnable in the appropriate motion part, except that if all parties do not
appear by attorney, the clerk shall, without formal application, restore the
action to the ready calendar.
(f) When an action has been tried and the
jury has disagreed, or a verdict set aside, or there has been a mistrial for
any reason, or if no decision has been made or judgment rendered within the
time specified in the CPLR, or if the court has ordered a new trial under CPLR
4402, such action must be restored to the appropriate ready calendar for a day
certain to be fixed by the court.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
208.14
