SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-208.43
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 208.43 - Rules of the housing part

(a) There shall be a housing part for the
hearing of all actions and proceedings in all matters arising under section 110
of the NYCCCA.
(b) All
rules of the Civil Court shall apply to the housing part whenever practicable,
except when otherwise provided by statute or as otherwise provided in this
section.
(c) There
shall be paid to the clerk the following sums as a fee in an action or
proceeding in the housing part: (1) upon the request of a tenant for an
order directing the owner to correct the violation and to impose a penalty for
failure to comply timely with the order--$20;
(2) upon the issuance of a petition by a
landlord for the removal of housing violations--$20.
(d) Summons.
(1) The summons shall state the
county division and location of the court in which the action is brought, as
well as the names of the parties and the address of the premises, and shall
comply with all the provisions of the NYCCCA applicable to summonses.
(2) Form of summons. The summons
in a case involving an action in the housing part for the recovery of civil
penalties shall be in such form as may be promulgated by the Chief
Administrator.
(3)
Where a hazardous or nonhazardous violation is alleged and the summons is
personally delivered to the landlord or its registered agent within the City of
New York, the defendant shall appear and answer within 10 days after such
service.
(4) Where a
summons for a hazardous or nonhazardous violation is delivered by mail or by
any other method provided in NYCCCA 110(m), the defendant shall appear and
answer within 20 days after the proof of service thereof is filed with the
clerk of the housing part.
(5) Where the summons for a hazardous or
nonhazardous violation is personally delivered to the landlord or its
registered agent, the affidavit of service thereof shall be filed with the
clerk of the housing part within five days after personal delivery.
(6) Where the summons for a
hazardous or nonhazardous violation is served by any other method provided in
NYCCCA 110(m), the affidavit of service thereof shall be filed with the clerk
of the housing part no later than 10 days from the date the summons is posted
and mailed (where such mailing is required).
(7) Where the summons for a hazardous or
nonhazardous violation is served outside of the City of New York, the affidavit
of service thereof shall be filed with the clerk of the housing part within 10
days after service.
(8) A penalty action for an immediately
hazardous violation shall be commenced by an order to show cause, returnable
within five days, or within a lesser time period in the discretion of the
court.
(9) Upon the
signing of an order to show cause and prior to the service thereof, the clerk
of the housing part shall issue an index number.
(10) Venue.
(i) In any action or proceeding
in the housing part of the Civil Court, the action or proceeding must be
brought in the county in which the real property is situated (NYCCCA, section
302).
(ii) An action
or proceeding involving premises located in postal ZIP codes 10035 and 10037,
and the Taft Houses and the Jefferson Houses, shall be noticed and filed in the
Harlem courthouse.
(iii) An action or proceeding involving
the following premises in which the New York City Housing Authority is a party
shall be noticed and filed in the Red Hook Community Justice Center:
Red Hook East Houses
Red Hook West Houses
(e) The
answer shall be verified and shall include any affirmative defenses or defenses
in mitigation of the defendant's liability as set forth in section 27-2116 of
the Administrative Code. In cases involving an immediately hazardous violation,
the defendant may interpose an oral answer before the court.
(f) Where a defendant defaults
by failing to answer the summons or order to show cause, an inquest shall be
taken before the court. If the defendant consents to a judgment imposing a
civil penalty, no inquest is required to be taken, and judgment shall be
entered on consent by direction of the court.
(g) Notice of trial. Where all parties
appear by attorney, any party may serve a notice of trial on the others, fixing
a date for trial not less than five nor more than eight days after service of
such notice, and shall file such notice with proof of service thereof at least
four days before the date fixed for trial with the clerk of the housing part of
the Civil Court, who shall thereupon place the case on the calendar for trial.
Where the defendant appears in person, the clerk of the housing part shall fix
a date for trial not less than five nor more than 15 days after joinder of
issue, and shall immediately notify all the parties by mail of such date. If
any of the parties has appeared by attorney, the clerk shall notify the
attorney.
(h) Rules of
evidence shall apply in all actions and proceedings in the housing part. The
order of proof shall be determined by the court.
(i) The decision of a judge or
housing judge shall set forth conclusions of fact. Said judge or housing judge
shall render such decision within 30 days after trial of a nonhazardous or
hazardous violation, and within 15 days after trial of an immediate hazardous
violation or an injunction.
(j) The housing part shall be presided
over by a judge of the Civil Court or, in the discretion of the administrative
judge, by a housing judge. The presiding judge shall assign the individual
cases to housing judges and Civil Court judges, except actions and proceedings
to be tried by jury shall be tried before a judge of the Civil Court.
(k) All applications for
impleading shall be made to the judge of the calendar part or, if the case has
been assigned for trial, to the trial judge.
(l) No disclosure or bill of particulars
shall be allowed without an order of the court in an action or proceeding to
impose a civil penalty in the housing part.
(m) The Department of Housing
Preservation and Development (HPD) shall not have costs taxed against it, and
shall be exempt from paying any fees required by this section or the
NYCCCA.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
208.43
