SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-208.4
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 208.4 - Papers Filed in Court

(a) Index
Number; Form; Label
The party causing the first paper to be filed shall obtain
an index number and communicate it forthwith to all other parties to the
action. Thereafter such number shall appear on the outside cover and first
page, to the right of the caption, of every paper tendered for filing in the
action. Each such cover and first page also shall contain an indication of the
county of venue and a brief description of the nature of the paper. In addition
to complying with the provisions of CPLR 2101, every paper filed in court shall
have annexed thereto appropriate proof of service on all parties where
required, and if typewritten, shall have at least a double space between each
line, except for quotations and the names and addresses of attorneys appearing
in the action, and shall have at least one-inch margins. In addition, every
paper filed in court, other than an exhibit or printed form, shall contain
writing on one side only, except that papers that are fastened on the side may
contain writing on both sides. Papers that are stapled or bound securely shall
not be rejected for filing simply because they are not bound with a backer of
any kind.
(b) Omission or
Redaction of Confidential Personal Information in Civil Actions and
Proceedings. (1) Except for any action or
proceeding arising under the Vehicle and Traffic Law, or prosecution of a
violation of an ordinance of a city, town or village, or in a petition for
change of name under the Civil Rights Law, or as otherwise provided by rule or
law or court order, and whether or not a sealing order is or has been sought,
the parties shall omit or redact confidential personal information in papers
submitted to the court for filing. For purposes of this rule, confidential
personal information ("CPI") means: i. the
taxpayer identification number of an individual or an entity, including a
social security number, an employer identification number, and an individual
taxpayer identification number, except the last four digits thereof;
ii. the date of an individual's birth, except
the year thereof;
iii. the full
name of an individual known to be a minor, except the minor's initials;
and
iv. a financial account number,
including a credit and/or debit card number, a bank account number, an
investment account number, and/or an insurance account number, except the last
four digits or letters thereof.
(2) The court sua sponte or on motion by any
person may order a party to remove CPI from papers or to resubmit a paper with
such information redacted; order the clerk to seal the papers or a portion
thereof containing CPI in accordance with the requirement of 22 NYCRR §
216.1 that any sealing be no
broader than necessary to protect the CPI; for good cause permit the inclusion
of CPI in papers; order a party to file an unredacted copy under seal for in
camera review; or determine that information in a particular action is not
confidential. The court shall consider the pro se status of any party in
granting relief pursuant to this provision.
(3) Where a person submitting a paper to a
court for filing believes in good faith that the inclusion of the full
confidential personal information described in subparagraphs (i) to (iv) of
paragraph (1) of this subdivision is material and necessary to the adjudication
of the action or proceeding before the court, he or she may apply to the court
for leave to serve and file together with a paper in which such information has
been set forth in abbreviated form a confidential affidavit or affirmation
setting forth the same information in unabbreviated form, appropriately
referenced to the page or pages of the paper at which the abbreviated form
appears.
(4) The redaction
requirement does not apply to the last four digits of the relevant account
numbers, if any, in an action arising out of a consumer credit transaction, as
defined in subdivision (f) of section
one hundred
five of the civil practice law and rules. In the event
the defendant appears in such an action the defendant may without leave of
court submit papers disclosing full account numbers to the extent necessary to
ensure that an order or judgment issued by the court contains proof
satisfactory to a credit reporting agency. In the event the defendant appears
in such an action and denies responsibility for the identified account, the
plaintiff may without leave of court amend his or her pleading to add full
account or CPI by (i) submitting such amended paper to the court on written
notice to defendant for in camera review or (ii) filing such full account or
other CPI under seal in accordance with rules promulgated by the chief
administrator of the courts.
(5)
Whenever an application is submitted to a court seeking a change of name
pursuant to Civil Rights Law Article 6, change of sex designation pursuant to
Civil Rights Law Article 6- a, or both forms of relief in a combined
application, then:i. the application shall be
immediately deemed sealed upon filing;
ii. the clerk of the court shall take all
reasonable steps necessary to seal and safeguard the applicant's current name,
proposed new name, current sex designation, proposed new sex designation,
residential and business addresses, telephone numbers, and any other
information contained in any pleadings or papers submitted to the court in
connection with the application to prevent inadvertent or unauthorized use or
disclosure while the matter is pending, including, but not limited, ensuring
that such an application proceeds with an anonymous caption, until a
determination or further order is issued by the Court;
iii. where such application is sealed, the
clerk of the court shall not allow any person, other than the party or the
attorney or counsel for the party, to access the application, except by order
of the Court; and
iv. prior to the
entry of a final determination or order on such an application, the Court must
decide whether any legal basis is present so as to support maintaining the
sealing imposed in accordance with this rule, and, where an application and/or
any document submitted in support of it will not remain sealed, the Court
should order the applicant to submit a complete copy of the application with
all confidential personal information redacted and/or removed in accordance
with Rule 208.4(b) if the applicant has not done so before any unsealing order
takes effect.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
208.4
Amended
New
York State Register February 3, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 05,
eff. 4/1/2016
Amended
New
York State Register October 23, 2024/Volume XLVI, Issue 43, eff.
12/2/2024
