SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-208.4a
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 208.4a - Electronic Filing in New York City Civil Court

(a) Application. On consent, documents may be
filed and served by electronic means in the New York City Civil Court ("Civil
Court") in such actions and in such counties as shall be authorized by order of
the Chief Administrator of the Courts and only to the extent and in the manner
provided in this section ; except that in an action brought by a provider of
health services specified in section
5102
(a)(l) of the Insurance Law against an
insurer for failure to comply with rules and regulations promulgated by the
Superintendent of Insurance pursuant to section 5108(b) of such law, the Chief
Administrator of the Courts may eliminate the requirement of consent pursuant
to section 2111 (b)(2)(C) of the CPLR.
(b) Electronic filing in actions in the Civil
Court. (1) Except as otherwise provided in
this section, 22 NYCRR section
202.5 -b, and section
202.5 -bb where applicable, shall
apply to all actions in which electronic filing is authorized in the Civil
Court. References in sections
202.5 -b and 202.5-bb to the Chief
Clerk of the Supreme Court, or the clerk of a court shall be deemed to mean,
where relevant, the Chief Clerk of the Civil Court and references in such
section to the CPLR shall be deemed to include, where relevant, the New York
City Civil Court Act and Real Property Actions and Proceedings Law.
(2) Commencing an action by electronic means.
(i) Except as otherwise provided in
subdivision (a) of this section, a party may commence any action in the Civil
Court in any county (provided that e-filing has been authorized in that county
and in the class of actions to which that action belongs pursuant to
subdivision (a) of this section) by electronically filing the initiating
documents with the clerk of the court through the NYSCEF site.
(ii) Documents that are electronically filed
to commence an action in compliance with this section shall be deemed filed
with the Clerk of the Civil Court in the county in which the action is brought
for purposes of section
400 of the New York City Civil Court Act
upon the date of receipt of those documents by the NYSCEF site, together with
the payment of any required fee.
(iii) No later than the close of business on
the business day following the date on which the initiating documents are
electronically filed to commence an action pursuant to subparagraph (ii) of
this paragraph, a confirmation notice shall be transmitted electronically by
the NYSCEF site to the person filing such documents. The notice shall contain a
link to a copy of the initiating documents to which shall be affixed an index
number for the matter and a filing stamp showing the date of filing of the
documents and to which there may also be affixed, as the court may require, an
image of the signature of the Chief Clerk. This notice will satisfy the
requirement in section
400
(1) of the New York City Civil Court Act that
the clerk return a copy of the filing to the party.
(iv) Where a summary proceeding under Article
7 of the Real Property Actions and Proceedings Law involving residential
property is commenced electronically, NYSCEF shall provide the petitioner with
the option, in lieu of submitting a stamped postcard containing the written
notice required by section
208.42(i) of
these rules, of having the clerk of the court mail such notice to the
respondent or, if there be more than one respondent, to all of them. If the
petitioner selects this option, the clerk shall charge the petitioner the cost
of postage and a processing fee.
(3) E-filing in an action after commencement.
Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (a) of the section, after
commencement of an action wherein e-filing is authorized, documents may be
electronically filed by, and electronically served by and upon, parties who
have consented thereto. Consent shall be obtained, and such e-filing shall be
conducted as provided in 22 NYCRR section
202.5
-b(b)(2).
(c) Service of
documents. (1) A person seeking to obtain
personal jurisdiction over a person named as a party to an action specified in
subdivision (a) of this section may serve the opposing party in hard copy, or
by electronic means if the opposing party agrees to accept such service, in
accordance with the CPLR or the New York City Civil Court Act.
(2) Where an action is commenced by
electronic filing pursuant to this section, the original proof of service
required by section
409 of the New York City Civil Court Act
shall be filed with the Clerk of the Court in the county in which the action
was commenced by filing with the NYSCEF site. Service is deemed complete for
the purposes of section
410
(b) of the New York City Civil Court Act upon
receipt of the electronic proof of service by the electronic filing address
NYSCEF site. In a summary proceeding to recover possession of real property,
commenced electronically in accordance with this section, only the proof of
service needs to be e-filed. The initial e-filing of the Notice of Petition or
Signed Order to Show Cause, at the time of the commencement of the action,
satisfies the requirement in 208.42 (h) to return the original of those
documents to the Clerk of the Court with proof of service.
(3) Service of documents after commencement
of an e-filed action shall be made as provided in 22 NYCRR section
202.5 -b (f) (2), and
202.5-bb(c)(1), where applicable. When an e-filing party serves a document in
hard copy on a non-participating party, the document served shall be a true
copy of the e-filed document and shall bear full signatures of all signatories.
Proof of such service shall be filed electronically.
(d) Official Record; Maintenance of Files;
Working Copies. (1) When a document has been
filed electronically pursuant to this section, the official record shall be the
electronic recording of the document stored by the NYSCEF system. The clerk or
his or her designee may scan and e-file documents that were filed in hard copy
in an action subject to e-filing or maintain those documents in hard copy
form.
(2) Parties participating in
e-filing shall not be required to submit working copies of documents filed
electronically.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
208.4a
Amended
New
York State Register July 29, 2020/Volume XLII, Issue 30, eff.
7/13/2020
