SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-208.39
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 208.39 - Procedures for the enforcement of money judgments under CPLR article 52

(a)
All subpoenas and processes for the examination of judgment debtors or other
persons, including garnishees, in connection with the enforcement of money
judgments, as well as adjournments thereof if made returnable in the court,
shall be returnable in such motion part of each county division of the court as
may be designated by the Chief Administrator of the Courts.
(b) All subpoenas and processes
for the examination of judgment debtors or other persons, including garnishees,
if made returnable in the court, shall be filed with the clerk of the
appropriate motion part, with proper affidavits of service, at least two court
days before the return day, except where service was made too late for filing
within such time, in which event filing before the hour of the return shall
suffice and the clerk shall list all such upon the calendar. Stipulations of
adjournments, if attendance in court on the adjourned date is required, shall
be similarly filed. Unless so filed, the names of the parties shall not be
called; nor shall any such names be called unless they appear on a written or
typewritten calendar. The judge presiding may, upon proper proof by affidavit
showing good cause for the failure to file in accordance with this rule, add
any matter to the calendar.
(c) No adjournment of an examination
shall be valid unless reduced to writing and a copy thereof delivered to the
judgment debtor or other person, including a garnishee, at the time of such
adjournment, and his acknowledgment of the receipt thereof is endorsed on the
original.
(d) There
shall be no more than two adjournments of the examination of a judgment debtor
or other person, including a garnishee, unless such additional adjournment is
approved and such approval is noted on the papers by the judge presiding at a
motion part.
(e) No
motion shall be made upon the basis of any testimony taken in examinations
unless and until such testimony has been reduced to writing and unless and
until there has been compliance with the requirements of CPLR
5224(e).
(f) Every
subpoena or other process providing for the examination of a judgment debtor or
other person, including a garnishee, in addition to the other requirements of
CPLR 5223, shall have endorsed on its face, in bold type, the words: This
subpoena or process (as the case may be) requires your personal appearance at
the time and place specified. Failure to appear may subject you to fine and
imprisonment for contempt of court.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
208.39
