SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-208.9
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 208.9 - Preliminary conference

(a) The Chief Administrator of the Courts
may designate a specific class or specific classes of cases in one or more
counties to be subject to this section.
(b) The plaintiff in a class of cases
designated by the Chief Administrator pursuant to subdivision (a) of this
section shall request a preliminary conference within 45 days after joinder of
issue. The request shall state the title of the action: index number; date of
joinder of issue; name, address, and telephone number of all attorneys
appearing in the action; and the nature of the action. The request shall be
served on all other parties and filed with the clerk together with stamped
postcards addressed to all parties. The court shall order a preliminary
conference in the action upon compliance with the requirements of this
subdivision.
(c) The
clerk shall notify all parties of the scheduled conference date, which shall be
not more than 45 days from the date the request for a preliminary conference is
filed unless the court orders otherwise. A form of stipulation and order,
prescribed by the Administrative Judge, shall be made available which the
parties may sign, agreeing to a timetable which shall provide for completion of
disclosure. If all parties sign the form and return it to the court before the
scheduled preliminary conference, such form shall be "so ordered" by the court,
and, unless the court orders otherwise, the scheduled preliminary conference
shall be canceled. If such stipulation is not returned signed by all parties,
the parties shall appear at the conference. Except where a party appears in the
action pro se, an attorney thoroughly familiar with the action and authorized
to act on behalf of the party shall appear at such conference.
(d) The matters to be considered
at the preliminary conference shall include:(1) the simplification and limitation of
factual and legal issues, where appropriate;
(2) establishment of a timetable for the
completion of all disclosure proceedings;
(3) addition of other necessary
parties;
(4)
settlement of the action; and
(5) any other matters that the court may
deem relevant.
(e) At the conclusion of the conference
the court shall make a written order including its directions to the parties as
well as any stipulations of counsel.
(f) When a notice of trial and
certificate of readiness is filed pursuant to section
208.17 of this Part in an action
to which this section is applicable, the filing party, in addition to complying
with all other applicable rules of the court, shall file with the notice of
trial and certificate of readiness an affirmation or affidavit, with proof of
service on all parties who have appeared, showing specific compliance with the
preliminary conference order or with the so-ordered stipulation provided for in
subdivision (c) of this section.
(g) In the discretion of the court,
failure by a party to comply with the order resulting from the preliminary
conference, or with the so-ordered stipulation provided for in subdivision (c)
of this section, or the making of unnecessary or frivolous motions by a party,
may result in the imposition upon such party of costs or such other sanctions
as are authorized by law.
(h) A party may move to advance the date
of a preliminary conference upon a showing of special circumstances.
(i) Motions in actions to which
this section is applicable made before the preliminary conference is held may
be denied or marked off the calendar unless good cause is shown why such relief
is warranted before that time.
(j) No action or proceeding to which this
section is applicable shall be deemed ready for trial unless there is
compliance with the provisions of this section and any order issued pursuant
thereto.
(k) The
court, in its discretion, may order such further conferences as it may deem
helpful or necessary at any time in a matter before the court to which this
section is applicable.
(l) At the discretion of the
Administrative Judge, a judicial hearing officer may preside at a preliminary
conference scheduled pursuant to this section.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
208.9
