SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-208.3
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 208.3 - Parts of court; structure

(a) General. A part of court is a
designated unit of the court in which specified business of the court is to be
conducted by a judge or quasi-judicial officer.
(b) Number and types. In each division
there shall be such number of calendar parts, trial parts, motion parts,
conference parts, multipurpose parts, and other special parts of court, and any
combination thereof, as may be established from time to time by the Chief
Administrator of the Courts. There shall also be one or more small claims parts
in each division for the hearing and disposition of all small claims
proceedings, as the Chief Administrator may establish. (1) Calendar part. A calendar part is a
part of court for the maintaining and calling of a calendar of cases, and for
the hearing and disposition of all motions and applications, including orders
to show cause and applications for adjournments, in civil actions that have
been placed on a reserve or ready calendar but not yet assigned to a trial
part.
(2) Trial part.
A trial part is a part of court for the trial of civil actions and for the
hearing and determination of all motions and applications, including orders to
show cause, made after an action is assigned to a trial part.
(3) Motion part. A motion part
is a part of court for the hearing and determination of motions and
applications that are not otherwise required by this Part to be made in a
calendar part, trial part or conference part.
(4) Conference part. A conference part is
a part of court for the precalendar or pretrial conference of actions as may be
provided by this Part or by order of the Chief Administrator.
(5) Multipurpose part. A
multipurpose part is a part of court for the performance of the functions of a
calendar part, a trial part, a motion part, a conference part, as well as other
special parts of court, or any combination thereof.
(6) Additional parts. Additional
parts, including parts with special or limited functions, may be established
from time to time by order of the Chief Administrator for such purposes as may
be assigned by the Chief Administrator.
(7) Transfer of actions. By order of the
Chief Administrator, proceedings and matters may be transferred, as the Chief
Administrator deems necessary, from one part of court to another in the same
division, regardless of the denomination of the parts.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
208.3
