SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/22-NYCRR-208.42
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22 § 208.42 - Proceedings under article 7 of the Real Property Actions and Proceedings Law

(a) Such
proceedings involving residential property shall be commenced in the housing
part.
(b) The chief administrator
of the courts shall promulgate, and post on the Unified Court System website, a
form notice of petition for mandatory use in eviction proceedings involving
residential property under article 7 of the Real Property Actions and
Proceedings Law (other than in proceedings brought on the ground that the
respondent has defaulted in the payment of rent).
(c) Real Property Action and Proceedings Law
section 732 shall be applicable in this court in a proceeding brought on the
ground that the respondent has defaulted in the payment of rent. The chief
administrator of the courts shall promulgate, and post on the Unified Court
System website, a form notice of petition for mandatory use in such
proceedings.
Click to view
image
Click to view
image
Click to view
image
Click to view
image
Click to view
image
(d)
[Reserved].
(e)
(1) Except as may otherwise be provided by
statute, a post-trial application to stay the issuance of a warrant shall be
made, or referred, to the judge who directed entry of the judgment.
(2) Applications for an extension of time to
comply with orders or judgments to pay moneys, vacate the premises or make
repairs, or to correct mathematical errors, may be referred to a judge other
than the one who signed the order or judgment.
(f)
(1)
Commencing May 21, 2001, all summary proceedings for residential premises
located in postal ZIP codes 10035 and 10037, and for the Taft Houses and the
Jefferson Houses, except proceedings brought by or at the direction of the New
York County District Attorney's office under Real Property Actions and
Proceedings Law, sections 711 and 715, shall be noticed and filed in the Harlem
courthouse.
(2) Commencing
September 1, 2003, all summary proceedings for the following residential
premises in which the New York City Housing Authority is a party to the
proceeding shall be noticed and filed in the Red Hook Community Justice Center:
Red Hook East Houses
Red Hook West Houses
(g)
Allegations required under section
325 of
the Multiple Dwelling Law and sections 27-2097 et seq., of the Administrative
Code of the City of New York.
In every summary proceeding brought to recover possession
of real property pursuant to section
711 of the Real Property Actions and
Proceedings Law, the petitioner shall allege either:
(1) that the premises are not a multiple
dwelling; or
(2) that the premises
are a multiple dwelling and, pursuant to the Administrative Code, sections
27-2097 et seq., there is a currently effective registration
statement on file with the office of code enforcement in which the owner has
designated a managing agent, a natural person over 21 years of age, to be in
control of and responsible for the maintenance and operation of the dwelling.
The petitioner shall also allege the following information:
the multiple dwelling registration number, the registered managing agent's
name, and either the residence or business address of said managing agent. The
petitioner may (optionally) list a telephone number which may be used to call
for repair and service.
(h) At the time of the issuance of a notice
of petition by a judge or the clerk, or an order to show cause by the judge, in
a summary proceeding to recover possession of real property, a copy of such
order to show cause or notice of petition shall be filed with the clerk. The
original papers with proof of service thereof shall be filed with the clerk
within the time specified by statute.
(i)
(1) At
the time of the filing with the clerk of a notice of petition with proof of
service in a summary proceeding under article 7 of the Real Property Actions
and Proceedings Law involving residential property, the petitioner shall submit
to the clerk a stamped postcard containing a written notice addressed to the
respondent, in both English and Spanish, in a form approved by the Chief
Administrator of the Courts and posted on the website of the Unified Court
System.
The face of the postcard shall be addressed to the
respondent at the premises and at any other address at which process was served
in the summary proceeding and shall contain the respondent's name, address
(including apartment number) and ZIP code. The face of the postcard shall also
contain, in the form of a return address, the appropriate address of the
clerk's office to which the respondent should be directed. These addresses
are:
Bronx County .. - Housing Part of the Civil Court, City of
New York Housing Court Clerk... Ground Floor.. 1118 Grand Concourse Bronx, NY
10456..............
Kings County ... - Civil Court of the City of New York
Housing Court Clerk Room 203 141 Livingston Street Brooklyn, NY 11201 Red Hook
Community Justice Center... Civil Court of the City of New York.. Housing Court
Clerk, Room 103.. 88 Visitation Place.. Brooklyn, NY
11231-1615.............................
New York County - Civil Court of the City of New York
Housing Court Clerk Room 225 111 Centre Street New York, NY 10013 Harlem
Courthouse Civil Court of the City of New York... Housing Court Clerk.. 170
East 121 Street.. New York, NY
10035.............................................................
Queens County.. - Civil Court of the City of New York
Housing Court Clerk.. 2nd Floor.. 89-17 Sutphin Boulevard.. Jamaica, NY
11435.........................................
Richmond County ..- Civil Court of the City of New York
Housing Court Clerk... Basement.. 927 Castleton Avenue.. Staten Island, NY
10310..........................................
(2) The clerk promptly shall mail the
postcard to the respondent at the premises and at any other address at which
process was served in the summary proceeding. No default judgment for failure
to answer shall be entered unless there has been compliance with this rule.
Click to view
image
Click to view
image

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 22
§
208.42
Amended
New
York State Register April 4, 2017/Volume XXXIX, Issue 14, eff.
4/1/2017
Amended
New
York State Register September 11, 2019/Volume XLI, Issue 37, eff.
9/16/2019
