SOURCE: https://library.municode.com/wa/seattle/codes/municipal_code?nodeId=TIT7COPR_CH7.24REAGRE_7.24.035SEDENOMOFE
PUBLICATION: municode job 493366 (Supplement 44 Update 1), product 13857
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl (municode API) of municode (pipeline/adapters)

7.24.035 - Security deposits and nonrefundable move-in fees

A.

Limit on the amount of charges for security deposits and non-refundable move-in fees.
After January 15, 2017, the total amount of a security deposit and nonrefundable move-in
fees may not exceed the amount of the first full month's rent for the tenant's dwelling
unit. If rent is not paid or otherwise apportioned on a monthly basis, then for the
sole purpose of applying this limit the total rent shall be pro-rated on an equal,
monthly basis and the total charge to a tenant for the cost of a security deposit
and nonrefundable move-in fees may not exceed the pro-rated, monthly rental amount.

B.

Restrictions on fees

1.

Other than non-refundable move-in fees, security deposits, pet security deposits,
and last month's rent, landlords are prohibited from charging tenants any one-time
fee at the beginning of the tenancy.

2.

Pursuant to RCW 59.18.257, any fees charged to a prospective tenant by the landlord
for the cost of obtaining a tenant screening report cannot exceed the actual cost
of obtaining the report, which may not exceed the customary costs charged by a tenant
screening service in The City of Seattle. The landlord shall provide, personally or
by mail, the prospective tenant with a receipt for any fees charged for the cost of
obtaining the screening report. The landlord shall provide the tenant with the name
and address of the reporting agency and the prospective tenant's rights to obtain
a free copy of the consumer report, pursuant to RCW 59.18.257.

3.

If the tenant has paid a non-refundable move-in fee for cleaning, the landlord may
not deduct additional cleaning fees from the tenant's security deposit.

4.

The total amount of non-refundable move-in fees may not exceed ten percent of the
first full month's rent, except that if the cost of a tenant screening report exceeds
ten percent of the first full month's rent, the amount in excess of ten percent may
be included in the non-refundable fee but may not exceed the customary costs charged
by a screening service in The City of Seattle.

C.

Fee payments in installments. Except as provided in subsection 7.24.035.C.4, tenants
may pay security deposits and non-refundable move-in fees in installments as provided
below. Landlords may not impose any fee, charge any interest, or otherwise impose
a cost on a tenant because a tenant elects to pay in installments.

1.

For any rental agreement term that establishes a tenancy for six months or longer,
the tenant may elect to pay the security deposit and non-refundable move-in fees,
excluding any payment made by a tenant to the landlord prior to the inception of tenancy
to reimburse the landlord for the cost of obtaining a tenant screening report, in
six consecutive, equal monthly installments that begin at the inception of the tenancy
or, the tenant may propose an alternative installment schedule. If the landlord agrees
to the tenant's alternative installment schedule the schedule shall be described in
the rental agreement.

2.

For any rental agreement term that establishes a tenancy between 30 days and six months,
the tenant may elect to pay the security deposit and non-refundable move-in fees,
excluding any payment made by a tenant to the landlord prior to the inception of tenancy
to reimburse the landlord for the cost of obtaining a tenant screening report, in
no more than four equal amounts that begin at the inception of the tenancy and are
paid in installments of equal duration or, the tenant may propose an alternative installment
schedule. If the landlord agrees to the tenant's alternative installment schedule
the schedule shall be described in the rental agreement.

3.

For any rental agreement term that establishes a tenancy from month to month, the
tenant may elect to pay the security deposit and non-refundable move-in fees, excluding
any payment made by a tenant to the landlord prior to the inception of tenancy to
reimburse the landlord for the cost of obtaining a tenant screening report, in two
equal installments. The first payment is due at the inception of the tenancy and the
second payment is due on the first day of the second month or period of the tenancy
or, the tenant may propose an alternative installment schedule. If the landlord agrees
to the tenant's alternative installment schedule the schedule shall be described in
the rental agreement.

4.

The tenant cannot elect to pay the security deposit and non-refundable move-in fees
in installments if (a) the total amount of the security deposit and nonrefundable
move-in fees does not exceed 25 percent of the first full month's rent for the tenant's
dwelling unit; and (b) payment of last month's rent is not required at the inception
of the tenancy.

5.

A tenant's failure to pay a security deposit and non-refundable move-in fee according
to an agreed payment schedule is a breach of the rental agreement and subjects the
tenant to a 10-day notice pursuant to RCW 59.12.030(4).

D.

Return or retention of security deposits. The return or retention of a security deposit,
or portion thereof, must comply with the requirements of RCW 59.18.280. The Director
may establish by rule procedures for enforcement of the requirements of RCW 59.18.280.

E.

No deposit may be collected by a landlord unless the rental agreement is in writing
and a written checklist or statement specifically describing the condition and cleanliness
of or existing damages to the premises and furnishings, including, but not limited
to, walls, floors, countertops, carpets, drapes, furniture, and appliances, is provided
by the landlord to the tenant at the commencement of the tenancy. The checklist or
statement shall be signed and dated by the landlord and the tenant, and the tenant
shall be provided with a copy of the signed checklist or statement.

F.

A landlord must place any required security deposit in a trust account and provide
a written receipt and notice of the name, address, and location of the depository
and any subsequent change thereof to the tenant, in compliance with the requirements
of RCW 59.18.270.

G.

Nothing in this Chapter 7.24 prohibits a landlord from bringing an action against a tenant to recover sums exceeding
the amount of the tenant's security deposit for damage to the dwelling unit for which
the tenant is responsible. The landlord may seek attorney's fees for such an action
as authorized by chapter 59.18 RCW.

H.

This Section 7.24.035 does not apply to a tenant who rents a housing unit in a single-family residence
if the residence is the principal residence of the owner of the residence.

(Ord. 125222, § 3, 2016.)
