SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._debtor_&_creditor_law_section_282
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/DCD/282 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Debtor & Creditor Law Section 282

Permissible exemptions in bankruptcy

Under section five hundred twenty-two of title eleven of the United States Code, entitled “Bankruptcy”, an individual debtor domiciled in this state may exempt from the property of the estate, to the extent permitted by subsection (b) thereof, only (i) personal and real property exempt from application to the satisfaction of money judgments under sections fifty-two hundred five and fifty-two hundred six of the civil practice law and rules, (ii) insurance policies and annuity contracts and the proceeds and avails thereof as provided in section three thousand two hundred twelve of the insurance law and (iii) the following property:

1.
Bankruptcy exemption of a motor vehicle. One motor vehicle not exceeding four thousand dollars in value above liens and encumbrances of the debtor; provided, however, if such vehicle has been equipped for use by a disabled debtor, then ten thousand dollars in value above liens and encumbrances of the debtor.

2.
Bankruptcy exemption for right to receive benefits. The debtor’s right to receive or the debtor’s interest in:

(a)
a social security benefit, unemployment compensation or a local public assistance benefit;

(b)
a veterans’ benefit;

(c)
a disability, illness, or unemployment benefit;

(d)
alimony, support, or separate maintenance, to the extent reasonably necessary for the support of the debtor and any dependent of the debtor;

(e)
the debtor’s interest in his or her rent-stabilized lease; and

(f)
all payments under a stock bonus, pension, profit sharing, or similar plan or contract on account of illness, disability, death, age, or length of service unless (i) such plan or contract, except those qualified under section 401, 408 or 408A of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, was established by the debtor or under the auspices of an insider that employed the debtor at the time the debtor’s rights under such plan or contract arose, (ii) such plan is on account of age or length of service, and

(iii)
such plan or contract does not qualify under section four hundred one (a), four hundred three (a), four hundred three (b), four hundred eight, four hundred eight A, four hundred nine or four hundred fifty-seven of the Internal Revenue Code of nineteen hundred eighty-six, as amended.

3.
Bankruptcy exemption for right to receive certain property. The debtor’s right to receive, or property that is traceable to:

(i)
an award under a crime victim’s reparation law;

(ii)
a payment on account of the wrongful death of an individual of whom the debtor was a dependent to the extent reasonably necessary for the support of the debtor and any dependent of the debtor;

(iii)
a payment, not to exceed seventy-five hundred dollars on account of personal bodily injury, not including pain and suffering or compensation for actual pecuniary loss, of the debtor or an individual of whom the debtor is a dependent; and

(iv)
a payment in compensation of loss of future earnings of the debtor or an individual of whom the debtor is or was a dependent, to the extent reasonably necessary for the support of the debtor and any dependent of the debtor.

Source:
Section 282 — Permissible exemptions in bankruptcy, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/DCD/282 (updated Oct. 29, 2021; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
