SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._debtor_&_creditor_law_section_283
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/DCD/283 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Debtor & Creditor Law Section 283

Aggregate individual bankruptcy exemption for certain annuities and personal property

1.
General application. The aggregate amount the debtor may exempt from the property of the estate for personal property exempt from application to the satisfaction of a money judgment under subdivision (a) of section fifty-two hundred five of the civil practice law and rules and for benefits, rights, privileges, and options of annuity contracts described in the following sentence shall not exceed ten thousand dollars. Annuity contracts subject to the foregoing limitation are those that are:

(a)
initially purchased by the debtor within six months of the debtor’s filing a petition in bankruptcy, (b) not described in any paragraph of section eight hundred five (d) of the Internal Revenue Code of nineteen hundred fifty-four, and

(c)
not purchased by application of proceeds under settlement options of annuity contracts purchased more than six months before the debtor’s filing a petition in bankruptcy or under settlement options of life insurance policies.

2.
Contingent alternative bankruptcy exemption. Notwithstanding section two hundred eighty-two of this article, a debtor, who (a) does not elect, claim, or otherwise avail himself of an exemption described in section fifty-two hundred six of the civil practice law and rules;

(b)
utilizes to the fullest extent permitted by law as applied to said debtor’s property, the exemptions referred to in subdivision one of this section which are subject to the ten thousand dollar aggregate limit; and

(c)
does not reach such aggregate limit, may exempt cash in the amount by which ten thousand dollars exceeds the aggregate of his or her exemptions referred to in subdivision one of this section or in the amount of five thousand dollars, whichever amount is less. For purposes of this subdivision, cash means currency of the United States at face value, savings bonds of the United States at face value, the right to receive a refund of federal, state and local income taxes, and deposit accounts in any state or federally chartered depository institution.

Source:
Section 283 — Aggregate individual bankruptcy exemption for certain annuities and personal property, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/DCD/283 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
