SOURCE: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/102-A
CAPTURE: https://web.archive.org/web/20251015185209id_/https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/102-A
PUBLISHED: 2025-05-16 (nysenate.gov 'This entry was published on' date of the captured version)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of the Internet Archive capture of the official nysenate.gov page (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser; public.law does not carry this law); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/senate_archive.py

SECTION 102-A. Vacancies and composition of court

§ 102-a. Vacancies and composition of court. 1. The civil court of the
city of New York shall consist of one hundred thirty-one judges, all of
whom shall be residents of the city of New York. No person may serve in
the office of judge of this court after the effective date of this
section unless he or she has been admitted to practice law in this state
for at least ten years as of the date he or she commences the duties of
office.

2. The twenty-five additional judges of the civil court of the city of
New York authorized on June first, nineteen hundred sixty-eight by
chapter nine hundred eighty-seven of the laws of nineteen hundred
sixty-eight shall be elected in and from the residents of the following
counties in the indicated numbers: from the county of New York, seven;
from the county of Kings, seven; from the county of Queens, six; from
the county of Bronx, four; and from the county of Richmond, one. Such
additional judges shall receive the same compensation as the existing
judges of the civil court of the city of New York. The eleven additional
judges of the civil court of the city of New York authorized by this
section shall be chosen by the electors of the counties included within
the city of New York from districts within such counties as shall be
established by law.

2-a. Two additional judges of the civil court of the city of New York
shall be elected in and from the residents of the following counties in
the indicated numbers: from the county of New York, one; from the county
of Bronx, one. Such additional judges shall receive the same
compensation as the existing judges of the civil court of the city of
New York and shall be elected countywide within the city of New York.

2-b. Twelve additional judges of the civil court of the city of New
York shall be elected in and from the residents of the following
counties in the indicated numbers: from the county of New York, three;
from the county of Bronx, three; from the county of Kings, three; and
from the county of Queens, three. Such additional judges shall receive
the same compensation as the existing judges of the civil court of the
city of New York and shall be elected countywide within the city of New
York.

2-c. Ten additional judges of the civil court of the city of New York
shall be elected in and from the residences of the following counties in
the indicated numbers:

From the county of Bronx, two, one to be elected from the first
municipal court district and one to be elected from the second municipal
court district;

From the county of Kings, three, one to be elected from the fourth
municipal court district, one to be elected from the sixth municipal
court district and one to be elected from the seventh municipal court
district;

From the county of New York, two, one to be elected from the third
municipal court district and one to be elected from the seventh
municipal court district;

From the county of Queens, two, one to be elected from the second
municipal court district and one to be elected from the fourth municipal
court district; and

From the county of Richmond, one, to be elected from the first
municipal court district.

3. A vacancy occurring otherwise than by the expiration of term in the
office of judge of the civil court of the city of New York shall be
filled by the mayor of the city of New York by an appointment which
shall continue until and including the last day of December next after
the election at which the vacancy shall be filled.

4. Vacancies in the office of judge of the civil court of the city of
New York occurring by the expiration of the term on the last day of
December, nineteen hundred seventy-eight of a justice elected or
appointed to the city court of the city of New York or the municipal
court of the city of New York, who was continued as a judge of the civil
court pursuant to the provisions of subdivision c of section thirty-five
of article six of the constitution, or of their successors, shall be
filled for a full term at the general election to be held in November,
nineteen hundred seventy-eight. Judges to fill such vacancies shall be
chosen by the electors of the county or district from which the judge
whose term expires on December thirty-first, nineteen hundred
seventy-eight or his predecessor, was elected or appointed.
