SOURCE: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/1802-A
CAPTURE: https://web.archive.org/web/20260115203629id_/https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/1802-A
PUBLISHED: 2014-09-22 (nysenate.gov 'This entry was published on' date of the captured version)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of the Internet Archive capture of the official nysenate.gov page (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser; public.law does not carry this law); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/senate_archive.py

SECTION 1802-A. Parts for the determination of commercial claims established

§ 1802-A. Parts for the determination of commercial claims
established. The chief administrator shall assign the times and places
for holding, and the judges who shall hold, one or more parts of the
court in each county for the hearing of commercial claims as herein
defined, and the rules may regulate the practice and procedure
controlling the determination of such claims and prescribe and furnish
the forms for instituting the same. There shall be at least one evening
session of each part every month for the hearing of commercial claims,
provided however, that the chief administrator may provide for exemption
from this requirement where there exists no demonstrated need for
evening sessions. The chief administrator shall not combine commercial
claims part actions with small claims part actions for purposes of
convenience unless a preference is given to small claims and to
commercial claims arising out of consumer transactions. Such practice,
procedure and forms shall differ from the practice, procedure and forms
used in the court for other than small claims and commercial claims,
notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary. They shall
constitute a simple, informal and inexpensive procedure for the prompt
determination of commercial claims in accordance with the rules and
principles of substantive law. The procedure established pursuant to
this article shall not be exclusive of but shall be alternative to the
procedure now or hereafter established with respect to actions commenced
in the court by the service of a summons. No rule to be enacted pursuant
to this article shall dispense with or interfere with the taking of
stenographic minutes of any hearing of any commercial claim hereunder.
