SOURCE: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/1805
CAPTURE: https://web.archive.org/web/20251222023134id_/https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/1805
PUBLISHED: 2014-09-22 (nysenate.gov 'This entry was published on' date of the captured version)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of the Internet Archive capture of the official nysenate.gov page (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser; public.law does not carry this law); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/senate_archive.py

SECTION 1805. Remedies available; transfer of small claims

§ 1805. Remedies available; transfer of small claims. (a) Upon
determination of a small claim, the court shall direct judgment in
accordance with its findings, and, when necessary to do substantial
justice between the parties, may condition the entry of judgment upon
such terms as the court shall deem proper. Pursuant to section fifty-two
hundred twenty-nine of the civil practice law and rules, prior to
entering a judgment, the court may order the examination of or
disclosure by, the defendant and restrain him to the same extent as if a
restraining notice had been served upon him after judgment was entered.

(b) The court shall have power to transfer any small claim or claims
to any other part of the court upon such terms as the rules may provide,
and proceed to hear the same according to the usual practice and
procedure applicable to other parts of the court.

(c) No counterclaim shall be permitted in a small claims action,
unless the court would have had monetary jurisdiction over the
counterclaim if it had been filed as a small claim. Any other claim
sought to be maintained against the claimant may be filed in any court
of competent jurisdiction.

(d) If the defendant appears to be engaged in repeated fraudulent or
illegal acts or otherwise demonstrates persistent fraud or illegality in
the carrying on, conducting or transaction of business, the court shall
either advise the attorney general in relation to his authority under
subdivision twelve of section sixty-three of the executive law, or shall
advise the claimant to do same, but shall retain jurisdiction over the
small claim.

(e) If the defendant appears to be engaged in fraudulent or illegal
acts or otherwise demonstrates fraud or illegality in the carrying on,
conducting or transaction of a licensed or certified business, the court
shall either advise the appropriate state or local licensing or
certifying authority or shall advise the claimant to do same, but shall
retain jurisdiction over the small claim.

(f) The court shall have the jurisdiction defined in section three
thousand one of the CPLR to make a declaratory judgment with respect to
actions commenced by a party aggrieved by an arbitration award rendered
pursuant to part one hundred thirty-seven of the rules of the chief
administrator (22 NYCRR Part 137) in which the amount in dispute does
not exceed five thousand dollars.
