SOURCE: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/1911
CAPTURE: https://web.archive.org/web/20251222013427id_/https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/1911
PUBLISHED: 2014-09-22 (nysenate.gov 'This entry was published on' date of the captured version)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of the Internet Archive capture of the official nysenate.gov page (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser; public.law does not carry this law); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/senate_archive.py

SECTION 1911. Fees payable to the clerk

§ 1911. Fees payable to the clerk. There shall be paid to the clerk
the following sums as court fees in an action:

(a) Upon issuance of a summons, order of arrest or attachment, or
requisition or warrant of seizure by the clerk, together with copies
thereof, forty-five dollars.

(b) Upon filing summons with proof of service thereof, or upon filing
of the first paper in that county in any action or proceeding,
forty-five dollars, unless there has been paid in that county a fee of
forty-five dollars pursuant to subdivision (a) of this section.

(b-1) Upon filing the first paper in an action or proceeding arising
out of a consumer credit transaction as defined in subdivision (f) of
section one hundred five of the civil practice law and rules, an
additional ninety-five dollars.

(c) Upon filing an infant's compromise, where no summons was filed,
forty dollars.

(d) On filing a notice of trial, forty dollars.

(e) For entry of judgment upon confession, forty-five dollars, unless
there has been paid a fee pursuant to subdivision (a) or subdivision (b)
hereof.

(f) On filing notice of appeal, thirty dollars.

(g) For issuing a satisfaction of judgment, or a certificate regarding
the judgment, six dollars.

(h) Upon demand for a trial by jury, seventy dollars; to be paid by
the party demanding the jury, at the time of demand.

(i) For exemplification of any paper filed, fifteen dollars.

(j) For certifying a copy of a paper on file in the clerk's office,
six dollars.

(k) For issuing a notice of petition, or an order to show cause in
lieu thereof, in a summary proceeding to recover possession of real
property, forty-five dollars.

(l) For issuing a petition for change of name, sixty-five dollars.

(m) For any other matter, not provided for above, for which there
would be a fee payable in the supreme court of a county within the city
of New York, the same fee; except that this subdivision shall not apply
to the fees required to be paid in supreme court (i) upon the filing of
a motion or cross-motion pursuant to subdivision (a) of section 8020 of
the civil practice law and rules, and (ii) upon the filing of a
stipulation of settlement or a voluntary discontinuance pursuant to
subdivision (d) of such section.

(n) Upon the filing of a judgment by a plaintiff on or after September
first, two thousand ten in an action or proceeding arising out of a
consumer credit transaction as defined in subdivision (f) of section one
hundred five of the civil practice law and rules, ninety-five dollars,
provided such action or proceeding was commenced prior to such date and
no additional fee was paid therein pursuant to subdivision (b-1) of this
section.

All fees shall be prepaid before the service shall be performed.
