SOURCE: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/203
CAPTURE: https://web.archive.org/web/20260106232415id_/https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/203
PUBLISHED: 2023-07-07 (nysenate.gov 'This entry was published on' date of the captured version)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of the Internet Archive capture of the official nysenate.gov page (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser; public.law does not carry this law); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/senate_archive.py

SECTION 203. Actions involving real property

§ 203. Actions involving real property. The court shall have
jurisdiction of the following actions provided that the real property
involved or part of it is situate within the county in the city of New
York in which the action is brought:

(a) An action for the partition of real property where the assessed
valuation of the property at the time the action is commenced does not
exceed $50,000.

(b) An action for the foreclosure, redemption or satisfaction of a
mortgage on real property where the amount of the mortgage lien at the
time the action is commenced does not exceed $50,000.

(c) An action for the foreclosure of a lien arising out of a contract
for the sale of real property where the amount of the lien sought to be
foreclosed does not, at the time the action is commenced, exceed
$50,000.

(d) An action for the specific performance of a contract for the sale
of real property where the contract price of the property does not
exceed $50,000.

(e) An action for the establishment, enforcement or foreclosure of a
mechanic's lien on real property where the lien asserted does not, at
the time the action is commenced, exceed $50,000.

(f) An action to reform or rescind a deed to real property where the
assessed valuation of the property does not exceed $50,000 at the time
the action is commenced.

(g) An action to reform or rescind a contract for the sale of real
property where the agreed price of the property as stated in the
contract does not exceed $50,000; or, if the controversy shall be with
regard to the price of the property, where the agreed price as claimed
by plaintiff does not exceed $50,000.

(h) An action to reform or rescind a mortgage on real property where
the unpaid balance of the debt secured by the mortgage does not exceed
$50,000 at the time the action is commenced.

(i) An action to compel the determination of a claim to real property
under article fifteen of the real property actions and proceedings law
where the assessed valuation of the property does not exceed $50,000 at
the time the action is commenced.

(j) An action of ejectment where the assessed valuation of the real
property does not exceed $50,000 at the time the action is commenced.

(k) An action brought to impose and collect a civil penalty for a
violation of state or local laws for the establishment and maintenance
of housing standards, including, but not limited to, the multiple
dwelling law and the housing maintenance code, building code and health
code of the administrative code of the city of New York.

(l) An action to recover costs, expenses and disbursements incurred by
the city of New York in the elimination or correction of a nuisance or
other violation of any law described in subdivision (k) of this section,
or in the removal or demolition of any building pursuant to such law or
laws.

(m) An action or proceeding to establish, enforce or foreclose a lien
upon real property and the rents therefrom, for civil penalties, or for
costs, expenses and disbursements incurred by the city of New York in
the elimination of a nuisance or other violation of any law described in
subdivision (k) of this section, or in the removal or demolition of any
building pursuant to such law or laws.

(n) Actions and proceedings for the removal of housing violations
recorded pursuant to any law described in subdivision (k) of this
section, or for the imposition of such violation or for the stay of any
penalty thereunder.

(o) An action or proceeding for the issuance of an injunction,
restraining orders or other orders for the enforcement of housing
standards under any law described in subdivision (k) of this section.

(p) Special proceedings to vest title in the city of New York to
abandoned multiple dwellings.
