SOURCE: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/206
CAPTURE: https://web.archive.org/web/20260106072827id_/https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/206
PUBLISHED: 2014-09-22 (nysenate.gov 'This entry was published on' date of the captured version)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of the Internet Archive capture of the official nysenate.gov page (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser; public.law does not carry this law); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/senate_archive.py

SECTION 206. Arbitration

§ 206. Arbitration. (a) Threshold questions under CPLR article 75. If
an action of which the court has jurisdiction has been duly commenced
therein, and there arise in such action any questions relating to the
arbitrability of the controversy, the court shall have jurisdiction
completely to dispose of such questions and CPLR article 75 shall be
applicable thereto. But the court shall not have jurisdiction of the
special proceeding, as set forth in CPLR § 7502 (a), used to bring
before a court the first application arising out of an arbitrable
controversy, except as provided in subdivision (b).

(b) Proceedings on award under CPLR article 75. Where a controversy
has been duly arbitrated and an award made therein is for relief which
is within the court's jurisdiction, the court shall have jurisdiction of
proceedings under CPLR §§ 7510 through 7514, relating to judicial
recognition of such awards, which provisions shall be applicable
thereto.

(c) Arbitration distinct from CPLR article 75. The rules may provide
systems of arbitration and conciliation of claims within the court's
jurisdiction without reference to CPLR article 75. Where the chief
administrator of the courts has provided by rule for an alternative
method of dispute resolution by arbitration and has established by order
this arbitration program in any county in this court, applicable in each
such county to civil actions for a sum of money only, except those
commenced in small claims parts and not subsequently transferred to a
regular part of court, that on or after the effective date of such order
are noticed for trial or commenced in this court, all such actions shall
be heard and decided by a panel of arbitrators where the recovery sought
for each cause of action is ten thousand dollars or less, exclusive of
costs and interest.
