SOURCE: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/209
CAPTURE: https://web.archive.org/web/20241211072501id_/https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/CCA/209
PUBLISHED: 2014-09-22 (nysenate.gov 'This entry was published on' date of the captured version)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of the Internet Archive capture of the official nysenate.gov page (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser; public.law does not carry this law); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/senate_archive.py

SECTION 209. Provisional remedies

§ 209. Provisional remedies. (a) Attachment, arrest, seizure of
chattel.  An order of attachment or of arrest, a warrant to seize a
chattel as provided in § 207 of the lien law, and an order of seizure of
a chattel may issue out of this court if such remedy might issue out of
supreme court in a like case.

(b) Injunction or restraining order. No injunction or restraining
order or notice shall issue out of or by this court unless:

(1) pursuant to §§ 7102(d), 7103(c) and 7109 of the CPLR, in
conjunction with the recovery of a chattel; or

(2) pursuant to § 211 of the Real Property Actions and Proceedings
law, in conjunction with the prevention of waste; or

(3) pursuant to § 1508 of this act, in conjunction with an enforcement
proceeding; or

(4) pursuant to section three hundred six of the multiple dwelling
law, or article fifty-three of the housing maintenance code of the
administrative code of the city of New York in conjunction with
enforcement of housing standards.

(c) Receivers. No receiver shall be appointed by this court except
pursuant to § 1508 of this act, relative to an enforcement proceeding,
or in an action for the foreclosure of a mortgage on real property,
brought pursuant to the provisions of § 203 (b) of this act, or in an
action brought pursuant to subdivision five of section three hundred
nine of the multiple dwelling law, relative to the appointment of a
receiver for the recovery of costs, expenses and disbursements incurred
by the city of New York in the elimination or correction of a nuisance
or in the removal or demolition of a building pursuant thereto.

(d) Notice of pendency. A notice of pendency may be filed with the
county clerk, as provided in article 65 of the CPLR, in any action
within the court's jurisdiction in which the same might be filed in a
like action in the supreme court. The city department charged with the
enforcement of the multiple dwelling law, housing maintenance code, and
other state and local laws applicable to the enforcement of proper
housing standards may file a notice of pendency as authorized by section
308 of the multiple dwelling law or section D26-50.07 of the housing
maintenance code of the administrative code of the city of New York.
