SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/23-NYCRR-1.1
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.1 - Definitions

For the purposes of this Part:
(a)
Charge-off means the
accounting action taken by an original creditor to remove a debt obligation
from its financial statements by treating it as a loss or expense.
(b)
Clear and conspicuous
means that the statement, representation or term being disclosed is of such
size, color, and contrast and/or audibility and is so presented as to be
readily noticed and understood by the person to whom it is being disclosed. If
such statement is necessary as a modification, explanation or clarification to
other information with which it is presented, it must be presented in close
proximity to the information it modifies, in a manner so as to be readily
noticed and understood.
(c)
Consumer means any natural person who owes or who is alleged
to owe a debt.
(d)
Debt means any obligation or alleged obligation of a consumer
for the payment of money or its equivalent which arises out of a transaction
wherein credit has been extended to a consumer, and the money, property or
service which was the subject of the transaction was primarily for personal,
family or household purposes. This term includes the obligation of a consumer
who is a co-maker, guarantor, or endorser, as well as the obligation of the
consumer to whom the credit was originally extended. Debt shall not include any
obligation or alleged obligation of a consumer for the payment of money or its
equivalent which arises out of a transaction wherein credit has been provided
by a seller of goods or services directly to a consumer exclusively for the
purpose of enabling that consumer to purchase such consumer goods or services
directly from the seller.
(e)
Debt collector means any person engaged in a business the
principal purpose of which is the collection of any debts, or any person who
regularly collects or attempts to collect, directly or indirectly, debts owed
or due or asserted to be owed or due another. Debt collector includes without
limitation a buyer of debts who seeks to collect such debts either directly or
indirectly. The term does not include: (1)
any officer or employee of a creditor while, in the name of the creditor,
collecting debts for such creditor;
(2) any person while acting as a debt
collector for another person, both of whom are related by common ownership or
affiliated by corporate control, if the person acting as a debt collector does
so only for persons to whom it is so related or affiliated and if the principal
business of such person is not the collection of debts;
(3) any officer or employee of the United
States or any state to the extent that collecting or attempting to collect any
debt is in the performance of his or her official duties;
(4) any person while serving or attempting to
serve legal process on any other person in connection with the judicial
enforcement of any debt;
(5) any
nonprofit organization which, at the request of consumers, performs bona fide
consumer credit counseling and assists consumers in the liquidation of their
debts by receiving payments from such consumers and distributing such amounts
to creditors;
(6) any person
collecting or attempting to collect any debt owed or due or asserted to be owed
or due another to the extent such activity:
(i) is incidental to a bona fide fiduciary
obligation or a bona fide escrow arrangement;
(ii) concerns a debt which was originated by
such person;
(iii) concerns a debt
which was not in default at the time it was obtained by such person;
or
(iv) concerns a debt obtained by
such person as a secured party in a commercial credit transaction involving the
creditor; and
(7) any
person with respect to:(i) serving, filing,
or conveying formal legal pleadings, discovery requests, judgments or other
documents pursuant to the applicable rules of civil procedure;
(ii) communicating in, or at the direction
of, a court of law or in depositions or settlement conferences or other
communications in connection with a pending legal action to collect a debt on
behalf of a client; or
(iii)
collecting on or enforcing a money judgment.
(f)
Original creditor means
any person or such person's successor in interest by way of merger,
acquisition, or otherwise, who extends credit creating a debt.
(g)
Person has the same
meaning as prescribed in Financial Services Law section 104(a)(3).

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23
§
1.1
Adopted,
New
York State Register December 3, 2014/Volume XXXVI, Issue 48, eff.
12/3/2014
