SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/23-NYCRR-1.2
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.2 - Required initial disclosures by debt collectors

(a) Within five
days after the initial communication with a consumer in connection with the
collection of any debt, a debt collector shall, unless the following
information is contained in the initial communication or the consumer has paid
the debt, provide the consumer clear and conspicuous written notification of
the following: (1) that debt collectors, in
accordance with the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act,
15 U.S.C. section
1692
et seq., are prohibited
from engaging in abusive, deceptive, and unfair debt collection efforts,
including but not limited to: (i) the use or
threat of violence;
(ii) the use of
obscene or profane language; and
(iii) repeated phone calls made with the
intent to annoy, abuse, or harass.
(2) the following notice:
"If a creditor or debt collector receives a money judgment
against you in court, state and federal laws may prevent the following types of
income from being taken to pay the debt:
1. Supplemental security income,
(SSI);
2. Social
security;
3. Public assistance
(welfare);
4. Spousal support,
maintenance (alimony) or child support;
5. Unemployment benefits;
6. Disability benefits;
7. Workers' compensation benefits;
8. Public or private pensions;
9. Veterans' benefits;
10. Federal student loans, federal student
grants, and federal work study funds; and
11. Ninety percent of your wages or salary
earned in the last sixty days.
(b) Within five days after the initial
communication with a consumer in connection with the collection of any
charged-off debt, a debt collector shall, unless the following information is
contained in the initial communication or the consumer has paid the debt,
provide the consumer clear and conspicuous written notification of the
following: (1) the name of the original
creditor; and
(2) an itemized
accounting of the debt, including:(i) the
total amount of the debt due as of charge-off;
(ii) the total amount of interest accrued
since charge-off;
(iii) the total
amount of non-interest charges or fees accrued since charge-off;
(iv) the total amount of payments made on the
debt since the charge-off.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23
§
1.2
Adopted,
New
York State Register December 3, 2014/Volume XXXVI, Issue 48, eff.
12/3/2014
Amended
New
York State Register September 9, 2015/Volume XXXVII, Issue 36,
eff. 9/9/2015
