SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/23-NYCRR-1.3
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.3 - Disclosures for debts in which the statute of limitations may be expired

(a) A debt
collector must maintain reasonable procedures for determining the statute of
limitations applicable to a debt it is collecting and whether such statute of
limitations has expired.
(b) If a
debt collector knows or has reason to know that the statute of limitations for
a debt may be expired, before accepting payment on the debt, the debt collector
must provide the consumer with clear and conspicuous notice, in the same medium
(such as via telephone or electronic communication) by which the debt collector
will accept payment, that: (1) the debt
collector believes that the statute of limitations applicable to the debt may
be expired;
(2) suing on a debt for
which the statute of limitations has expired is a violation of the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act,
15 U.S.C. section
1692
et seq.;
(3) if the consumer is sued on a debt for
which the statute of limitations has expired, the consumer may be able to stop
the lawsuit by responding to the court that the statute of limitations has
expired;
(4) the consumer is not
required to provide the debt collector with an admission, affirmation, or
acknowledgment of the debt, a promise to pay the debt, or a waiver of the
statute of limitations; and
(5) if
the consumer makes any payment on a debt for which the statute of limitations
has expired or admits, affirms, acknowledges, or promises to pay such debt, the
statute of limitations may restart.
(c) The following language satisfies the
notice requirement contained in section
1.3(b) of this
Part:
"We are required by regulation of the New York State
Department of Financial Services to notify you of the following information.
This information is NOT legal advice:
Your creditor or debt collector believes that the legal time
limit (statute of limitations) for suing you to collect this debt may have
expired. It is a violation of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act,
15 U.S.C. §
1692 et seq., to sue to collect on a debt for
which the statute of limitations has expired. However, if the creditor sues you
to collect on this debt, you may be able to prevent the creditor from obtaining
a judgment against you. To do so, you must tell the court that the statute of
limitations has expired.
Even if the statute of limitations has expired, you may
choose to make payments on the debt. However, be aware: if you make a payment
on the debt, admit to owing the debt, promise to pay the debt, or waive the
statute of limitations on the debt, the time period in which the debt is
enforceable in court may start again.
If you would like to learn more about your legal rights and
options, you can consult an attorney or a legal assistance or legal aid
organization."

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23
§
1.3
Adopted,
New
York State Register December 3, 2014/Volume XXXVI, Issue 48, eff.
12/3/2014
