SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/23-NYCRR-1.4
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.4 - Substantiation of consumer debts

(a) If a consumer
disputes, orally or in writing, the validity of a charged-off debt or the right
of the debt collector to collect on a charged-off debt, the debt collector must
inform the consumer that the consumer may request substantiation of the debt,
unless the debt collector has already provided the consumer the information
required in this section. The debt collector may treat such dispute as a
request for substantiation, or:(1) If the
consumer disputes the debt orally, the debt collector must:
(i) make reasonable efforts to inform the
consumer, in the conversation in which the dispute was communicated, how the
consumer can make a written request for substantiation of the debt in writing;
and
(ii) within 14 days of the
consumer disputing the debt, provide the consumer clear and conspicuous written
instructions on how to request substantiation of the debt; or
(2) If the consumer disputes the
debt in writing, within 21 days of the debt collector receiving that writing,
the debt collector must provide the consumer clear and conspicuous written
instructions on how to request substantiation of the debt.
(b) A debt collector must provide the
consumer written substantiation of a charged-off debt within 60 days of
receiving a request for substantiation of the debt and must cease collection of
the debt until written substantiation has been provided to the consumer. A debt
collector must substantiate a charged-off debt pursuant to this section only
once during the period that the debt collector owns or has the right to collect
the debt.
(c) Substantiation of a
charged-off debt shall include: (1) the
signed contract or signed application that created the debt or, if no signed
contract or application exists, a copy of a document provided to the alleged
debtor while the account was active, demonstrating that the debt was incurred
by the debtor. For a revolving credit account, the most recent monthly
statement recording a purchase transaction, payment or balance transfer shall
be deemed sufficient to satisfy this requirement;
(2) the charge-off account statement, or
equivalent document, issued by the original creditor to the consumer;
(3) a statement describing the complete chain
of title from the original creditor to the present creditor, including the date
of each assignment, sale, and transfer; and
(4) records reflecting the amount and date of
any prior settlement agreement reached in connection with the debt pursuant to
section 1.5 of this Part.
(d) If a consumer requests
substantiation of a charged-off debt pursuant to subdivision (a) of this
section, the debt collector must retain the following documentation until the
debt is discharged, sold, or transferred: (1)
evidence of the consumer's request for substantiation; and
(2) all documents the debt collector provided
in response to the request.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23
§
1.4
Adopted,
New
York State Register December 3, 2014/Volume XXXVI, Issue 48, eff.
12/3/2014
Amended
New
York State Register September 9, 2015/Volume XXXVII, Issue 36,
eff. 9/9/2015
