SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/23-NYCRR-1.5
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.5 - Debt payment procedures

(a) Within five
business days of agreeing to a debt payment schedule or other agreement to
settle a debt, a debt collector shall provide the consumer with:
(1) a written confirmation of the debt
payment schedule or other agreement to settle the debt. This written
confirmation shall include all material terms and conditions relating to the
payments and schedule to which the consumer agreed; and
(2) the following notice:
"If a creditor or debt collector receives a money judgment
against you in court, state and federal laws may prevent the following types of
income from being taken to pay the debt:
1. Supplemental security income, (SSI);
2. Social security;
3. Public assistance (welfare);
4. Spousal support, maintenance (alimony) or
child support;
5. Unemployment
benefits;
6. Disability benefits;
7. Workers' compensation
benefits;
8. Public or private
pensions;
9. Veterans'
benefits;
10. Federal student
loans, federal student grants, and federal work study funds; and
11. Ninety percent of your wages or salary
earned in the last sixty days."
(b) If a consumer agrees to a debt payment
schedule or other agreement to settle a debt, the debt collector shall provide
the consumer with an accounting of the debt on at least a quarterly basis while
the consumer is making scheduled payments.
(c) Within 20 business days of the receipt of
a payment satisfying a consumer's debt, the debt collector shall send to the
consumer a written confirmation of the satisfaction of the debt that identifies
the original creditor and the account number.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23
§
1.5
Adopted,
New
York State Register December 3, 2014/Volume XXXVI, Issue 48, eff.
12/3/2014
Amended
New
York State Register September 9, 2015/Volume XXXVII, Issue 36,
eff. 9/9/2015
