 
 
  
         
          
             
             
     
     
     

     

     

     
     

     
     
 
         Bill Text - SB-611 Residential rental properties: fees and security. 
         
         
            /* Hide page by default*/
            html { display : none; }
         

         // = 0)) {
                        window.top.location.replace(window.location);
                        top.location = self.location;
                    }
                }
            }
            // ]]>
         
         
            /* Hide page by default*/
            html { display : inline; }
             // 
   

     
        function changePlaceHolder() {

            var x = document.getElementById("billheaderinit_form:quick_search_select_id");
            var input = document.getElementById("billheaderinit_form:searchall");

            if (x !== null) {
                if (x.options[0].selected) {

                    input.placeholder = "AB1 or ab 1 or ABX1-1";
                } else {
                    input.placeholder = "Search phrase";
                }
            }

        }
     
     
 
 


              
             

                 
                       
                          skip to content  
                            home  
                          accessibility  
                          FAQ  
                              feedback  
                          sitemap  
                       

                          login 
                         
                          x   
                         


                     
                   



                  
                          
                  
                 
                     
                      
                               
                              
                         
                              
                     
                     
                  
                     
                         
                               Quick Search: 
                         
                          	 Bill Number 
	 Bill Keyword 
 
                               
                         
                       

                   
         
         
         
       



         
          
   
   
     
       
         Home  
       
         Bill Information  


       
         California Law  
       
         Publications  


       
         Other Resources  
       
         My Subscriptions  
       
         My Favorites  
       
     
   
   
  
 
          
     
 

       
             
            function getTableColumnCount(table) {
                var columnCount = 0;
                var rows = table.rows;
                if (rows !== null) {
                    if (rows.length > 0) {
                        var cells = rows[0].cells;
                        for (var i = 0, len = cells.length; i  

             

             
                   

   
       
         
            Bill Information 
            >>
           
            Bill Search 
            >>
           
           Text 
         
       
   
 

                 
                  
                 Bill Text  Bill Information  
                  

     
     
        function asAmendsPopup() {
            window.open("asAmendsInfo.xhtml", "Information", "width=330, height=220, toolbar=no, location=no, directories=no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, top=270, left=150")
        }

        function selectVersion() {

            var versionObj = document.getElementById("version");
            var selectedVersionId = '20230SB61190CHP';
            var len = versionObj.options.length;
            //alert('selectedVersionId='+selectedVersionId);
            for (i = 0; i   
 
 
  
             
                 
                  PDF2 
                         Bill PDF 
                     
                     


                       |  Add To My Favorites   |   Version:  	 09/19/24 - Chaptered 
	 08/30/24 - Enrolled 
	 08/22/24 - Amended Assembly 
	 06/27/24 - Amended Assembly 
	 06/10/24 - Amended Assembly 
	 05/25/23 - Amended Senate 
	 05/04/23 - Amended Senate 
	 04/25/23 - Amended Senate 
	 03/20/23 - Amended Senate 
	 02/15/23 - Introduced 
  


                         
                          
                 

                 
                     SB-611 Residential rental properties: fees and security. (2023-2024) 
                     
                  
             
             


                   Text 
                         
                         >>  
                 



                   Votes 
                         
                         >>  
                 



                   History 
                         >>  
                 



                   Bill Analysis 
                         >>  
                 



                   Today's Law As Amended 
                         >>   
                          

                 



                   Compare Versions 
                         >>  

                 



                   Status 
                         >>  
                 

                   Comments To Author 
               
                         >>  
                  
                       Add To My Favorites 
                             >>  

                      

             
             
                selectVersion();
              
  
 
                 
                 
 
 

                         
                             SHARE THIS:  
                                  
                             
                                  
                         
                         
                             Date Published: 09/20/2024 02:00 PM
                             
                          
    SB611:v90#DOCUMENT        Bill Start         
                Senate Bill
              
                        No. 611     
                      CHAPTER 287      An act to amend Sections 1946, 1946.1, 1947.3, and 1950.5 of the Civil Code, and to amend Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, relating to tenancy.    
                  
                  [ 
                Approved  by
                
                Governor
                 September 19, 2024.
                        
                Filed with
                
                Secretary of State
                 September 19, 2024.
                       ]
                    LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST     SB 611, Menjivar.
                          Residential rental properties: fees and security.     (1) Existing law regulates the hiring of real property and imposes various requirements on landlords relating to the application for, and leasing of, residential rental property. Existing law establishes provisions for the renewal or termination of a hiring of residential real property for an unspecified term. Existing law specifies the notice required for the termination of a hiring of residential property for an unspecified term. Existing law makes a tenant of real property guilty of unlawful detainer if, among other things, the tenant continues in possession of the real property after giving notice of termination of a hiring of residential property for an unspecified term.  This bill would prohibit a landlord or its agent from charging a tenant a fee for serving, posting, or otherwise delivering any notice, as specified
			 in the above-described provisions.  (2) Existing law requires a landlord or landlord’s agent to allow a tenant to pay rent and deposit of security by at least one form of payment that is neither cash nor electronic funds transfer, except as prescribed.  This bill would prohibit a landlord or its agent from charging a tenant any fee for payment by check for rent or security deposit as described above.  (3) Existing law prohibits a landlord from demanding or receiving security, however denominated, in an amount or value in excess of an amount equal to one month’s rent, in addition to any rent for the first month paid on or before initial occupancy, except as provided.  On or after April 1, 2025, if a landlord or agent charges a service member a higher than standard or advertised security as described above, this bill would require the landlord to provide the tenant with a written statement, on or before the date the lease is signed, of the amount of the higher security and an explanation why the
			 higher security amount is being charged. The bill would require the additional amount of security to be returned to the tenant after no more than 6 months of residency if the tenant is not in arrears for any rent due during that period.  (4) This bill would incorporate additional changes to Section 1946.1 of the Civil Code proposed by SB 1103 to be operative only if this bill and SB 1103
			 are enacted and this bill is enacted last.  (5) This bill would incorporate additional changes to Section 1950.5 of the Civil Code proposed by AB 2801 to be operative only if this bill and AB 2801 are enacted and this bill is enacted last.     Digest Key   
      Vote:
       MAJORITY     
      Appropriation:
       NO     
      Fiscal Committee:
       NO     
      Local Program:
       NO        Bill Text     The people of the State of California do enact as follows:      SECTION 1.  Section 1946 of the Civil Code is amended to read:       1946.  (a) A hiring of real property, for a term not specified by the parties, is deemed to be renewed as stated in Section 1945, at the end of the term implied by law unless one of the parties gives written notice to the other of that party’s intention to terminate the same, at least as long before the expiration thereof as the term of the hiring itself, not exceeding 30 days; provided, however, that as to tenancies from month to month either of the parties may terminate the same by giving at least 30 days’ written notice thereof at any time and the rent shall be due and payable to and including the date of termination. It shall be competent for the parties to provide by an agreement at the time the tenancy is created that a notice of the intention to
						terminate the same may be given at any time not less than seven days before the expiration of the term thereof. The notice herein required shall be given in the manner prescribed in Section 1162 of the Code of Civil Procedure or by sending a copy by certified or registered mail addressed to the other party. In addition, the lessee may give the notice by sending a copy by certified or registered mail addressed to the agent of the lessor to whom the lessee has paid the rent for the month prior to the date of the notice or by delivering a copy to the agent personally. The notice given by the lessor shall also contain, in substantially the same form, the following:   “State law permits former tenants to reclaim abandoned personal property left at the former address of the tenant, subject to certain conditions. You may or may not
						be able to reclaim property without incurring additional costs, depending on the cost of storing the property and the length of time before it is reclaimed. In general, these costs will be lower the sooner you contact your former landlord after being notified that property belonging to you was left behind after you moved out.”   (b) A landlord or its agent shall not charge a tenant a fee for serving, posting, or otherwise delivering any notice, as described in this section.         SEC. 2.  Section 1946.1 of the Civil Code is amended to read:       1946.1.  (a) Notwithstanding Section 1946, a hiring of residential real property for a term not specified by the parties, is deemed to be renewed as stated in Section 1945, at the end of the term implied by law unless one of the parties gives written notice to the other of their intention to terminate the tenancy, as provided in this section.  (b) An owner of a residential dwelling giving notice pursuant to this section shall give notice at least 60 days prior to the proposed date of termination. A tenant giving notice pursuant to this section shall give notice for a period at least as long as the term of the periodic tenancy prior to the proposed date of termination.  (c) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), an owner of a residential dwelling giving notice pursuant to this section shall give notice at least 30 days prior to the proposed date of termination if any tenant or resident has resided in the dwelling for less than one year.  (d) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), an owner of a residential dwelling giving notice pursuant to this section shall give notice at least 30 days prior to the proposed date of termination if all of the following apply:  (1) The dwelling or unit is alienable separate from the title to any other dwelling unit.  (2) The owner has contracted to sell the dwelling or unit to a bona fide purchaser for value,
						and has established an escrow with a title insurer or an underwritten title company, as defined in Sections 12340.4 and 12340.5 of the Insurance Code, respectively, a licensed escrow agent, as defined in Sections 17004 and 17200 of the Financial Code, or a licensed real estate broker, as defined in Section 10131 of the Business and Professions Code.  (3) The purchaser is a natural person or persons.  (4) The notice is given no more than 120 days after the escrow has been established.  (5) Notice was not previously given to the tenant pursuant to this section.  (6) The purchaser in good faith intends to reside in the property for at least one full year after the
						termination of the tenancy.  (e) After an owner has given notice of their intention to terminate the tenancy pursuant to this section, a tenant may also give notice of their intention to terminate the tenancy pursuant to this section, provided that the tenant’s notice is for a period at least as long as the term of the periodic tenancy and the proposed date of termination occurs before the owner’s proposed date of termination.  (f) The notices required by this section shall be given in the manner prescribed in Section 1162 of the Code of Civil Procedure or by sending a copy by certified or registered mail.  (g) This section may not be construed to affect the authority of a public entity that otherwise exists to regulate or
						monitor the basis for eviction.  (h) Any notice given by an owner pursuant to this section shall contain, in substantially the same form, the following:   “State law permits former tenants to reclaim abandoned personal property left at the former address of the tenant, subject to certain conditions. You may or may not be able to reclaim property without incurring additional costs, depending on the cost of storing the property and the length of time before it is reclaimed. In general, these costs will be lower the sooner you contact your former landlord after being notified that property belonging to you was left behind after you moved out.”   (i) A landlord or its
						agent shall not charge a tenant a fee for serving, posting, or otherwise delivering any notice, as described in this section.         SEC. 2.5.  Section 1946.1 of the Civil Code is amended to read:       1946.1.  (a) Notwithstanding Section 1946, a hiring of residential real property or commercial real property by a qualified commercial tenant for a term not specified by the parties, is deemed to be renewed as stated in Section 1945, at the end of the term implied by law unless one of the parties gives written notice to the other of the party’s intention to terminate the tenancy, as provided in this section.  (b) An owner of a residential dwelling
						or commercial real property hired by a qualified commercial tenant giving notice pursuant to this section shall give notice at least 60 days prior to the proposed date of termination. A tenant giving notice pursuant to this section shall give notice for a period at least as long as the term of the periodic tenancy prior to the proposed date of termination.  (c) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), an owner of a residential dwelling or commercial real property hired by a qualified commercial tenant giving notice pursuant to this section shall give notice at least 30 days prior to the proposed date of termination if
						a tenant or resident has resided in the dwelling or occupied the property for less than one year.  (d) Notwithstanding subdivision (b), an owner of a residential dwelling giving notice pursuant to this section shall give notice at least 30 days prior to the proposed date of termination if all of the following apply:  (1) The dwelling or unit is alienable separate from the title to any other dwelling unit.  (2) The owner has contracted to sell the dwelling or unit to a bona fide purchaser for value, and has established an escrow with a title insurer or an underwritten title company, as defined in Sections 12340.4 and 12340.5 of the Insurance Code, respectively, a licensed
						escrow agent, as defined in Sections 17004 and 17200 of the Financial Code, or a licensed real estate broker, as defined in Section 10131 of the Business and Professions Code.  (3) The purchaser is a natural person or persons.  (4) The notice is given no more than 120 days after the escrow has been established.  (5) Notice was not previously given to the tenant pursuant to this section.  (6) The purchaser in good faith intends to reside in the property for at least one full year after the termination of the tenancy.  (e) After an owner has given notice of
						the owner’s intention to terminate the tenancy pursuant to this section, a tenant may also give notice of
						the tenant’s intention to terminate the tenancy pursuant to this section, provided that the tenant’s notice is for a period at least as long as the term of the periodic tenancy and the proposed date of termination occurs before the owner’s proposed date of termination.  (f) The notices required by this section shall be given in the manner prescribed in Section 1162 of the Code of Civil Procedure or by sending a copy by certified or registered mail.  (g) This section may not be construed to affect the authority of a public entity that otherwise exists to regulate or monitor the basis for eviction.  (h) A notice
						given by an owner pursuant to this section shall contain, in substantially the same form, the following:   “State law permits former tenants to reclaim abandoned personal property left at the former address of the tenant, subject to certain conditions. You may or may not be able to reclaim property without incurring additional costs, depending on the cost of storing the property and the length of time before it is reclaimed. In general, these costs will be lower the sooner you contact your former landlord after being notified that property belonging to you was left behind after you moved out.”   (i) A landlord or its agent shall not charge a tenant a fee for serving, posting, or otherwise delivering any notice, as described in this
						section.  (j) A landlord of a commercial real property shall include in the notice required by this section information on the provisions of this section.  (k) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:  (1) “Commercial real property” means all real property in this state, except dwelling units subject to this chapter, mobilehomes as defined in Section 798.3, and recreational vehicles as defined in Section 799.29.  (2) “Microenterprise” has the same meaning as that term is defined in subdivision (a) of Section 18000 of the Business and Professions Code.  (3) “Nonprofit organization” means any private, nonprofit organization that qualifies under Section 501(c)(3) of the
						United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  (4) “Qualified commercial tenant” means a tenant of commercial real property that meets both of the following requirements:  (A) The tenant is a microenterprise, a restaurant with fewer than 10 employees, or a nonprofit organization with fewer than 20 employees.  (B) (i) Subject to clause (ii), the tenant has provided the landlord, within the previous 12 months, a written notice that the tenant is a qualified commercial tenant and a self-attestation regarding the number of employees, at such time the protections under this section come into place.  (ii) Unless the tenancy is from week to week, month to month, or other period less than a month, the tenant provided the notice and
						self-attestation described in clause (i) before or upon execution of the lease, and annually thereafter, at such time the protections under this section come into place.         SEC. 3.  Section 1947.3 of the Civil Code is amended to read:       1947.3.  (a) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a landlord or a landlord’s agent shall allow a tenant to pay rent and deposit of security by at least one form of payment that is neither cash nor electronic funds transfer.  (2) A landlord or a landlord’s agent may demand or require cash as the exclusive form of payment of rent or deposit of security if the tenant has previously attempted to pay the landlord or landlord’s agent with a check drawn on insufficient funds or the tenant has instructed the drawee to stop payment on a check, draft, or order for the payment of money. The landlord may demand or require cash as the exclusive form of payment only for a period not
						exceeding three months following an attempt to pay with a check on insufficient funds or following a tenant’s instruction to stop payment. If the landlord chooses to demand or require cash payment under these circumstances, the landlord shall give the tenant a written notice stating that the payment instrument was dishonored and informing the tenant that the tenant shall pay in cash for a period determined by the landlord, not to exceed three months, and attach a copy of the dishonored instrument to the notice. The notice shall comply with Section 827 if demanding or requiring payment in cash constitutes a change in the terms of the lease.  (3) Subject to the limitations below, a landlord or a landlord’s agent shall allow a tenant to pay rent through a third party.  (A) A landlord
						or landlord’s agent is not required to accept the rent payment tendered by a third party unless the third party has provided to the landlord or landlord’s agent a signed
						acknowledgment stating that they are not currently a tenant of the premises for which the rent payment is being made and that acceptance of the rent payment does not create a new tenancy with the third party.  (B) Failure by a third party to provide the signed acknowledgment to the landlord or landlord’s agent shall void the obligation of a landlord or landlord’s agent to accept a tenant’s rent tendered by a third party.  (C) The landlord or landlord’s agent may, but is not required to, provide a form acknowledgment to be used by third parties, as provided for in subparagraph (A), provided however that a landlord shall accept as sufficient for compliance with subparagraph (A) an acknowledgment in substantially the following form:   I, [insert name of third party], state as follows:  I am not currently a tenant of the premises located at [insert address of premises].  I acknowledge that acceptance of the rent payment I am offering for the premises does not create a new tenancy.     (signature of third party)
      _____
        (date)      (D) A
						landlord or landlord’s agent may require a signed acknowledgment for each rent payment made by the third party. A landlord or landlord’s agent and the third party may agree that one acknowledgment shall be sufficient for when the third party makes more than one rent payment during a period of time.  (E) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require a landlord or landlord’s agent to enter into a contract in connection with a federal, state, or local housing assistance program, including, but not limited to, the federal housing assistance voucher programs under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 1437f).  (4) Paragraphs (2) and (3) do not enlarge or diminish a landlord’s or landlord’s agent’s legal right to terminate a tenancy. Nothing in
						paragraph (3) is intended to extend the due date for any rent payment or require a landlord or landlord’s agent to accept tender of rent beyond the expiration of the period stated in paragraph (2) of Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure.  (b) A landlord or its agent shall not charge a tenant any fee for payment by check for rent or security deposit as described in this section.   (c) For the purposes of this section, the issuance of a money order or a cashier’s check is direct evidence only that the instrument was issued.  (d) For purposes of this section, “electronic funds transfer” means any transfer of funds, other than a transaction originated by check, draft, or similar paper instrument, that is initiated through an
						electronic terminal, telephonic instrument, computer, or magnetic tape so as to order, instruct, or authorize a financial institution to debit or credit an account. “Electronic funds transfer” includes, but is not limited to, point-of-sale transfers, direct deposits or withdrawals of funds, transfers initiated by telephone, transfers via an automated clearinghouse, transfers initiated electronically that deliver a paper instrument, and transfers authorized in advance to recur at substantially regular intervals.  (e) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the tenant and landlord or agent to mutually agree that rent payments may be made in cash or by electronic funds transfer, so long as another form of payment is also authorized, subject to the requirements of subdivision (a).  (f) A waiver of the provisions of this section is contrary to public policy, and is void and unenforceable.         SEC. 4.  Section 1950.5 of the Civil Code, as added by Section 2 of Chapter 733 of the Statutes of 2023, is amended to read:       1950.5.  (a) This section applies to security for a rental agreement for residential property that is used as the dwelling of the tenant.  (b) As used in this section, “security” means any payment, fee, deposit, or charge, including, but not limited to, any payment, fee, deposit, or charge, except as provided in Section 1950.6, that is imposed at the beginning of the tenancy to be used to reimburse the landlord for costs associated with processing a new tenant or that is imposed as an advance payment of rent, used or to be used for any purpose, including, but not limited to, any of the following:  (1) The compensation of a landlord for a
						tenant’s default in the payment of rent.  (2) The repair of damages to the premises, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear, caused by the tenant or by a guest or licensee of the tenant.  (3) The cleaning of the premises upon termination of the tenancy necessary to return the unit to the same level of cleanliness it was in at the inception of the tenancy. The amendments to this paragraph enacted by the act adding this sentence shall apply only to tenancies for which the tenant’s right to occupy begins after January 1, 2003.  (4) To remedy future defaults by the tenant in any obligation under the rental agreement to restore, replace, or return personal property or appurtenances, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear, if the
						security deposit is authorized to be applied thereto by the rental agreement.  (c) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), (3), or (5), a landlord may not demand or receive security, however denominated, in an amount or value in excess of an amount equal to one month’s rent, in addition to any rent for the first month paid on or before initial occupancy.  (2) This subdivision does not prohibit an advance payment of not less than six months’ rent if the term of the lease is six months or longer.  (3) This subdivision does not preclude a landlord and a tenant from entering into a mutual agreement for the landlord, at
						the request of the tenant and for a specified fee or charge, to make structural, decorative, furnishing, or other similar alterations, if the alterations are other than cleaning or repairing for which the landlord may charge the previous tenant as provided by subdivision (e).  (4) On or after April 1, 2025, if a landlord or its agent charges a service member who rents residential property in which the service member will reside a higher than standard or advertised security pursuant to paragraph (1) due to the credit history, credit score, housing history, or other factor related to the
						tenant, the
						landlord shall provide the tenant with a written statement, on or before the date the lease is signed, of the amount of the higher
						security and an explanation why the higher security amount is being charged. The additional amount of security shall be returned to the tenant after no more than six months of residency if the tenant is not in arrears for any rent due during that period. The date for return of the additional amount of security shall be included in the lease agreement. For purposes of this paragraph, “service member” has the same meaning as in Section 400 of the Military and Veterans Code.  (5) (A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a landlord may not demand
						or receive security, however denominated, in an amount or value in excess of an amount equal to two months’ rent, in addition to any rent for the first month paid on or before initial occupancy if the landlord meets both of the following requirements:  (i) The landlord is a natural person or a limited liability company in which all members are natural persons.  (ii) The landlord owns no more than two residential rental properties that collectively include no more than four dwelling units offered for rent.  (B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply if the prospective tenant
						is a service member. A landlord shall not refuse to enter into a rental agreement for residential property with a prospective tenant who is a service member because this subparagraph prohibits the landlord from demanding or receiving a greater amount of security than that which is established in paragraph (1). For purposes of this subparagraph, “service member” has the same meaning as in Section 400 of the Military and Veterans Code.  (C) For purposes of this paragraph:  (i) “Natural person” includes any natural person who is a settlor or beneficiary of a family trust.  (ii) “Family trust” means a revocable living trust or irrevocable trust in which the settlors and beneficiaries of the trust are persons who
						are related to each other as sibling, spouse, domestic partner, child, parent, grandparent, or grandchild.  (6) This subdivision shall not apply to a security collected or demanded by the landlord before July 1, 2024.  (d) Any security shall be held by the landlord for the tenant who is party to the lease or agreement. The claim of a tenant to the security shall be prior to the claim of any creditor of the landlord.  (e) The landlord may claim of the security only those amounts as are reasonably necessary for the purposes specified in subdivision (b). The landlord may not assert a claim against the tenant or the security for damages to the premises or any defective conditions that preexisted the tenancy, for ordinary wear and tear or
						the effects thereof, whether the wear and tear preexisted the tenancy or occurred during the tenancy, or for the cumulative effects of ordinary wear and tear occurring during any one or more tenancies.  (f) (1) Within a reasonable time after notification of either party’s intention to terminate the tenancy, or before the end of the lease term, the landlord shall notify the tenant in writing of the tenant’s option to request an initial inspection and of the tenant’s right to be present at the inspection. The requirements of this subdivision do not apply when the tenancy is terminated pursuant to subdivision (2), (3), or (4) of Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure. At a reasonable time, but no earlier than two weeks before the termination or the end of lease date, the landlord, or an agent of the landlord, shall,
						upon the request of the tenant, make an initial inspection of the premises prior to any final inspection the landlord makes after the tenant has vacated the premises. The purpose of the initial inspection shall be to allow the tenant an opportunity to remedy identified deficiencies, in a manner consistent with the rights and obligations of the parties under the rental agreement, in order to avoid deductions from the security. If a tenant chooses not to request an initial inspection, the duties of the landlord under this subdivision are discharged. If an inspection is requested, the parties shall attempt to schedule the inspection at a mutually acceptable date and time. The landlord shall give at least 48 hours’ prior written notice of the date and time of the inspection if either a mutual time is agreed upon, or if a mutually agreed time cannot be scheduled but the tenant still wishes an
						inspection. The tenant and landlord may agree to forgo the 48-hour prior written notice by both signing a written waiver. The landlord shall proceed with the inspection whether the tenant is present or not, unless the tenant previously withdrew their request for the inspection. Written notice by the landlord shall contain, in substantially the same form, the following:  “State law permits former tenants to reclaim abandoned personal property left at the former address of the tenant, subject to certain conditions. You may or may not be able to reclaim property without incurring additional costs, depending on the cost of storing the property and the length of time before it is reclaimed. In general, these costs will be lower the sooner you contact your former landlord after being notified that property belonging to you was left behind after you moved out.”  (2) Based on the inspection, the landlord shall give the tenant an itemized statement specifying repairs or cleanings that are proposed to be the basis of any deductions from the security the landlord intends to make pursuant to paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (b). This statement shall also include the texts of paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (b). The statement shall be given to the tenant, if the tenant is present for the inspection, or shall be left inside the premises.  (3) The tenant shall have the opportunity during the period following the initial inspection until termination of the tenancy to remedy identified deficiencies, in a manner consistent with the rights and obligations of the parties under the rental agreement, in order to avoid
						deductions from the security.  (4) Nothing in this subdivision shall prevent a landlord from using the security for deductions itemized in the statement provided for in paragraph (2) that were not cured by the tenant so long as the deductions are for damages authorized by this section.  (5) Nothing in this subdivision shall prevent a landlord from using the security for any purpose specified in paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (b) that occurs between completion of the initial inspection and termination of the tenancy or was not identified during the initial inspection due to the presence of a tenant’s possessions.  (g) (1) No later than 21 calendar days after the tenant has vacated
						the premises, but not earlier than the time that either the landlord or the tenant provides a notice to terminate the tenancy under Section 1946 or 1946.1, Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, or not earlier than 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of a fixed-term lease, the landlord shall furnish the tenant, by personal delivery or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of an itemized statement indicating the basis for, and the amount of, any security received and the disposition of the security, and shall return any remaining portion of the security to the tenant. After either the landlord or the tenant provides notice to terminate the tenancy, the landlord and tenant may mutually agree to have the landlord deposit any remaining portion of the security deposit electronically to a bank account or other financial institution designated by the tenant. After either the landlord or the tenant provides
						notice to terminate the tenancy, the landlord and the tenant may also agree to have the landlord provide a copy of the itemized statement along with the copies required by paragraph (2) to an email account provided by the tenant.  (2) Along with the itemized statement, the landlord shall also include copies of documents showing charges incurred and deducted by the landlord to repair or clean the premises, as follows:  (A) If the landlord or landlord’s employee did the work, the itemized statement shall reasonably describe the work performed. The itemized statement shall include the time spent and the reasonable hourly rate charged.  (B) If the landlord or landlord’s employee did not do the work, the landlord shall provide the
						tenant a copy of the bill, invoice, or receipt supplied by the person or entity performing the work. The itemized statement shall provide the tenant with the name, address, and telephone number of the person or entity, if the bill, invoice, or receipt does not include that information.  (C) If a deduction is made for materials or supplies, the landlord shall provide a copy of the bill, invoice, or receipt. If a particular material or supply item is purchased by the landlord on an ongoing basis, the landlord may document the cost of the item by providing a copy of a bill, invoice, receipt, vendor price list, or other vendor document that reasonably documents the cost of the item used in the repair or cleaning of the unit.  (3) If a repair to be done by the landlord or the landlord’s employee
						cannot reasonably be completed within 21 calendar days after the tenant has vacated the premises, or if the documents from a person or entity providing services, materials, or supplies are not in the landlord’s possession within 21 calendar days after the tenant has vacated the premises, the landlord may deduct the amount of a good faith estimate of the charges that will be incurred and provide that estimate with the itemized statement. If the reason for the estimate is because the documents from a person or entity
						providing services, materials, or supplies are not in the landlord’s possession, the itemized statement shall include the name, address, and telephone number of the person or entity. Within 14 calendar days of completing the repair or receiving the documentation, the landlord shall complete the requirements in paragraphs (1) and (2) in the manner specified.  (4) The landlord need not comply with paragraph (2) or (3) if either of the following applies:  (A) The deductions for repairs and cleaning together do not exceed one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125).  (B) The tenant waived the rights specified in paragraphs (2) and (3). The waiver shall only be effective if it is signed by the tenant at the same time
						or after a notice to terminate a tenancy under Section 1946 or 1946.1 has been given, a notice under Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure has been given, or no earlier than 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of a fixed-term lease. The waiver shall substantially include the text of paragraph (2).  (5) Notwithstanding paragraph (4), the landlord shall comply with paragraphs (2) and (3) when a tenant makes a request for documentation within 14 calendar days after receiving the itemized statement specified in paragraph (1). The landlord shall comply within 14 calendar days after receiving the request from the tenant.  (6) Any mailings to the tenant pursuant to this subdivision shall be sent to the address provided by the tenant. If the tenant does not provide an address, mailings
						pursuant to this subdivision shall be sent to the unit that has been vacated.  (h) Upon termination of the landlord’s interest in the premises, whether by sale, assignment, death, appointment of receiver, or otherwise, the landlord or the landlord’s agent shall, within a reasonable time, do one of the following acts, either of which shall relieve the landlord of further liability with respect to the security held:  (1) Transfer the portion of the security remaining after any lawful deductions made under subdivision (e) to the landlord’s successor in interest. The landlord shall thereafter notify the tenant by personal delivery or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, of the transfer, of any claims made against the security, of the amount of the security deposited, and of the names
						of the successors in interest, their addresses, and their telephone numbers. If the notice to the tenant is made by personal delivery, the tenant shall acknowledge receipt of the notice and sign their name on the landlord’s copy of the notice.  (2) Return the portion of the security remaining after any lawful deductions made under subdivision (e) to the tenant, together with an accounting as provided in subdivision (g).  (i) Prior to the voluntary transfer of a landlord’s interest in the premises, the landlord shall deliver to the landlord’s successor in interest a written statement indicating the following:  (1) The security remaining after any lawful deductions are made.  (2) An itemization of any lawful deductions from any security received.  (3) Their election under paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (h).  This subdivision does not affect the validity of title to the real property transferred in violation of this subdivision.  (j) (1) In the event of noncompliance with subdivision (h), the landlord’s successors in interest shall be jointly and severally liable with the landlord for repayment of the security, or that portion thereof to which the tenant is entitled, when and as provided in subdivisions (e) and (g). A successor in interest of a landlord may not require the tenant to post any security to replace that amount not transferred to the tenant or successors in interest as
						provided in subdivision (h), unless and until the successor in interest first makes restitution of the initial security as provided in paragraph (2) of subdivision (h) or provides the tenant with an accounting as provided in subdivision (g).  (2) This subdivision does not preclude a successor in interest from recovering from the tenant compensatory damages that are in excess of the security received from the landlord previously paid by the tenant to the landlord.  (3) Notwithstanding this subdivision, if, upon inquiry and reasonable investigation, a landlord’s successor in interest has a good faith belief that the lawfully remaining security deposit is transferred to the successor in interest or returned to the tenant pursuant to subdivision (h), the successor in interest is
						not liable for damages as provided in subdivision ( l ), or any security not transferred pursuant to subdivision (h).  (k) Upon receipt of any portion of the security under paragraph (1) of subdivision (h), the landlord’s successors in interest shall have all of the rights and obligations of a landlord holding the security with respect to the security.  (l) The bad faith claim or retention by a landlord or the landlord’s successors in interest of the security or any portion thereof in violation of this section, or the bad faith demand of replacement security in violation of subdivision (j), may subject the landlord or the landlord’s successors in interest to statutory damages of up to twice the amount of the security, in addition to actual damages. The court may award damages for bad
						faith whenever the facts warrant that award, regardless of whether the injured party has specifically requested relief. In an action under this section, the landlord or the landlord’s successors in interest shall have the burden of proof as to the reasonableness of the amounts claimed or the authority pursuant to this section to demand additional security deposits.  (m) No lease or rental agreement may contain a provision characterizing any security as “nonrefundable.”  (n) An action under this section may be maintained in small claims court if the damages claimed, whether actual, statutory, or both, are within the jurisdictional amount allowed by Section 116.220 or 116.221 of the Code of Civil Procedure.  (o) Proof
						of the existence of and the amount of a security deposit may be established by any credible evidence, including, but not limited to, a canceled check, a receipt, a lease indicating the requirement of a deposit as well as the amount, prior consistent statements or actions of the landlord or tenant, or a statement under penalty of perjury that satisfies the credibility requirements set forth in Section 780 of the Evidence Code.  (p) The amendments to this section made during the 1985 portion of the 1985–86 Regular Session of the Legislature that are set forth in subdivision (e) are declaratory of existing law.  (q) The amendments to this section made during the 2003 portion of the 2003–04 Regular Session of the Legislature that are set forth in paragraph (1) of subdivision (f) are
						declaratory of existing law.  (r) This section shall become operative on July 1, 2024.         SEC. 4.5.  Section 1950.5 of the Civil Code, as added by Section 2 of Chapter 733 of the
				Statutes of 2023, is amended to read:       1950.5.  (a) This section applies to security for a rental agreement for residential property that is used as the dwelling of the tenant.  (b) As used in this section, “security” means any payment, fee, deposit, or charge, including, but not limited to, any payment, fee, deposit, or charge, except as provided in Section 1950.6, that is imposed at the beginning of the tenancy to be used to reimburse the landlord for costs associated with processing a new tenant or that is imposed as an advance payment of rent, used or to be used for any purpose, including, but not limited to, any of the following:  (1) The compensation of a landlord for a tenant’s default in the payment of rent.  (2) The repair of damages to the premises, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear, caused by the tenant or by a guest or licensee of the tenant.  (3) The cleaning of the premises upon termination of the tenancy necessary to return the unit to the same level of cleanliness it was in at the inception of the tenancy. The amendments to this paragraph enacted by the act adding this sentence shall apply only to tenancies for which the tenant’s right to occupy begins after January 1, 2003.  (4) To remedy future defaults by the tenant in any obligation under the rental agreement to restore, replace, or return personal property or appurtenances, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear, if the security deposit is authorized to be applied thereto by the rental agreement.  (c) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), (3), or (5), a landlord shall not demand or receive security, however denominated, in an amount or value in excess of an amount equal to one month’s rent, in addition to any rent for the first month paid on or before initial occupancy.  (2) This subdivision does not prohibit an advance payment of not less than six months’ rent if the term of the lease is six months or longer.  (3) This subdivision does not preclude a
						landlord and a tenant from entering into a mutual agreement for the landlord, at the request of the tenant and for a specified fee or charge, to make structural, decorative, furnishing, or other similar alterations, if the alterations are other than cleaning or repairing for which the landlord may charge the previous tenant as provided by subdivision (e).  (4) On or after April 1, 2025, if a landlord or its agent charges a service member who rents residential property in which the service member will reside a higher than standard or advertised security pursuant to paragraph (1) due to the credit history, credit score, housing history, or other factor related to the tenant, the landlord shall provide the tenant with a written statement, on or before the date the lease is signed, of the amount of the higher security and an explanation why the higher security amount
						is being charged. The additional amount of security shall be returned to the tenant after no more than six months of residency if the tenant is not in arrears for any rent due during that period. The date for return of the additional amount of security shall be included in the lease agreement. For purposes of this paragraph, “service member” has the same meaning as in Section 400 of the Military and Veterans Code.  (5) (A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a landlord
						shall not demand or receive security, however denominated, in an amount or value in excess of an amount equal to two months’ rent, in addition to any rent for the first month paid on or before initial occupancy if the landlord meets both of the following requirements:  (i) The landlord is a natural person or a limited liability company in which all members are natural persons.  (ii) The landlord owns no more than two residential rental properties that collectively include no more than four dwelling units offered for rent.  (B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply if the prospective tenant is a service member. A landlord shall not refuse to enter into a rental agreement for residential property with a prospective tenant who is a service member because this subparagraph prohibits the
						landlord from demanding or receiving a greater amount of security than that which is established in paragraph (1). For purposes of this subparagraph, “service member” has the same meaning as in Section 400 of the Military and Veterans Code.  (C) For purposes of this paragraph:  (i) “Natural person” includes any natural person who is a settlor or beneficiary of a family trust.  (ii) “Family trust” means a revocable living trust or irrevocable trust in which the settlors and beneficiaries of the trust are persons who are related to each other as sibling, spouse, domestic partner, child, parent, grandparent, or
						grandchild.  (6) This subdivision shall not apply to a security collected or demanded by the landlord before July 1, 2024.  (d) Any security shall be held by the landlord for the tenant who is party to the lease or agreement. The claim of a tenant to the security shall be prior to the claim of any creditor of the landlord.  (e) (1) Subject to paragraph (2), the landlord may claim of the security only those amounts as are reasonably necessary
						for the purposes specified in subdivision (b).  (2) (A) The landlord
						shall not assert a claim against the tenant or the security for damages to the premises or any defective conditions that preexisted the tenancy, for ordinary wear and tear or the effects thereof, whether the wear and tear preexisted the tenancy or occurred during the tenancy, or for the cumulative effects of ordinary wear and tear occurring during any one or more tenancies.  (B) Claims against the tenant or the security for materials or supplies and for work performed by a contractor, the landlord, or the landlord’s employee shall be limited to a reasonable amount necessary to restore the premises back to the condition it was in at the inception of the tenancy, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear.  (C) The landlord shall not require a tenant to pay for, or assert a claim against the tenant or the security for, professional carpet cleaning or other professional cleaning services, unless reasonably necessary to return the premises to the condition it was in at the inception of tenancy, exclusive of ordinary wear and tear.  (f) (1) Within a reasonable time after notification of either party’s intention to terminate the tenancy, or before the end of the lease term, the landlord shall notify the tenant in writing of the tenant’s option to request an initial inspection and of the tenant’s right to be present at the inspection.
						At a reasonable time, but no earlier than two weeks before the termination or the end of lease date, the landlord, or an agent of the landlord, shall, upon the request of the tenant, make an initial inspection of the premises prior to any final inspection the landlord makes after the tenant has vacated the premises. The purpose of the initial inspection shall be to allow the tenant an opportunity to remedy identified deficiencies, in a manner consistent with the rights and obligations of the parties under the rental agreement, in order to avoid deductions from the security. If a tenant chooses not to request an initial inspection, the duties of the landlord under this subdivision are discharged. If an inspection is requested, the parties shall attempt to schedule the inspection at a mutually acceptable date and time. The landlord shall give at least 48 hours’ prior written notice of the date and time of the inspection if either a mutual time is agreed upon, or if a mutually agreed time
						cannot be scheduled but the tenant still wishes an inspection. The tenant and landlord may agree to forgo the 48-hour prior written notice by both signing a written waiver. The landlord shall proceed with the inspection whether the tenant is present or not, unless the tenant previously withdrew their request for the inspection. Written notice by the landlord shall contain, in substantially the same form, the following:  “State law permits former tenants to reclaim abandoned personal property left at the former address of the tenant, subject to certain conditions. You may or may not be able to reclaim property without incurring additional costs, depending on the cost of storing the property and the length of time before it is reclaimed. In general, these costs will be lower the sooner you contact your former landlord after being notified that property belonging to you was left behind after you moved out.”  (2) Based on the inspection, the landlord shall give the tenant an itemized statement specifying repairs or cleanings that are proposed to be the basis of any deductions from the security the landlord intends to make pursuant to paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (b). This statement shall also include the texts of paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (b). The statement shall be given to the tenant, if the tenant is present for the inspection, or shall be left inside the premises.  (3) The tenant shall have the opportunity during the period following the initial inspection until termination of the tenancy to remedy identified deficiencies, in a manner consistent with the rights and obligations of the parties under the rental agreement, in order to avoid deductions from the security.  (4) Subject to paragraphs (5) and (6), if an initial inspection is conducted pursuant to this subdivision and, at the time of inspection, the premises do not contain tenant possessions that prevent the landlord from identifying repairs or cleanings due to the presence of those possessions, the landlord shall not use the security for deductions for repairs or cleanings that are not identified in the itemized statement described in paragraph (2).  (5) Nothing in this subdivision shall prevent a landlord from using the security for deductions itemized in the statement provided for in
						paragraph (2) that were not cured by the tenant so long as the deductions are for damages authorized by this section.  (6) Nothing in this subdivision shall prevent a landlord from using the security for any purpose specified in paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (b) that occurs between completion of the initial inspection
						when possession of the unit is returned to the landlord or that was not identified during the initial inspection due to the presence of a tenant’s possessions.  (7) The requirements of this subdivision do not apply when the tenancy is terminated pursuant to subdivision (2), (3), or (4) of Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure.  (g) (1) For tenancies that begin on or after July 1, 2025, the landlord shall take photographs of the unit immediately before, or at the inception of, the tenancy.  (2) Beginning April 1, 2025, the landlord shall take photographs of the unit within a reasonable time after the possession of the unit is returned to the landlord, but prior to any repairs or cleanings for which the landlord will make a deduction from or claim against the security deposit pursuant to this section, and shall also take photographs of the unit within a reasonable time after such repairs or cleanings are completed.  (h) (1) No later than 21 calendar days after the tenant has vacated the premises, but not earlier than the time that either the landlord or
						the tenant provides a notice to terminate the tenancy under Section 1946 or 1946.1, Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, or not earlier than 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of a fixed-term lease, the landlord shall furnish the tenant, by personal delivery or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of an itemized statement indicating the basis for, and the amount of, any security received and the disposition of the security, and shall return any remaining portion of the security to the tenant. After either the landlord or the tenant provides notice to terminate the tenancy, the landlord and tenant may mutually agree to have the landlord deposit any remaining portion of the security deposit electronically to a bank account or other financial institution designated by the tenant. After either the landlord or the tenant provides notice to terminate the tenancy, the landlord and the tenant may also agree to have the landlord provide a copy of the itemized statement along with the copies
						required by paragraph (2) to an email account provided by the tenant.  (2) The landlord shall also include, along with and at the same time the itemized statement is sent, copies of documents showing charges incurred and deducted by the landlord to repair or clean the premises, as follows:  (A) If the landlord or landlord’s employee did the work, the itemized statement shall reasonably describe the work performed. The itemized statement shall include the time spent and the reasonable hourly rate charged.  (B) If the landlord or landlord’s employee did not do the
						work, the landlord shall provide the tenant a copy of the bill, invoice, or receipt supplied by the person or entity performing the work. The itemized statement shall provide the tenant with the name, address, and telephone number of the person or entity, if the bill, invoice, or receipt does not include that information.  (C) If a deduction is made for materials or supplies, the landlord shall provide a copy of the bill, invoice, or receipt. If a particular material or supply item is purchased by the landlord on an ongoing basis, the landlord may document the cost of the item by providing a copy of a bill, invoice, receipt, vendor price list, or other vendor document that reasonably documents the cost of the item used in the repair or cleaning of the unit.  (D) If a deduction is made for repairs or
						cleanings allowed by this section, the landlord shall provide photographs taken pursuant to subdivision (g), along with a written explanation of the cost of the allowable repairs or cleanings, as described in subparagraphs (A) to (C), inclusive. The landlord may provide such photographs to the tenant by mail, email, computer flash drive, or by providing a link where the tenant may view the photographs online.  (3) If a repair to be done by the landlord or the landlord’s employee cannot reasonably be completed within 21 calendar days after the tenant has vacated the premises, or if the documents from a person or entity providing services, materials, or supplies are not in the landlord’s possession within 21 calendar days after the tenant has vacated the premises, the landlord may deduct the amount of a good faith estimate of the charges that will be incurred and provide that estimate with the itemized statement. If the
						reason for the estimate is because the documents from a person or entity providing services, materials, or supplies are not in the landlord’s possession, the itemized statement shall include the name, address, and telephone number of the person or entity. Within 14 calendar days of completing the repair or receiving the documentation, the landlord shall complete the requirements in paragraphs (1) and (2) in the manner specified.  (4) The landlord need not comply with paragraph (2) or (3) if either of the following applies:  (A) The deductions for repairs and cleaning together do not exceed one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125).  (B) The tenant waived the rights specified in paragraphs (2) and (3). The waiver shall only be effective if it is signed by the tenant at the same time or after a notice to terminate a tenancy
						under Section 1946 or 1946.1 has been given, a notice under Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure has been given, or no earlier than 60 calendar days prior to the expiration of a fixed-term lease. The waiver shall substantially include the text of paragraph (2).  (5) Notwithstanding paragraph (4), the landlord shall comply with paragraphs (2) and (3) when a tenant makes a request for documentation within 14 calendar days after receiving the itemized statement specified in paragraph (1). The landlord shall comply within 14 calendar days after receiving the request from the tenant.  (6) Any mailings to the tenant pursuant to this subdivision shall be sent to the address provided by the tenant. If the tenant does not provide an address, mailings pursuant to this subdivision shall be sent to the unit that has been vacated.  (7) The landlord shall not be entitled to claim any amount of the security if the landlord, in bad faith, fails to comply with this subdivision.  (i) Upon termination of the landlord’s interest in the premises, whether by sale, assignment, death, appointment of receiver, or otherwise, the landlord or the landlord’s agent shall, within a reasonable time, do one of the following acts, either of which shall relieve the landlord of further liability with respect to the security held:  (1) Transfer the portion of the security
						remaining after any lawful deductions made under subdivision (e) to the landlord’s successor in interest. The landlord shall thereafter notify the tenant by personal delivery or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, of the transfer, of any claims made against the security, of the amount of the security deposited, and of the names of the successors in interest, their addresses, and their telephone numbers. If the notice to the tenant is made by personal delivery, the tenant shall acknowledge receipt of the notice and sign their name on the landlord’s copy of the notice.  (2) Return the portion of the security remaining after any lawful deductions made under subdivision (e) to the tenant, together with an accounting as provided in subdivision (h).  (j) Prior to the voluntary transfer of a landlord’s interest in the premises, the landlord shall deliver to the landlord’s successor in interest a written statement indicating the following:  (1) The security remaining after any lawful deductions are made.  (2) An itemization of any lawful deductions from any security received.  (3) Their election under paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (i).  This subdivision does
						not affect the validity of title to the real property transferred in violation of this subdivision.  (j) (1) In the event of noncompliance with subdivision (i), the landlord’s successors in interest shall be jointly and severally liable with the landlord for repayment of the security, or that portion thereof to which the tenant is entitled, when and as provided in subdivisions (e) and
						(h). A successor in interest of a landlord may not require the tenant to post any security to replace that amount not transferred to the tenant or successors in interest as provided in subdivision
						(i), unless and until the successor in interest first makes restitution of the initial security as provided in paragraph (2) of subdivision (i) or provides the tenant with an accounting as provided in subdivision (h).  (2) This subdivision does not preclude a successor in interest from recovering from the tenant compensatory damages that are in excess of the security received from the landlord previously paid by the tenant to the landlord.  (3) Notwithstanding this subdivision, if, upon inquiry and reasonable investigation, a landlord’s successor in interest has a good faith belief that the lawfully remaining security deposit is transferred to the successor in interest or returned to the tenant pursuant to subdivision (i), the successor in interest is not liable for damages as provided in subdivision (m), or any security not transferred pursuant to subdivision (i).  (l) Upon receipt of any portion of the security under paragraph (1) of subdivision (i), the landlord’s successors in interest shall have all of the rights and obligations of a landlord holding the security with respect to the security.  (m) The bad faith claim or retention by a landlord or the landlord’s
						successors in interest of the security or any portion thereof in violation of this section, or the bad faith demand of replacement of security in violation of subdivision (k), may subject the landlord or the landlord’s successors in interest to statutory damages of up to twice the amount of the security, in addition to actual damages. The court may award damages for bad faith whenever the facts warrant that award, regardless of whether the injured party has specifically requested relief. In an action under this section, the landlord or the landlord’s successors in interest shall have the burden of proof as to the reasonableness of the amounts claimed or the authority pursuant to this section to demand
						additional security deposits.  (n) A lease or rental agreement shall not contain a provision characterizing any security as “nonrefundable.”  (o) An action under this section may be maintained in small claims court if the damages claimed, whether actual, statutory, or both, are within the jurisdictional amount allowed by Section 116.220 or 116.221 of the Code of Civil Procedure.  (p) Proof of the existence of and the amount of a security deposit may be established by any credible evidence, including, but not limited to, a canceled check, a receipt, a lease indicating the requirement of a deposit as well as the amount, prior consistent
						statements or actions of the landlord or tenant, or a statement under penalty of perjury that satisfies the credibility requirements set forth in Section 780 of the Evidence Code.  (q) The amendments to this section made during the 1985 portion of the 1985–86 Regular Session of the Legislature that are set forth in subdivision (e) are declaratory of existing law.  (r) The amendments to this section made during the 2003 portion of the 2003–04 Regular Session of the Legislature that are set forth in paragraph (1) of subdivision (f) are declaratory of existing law.  (s) This section shall become operative on July 1, 2024.         SEC. 5.  Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, as amended by Section 15 of Chapter 37 of the Statutes of 2020, is amended to read:       1161.  A tenant of real property, for a term less than life, or the executor or administrator of the tenant’s estate heretofore qualified and now acting or hereafter to be qualified and act, is guilty of unlawful detainer:  1. When the tenant continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, of the property, or any part thereof, after the expiration of the term for which it is let to the tenant; provided the expiration is of a nondefault nature however brought about without the permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable; including the case where the person to be removed became the occupant of the premises as a servant, employee, agent, or licensee and the relation of
						master and servant, or employer and employee, or principal and agent, or licensor and licensee, has been lawfully terminated or the time fixed for occupancy by the agreement between the parties has expired; but nothing in this subdivision shall be construed as preventing the removal of the occupant in any other lawful manner; but in case of a tenancy at will, it shall first be terminated by notice, as prescribed in the Civil Code.  2. When the tenant continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, without the permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, after default in the payment of rent, pursuant to the lease or agreement under which the property is held, and three days’ notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, in writing, requiring its payment, stating the
						amount that is due, the name, telephone number, and address of the person to whom the rent payment shall be made, and, if payment may be made personally, the usual days and hours that person will be available to receive the payment (provided that, if the address does not allow for personal delivery, then it shall be conclusively presumed that upon the mailing of any rent or notice to the owner by the tenant to the name and address provided, the notice or rent is deemed received by the owner on the date posted, if the tenant can show proof of mailing to the name and address provided by the owner), or the number of an account in a financial institution into which the rental payment may be made, and the name and street address of the institution (provided that the institution is located within five miles of the rental property), or if an electronic funds transfer procedure has been previously established,
						that payment may be made pursuant to that procedure, or possession of the property, shall have been served upon the tenant and if there is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also upon the subtenant.  The notice may be served at any time within one year after the rent becomes due. In all cases of tenancy upon agricultural lands, if the tenant has held over and retained possession for more than 60 days after the expiration of the term without any demand of possession or notice to quit by the landlord or the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, the tenant shall be deemed to be holding by permission of the landlord or successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, and shall be entitled to hold under the terms of the lease for another full year, and shall not be guilty of an unlawful detainer during that year, and the holding over for
						that period shall be taken and construed as a consent on the part of a tenant to hold for another year.  An unlawful detainer action under this paragraph shall be subject to the COVID-19 Tenant Relief Act of 2020 (Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1179.01)) if the default in the payment of rent is based upon the COVID-19 rental debt.  3. When the tenant continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, after a neglect or failure to perform other conditions or covenants of the lease or agreement under which the property is held, including any covenant not to assign or sublet, than the one for the payment of rent, and three days’ notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, in writing, requiring the performance of those conditions or covenants, or the possession of the
						property, shall have been served upon the tenant, and if there is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also, upon the subtenant. Within three days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, after the service of the notice, the tenant, or any subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, or any mortgagee of the term, or other person interested in its continuance, may perform the conditions or covenants of the lease or pay the stipulated rent, as the case may be, and thereby save the lease from forfeiture; provided, if the conditions and covenants of the lease, violated by the lessee, cannot afterward be performed, then no notice, as last prescribed herein, need be given to the lessee or the subtenant, demanding the performance of the violated conditions or covenants of the lease.  A tenant may take proceedings, similar to those
						prescribed in this chapter, to obtain possession of the premises let to a subtenant or held by a servant, employee, agent, or licensee, in case of that person’s unlawful detention of the premises underlet to or held by that person.  An unlawful detainer action under this paragraph shall be subject to the COVID-19 Tenant Relief Act of 2020 (Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1179.01)) if the neglect or failure to perform other conditions or covenants of the lease or agreement is based upon the COVID-19 rental debt.  4. Any tenant, subtenant, or executor or administrator of that person’s estate heretofore qualified and now acting, or hereafter to be qualified and act, assigning or subletting or committing waste upon the demised premises, contrary to the conditions or covenants of the lease, or
						maintaining, committing, or permitting the maintenance or commission of a nuisance upon the demised premises or using the premises for an unlawful purpose, thereby terminates the lease, and the landlord, or the landlord’s successor in estate, shall upon service of three days’ notice to quit upon the person or persons in possession, be entitled to restitution of possession of the demised premises under this chapter. For purposes of this subdivision, a person who commits or maintains a public nuisance as described in Section 3482.8 of the Civil Code, or who commits an offense described in subdivision (c) of Section 3485 of the Civil Code, or subdivision (c) of Section 3486 of the Civil Code, or uses the premises to further the purpose of that offense shall be deemed to have committed a nuisance upon the premises.  5. When the tenant
						gives written notice as provided in Section 1946 of the Civil Code of the tenant’s intention to terminate the hiring of the real property, or makes a written offer to surrender which is accepted in writing by the landlord, but fails to deliver possession at the time specified in that written notice, without the permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable.  6. A landlord or its agent shall not charge a tenant a fee for serving, posting, or otherwise delivering any notice, as described in this section.  7. As used in this section:  “COVID-19 rental debt” has the same meaning as defined in Section 1179.02.  “Tenant” includes any person who hires real property
						except those persons whose occupancy is described in subdivision (b) of Section 1940 of the Civil Code.  8. This section shall remain in effect until February 1, 2025, and as of that date is repealed.         SEC. 6.  Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, as added by Section 16 of Chapter 37 of the Statutes of 2020, is amended to read:       1161.  A tenant of real property, for a term less than life, or the executor or administrator of the tenant’s estate heretofore qualified and now acting or hereafter to be qualified and act, is guilty of unlawful detainer:  1. When the tenant continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, of the property, or any part thereof, after the expiration of the term for which it is let to the tenant; provided the expiration is of a nondefault nature however brought about without the permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable; including the case where the person to be removed became the occupant of the premises as a servant, employee, agent, or licensee and the relation of
						master and servant, or employer and employee, or principal and agent, or licensor and
						licensee, has been lawfully terminated or the time fixed for occupancy by the agreement between the parties has expired; but nothing in this subdivision shall be construed as preventing the removal of the occupant in any other lawful manner; but in case of a tenancy at will, it shall first be terminated by notice, as prescribed in the Civil Code.  2. When the tenant continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, without the permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, after default in the payment of rent, pursuant to the lease or agreement under which the property is held, and three days’ notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, in writing, requiring its payment, stating the amount that is due, the name, telephone number, and address of the person
						to whom the rent payment shall be made, and, if payment may be made personally, the usual days and hours that person will be available to receive the payment (provided that, if the address does not allow for personal delivery, then it shall be conclusively presumed that upon the mailing of any rent or notice to the owner by the tenant to the name and address provided, the notice or rent is deemed received by the owner on the date posted, if the tenant can show proof of mailing to the name and address provided by the owner), or the number of an account in a financial institution into which the rental payment may be made, and the name and street address of the institution (provided that the institution is located within five miles of the rental property), or if an electronic funds transfer procedure has been previously established, that payment may be made pursuant to that procedure, or possession of the
						property, shall have been served upon the tenant and if there is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also upon the subtenant.  The notice may be served at any time within one year after the rent becomes due. In all cases of tenancy upon agricultural lands, if the tenant has held over and retained possession for more than 60 days after the expiration of the term without any demand of possession or notice to quit by the landlord or the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, the tenant shall be deemed to be holding by permission of the landlord or successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable, and shall be entitled to hold under the terms of the lease for another full year, and shall not be guilty of an unlawful detainer during that year, and the holding over for that period shall be taken and construed as a consent on the part of a tenant
						to hold for another year.  3. When the tenant continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, after a neglect or failure to perform other conditions or covenants of the lease or agreement under which the property is held, including any covenant not to assign or sublet, than the one for the payment of rent, and three days’ notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, in writing, requiring the performance of those conditions or covenants, or the possession of the property, shall have been served upon the tenant, and if there is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, also, upon the subtenant. Within three days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, after the service of the notice, the tenant, or any subtenant in actual occupation of the premises, or any mortgagee of the term, or
						other person interested in its continuance, may perform the conditions or covenants of the lease or pay the stipulated rent, as the case may be, and thereby save the lease from forfeiture; provided, if the conditions and covenants of the lease, violated by the lessee, cannot afterward be performed, then no notice, as last prescribed herein, need be given to the lessee or the subtenant, demanding the performance of the violated
						conditions or covenants of the lease.  A tenant may take proceedings, similar to those prescribed in this chapter, to obtain possession of the premises let to a subtenant or held by a servant, employee, agent, or licensee, in case of that person’s unlawful detention of the premises underlet to or held by that person.  4. Any tenant, subtenant, or executor or administrator of that person’s estate heretofore qualified and now acting, or hereafter to be qualified and act, assigning or subletting or committing waste upon the demised premises, contrary to the conditions or covenants of the lease, or maintaining, committing, or permitting the maintenance or commission of a nuisance upon the demised premises or using the premises for an unlawful purpose, thereby terminates the lease, and the
						landlord, or the landlord’s successor in estate, shall upon service of three days’ notice to quit upon the person or persons in possession, be entitled to restitution of possession of the demised premises under this chapter. For purposes of this subdivision, a person who commits or maintains a public nuisance as described in Section 3482.8 of the Civil Code, or who commits an offense described in subdivision (c) of Section 3485 of the Civil Code, or subdivision (c) of Section 3486 of the Civil Code, or uses the premises to further the purpose of that offense shall be deemed to have committed a nuisance upon the premises.  5. When the tenant gives written notice as provided in Section 1946 of the Civil Code of the tenant’s intention to terminate the hiring of the real property, or makes a written offer to surrender which is accepted in
						writing by the landlord, but fails to deliver possession at the time specified in that written notice, without the permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate of the landlord, if applicable.  6. A landlord or its agent shall not charge a tenant a fee for serving, posting, or otherwise delivering any notice, as described in this section.  7. As used in this section, “tenant” includes any person who hires real property except those persons whose occupancy is described in subdivision (b) of Section 1940 of the Civil Code.  8. This section shall become operative on February 1, 2025.          SEC. 7.  Section 2.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 1946.1 of the Civil Code proposed by both this bill and Senate Bill 1103. That section of this bill shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2025, (2) each bill amends Section 1946.1 of the Civil Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after Senate Bill 1103, in which case Section 2 of this bill shall not become operative.       SEC. 8.  Section 4.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 1950.5 of the Civil Code proposed by both this bill and Assembly Bill 2801. That section of this bill shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2025, (2) each bill amends Section 1950.5 of the Civil Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after Assembly Bill 2801, in which case Section 4 of this bill shall not become operative.       
                 
             
         
        

 