§ 1006.34 Notice for validation of debts. | Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Skip to main content
An official website of the
United States government
(855) 411-2372
Submit a Complaint
Search
Search
Close
Search
Open the main menu
Close the main menu
Submit a Complaint
Consumer Education
Back
Resources for Yourself
Consumer Complaint Database
Money Topics
Auto Loans
Bank Accounts & Services
Credit Cards
Credit Reports & Scores
Debt Collection
Fraud & Scams
Money Topics
Money Transfers
Mortgages
Payday Loans
Prepaid Cards
Reverse Mortgages
Student Loans
Featured
Explore guides to help you plan for big financial goals
Additional Resources
Submit a Complaint
Tell Your Story
Browse Ask CFPB
Rules & Policy
Back
Rules & Policy Overview
Final Rules
Interactive Regulations
Rules Under Development
Notices and Opportunities to Comment
Regulatory Agenda
Petitions for Rulemaking
Competition and Innovation
Advisory Committees
Enforcement
Back
Enforcement Overview
Payments to Harmed Consumers
2025 Enforcement Lookback
Enforcement Actions
Investigatory Authority
Life Cycle of an Enforcement Action
Enforcement Principles
Supervision and Enforcement Priorities
Supervision
Back
Supervision Overview
Compliance overview
Compliance resources
Guidance
Registration & Submission Programs
Consumer Complaint Program
Data & Research
Back
Data & Research Overview
Reports
Research Hub
Consumer Complaint Database
Mortgage Database (HMDA)
Small Business Lending Database
Public Data Inventory
Consumer Credit Trends
Mortgage Performance Trends
Financial Well-Being Survey
Credit Card Surveys & Agreements
Prepaid Account Agreements
Making Ends Meet Survey Data
National Age-Friendly Banking Survey
Featured
Help advance financial well-being
News
Back
Press Releases
Speeches & Op-eds
Testimony
Statements
Recent Updates
Consumer Advisories
(855) 411-2372
/
Interactive Bureau Regulations
/
12 CFR Part 1006 (Regulation F)
Table of Contents
Subpart A — General § 1006.1–§ 1006.2
§ 1006.1 Authority, purpose, and coverage.
§ 1006.2 Definitions.
Subpart B — Rules for FDCPA Debt Collectors § 1006.6–§ 1006.42
§ 1006.6 Communications in connection with debt collection.
§ 1006.10 Acquisition of location information.
§ 1006.14 Harassing, oppressive, or abusive conduct.
§ 1006.18 False, deceptive, or misleading representations or means.
§ 1006.22 Unfair or unconscionable means.
§ 1006.26 Collection of time-barred debts.
§ 1006.30 Other prohibited practices.
§ 1006.34 Notice for validation of debts.
§ 1006.38 Disputes and requests for original-creditor information.
§ 1006.42 Sending required disclosures.
Subpart D — Miscellaneous § 1006.100–§ 1006.108
§ 1006.100 Record retention.
§ 1006.104 Relation to State laws.
§ 1006.108 Exemption for State regulation.
Appendices
Appendix A to Part 1006 — Procedures for State Application for Exemption from the Provisions of the Act
Appendix B to Part 1006 — Model Forms.
Appendix C to Part 1006 — Issuance of Advisory Opinions
Supplement I to Part 1006 — Official Interpretations
Introduction
Comment for 1026.2 — Definitions
Comment for 1006.6 — Communications in Connection with Debt Collection
Comment for 1006.10 — Acquisition of Location Information
Comment for 1006.14 — Harassing, Oppressive, or Abusive Conduct
Comment for 1006.18 — False, Deceptive, or Misleading Representations or Means
Comment for 1006.22 — Unfair or Unconscionable Means
Comment for 1006.30 — Other Prohibited Practices
Comment for 1026.34 - Notice for Validation of Debts
Comment for 1006.38 — Disputes and Requests for Original-Creditor Information
Comment for 1006.42 — Sending Required Disclosures
Comment for 1006.100 — Record Retention
Comment for 1026.104 - Relation to State Laws
§ 1006.34 Notice for validation of debts.
This version is the current regulation
View all versions of this regulation
Search this regulation
Regulation F
(a) Validation information required.
(1) In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a debt collector must provide a consumer with the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section either:
Official interpretation of 34(a)(1) In general.
1. Deceased consumers.
Section 1006.34(a)(1) generally requires a debt collector to provide the validation information required by § 1006.34(c) either by sending the consumer a validation notice in the manner required by § 1006.42, or by providing the information orally in the debt collector’s initial communication.  If the debt collector knows or should know that the consumer is deceased, and if the debt collector has not previously provided the validation information to the deceased consumer, a person who is authorized to act on behalf of the deceased consumer’s estate operates as the consumer for purposes of § 1006.34(a)(1).  In such circumstances, to comply with § 1006.34(a)(1), a debt collector must provide the validation information to an individual that the debt collector identifies by name who is authorized to act on behalf of the deceased consumer’s estate.
See interpretation of 34(a)(1) In general. in Supplement I
(i)
By sending the consumer a validation notice in the manner required by § 1006.42:
(A)
In the initial communication, as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(B)
Within five days of that initial communication; or
(ii)
By providing the validation information orally in the initial communication.
(2) Exception.
A debt collector who otherwise would be required to send a validation notice pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section is not required to do so if the consumer has paid the debt prior to the time that paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section would require the validation notice to be sent.
(b) Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Clear and conspicuous
means readily understandable.  In the case of written and electronic disclosures, the location and type size also must be readily noticeable and legible to consumers, although no minimum type size is mandated.  In the case of oral disclosures, the disclosures also must be given at a volume and speed sufficient for the consumer to hear and comprehend them.
(2) Initial communication
means the first time that, in connection with the collection of a debt, a debt collector conveys information, directly or indirectly, regarding the debt to the consumer, other than a communication in the form of a formal pleading in a civil action, or any form or notice that does not relate to the collection of the debt and is expressly required by:
Official interpretation of 34(b)(2) Initial communication.
1. Bankruptcy proofs of claim.
Section 1006.34(b)(2) defines initial communication and states that the term does not include a communication in the form of a formal pleading in a civil action.  A proof of claim that a debt collector files in a bankruptcy proceeding in accordance with the requirements of the United States Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 of the U.S. Code) is a communication in the form of a formal pleading in a civil action and therefore is not an initial communication for purposes of § 1006.34.
See interpretation of 34(b)(2) Initial communication. in Supplement I
(i)
The Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
);
(ii)
Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6801 through 6827); or
(iii)
Any provision of Federal or State law or regulation mandating notice of a data security breach or privacy risk.
(3) Itemization date
means any one of the following five reference dates for which a debt collector can ascertain the amount of the debt:
Official interpretation of 34(b)(3) Itemization date.
1. In general.
Section 1006.34(b)(3) defines itemization date for purposes of § 1006.34.  Section 1006.34(b)(3) states that the itemization date is any one of five reference dates for which a debt collector can ascertain the amount of the debt.  The reference dates are the last statement date, the charge-off date, the last payment date, the transaction date, and the judgment date.  A debt collector may select any of these dates as the itemization date to comply with § 1006.34.  Once a debt collector uses a reference date for a debt in a communication with a consumer, the debt collector must use that reference date for that debt consistently when providing the information required by § 1006.34(c) to that consumer.  For example, if a debt collector uses the last statement date to determine and disclose the account number associated with the debt pursuant to § 1006.34(c)(2)(iv), the debt collector may not use the charge-off date to determine and disclose the amount of the debt pursuant to § 1006.34(c)(2)(vii).
2. Subsequent debt collectors.
When selecting an itemization date pursuant to § 1006.34(b)(3), a debt collector may use a different reference date than a prior debt collector who attempted to collect the debt.
See interpretation of 34(b)(3) Itemization date. in Supplement I
(i)
The last statement date, which is the date of the last periodic statement or written account statement or invoice provided to the consumer by a creditor;
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(b)(3)(i).
1. Last statement date.
Under § 1006.34(b)(3)(i), the last statement date is the date of the last periodic statement or written account statement or invoice provided to the consumer by a creditor.  For purposes of § 1006.34(b)(3)(i), the last statement may be provided by a creditor or a third party acting on the creditor’s behalf, including a creditor’s service provider.  However, a statement or invoice provided by a debt collector is not a last statement for purposes of § 1006.34(b)(3)(i), unless the debt collector is also a creditor.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(b)(3)(i). in Supplement I
(ii)
The charge-off date, which is the date the debt was charged off;
(iii)
The last payment date, which is the date the last payment was applied to the debt;
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(b)(3)(iii).
1. Last payment date.
Under § 1006.34(b)(3)(iii), the last payment date is the date the last payment was applied to the debt.  A third-party payment applied to the debt, such as a payment from an auto repossession agent or an insurance company, can be a last payment for purposes of § 1006.34(b)(3)(iii).
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(b)(3)(iii). in Supplement I
(iv)
The transaction date, which is the date of the transaction that gave rise to the debt; or
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(b)(3)(iv).
1. Transaction date.
Section 1006.34(b)(3)(iv) provides that the itemization date may be the date of the transaction that gave rise to the debt.  The transaction date is the date that the good or service that gave rise to the debt was provided or made available to the consumer.  For example, the transaction date for a debt arising from a medical procedure may be the date the medical procedure was performed, and the transaction date for a consumer’s gym membership may be the date the membership contract was executed.  In some cases, a debt may have more than one transaction date.  This could occur, for example, if a contract for a service is executed on one date and the service is performed on another date.  If a debt has more than one transaction date, a debt collector may use any such date as the transaction date for purposes of § 1006.34(b)(3)(iv), but the debt collector must use whichever transaction date is selected consistently, as described in comment 34(b)(3)–1.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(b)(3)(iv). in Supplement I
(v)
The judgment date, which is the date of a final court judgment that determines the amount of the debt owed by the consumer.
(4) Validation notice
means a written or electronic notice that provides the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(5) Validation period
means the period starting on the date that a debt collector provides the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section and ending 30 days after the consumer receives or is assumed to receive the validation information.  For purposes of determining the end of the validation period, the debt collector may assume that a consumer receives the validation information on any date that is at least five days (excluding legal public holidays identified in 5 U.S.C. 6103(a), Saturdays, and Sundays) after the debt collector provides it.
Official interpretation of 34(b)(5) Validation period.
1. Assumed receipt of validation information.
Section 1006.34(b)(5) defines the validation period as the period starting on the date that a debt collector provides the validation information required by § 1006.34(c) and ending 30 days after the consumer receives or is assumed to receive it.  Section 1006.34(c)(3)(i) through (iii) requires statements that specify the end date of the validation period.  If a debt collector provides the validation information in writing or electronically, then, at the time that the debt collector calculates the validation period end date, the debt collector will know only the date on which the consumer is assumed to receive the validation information.  In such cases, the debt collector may use that date to calculate the validation period end date even if the debt collector later learns that the consumer received the validation information on a different date.
2. Updated validation period.
If a debt collector sends a subsequent validation notice to a consumer because the consumer did not receive the original validation notice and the consumer has not otherwise received the validation information required by § 1006.34(c), the debt collector must calculate the end date of the validation period specified in the § 1006.34(c)(3) disclosures based on the date the consumer receives or is assumed to receive the subsequent validation notice.  For example, assume a debt collector sends a consumer a validation notice on January 1, and that notice is returned as undeliverable.  After obtaining accurate location information, the debt collector sends the consumer a subsequent validation notice on January 15.  Pursuant to § 1006.34(b)(5), the end date of the validation period specified in the § 1006.34(c)(3) disclosures is based on the date the consumer receives or is assumed to receive the validation notice sent on January 15.
See interpretation of 34(b)(5) Validation period. in Supplement I
(c) Validation information.
Pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a debt collector must provide the following validation information.
(1) Debt collector communication disclosure.
The statement required by § 1006.18(e).
Official interpretation of 34(c)(1) Debt collector communication disclosure.
1. Statement required by § 1006.18(e).
Section 1006.34(c)(1) provides that validation information includes the statement required by § 1006.18(e).  Section 1006.18(e)(1) requires a debt collector to disclose in its initial communication that the debt collector is attempting to collect a debt and that any information obtained will be used for that purpose.  Section 1006.18(e)(2) requires a debt collector to disclose in each subsequent communication that the communication is from a debt collector.  A debt collector who provides a validation notice as described in § 1006.34(a)(1)(i)(A) complies with § 1006.34(c)(1) by providing on the validation notice the disclosure required by § 1006.18(e)(1).  A debt collector who provides a validation notice as described in § 1006.34(a)(1)(i)(B) complies with § 1006.34(c)(1) by providing either the disclosure required by § 1006.18(e)(1) or the disclosure required by § 1006.18(e)(2).  The following example illustrates the rule:
i.
ABC debt collector has an initial communication with the consumer by telephone.  Within five days of that initial communication, ABC debt collector sends the consumer a validation notice using Model Form B–1 in appendix B to this part.  ABC debt collector has complied with § 1006.34(c)(1) even though Model Form B–1 includes the disclosure described in § 1006.18(e)(1) rather than the disclosure described in § 1006.18(e)(2).
See interpretation of 34(c)(1) Debt collector communication disclosure. in Supplement I
(2) Information about the debt.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section:
(i)
The debt collector’s name and the mailing address at which the debt collector accepts disputes and requests for original-creditor information.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(i).
1. Debt collector’s name.
Section 1006.34(c)(2)(i) provides, in part, that validation information includes the debt collector’s name.  A debt collector may disclose its trade or doing-business-as name, instead of its legal name.
2. Debt collector’s mailing address.
Section 1006.34(c)(2)(i) provides, in part, that validation information includes the mailing address at which the debt collector accepts disputes and requests for original-creditor information.  A debt collector may disclose a vendor’s mailing address, if that is an address at which the debt collector accepts disputes and requests for original-creditor information.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(i). in Supplement I
(ii)
The consumer’s name and mailing address.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(ii).
1. Consumer’s name.
Section 1006.34(c)(2)(ii) provides, in part, that validation information includes the consumer’s name.  To satisfy the requirement to provide this validation information, a debt collector must disclose the version of the consumer’s name that the debt collector reasonably determines is the most complete and accurate version of the name about which the debt collector has knowledge.  A debt collector does not disclose the most complete and accurate version of the consumer’s name if the debt collector omits known name information in a manner that creates a false, misleading, or confusing impression about the consumer’s identity.  For example, assume the creditor provides the consumer’s first name, middle name, last name, and name suffix to the debt collector.  In this scenario, the debt collector would reasonably determine that the most complete and accurate version of the consumer’s name about which the debt collector has knowledge includes the first name, middle name, last name, and name suffix.  If the debt collector omits any of this information, the debt collector has not satisfied the requirement to provide the consumer’s name pursuant to § 1006.34(c)(2)(ii).
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(ii). in Supplement I
(iii)
If the debt collector is collecting a debt related to a consumer financial product or service as defined in § 1006.2(f), the name of the creditor to whom the debt was owed on the itemization date.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(iii).
1. Creditor’s name.
Section 1006.34(c)(2)(iii) provides that, if a debt collector is collecting debt related to a consumer financial product or service as defined in § 1006.2(f), validation information includes the name of the creditor to whom the debt was owed on the itemization date.  Pursuant to § 1006.34(c)(2)(iii), a debt collector may disclose this creditor’s trade or doing-business-as name, instead of its legal name.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(iii). in Supplement I
(iv)
The account number, if any, associated with the debt on the itemization date, or a truncated version of that number.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(iv).
1. Account number truncation.
Section 1006.34(c)(2)(iv) provides that validation information includes the account number, if any, associated with the debt on the itemization date, or a truncated version of that number.  If a debt collector uses a truncated account number, the account number must remain recognizable.  For example, a debt collector may truncate a credit card account number so that only the last four digits are provided.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(iv). in Supplement I
(v)
The name of the creditor to whom the debt currently is owed.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(v).
1. Creditor’s name.
Section 1006.34(c)(2)(v) provides that validation information includes the name of the creditor to whom the debt currently is owed.  A debt collector may disclose this creditor’s trade or doing-business-as name, instead of its legal name.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(v). in Supplement I
(vi)
The itemization date.
(vii)
The amount of the debt on the itemization date.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(vii).
1. Amount of the debt on the itemization date.
Section 1006.34(c)(2)(vii) provides that validation information includes the amount of the debt on the itemization date.  The amount of the debt on the itemization date includes any fees, interest, or other charges owed as of that date.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(vii). in Supplement I
(viii)
An itemization of the current amount of the debt reflecting interest, fees, payments, and credits since the itemization date.  A debt collector may disclose the itemization on a separate page provided in the same communication with a validation notice, if the debt collector includes on the validation notice, where the itemization would have appeared, a statement referring to that separate page.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(viii).
1. Itemization of the debt.
Section 1006.34(c)(2)(viii) provides that validation information includes an itemization of the current amount of the debt reflecting interest, fees, payments, and credits since the itemization date.  If providing a validation notice, a debt collector must include fields in the notice for all of these items even if none of the items have been assessed or applied to the debt since the itemization date.  A debt collector may indicate that the value of a required field is “0,” “none,” or may state that no interest, fees, payments, or credits have been assessed or applied to the debt; a debt collector may not leave a required field blank.
2. Itemization required by other applicable law.
If a debt collector is required by other applicable law to provide an itemization of the current amount of the debt with the validation information, the debt collector may comply with § 1006.34(c)(2)(viii) by disclosing the itemization required by other applicable law in lieu of the itemization described in § 1006.34(c)(2)(viii), if the itemization required by other applicable law is substantially similar to the itemization that appears on Model Form B–1 in appendix B to this part.
3. Itemization on a separate page.
Section 1006.34(c)(2)(viii) provides that a debt collector may disclose the itemization of the current amount of the debt on a separate page provided in the same communication with a validation notice if the debt collector includes on the validation notice, where the itemization would have appeared, a statement referring to that separate page.  A debt collector may comply with the requirement to refer to the separate page by, for example, including on the validation notice the statement, “See the enclosed separate page for an itemization of the debt,” situated next to the information about the current amount of the debt required by § 1006.34(c)(2)(ix).
4. Debt collectors collecting multiple debts.
A debt collector who combines multiple debts on a single validation notice complies with § 1006.34(c)(2)(viii) by disclosing either a single, cumulative itemization on the validation notice or a separate itemization of each debt on a separate page or pages provided in the same communication as the validation notice.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(viii). in Supplement I
(ix)
The current amount of the debt.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(ix).
1. Current amount of the debt.
Section 1006.34(c)(2)(ix) provides that validation information includes the current amount of the debt (
i.e.
, the amount as of when the validation information is provided).  For residential mortgage debt subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.41, a debt collector may comply with the requirement to provide the current amount of the debt by providing the consumer the total balance of the outstanding mortgage, including principal, interest, fees, and other charges.
2. Debt collectors collecting multiple debts.
A debt collector who combines multiple debts on a single validation notice complies with § 1006.34(c)(2)(ix) by disclosing on the validation notice a single cumulative figure that is the sum of the current amount of all the debts.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(2)(ix). in Supplement I
(3) Information about consumer protections.
(i)
The date that the debt collector will consider the end date of the validation period and a statement that, if the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing on or before that date that the debt, or any portion of the debt, is disputed, the debt collector must cease collection of the debt, or the disputed portion of the debt, until the debt collector sends the consumer either verification of the debt or a copy of a judgment.
(ii)
The date that the debt collector will consider the end date of the validation period and a statement that, if the consumer requests in writing on or before that date the name and address of the original creditor, the debt collector must cease collection of the debt until the debt collector sends the consumer the name and address of the original creditor, if different from the current creditor.
(iii)
The date that the debt collector will consider the end date of the validation period and a statement that, unless the consumer contacts the debt collector to dispute the validity of the debt, or any portion of the debt, on or before that date, the debt collector will assume that the debt is valid.
(iv)
If the debt collector is collecting debt related to a consumer financial product or service as defined in § 1006.2(f), a statement that informs the consumer that additional information regarding consumer protections in debt collection is available on the Bureau’s website at
www.cfpb.gov/debt-collection.
(v)
If the debt collector sends the validation notice electronically, a statement explaining how a consumer can, as described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, dispute the debt or request original-creditor information electronically.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(3)(v).
1. Electronic communication media.
Section 1006.34(c)(3)(v) provides that, if the debt collector provides the validation notice electronically, validation information includes a statement explaining how a consumer can, as described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, dispute the debt or request original-creditor information electronically.  A debt collector may provide the information required by § 1006.34(c)(3)(v) by including the statements, “We accept disputes electronically at,” using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase, followed by an email address or website portal that a consumer can use to take the action described in § 1006.34(c)(4)(i), and “We accept original creditor information requests electronically,” using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase, followed by an email address or website portal that a consumer can use to take the action described in § 1006.34(c)(4)(ii).  If a debt collector accepts electronic communications from consumers through more than one medium, such as by email and through a website portal, the debt collector is required to provide information regarding only one of these media but may provide information on any additional media.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(c)(3)(v). in Supplement I
(4) Consumer-response information.
The following information, segregated from the validation information required by paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and from any optional information included pursuant to paragraphs (d)(3)(i), (ii), (iii)(A), (iv), (v), (vi)(A), (vii), and (viii) of this section, and, if provided on a validation notice, located at the bottom of the notice under the headings, “How do you want to respond?” and “Check all that apply:”:
Official interpretation of 34(c)(4) Consumer-response information.
1. Prompts.
If the validation information is provided in writing or electronically, a prompt required by § 1006.34(c)(4) may be formatted as a checkbox as in Model Form B–1 in appendix B to this part.
See interpretation of 34(c)(4) Consumer-response information. in Supplement I
(i) Dispute prompts.
The following statements, listed in the following order, and using the following phrasing or substantially similar phrasing, each next to a prompt:
(A)
“I want to dispute the debt because I think:”;
(B)
“This is not my debt.”;
(C)
“The amount is wrong.”; and
(D)
“Other (please describe on reverse or attach additional information).”
(ii) Original-creditor information prompt.
The statement, “I want you to send me the name and address of the original creditor.”, using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase, next to a prompt.
(iii) Mailing addresses.
Mailing addresses for the consumer and the debt collector, which are the debt collector’s and the consumer’s names and mailing addresses as disclosed pursuant to § 1006.34(c)(2)(i) and (ii).
(5) Special rule for certain residential mortgage debt.
For residential mortgage debt, if a periodic statement is required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.41, at the time a debt collector provides the validation notice, a debt collector need not provide the validation information required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) through (viii) of this section if the debt collector:
Official interpretation of 34(c)(5) Special rule for certain residential mortgage debt.
1. In general.
Section 1006.34(c)(5) provides that, for residential mortgage debt, if a periodic statement is required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.41, at the time a debt collector provides the validation notice, a debt collector need not provide the validation information required by § 1006.34(c)(2)(vi) through (viii) if the debt collector provides the consumer, in the same communication with the validation notice, a copy of the most recent periodic statement provided to the consumer under 12 CFR 1026.41(b), and the debt collector includes on the validation notice, where the validation information required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) through (viii) of this section would have appeared, a statement referring to that periodic statement.  A debt collector may comply with the requirement to refer to the periodic statement in the validation notice by, for example, including on the validation notice the statement, “See the enclosed periodic statement for an itemization of the debt.”
See interpretation of 34(c)(5) Special rule for certain residential mortgage debt. in Supplement I
(i)
Provides the consumer, in the same communication with the validation notice, a copy of the most recent periodic statement provided to the consumer under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.41(b); and
(ii)
Includes on the validation notice, where the validation information required by paragraphs (c)(2)(vi) through (viii) of this section would have appeared, a statement referring to that periodic statement.
(d) Form of validation information.
(1) In general.
The validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section must be clear and conspicuous.
(2) Safe harbor.
Official interpretation of 34(d)(2) Safe harbor.
1. In general.
A debt collector who provides a validation notice that is neither a notice described in § 1006.34(d)(2)(i) or (ii), nor a substantially similar notice as described in § 1006.34(d)(2)(iii), does not receive a safe harbor for compliance with the information and form requirements of § 1006.34(c) and (d)(1).
See interpretation of 34(d)(2) Safe harbor. in Supplement I
(i) In general.
Model Form B–1 in appendix B to this part contains the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section and certain optional disclosures permitted by paragraph (d)(3) of this section.  A debt collector who uses Model Form B–1 complies with the information and form requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d)(1) of this section, including if the debt collector:
Official interpretation of 34(d)(2)(i) In general.
1. Disclosure required by § 1006.18(e).
Section 1006.18(e)(1) requires a debt collector to disclose in its initial communication that the debt collector is attempting to collect a debt and that any information obtained will be used for that purpose.  Section 1006.18(e)(2) requires a debt collector to disclose in each subsequent communication that the communication is from a debt collector.  Model Form B–1 in appendix B to this part includes the disclosure required by § 1006.18(e)(1).  A debt collector who uses Model Form B–1 to provide a validation notice as described in § 1006.34(a)(1)(i)(B) may replace the disclosure required by § 1006.18(e)(1) with the disclosure required by § 1006.18(e)(2) without losing the safe harbor described in § 1006.34(d)(2).  See comment 34(c)(1)–1 for further guidance related to providing the disclosure required by § 1006.18(e) on a validation notice.
See interpretation of 34(d)(2)(i) In general. in Supplement I
(A)
Omits any or all of the optional disclosures shown on Model Form B–1; or
(B)
Adds any or all of the optional disclosures described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section that are not shown on Model Form B–1, provided that any such optional disclosures are no more prominent than any of the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) Certain disclosures on a separate page.
A debt collector who uses Model Form B–1 as described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and who, pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2)(viii) or (5) of this section, includes certain disclosures on a separate page in the same communication with the validation notice and, on the notice, the required statement referring to those disclosures, receives a safe harbor for compliance with the information and form requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d)(1) of this section except with respect to the disclosures on the separate page.
(iii) Substantially similar form.
A debt collector who uses Model Form B–1 as described in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section may make changes to the form and retain a safe harbor for compliance with the information and form requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d)(1) of this section provided that the form remains substantially similar to Model Form B–1.
Official interpretation of 34(d)(2)(iii) Substantially similar form.
1. Substantially similar form.
Pursuant to § 1006.34(d)(2)(iii), a debt collector who uses Model Form B–1 as described in § 1006.34(d)(2)(i) may make changes to the form and retain the safe harbor for compliance with the information and form requirements of § 1006.34(c) and (d)(1) provided that the form remains substantially similar in substance, clarity, and meaningful sequence to Model Form B–1.  Permissible changes include, for example:
i.
Modifications to remove language that could suggest liability for the debt if such language is not applicable.  For example, if a debt collector sends a validation notice to a person who is authorized to act on behalf of the deceased consumer’s estate (see comment 34(a)(1)–1), and that person is not liable for the debt, the debt collector may use the name of the deceased consumer instead of “you”;
ii.
Relocating the consumer-response information required by § 1006.34(c)(4) to facilitate mailing;
iii.
Adding barcodes or QR codes, as long as the inclusion of such items does not violate § 1006.38(b);
iv.
Adding the date the form is generated; and
v.
Embedding hyperlinks, if delivering the form electronically.
See interpretation of 34(d)(2)(iii) Substantially similar form. in Supplement I
(3) Optional disclosures.
A debt collector may include any of the following information when providing the validation information required by paragraph (c) of this section.  A debt collector who includes any of the following information receives the safe harbor described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, provided that the debt collector otherwise uses Model Form B–1 in appendix B to this part, or a variation of Model Form B–1, as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(i) Telephone contact information.
The debt collector’s telephone contact information.
Official interpretation of 34(d)(3)(i) Telephone contact information.
1. In general.
Section 1006.34(d)(3)(i) permits a debt collector to include telephone contact information.  Telephone contact information may include, for example, a telephone number as well as the times that the debt collector accepts consumer telephone calls.
See interpretation of 34(d)(3)(i) Telephone contact information. in Supplement I
(ii) Reference code.
A number or code that the debt collector uses to identify the debt or the consumer.
(iii) Payment disclosures.
Either or both of the following phrases:
(A)
The statement, “Contact us about your payment options.”, using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase; and
(B)
Below the consumer-response information required by paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, the statement, “I enclosed this amount:”, using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase, payment instructions after that statement, and a prompt.
(iv) Disclosures under applicable law.
(A) Disclosures on the reverse of the validation notice.
On the reverse of the validation notice, any disclosures that are specifically required by, or that provide safe harbors under, applicable law and, if any such disclosures are included, a statement on the front of the validation notice referring to those disclosures.  Any such disclosures must not appear directly on the reverse of the consumer-response information required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
Official interpretation of 34(d)(3)(iv)(A) Disclosures on the reverse of the validation notice.
1. In general.
Section 1006.34(d)(3)(iv)(A) permits, in relevant part, a debt collector to include on the reverse of the validation notice any disclosures that are specifically required by, or that provide safe harbors under, applicable law.  If a debt collector provides a validation notice in the body of an email, the debt collector may, in lieu of including the disclosures permitted by § 1006.34(d)(3)(iv)(A) on the reverse of the validation notice, include them in the same communication below the content of the validation notice.  Disclosures permitted by § 1006.34(d)(3)(iv)(A) include, for example, specific disclosures required by Federal, State, or municipal statutes or regulations, and specific disclosures required by judicial or administrative decisions or orders, including administrative consent orders.  Such disclosures could include, for example, time-barred debt disclosures and disclosures that the current amount of the debt may increase or vary due to interest, fees, or other charges, provided that such disclosures are specifically required by applicable law.
2. Statement referring to disclosures.
If a debt collector includes disclosures pursuant to § 1006.34(d)(3)(iv)(A), the debt collector must include a statement on the front of the validation notice referring to those disclosures.  A debt collector may comply with the requirement to refer to the disclosures by including on the front of the validation notice the statement, “Notice: See reverse side for important information,” or a substantially similar statement.  If, as permitted by comment 34(d)(3)(iv)(A)–1, a debt collector places the disclosures below the content of the validation notice, the debt collector may comply with the requirement to refer to the disclosures by stating, “Notice: See below for important information,” or a substantially similar statement.
See interpretation of 34(d)(3)(iv)(A) Disclosures on the reverse of the validation notice. in Supplement I
(B) Disclosures on the front of the validation notice.
If a debt collector is collecting time-barred debt, on the front of the validation notice below the disclosure required by paragraph (c)(2)(ix) of this section, any time-barred debt disclosure that is specifically required by, or that provides a safe harbor under, applicable law, provided that applicable law specifies the content of the disclosure.
Official interpretation of 34(d)(3)(iv)(B) Disclosures on the front of the validation notice.
1. In general.
Section 1006.34(d)(3)(iv)(B) provides, in relevant part that, if a debt collector is collecting time-barred debt, the debt collector may include on the front of the validation notice any time-barred debt disclosure that is specifically required by, or that provides a safe harbor under, applicable law, provided that applicable law specifies the content of the disclosure.  For example, if applicable State law requires a debt collector who is collecting time-barred debt to disclose to the consumer that the law limits how long a consumer can be sued on a debt and that the debt collector cannot or will not sue the consumer to collect it, the debt collector may include that disclosure on the front of the validation notice.  See § 1006.26(a)(2) for the definition of time-barred debt.  For purposes of § 1006.34(d)(3)(iv)(B), time-barred debt disclosures may include disclosures about revival of debt collectors’ right to bring a legal action to enforce the debt.
See interpretation of 34(d)(3)(iv)(B) Disclosures on the front of the validation notice. in Supplement I
(v) Information about electronic communications.
The following information:
(A)
The debt collector’s website and email address.
(B)
If the validation information is not provided electronically, a statement explaining how a consumer can, as described in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, dispute the debt or request original-creditor information electronically.
(vi) Spanish-language translation disclosures.
Either or both of the following disclosures regarding a consumer’s ability to request a Spanish-language translation of a validation notice:
(A)
The statement, “Póngase en contacto con nosotros para solicitar una copia de este formulario en español” (which means “Contact us to request a copy of this form in Spanish”), using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase in Spanish.  If providing this optional disclosure, a debt collector may include supplemental information in Spanish that specifies how a consumer may request a Spanish-language validation notice.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(d)(3)(vi)(A).
1. Supplemental information in Spanish.
Section 1006.34(d)(3)(vi)(A) permits a debt collector to include supplemental information in Spanish that specifies how a consumer may request a Spanish-language validation notice.  For example, a debt collector may include a statement in Spanish that a consumer can request a Spanish-language validation notice by telephone or email, if the debt collector accepts consumer requests through those communication media.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(d)(3)(vi)(A). in Supplement I
(B)
With the consumer-response information required by paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the statement “Quiero este formulario en español” (which means “I want this form in Spanish”), using that phrase or a substantially similar phrase in Spanish, next to a prompt.
(vii)
The merchant brand, affinity brand, or facility name, if any, associated with the debt.
Official interpretation of Paragraph 34(d)(3)(vii).
1. Merchant brand.
Section 1006.34(d)(3)(vii) permits a debt collector to include the merchant brand, if any, associated with debt.  For example, assume that a debt collector is attempting to collect a consumer’s credit card debt.  The credit card was issued by ABC Bank and was co-branded XYZ Store.  “XYZ Store” is the merchant brand.
2. Affinity brand.
Section 1006.34(d)(3)(vii) permits a debt collector to include the affinity brand, if any, associated with the debt.  For example, assume that a debt collector is attempting to collect a consumer’s credit card debt.  The credit card was issued by ABC Bank, and the logo for the College of Columbia appears on the credit card.  “College of Columbia” is the affinity brand.
3. Facility name.
Section 1006.34(d)(3)(vii) permits a debt collector to include the facility name, if any, associated with the debt.  For example, assume that a debt collector is attempting to collect a consumer’s medical debt.  The medical debt relates to a treatment that the consumer received at ABC Hospital.  “ABC Hospital” is the facility name.
See interpretation of Paragraph 34(d)(3)(vii). in Supplement I
(viii)
If a debt collector is collecting debt other than debt related to a consumer financial product or service as defined in § 1006.2(f), the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) or (c)(3)(iv) of this section.
(4) Validation notices delivered electronically.
If a debt collector delivers a validation notice electronically, a debt collector may, at its option, format the validation notice as follows:
(i) Prompts.
Any prompt required by paragraphs (c)(4)(i) or (ii) or paragraphs (d)(3)(iii)(B) or (vi)(B) of this section may be displayed electronically as a fillable field.
(ii) Hyperlinks.
Hyperlinks may be embedded that, when clicked:
(A)
Connect a consumer to the debt collector’s website;
(B)
Connect a consumer to the Bureau’s debt collection website as disclosed pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section; or
(C)
Permit a consumer to respond to the dispute and original-creditor information prompts required by paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(e) Translation into other languages.
Official interpretation of 34(e) Translation into other languages.
1. Safe harbor for complete and accurate translation.
Section 1006.34(e) provides, among other things, that, if a debt collector sends a consumer a validation notice translated into a language other than English, the translation must be complete and accurate.  The language of a validation notice that a debt collector obtains from the Bureau’s website is considered a complete and accurate translation.  Debt collectors are permitted to use other validation notice translations if they are complete and accurate.
See interpretation of 34(e) Translation into other languages. in Supplement I
(1) In general.
A debt collector may send a consumer a validation notice completely and accurately translated into any language if the debt collector:
(i)
Sends the consumer an English-language validation notice in the same communication as the translated validation notice; or
(ii)
Previously provided the consumer an English-language validation notice, in which case the debt collector need not send the consumer an English-language validation notice in the same communication as the translated validation notice.
(2) Spanish-language validation notice—requirement to provide after optional disclosure.
A debt collector who includes in the validation information either or both of the optional disclosures described in paragraph (d)(3)(vi) of this section, and who thereafter receives a request from the consumer for a Spanish-language validation notice, must provide the consumer a validation notice completely and accurately translated into Spanish.
Previous section -
§ 1006.30
§ 1006.30 Other prohibited practices.
Next section -
§ 1006.38
§ 1006.38 Disputes and requests for original-creditor information.
Back to top
About Us
Contact Us
Careers
Events
Industry Whistleblowers
CFPB Ombudsman
FOIA
Website Privacy Policy & Legal Notices
Accessibility
No FEAR Act & Cummings Act
USA.gov
Office of Inspector General
Public Archive
An official website of the
United States government