§ 1006.2 Definitions. | Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Skip to main content
An official website of the
United States government
(855) 411-2372
Submit a Complaint
Search
Search
Close
Search
Open the main menu
Close the main menu
Submit a Complaint
Consumer Education
Back
Resources for Yourself
Consumer Complaint Database
Money Topics
Auto Loans
Bank Accounts & Services
Credit Cards
Credit Reports & Scores
Debt Collection
Fraud & Scams
Money Topics
Money Transfers
Mortgages
Payday Loans
Prepaid Cards
Reverse Mortgages
Student Loans
Featured
Explore guides to help you plan for big financial goals
Additional Resources
Submit a Complaint
Tell Your Story
Browse Ask CFPB
Rules & Policy
Back
Rules & Policy Overview
Final Rules
Interactive Regulations
Rules Under Development
Notices and Opportunities to Comment
Regulatory Agenda
Petitions for Rulemaking
Competition and Innovation
Advisory Committees
Enforcement
Back
Enforcement Overview
Payments to Harmed Consumers
2025 Enforcement Lookback
Enforcement Actions
Investigatory Authority
Life Cycle of an Enforcement Action
Enforcement Principles
Supervision and Enforcement Priorities
Supervision
Back
Supervision Overview
Compliance overview
Compliance resources
Guidance
Registration & Submission Programs
Consumer Complaint Program
Data & Research
Back
Data & Research Overview
Reports
Research Hub
Consumer Complaint Database
Mortgage Database (HMDA)
Small Business Lending Database
Public Data Inventory
Consumer Credit Trends
Mortgage Performance Trends
Financial Well-Being Survey
Credit Card Surveys & Agreements
Prepaid Account Agreements
Making Ends Meet Survey Data
National Age-Friendly Banking Survey
Featured
Help advance financial well-being
News
Back
Press Releases
Speeches & Op-eds
Testimony
Statements
Recent Updates
Consumer Advisories
(855) 411-2372
/
Interactive Bureau Regulations
/
12 CFR Part 1006 (Regulation F)
Table of Contents
Subpart A — General § 1006.1–§ 1006.2
§ 1006.1 Authority, purpose, and coverage.
§ 1006.2 Definitions.
Subpart B — Rules for FDCPA Debt Collectors § 1006.6–§ 1006.42
§ 1006.6 Communications in connection with debt collection.
§ 1006.10 Acquisition of location information.
§ 1006.14 Harassing, oppressive, or abusive conduct.
§ 1006.18 False, deceptive, or misleading representations or means.
§ 1006.22 Unfair or unconscionable means.
§ 1006.26 Collection of time-barred debts.
§ 1006.30 Other prohibited practices.
§ 1006.34 Notice for validation of debts.
§ 1006.38 Disputes and requests for original-creditor information.
§ 1006.42 Sending required disclosures.
Subpart D — Miscellaneous § 1006.100–§ 1006.108
§ 1006.100 Record retention.
§ 1006.104 Relation to State laws.
§ 1006.108 Exemption for State regulation.
Appendices
Appendix A to Part 1006 — Procedures for State Application for Exemption from the Provisions of the Act
Appendix B to Part 1006 — Model Forms.
Appendix C to Part 1006 — Issuance of Advisory Opinions
Supplement I to Part 1006 — Official Interpretations
Introduction
Comment for 1026.2 — Definitions
Comment for 1006.6 — Communications in Connection with Debt Collection
Comment for 1006.10 — Acquisition of Location Information
Comment for 1006.14 — Harassing, Oppressive, or Abusive Conduct
Comment for 1006.18 — False, Deceptive, or Misleading Representations or Means
Comment for 1006.22 — Unfair or Unconscionable Means
Comment for 1006.30 — Other Prohibited Practices
Comment for 1026.34 - Notice for Validation of Debts
Comment for 1006.38 — Disputes and Requests for Original-Creditor Information
Comment for 1006.42 — Sending Required Disclosures
Comment for 1006.100 — Record Retention
Comment for 1026.104 - Relation to State Laws
§ 1006.2 Definitions.
This version is the current regulation
View all versions of this regulation
Search this regulation
Regulation F
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a) Act
or
FDCPA
means the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (15 U.S.C. 1692
et seq
.).
(b) Attempt to communicate
means any act to initiate a communication or other contact about a debt with any person through any medium, including by soliciting a response from such person. An attempt to communicate includes leaving a limited-content message, as defined in paragraph (j) of this section.
Official interpretation of 2(b) Attempt to communicate.
1. Examples.
Section
1006.2(b)
defines an attempt to communicate as any act to initiate a communication or other contact about a debt with any person through any medium, including by soliciting a response from such person. An act to initiate a communication or other contact about a debt is an attempt to communicate regardless of whether the attempt, if successful, would be a communication that conveys information regarding a debt directly or indirectly to any person. For example:
i.
Assume that a debt collector places a telephone call to a person about a debt. Regardless of whether the debt collector reaches the person, the debt collector has attempted to communicate with the person.
ii.
Assume that a debt collector places a telephone call to a person about a debt and leaves a voicemail message. Regardless of whether the voicemail message consists solely of a limited-content message or includes content that conveys, directly or indirectly, information about a debt, the debt collector has attempted to communicate with the person.
See interpretation of 2(b) Attempt to communicate. in Supplement I
(c) Bureau
means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
(d) Communicate
or
communication
means the conveying of information regarding a debt directly or indirectly to any person through any medium.
Official interpretation of 2(d) Communicate or communication.
1. Any medium.
Section
1006.2(d)
provides, in relevant part, that a communication can occur through any medium. “Any medium” includes any oral, written, electronic, or other medium. For example, a communication may occur in person or by telephone, audio recording, paper document, mail, email, text message, social media, or other electronic media.
2. Information regarding a debt.
Section
1006.2(d)
provides, in relevant part, that a communication means conveying information regarding a debt. A debt collector does not convey information regarding a debt directly or indirectly to any person if the debt collector leaves only a limited-content message, as defined in §
1006.2(j)
. A debt collector who provides marketing or advertising that does not contain information about a specific debt or debts has not communicated under §
1006.2(d)
, even if the debt collector transmits the marketing or advertising message to a consumer, because the debt collector has not conveyed information regarding a debt.
See interpretation of 2(d) Communicate or communication. in Supplement I
(e) Consumer
means any natural person, whether living or deceased, obligated or allegedly obligated to pay any debt.  For purposes of § 1006.6, the term
consumer
includes the persons described in § 1006.6(a).
(f) Consumer financial product or service
has the same meaning given to it in section 1002(5) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5481(5)).
(g) Creditor
means any person who offers or extends credit creating a debt or to whom a debt is owed. The term creditor does not, however, include any person to the extent that such person receives an assignment or transfer of a debt in default solely to facilitate collection of the debt for another.
(h) Debt
means any obligation or alleged obligation of a consumer to pay money arising out of a transaction in which the money, property, insurance, or services that are the subject of the transaction are primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, whether or not the obligation has been reduced to judgment.
Official interpretation of 2(h) Debt.
1. Consumer.
Section
1006.2(h)
defines debt to mean, in part, any obligation or alleged obligation of a consumer to pay money arising out of a transaction. Section
1006.2(e)
, in turn, defines consumer to mean any natural person obligated or allegedly obligated to pay any debt. Only natural persons, therefore, can incur debts as defined in §
1006.2(h)
.
See interpretation of 2(h) Debt. in Supplement I
(i)
Official interpretation of 2(i) Debt collector.
1. In general.
Section
1006.2(i)
provides, in part, that a debt collector is any person who uses any instrumentality of interstate commerce or mail in any business the principal purpose of which is the collection of debts, or who regularly collects or attempts to collect, directly or indirectly, debts owed or due, or asserted to be owed or due, to another. A person who collects or attempts to collect defaulted debts that the person has purchased, but who does not collect or attempt to collect, directly or indirectly, debts owed or due, or asserted to be owed or due, to another, and who does not have a business the principal purpose of which is the collection of debts, is not a debt collector as defined in §
1006.2(i)
.
See interpretation of 2(i) Debt collector. in Supplement I
(1) Debt collector
means any person who uses any instrumentality of interstate commerce or mail in any business the principal purpose of which is the collection of debts, or who regularly collects or attempts to collect, directly or indirectly, debts owed or due, or asserted to be owed or due, to another. Notwithstanding paragraph (i)(2)(vi) of this section, the term debt collector includes any creditor that, in the process of collecting its own debts, uses any name other than its own that would indicate that a third person is collecting or attempting to collect such debts. For purposes of §
1006.22(e)
, the term also includes any person who uses any instrumentality of interstate commerce or mail in any business the principal purpose of which is the enforcement of security interests.
(2)
The term debt collector excludes:
(i)
Any officer or employee of a creditor while the officer or employee is collecting debts for the creditor in the creditor’s name;
(ii)
Any person while acting as a debt collector for another person if:
(A)
The person acting as a debt collector does so only for persons with whom the person acting as a debt collector is related by common ownership or affiliated by corporate control; and
(B)
The principal business of the person acting as a debt collector is not the collection of debts;
(iii)
Any officer or employee of the United States or any State to the extent that collecting or attempting to collect any debt is in the performance of the officer’s or employee’s official duties;
(iv)
Any person while serving or attempting to serve legal process on any other person in connection with the judicial enforcement of any debt;
(v)
Any nonprofit organization that, at the request of consumers, performs bona fide consumer credit counseling and assists consumers in liquidating their debts by receiving payment from such consumers and distributing such amounts to creditors;
(vi)
Any person collecting or attempting to collect any debt owed or due, or asserted to be owed or due to another, to the extent such debt collection activity:
(A)
Is incidental to a bona fide fiduciary obligation or a bona fide escrow arrangement;
(B)
Concerns a debt that such person originated;
(C)
Concerns a debt that was not in default at the time such person obtained it; or
(D)
Concerns a debt that such person obtained as a secured party in a commercial credit transaction involving the creditor; and
(vii)
A private entity, to the extent such private entity is operating a bad check enforcement program that complies with section 818 of the Act.
(j) Limited-content message
means a voicemail message for a consumer that includes all of the content described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, that may include any of the content described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section, and that includes no other content.
Official interpretation of 2(j) Limited-content message.
1. In general.
Section
1006.2(j)
provides that a limited-content message is a voicemail message for a consumer that includes all of the content described in §
1006.2(j)(1)
, that may include any of the content described in §
1006.2(j)(2)
, and that includes no other content. Any other message is not a limited-content message. If a voicemail message includes content other than the specific items described in §
1006.2(j)(1)
and (2), and such other content directly or indirectly conveys any information about a debt, the message is a communication, as defined in §
1006.2(d)
. For example, a voicemail message that includes a statement that the message is from a debt collector and a request to speak to a particular consumer is not a limited-content message because it includes more than the required or permitted content.
2. Message for a consumer.
Section
1006.2(j)
provides, in part, that a limited-content message is a voicemail message for a consumer. A message knowingly left for a third party is not a limited-content message because it is not for a consumer. For example, assume that a debt collector has a telephone number that the debt collector knows belongs to the consumer’s friend. A voicemail message left after calling that number is not a limited-content message, even if the message includes no more than the content described in §
1006.2(j)(1)
and (2) because the debt collector knowingly left the message for someone other than the consumer. Other provisions of this part may, in certain circumstances, restrict a debt collector from leaving a limited-content message or otherwise attempting to communicate with a consumer. See §§
1006.6(b)
and (c) and
1006.22(f)
and their related commentary for further guidance regarding when a debt collector is prohibited from attempting to communicate with a consumer.
3. Meaningful disclosure of identity.
A debt collector who leaves only a limited-content message for a consumer does not violate §
1006.14(g)
’s requirement to meaningfully disclose the caller’s identity with respect to that voicemail message.
See interpretation of 2(j) Limited-content message. in Supplement I
(1) Required content.
A limited-content message is a voicemail message for a consumer that includes:
Official interpretation of 2(j)(1) Required content.
1. Example.
The following example illustrates a limited-content message that includes only the content described in §
1006.2(j)(1)
: “This is Robin Smith calling from ABC Inc. Please contact me or Jim Johnson at 1-800-555-1212.”
See interpretation of 2(j)(1) Required content. in Supplement I
(i)
A business name for the debt collector that does not indicate that the debt collector is in the debt collection business;
(ii)
A request that the consumer reply to the message;
(iii)
The name or names of one or more natural persons whom the consumer can contact to reply to the debt collector; and
(iv)
A telephone number or numbers that the consumer can use to reply to the debt collector.
(2) Optional content.
In addition to the content described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, a limited-content message may include one or more of the following:
Official interpretation of 2(j)(2) Optional content.
1. In general.
Section
1006.2(j)(2)(iv)
provides that a limited-content message may include a statement that, if the consumer replies, the consumer may speak to any of the company’s representatives or associates. A message that includes a more detailed description of the representative or associate group is not a limited-content message. For example, a reference to an agent with the “credit card receivables group” is not a limited-content message because it includes more than a statement that the consumer’s reply may be answered by a representative or associate.
2. Example.
The following example illustrates a limited-content message that includes the content described in both §
1006.2(j)(1)
and (2): “Hi, this is Robin Smith calling from ABC Inc. It is 4:15 p.m. on Wednesday, September 1. Please contact me or any of our representatives at 1-800-555-1212 today until 6:00 p.m. Eastern time, or any weekday from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Eastern time.”
See interpretation of 2(j)(2) Optional content. in Supplement I
(i)
A salutation;
(ii)
The date and time of the message;
(iii)
Suggested dates and times for the consumer to reply to the message; and
(iv)
A statement that if the consumer replies, the consumer may speak to any of the company’s representatives or associates.
(k) Person
includes natural persons, corporations, companies, associations, firms, partnerships, societies, and joint stock companies.
(l) State
means any State, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any political subdivision of any of the foregoing.
Previous section -
§ 1006.1
§ 1006.1 Authority, purpose, and coverage.
Next section -
§ 1006.6
§ 1006.6 Communications in connection with debt collection.
Back to top
About Us
Contact Us
Careers
Events
Industry Whistleblowers
CFPB Ombudsman
FOIA
Website Privacy Policy & Legal Notices
Accessibility
No FEAR Act & Cummings Act
USA.gov
Office of Inspector General
Public Archive
An official website of the
United States government