§ 1006.18 False, deceptive, or misleading representations or means. | Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Skip to main content
An official website of the
United States government
(855) 411-2372
Submit a Complaint
Search
Search
Close
Search
Open the main menu
Close the main menu
Submit a Complaint
Consumer Education
Back
Resources for Yourself
Consumer Complaint Database
Money Topics
Auto Loans
Bank Accounts & Services
Credit Cards
Credit Reports & Scores
Debt Collection
Fraud & Scams
Money Topics
Money Transfers
Mortgages
Payday Loans
Prepaid Cards
Reverse Mortgages
Student Loans
Featured
Explore guides to help you plan for big financial goals
Additional Resources
Submit a Complaint
Tell Your Story
Browse Ask CFPB
Rules & Policy
Back
Rules & Policy Overview
Final Rules
Interactive Regulations
Rules Under Development
Notices and Opportunities to Comment
Regulatory Agenda
Petitions for Rulemaking
Competition and Innovation
Advisory Committees
Enforcement
Back
Enforcement Overview
Payments to Harmed Consumers
2025 Enforcement Lookback
Enforcement Actions
Investigatory Authority
Life Cycle of an Enforcement Action
Enforcement Principles
Supervision and Enforcement Priorities
Supervision
Back
Supervision Overview
Compliance overview
Compliance resources
Guidance
Registration & Submission Programs
Consumer Complaint Program
Data & Research
Back
Data & Research Overview
Reports
Research Hub
Consumer Complaint Database
Mortgage Database (HMDA)
Small Business Lending Database
Public Data Inventory
Consumer Credit Trends
Mortgage Performance Trends
Financial Well-Being Survey
Credit Card Surveys & Agreements
Prepaid Account Agreements
Making Ends Meet Survey Data
National Age-Friendly Banking Survey
Featured
Help advance financial well-being
News
Back
Press Releases
Speeches & Op-eds
Testimony
Statements
Recent Updates
Consumer Advisories
(855) 411-2372
/
Interactive Bureau Regulations
/
12 CFR Part 1006 (Regulation F)
Table of Contents
Subpart A — General § 1006.1–§ 1006.2
§ 1006.1 Authority, purpose, and coverage.
§ 1006.2 Definitions.
Subpart B — Rules for FDCPA Debt Collectors § 1006.6–§ 1006.42
§ 1006.6 Communications in connection with debt collection.
§ 1006.10 Acquisition of location information.
§ 1006.14 Harassing, oppressive, or abusive conduct.
§ 1006.18 False, deceptive, or misleading representations or means.
§ 1006.22 Unfair or unconscionable means.
§ 1006.26 Collection of time-barred debts.
§ 1006.30 Other prohibited practices.
§ 1006.34 Notice for validation of debts.
§ 1006.38 Disputes and requests for original-creditor information.
§ 1006.42 Sending required disclosures.
Subpart D — Miscellaneous § 1006.100–§ 1006.108
§ 1006.100 Record retention.
§ 1006.104 Relation to State laws.
§ 1006.108 Exemption for State regulation.
Appendices
Appendix A to Part 1006 — Procedures for State Application for Exemption from the Provisions of the Act
Appendix B to Part 1006 — Model Forms.
Appendix C to Part 1006 — Issuance of Advisory Opinions
Supplement I to Part 1006 — Official Interpretations
Introduction
Comment for 1026.2 — Definitions
Comment for 1006.6 — Communications in Connection with Debt Collection
Comment for 1006.10 — Acquisition of Location Information
Comment for 1006.14 — Harassing, Oppressive, or Abusive Conduct
Comment for 1006.18 — False, Deceptive, or Misleading Representations or Means
Comment for 1006.22 — Unfair or Unconscionable Means
Comment for 1006.30 — Other Prohibited Practices
Comment for 1026.34 - Notice for Validation of Debts
Comment for 1006.38 — Disputes and Requests for Original-Creditor Information
Comment for 1006.42 — Sending Required Disclosures
Comment for 1006.100 — Record Retention
Comment for 1026.104 - Relation to State Laws
§ 1006.18 False, deceptive, or misleading representations or means.
This version is the current regulation
View all versions of this regulation
Search this regulation
Regulation F
(a) In general.
A debt collector must not use any false, deceptive, or misleading representation or means in connection with the collection of any debt, including, but not limited to, the conduct described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(b) False, deceptive, or misleading representations.
(1)
A debt collector must not falsely represent or imply that:
(i)
The debt collector is vouched for, bonded by, or affiliated with the United States or any State, including through the use of any badge, uniform, or facsimile thereof.
(ii)
The debt collector operates or is employed by a consumer reporting agency, as defined by section 603(f) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(f)).
(iii)
Any individual is an attorney or that any communication is from an attorney.
(iv)
The consumer committed any crime or other conduct in order to disgrace the consumer.
(v)
A sale, referral, or other transfer of any interest in a debt causes or will cause the consumer to:
(A)
Lose any claim or defense to payment of the debt; or
(B)
Become subject to any practice prohibited by this part.
(vi)
Accounts have been turned over to innocent purchasers for value.
(vii)
Documents are legal process.
(viii)
Documents are not legal process forms or do not require action by the consumer.
(2)
A debt collector must not falsely represent:
(i)
The character, amount, or legal status of any debt.
(ii)
Any services rendered, or compensation that may be lawfully received, by any debt collector for the collection of a debt.
(3)
A debt collector must not represent or imply that nonpayment of any debt will result in the arrest or imprisonment of any person or the seizure, garnishment, attachment, or sale of any property or wages of any person unless such action is lawful and the debt collector or creditor intends to take such action.
(c) False, deceptive, or misleading collection means.
A debt collector must not:
(1)
Threaten to take any action that cannot legally be taken or that is not intended to be taken.
(2)
Communicate or threaten to communicate to any person credit information that the debt collector knows or should know is false, including the failure to communicate that a disputed debt is disputed.
(3)
Use or distribute any written communication that simulates or that the debt collector falsely represents to be a document authorized, issued, or approved by any court, official, or agency of the United States or any State, or that creates a false impression about its source, authorization, or approval.
(4)
Use any business, company, or organization name other than the true name of the debt collector’s business, company, or organization.
(d) False representations or deceptive means.
A debt collector must not use any false representation or deceptive means to collect or attempt to collect any debt or to obtain information concerning a consumer.
Official interpretation of 18(d) False representations or deceptive means.
1. Social media.
Under §
1006.18(d)
, a debt collector may not use any false representation or deceptive means to collect any debt or to obtain information concerning a consumer. In the social media context, the following examples illustrate the rule:
i.
Assume that a debt collector sends a private message, in connection with the collection of a debt, requesting to be added as one of the consumer’s contacts on a social media platform marketed for social or professional networking purposes. A debt collector makes a false representation or implication if the debt collector does not disclose his or her identity as a debt collector in the request.
ii.
Assume that a debt collector communicates privately with a friend or coworker of a consumer on a social media platform, for the purpose of acquiring location information about the consumer. Pursuant to §
1006.10(b)(1)
, the debt collector must identify himself or herself individually by name when communicating for the purpose of acquiring location information. To avoid violating §
1006.18(d)
, the debt collector must communicate using a profile that accurately identifies the debt collector’s individual name. (But see §
1006.18(f)
and its associated commentary regarding use of assumed names.)  The debt collector also must comply with the other applicable requirements for obtaining location information in §
1006.10
(
e.g.
, with respect to stating that the debt collector is confirming or correcting location information concerning the consumer and, only if expressly requested, identifying the name of the debt collector’s employer), for communicating with third parties in §
1006.6(d)(1)
, and for communicating through social media in §
1006.22(f)(4)
.
See interpretation of 18(d) False representations or deceptive means. in Supplement I
(e) Disclosures required—
Official interpretation of 18(e) Disclosures required.
1. Communication.
A limited-content message, as defined in §
1006.2(j)
, is not a communication, as that term is defined in §
1006.2(d)
. Thus, a debt collector who leaves only a limited-content message for a consumer need not make the disclosures required by §
1006.18(e)(1)
and (2). However, if a debt collector leaves a voicemail message for a consumer that includes content in addition to the content described in §
1006.2(j)(1)
and (2) and that directly or indirectly conveys any information regarding a debt, the voicemail message is a communication, and the debt collector is required to make the §
1006.18(e)
disclosures. See the commentary to §
1006.2(d)
and (j) for additional clarification regarding the definitions of communication and limited-content message.
See interpretation of 18(e) Disclosures required. in Supplement I
(1) Initial communications.
A debt collector must disclose in its initial communication with a consumer that the debt collector is attempting to collect a debt and that any information obtained will be used for that purpose. If the debt collector’s initial communication with the consumer is oral, the debt collector must make the disclosure required by this paragraph again in its initial written communication with the consumer.
Official interpretation of 18(e)(1) Initial communications.
1. Example.
A debt collector must make the disclosure required by §
1006.18(e)(1)
in the debt collector’s initial communication with a consumer, regardless of the medium of communication and regardless of whether the debt collector or the consumer initiated the communication. For example, assume that a debt collector who has not previously communicated with a consumer attempts to communicate with the consumer by leaving a limited-content message, as defined in §
1006.2(j)
. After listening to the debt collector’s limited-content message, the consumer initiates a telephone call to, and communicates with, the debt collector. Pursuant to §
1006.18(e)(1)
, because the consumer-initiated call is the initial communication between the debt collector and the consumer, the debt collector must disclose to the consumer during that telephone call that the debt collector is attempting to collect a debt and that any information obtained will be used for that purpose.
See interpretation of 18(e)(1) Initial communications. in Supplement I
(2) Subsequent communications.
In each communication with the consumer subsequent to the communications described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the debt collector must disclose that the communication is from a debt collector.
(3) Exception.
Disclosures under paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section are not required in a formal pleading made in connection with a legal action.
(4) Translated disclosures.
A debt collector must make the disclosures required by paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section in the same language or languages used for the rest of the communication in which the debt collector conveyed the disclosures. Any translation of the disclosures a debt collector uses must be complete and accurate.
Official interpretation of 18(e)(4) Translated disclosures.
1. Example.
Section
1006.18(e)(4)
provides that a debt collector must make the disclosures required by §
1006.18(e)(1)
and (2) in the same language or languages used for the rest of the communication in which the disclosures are conveyed. The following example illustrates the rule:
i.
ABC debt collector is collecting a debt. ABC debt collector’s initial communication with the consumer takes place in Spanish. Section
1006.18(e)(4)
requires ABC debt collector to provide in Spanish the disclosure required by §
1006.18(e)(1)
. Thereafter, ABC debt collector has a communication with the consumer that takes place partly in English and partly in Spanish. During this communication, the debt collector must provide the disclosure required by §
1006.18(e)(2)
in both English and Spanish.
See interpretation of 18(e)(4) Translated disclosures. in Supplement I
(f) Assumed names.
This section does not prohibit a debt collector’s employee from using an assumed name when communicating or attempting to communicate with a person, provided that the employee uses the assumed name consistently and that the debt collector can readily identify any employee using an assumed name.
Official interpretation of 18(f) Assumed names.
1. Readily identifiable by the employer.
Section
1006.18(f)
provides, in part, that §
1006.18
does not prohibit a debt collector’s employee from using an assumed name when communicating or attempting to communicate with a person, provided that the debt collector can readily identify any employee using an assumed name. A debt collector may use any method of managing assumed names that enables the debt collector to determine the true identity of any employee using an assumed name. For example, a debt collector may require an employee to use the same assumed name when communicating or attempting to communicate with any person and may prohibit any other employee from using the same assumed name.
See interpretation of 18(f) Assumed names. in Supplement I
Previous section -
§ 1006.14
§ 1006.14 Harassing, oppressive, or abusive conduct.
Next section -
§ 1006.22
§ 1006.22 Unfair or unconscionable means.
Back to top
About Us
Contact Us
Careers
Events
Industry Whistleblowers
CFPB Ombudsman
FOIA
Website Privacy Policy & Legal Notices
Accessibility
No FEAR Act & Cummings Act
USA.gov
Office of Inspector General
Public Archive
An official website of the
United States government