SOURCE: https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-24/part-982#p-982.355
API: https://www.ecfr.gov/api/versioner/v1/full/2026-09-28/title-24.xml?part=982
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from the eCFR versioner API (up to date as of 2026-09-28); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/ecfr.py

§ 982.355 Portability: Administration by initial and receiving PHA.
(a) General. When a family moves under portability (in accordance with § 982.353(b)) to an area outside the initial PHA jurisdiction, the receiving PHA must administer assistance for the family if a PHA with a HCV program has jurisdiction in the area where the unit is located.
(b) Requirement to administer assistance. A receiving PHA cannot refuse to assist incoming portable families or direct them to another neighboring PHA for assistance. If there is more than one such PHA, the initial PHA provides the family with the contact information for the receiving PHAs that serve the area, and the family selects the receiving PHA. The family must inform the initial PHA which PHA it has selected as the receiving PHA. In cases where the family prefers not to select the receiving PHA, the initial PHA selects the receiving PHA on behalf of the family. HUD may determine in certain instances that a PHA is not required to accept incoming portable families, such as a PHA in a declared disaster area. However, the PHA must have approval in writing from HUD before refusing any incoming portable families.
(c) Portability procedures. The following portability procedures must be followed:
(1) When the family decides to use the voucher outside of the PHA jurisdiction, the family must notify the initial PHA of its desire to relocate and must specify the location where it wants to live.
(2) The initial PHA must determine the family's eligibility to move in accordance with §§ 982.353 and 982.354.
(3) Once the receiving PHA is determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, the initial PHA must contact the receiving PHA, via email or other confirmed delivery method, prior to approving the family's request to move in order to determine whether the voucher will be absorbed or billed by the receiving PHA. The receiving PHA must advise the initial PHA in writing, via email or other confirmed delivery method, of its decision.
(4) If the receiving PHA notifies the initial PHA that it will absorb the voucher, the receiving PHA cannot reverse its decision at a later date without consent of the initial PHA.
(5) If the receiving PHA will bill the initial PHA for the portability voucher and the cost of the HAP will increase due to the move, the initial PHA may deny the move if it does not have sufficient funding for continued assistance in accordance with § 982.354 (e)(1).
(6) If a billing arrangement is approved by the initial PHA or if the voucher is to be absorbed by the receiving PHA, the initial PHA must issue the family a voucher to move, if it has not already done so, and advise the family how to contact and request assistance from the receiving PHA.
(7) The initial PHA must promptly notify the receiving PHA to expect the family. The initial PHA must give the receiving PHA the form HUD-52665, the most recent form HUD 50058 (Family Report) for the family, and all related verification information.
(8) The family must promptly contact the receiving PHA in order to be informed of the receiving PHA's procedures for incoming portable families and comply with these procedures. The family's failure to comply may result in denial or termination of the receiving PHA's voucher.
(9) The receiving PHA does not redetermine eligibility for a participant family. However, for a family that was not already receiving assistance in the PHA's HCV program, the initial PHA must determine whether the family is eligible for admission to the receiving PHA's HCV program. In determining income eligibility, the receiving PHA's income limits are used by the initial PHA.
(10) When a receiving PHA assists a family under portability, administration of the voucher must be in accordance with the receiving PHA's policies. This requirement also applies to policies of Moving to Work agencies. The receiving PHA procedures and preferences for selection among eligible applicants do not apply to the family, and the receiving PHA waiting list is not used.
(11) If the receiving PHA opts to conduct a new reexamination for a current participant family, the receiving PHA may not delay issuing the family a voucher or otherwise delay approval of a unit.
(12) The receiving PHA must determine the family unit size for the family, and base its determination on the subsidy standards of the receiving PHA.
(13) The receiving PHA must issue a voucher to the family. The term of the receiving PHA voucher may not expire before 30 calendar days from the expiration date of the initial PHA voucher. If the voucher expires before the family arrives at the receiving PHA, the receiving PHA must contact the initial PHA to determine if it will extend the voucher.
(14) Once the receiving PHA issues the portable family a voucher, the receiving PHA's policies on extensions of the voucher term apply. The receiving PHA must notify the initial PHA of any extensions granted to the term of the voucher.
(15) The family must submit a request for tenancy approval to the receiving PHA during the term of the receiving PHA voucher. As required in § 982.303, if the family submits a request for tenancy approval during the term of the voucher, the PHA must suspend the term of that voucher.
(16) The receiving PHA must promptly notify the initial PHA if the family has leased an eligible unit under the program, or if the family fails to submit a request for tenancy approval for an eligible unit within the term of the voucher.
(17) At any time, either the initial PHA or the receiving PHA may make a determination to deny or terminate assistance to the family in accordance with § 982.552 and 982.553.
(d) Absorption by the receiving PHA. (1) If funding is available under the consolidated ACC for the receiving PHA's HCV program, the receiving PHA may absorb the family into the receiving PHA's HCV program. After absorption, the family is assisted with funds available under the consolidated ACC for the receiving PHA's HCV program.
(2) HUD may require that the receiving PHA absorb all, or a portion of, incoming portable families. Under circumstances described in a notice published in the Federal Register, HUD may determine that receiving PHAs, or categories of receiving PHAs, should absorb all or a portion of incoming portable families. If HUD makes such a determination, HUD will provide an opportunity for public comment, for a period of no less than 60 calendar days, on such policy and procedures. After consideration of public comments, HUD will publish a final notice in the Federal Register advising PHAs and the public of HUD's final determination on the subject of mandatory absorption of incoming portable families.
(3) HUD may provide financial or nonfinancial incentives (or both) to PHAs that absorb portability vouchers.
(e) Portability billing. (1) To cover assistance for a portable family that was not absorbed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the receiving PHA may bill the initial PHA for housing assistance payments and administrative fees.
(2) The initial PHA must promptly reimburse the receiving PHA for the full amount of the housing assistance payments made by the receiving PHA for the portable family. The amount of the housing assistance payment for a portable family in the receiving PHA program is determined in the same manner as for other families in the receiving PHA program.
(3) The initial PHA must promptly reimburse the receiving PHA for the lesser of 80 percent of the initial PHA ongoing administrative fee or 100 percent of the receiving PHA's ongoing administrative fee for each program unit under HAP contract on the first day of the month for which the receiving PHA is billing the initial PHA under this section. If administrative fees are prorated for the HCV program, the proration will apply to the amount of the administrative fee for which the receiving PHA may bill under this section (e.g., the receiving PHA may bill for the lesser of 80 percent of the initial PHA's prorated ongoing administrative fee or 100 percent of the receiving PHA's prorated ongoing administrative fee). If both PHAs agree, the PHAs may negotiate a different amount of reimbursement.
(4) When a portable family moves out of the HCV program of a receiving PHA that has not absorbed the family, the PHA in the new jurisdiction to which the family moves becomes the receiving PHA, and the first receiving PHA is no longer required to provide assistance for the family.
(5) In administration of portability, the initial PHA and the receiving PHA must comply with financial procedures required by HUD, including the use of HUD-required billing forms. The initial and receiving PHA must also comply with billing and payment deadlines under the financial procedures.
(6) A PHA must manage the PHA HCV program in a manner that ensures that the PHA has the financial ability to provide assistance for families that move out of the PHA's program under the portability procedures, and that have not been absorbed by the receiving PHA, as well as for families that remain in the PHA's program.
(7) HUD may reduce the administrative fee to an initial or receiving PHA if the PHA does not comply with HUD portability requirements.
(f) Portability funding. (1) HUD may transfer units and funds for assistance to portable families to the receiving PHA from funds available under the initial PHA ACC.
(2) HUD may provide additional funding (e.g., funds for incremental units) to the initial PHA for funds transferred to a receiving PHA for portability purposes.
(3) HUD may provide additional funding (e.g., funds for incremental units) to the receiving PHA for absorption of portable families.
(4) HUD may require the receiving PHA to absorb portable families.
(g) Special purpose vouchers. (1) The initial PHA must submit the codes used for special purpose vouchers on the form HUD-50058, Family Report, and the receiving PHA must maintain the codes on the Family Report, as long as the Receiving PHA chooses to bill the initial PHA.
(2) Initial and receiving PHAs must administer special purpose vouchers, such as the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing vouchers, in accordance with HUD-established policy in cases where HUD has established alternative program requirements of such special purpose vouchers.
[80 FR 50573, Aug. 20, 2015]
