SOURCE: https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-24/part-982#p-982.516
API: https://www.ecfr.gov/api/versioner/v1/full/2026-09-28/title-24.xml?part=982
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from the eCFR versioner API (up to date as of 2026-09-28); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/ecfr.py

§ 982.516 Family income and composition: Annual and interim examinations.
(a) PHA responsibility for reexamination and verification. (1) The PHA must conduct a reexamination of family income and composition at least annually.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the PHA must obtain and document in the tenant file third-party verification of the following factors, or must document in the tenant file why third-party verification was not available:
(i) Reported family annual income;
(ii) The value of assets;
(iii) Expenses related to deductions from annual income; and
(iv) Other factors that affect the determination of adjusted income.
(3) For a family with net family assets (as the term is defined in § 5.603 of this title) equal to or less than $50,000, which amount will be adjusted annually by HUD in accordance with the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, a PHA may accept, for purposes of recertification of income, a family's declaration under § 5.618(b) of this title, except that the PHA must obtain third-party verification of all family assets every 3 years.
(b) Streamlined income determination—(1) General. A PHA may elect to apply a streamlined income determination to families receiving fixed income as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) Definition of “fixed income”. For purposes of this section, “fixed income” means periodic payments at reasonably predictable levels from one or more of the following sources:
(i) Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Supplemental Disability Insurance.
(ii) Federal, state, local, or private pension plans.
(iii) Annuities or other retirement benefit programs, insurance policies, disability or death benefits, or other similar types of periodic receipts.
(iv) Any other source of income subject to adjustment by a verifiable COLA or current rate of interest.
(3) Method of streamlined income determination. A PHA using the streamlined income determination must adjust a family's income according to the percentage of a family's unadjusted income that is from fixed income.
(i) When 90 percent or more of a family's unadjusted income consists of fixed income, PHAs using streamlined income determinations must apply a COLA or COLAs to the family's fixed-income sources, provided that the family certifies both that 90 percent or more of their unadjusted income is fixed income and that their sources of fixed income have not changed from the previous year. For non-fixed income, the PHA is not required to make adjustments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii) When less than 90 percent of a family's unadjusted income consists of fixed income, PHAs using streamlined income determinations must apply a COLA to each of the family's sources of fixed income individually. The PHA must determine all other income pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(4) COLA rate applied by PHAs. PHAs using streamlined income determinations must adjust a family's fixed income using a COLA or current interest rate that applies to each specific source of fixed income and is available from a public source or through tenant-provided, third-party-generated documentation. If no public verification or tenant-provided documentation is available, then the owner must obtain third-party verification of the income amounts in order to calculate the change in income for the source.
(5) Triennial verification. For any income determined pursuant to a streamlined income determination, a PHA must obtain third-party verification of all income amounts every 3 years.
(c) Interim reexaminations. (1) A family may request an interim determination of family income or composition because of any changes since the last determination. The PHA must conduct any interim reexamination within a reasonable period of time after the family request or when the PHA becomes aware of an increase in family adjusted income under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. What qualifies as a “reasonable time” may vary based on the amount of time it takes to verify information, but generally should not be longer than 30 days after changes in income are reported.
(2) The PHA may decline to conduct an interim reexamination of family income if the PHA estimates the family's adjusted income will decrease by an amount that is less than ten percent of the family's annual adjusted income (or a lower amount established by HUD through notice), or a lower threshold established by the PHA.
(3) The PHA must conduct an interim reexamination of family income when the PHA becomes aware that the family's adjusted income (as defined in § 5.611 of this title) has changed by an amount that the PHA estimates will result in an increase of ten percent or more in annual adjusted income or such other amount established by HUD through notice, except:
(i) The PHA may not consider any increase in the earned income of the family when estimating or calculating whether the family's adjusted income has increased, unless the family has previously received an interim reduction under paragraph (c)(1) of this section during the certification period; and
(ii) The PHA may choose not to conduct an interim reexamination in the last three months of a certification period.
(4) Effective date of rent changes. (i) If the family has reported a change in family income or composition in a timely manner according to the PHA's policies, the PHA must provide the family with 30 days advance notice of any family share and family rent to owner increases, and such increases will be effective the first day of the month beginning after the end of that 30-day period. Family share and family rent to owner decreases will be effective on the first day of the first month after the date of the reported change leading to the interim reexamination of family income.
(ii) If the family has failed to report a change in family income or composition in a timely manner according to the PHA's policies, PHAs must implement any resulting family share and family rent to owner increases retroactively to the first of the month following the date of the change leading to the interim reexamination of family income. Any resulting family share and family rent to owner decrease must be implemented no later than the first rent period following completion of the reexamination. However, a PHA may apply a family share and family rent to owner decrease retroactively at the discretion of the PHA, in accordance with the conditions established by the PHA in the Administrative Plan and subject to paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.
(iii) A retroactive family share and family rent to owner decrease may not be applied prior to the later of the first of the month following:
(A) The date of the change leading to the interim reexamination of family income; or
(B) The effective date of the family's most recent previous interim or annual reexamination (or initial examination if that was the family's last examination).
(d) Family reporting of change. The PHA must adopt policies consistent with this section prescribing when and under what conditions the family must report a change in family income or composition.
(e) Effective date of reexamination. (1) The PHA must adopt policies consistent with this section prescribing how to determine the effective date of a change in the housing assistance payment resulting from an interim redetermination.
(2) At the effective date of a regular or interim reexamination, the PHA must make appropriate adjustments in the housing assistance payment in accordance with § 982.505.
(f) Accuracy of family income data. The PHA must establish procedures that are appropriate and necessary to assure that income data provided by applicant or participant families is complete and accurate. The PHA will not be considered out of compliance with the requirements in this section solely due to de minimis errors in calculating family income but is still obligated to correct errors once the PHA becomes aware of the errors. A de minimis error is an error where the PHA determination of family income deviates from the correct income determination by no more than $30 per month in monthly adjusted income ($360 in annual adjusted income).
(1) The PHA must take any corrective action necessary to credit or repay a family if the family has been overcharged for their rent or family share as a result of an error (including a de minimis error) in the income determination. Families will not be required to repay the PHA in instances where the PHA has miscalculated income resulting in a family being undercharged for rent or family share.
(2) HUD may revise the amount of de minimis error in this paragraph (f) through a rulemaking published in the Federal Register for public comment.
(g) Execution of release and consent. (1) As a condition of admission to or continued assistance under the program, the PHA shall require the family head, and such other family members as the PHA designates, to execute a HUD-approved release and consent form (including any release and consent as required under § 5.230 of this title) authorizing any depository or private source of income, or any Federal, State or local agency, to furnish or release to the PHA or HUD such information as the PHA or HUD determines to be necessary.
(2) The PHA and HUD must limit the use or disclosure of information obtained from a family or from another source pursuant to this release and consent to purposes directly in connection with administration of the program.
(h) Reviews of family income under this section are subject to the provisions in section 904 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3544).
(Information collection requirements contained in this section have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577-0169.)
[63 FR 23861, Apr. 30, 1998, as amended at 64 FR 13057, Mar. 16, 1999; 64 FR 26649, May 14, 1999; 64 FR 56915, Oct. 21, 1999; 65 FR 16822, Mar. 30, 2000; 80 FR 8247, Feb. 17, 2015; 81 FR 12376, Mar. 8, 2016; 82 FR 58341, Dec. 12, 2017; 85 FR 27139, May 7, 2020; 88 FR 9675, Feb. 14, 2023; 90 FR 56687, Dec. 8, 2025]
