SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_actions_&_proceedings_law_section_1306
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/1306 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Actions & Proceedings Law Section 1306

Filing with superintendent

1.
Each lender, assignee or mortgage loan servicer shall file with the superintendent of financial services (superintendent) within three business days of the mailing of the notice required by subdivision one of section thirteen hundred four of this article or subsection (f) of section 9-611 of the uniform commercial code the information required by subdivision two of this section. Notwithstanding any other provision of the laws of this state, this filing shall be made electronically as provided for in subdivision three of this section. Any complaint served in a proceeding initiated pursuant to this article shall contain, as a condition precedent to such proceeding, an affirmative allegation that at the time the proceeding is commenced, the plaintiff has complied with the provisions of this section.

2.
Each filing delivered to the superintendent shall be on such form as the superintendent shall prescribe, and shall include at a minimum, the name, address, last known telephone number of the borrower, and the amount claimed as due and owing on the mortgage, and such other information as will enable the superintendent to ascertain the type of loan at issue. The superintendent may subsequently request such readily available information as may be reasonably necessary to facilitate a review of whether the borrower might benefit from counseling or other foreclosure prevention services.

3.
Within one hundred eighty days of the effective date of this section, or such later time as the superintendent may determine, the superintendent shall develop with the assistance of the commissioner of the division of housing and community renewal, an electronic database that shall be capable of receiving all filings required by this section.

4.
The information provided to the superintendent pursuant to this section shall not be subject to article six of the public officers law or paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of subdivision one or subdivision six of section ninety-four of the public officers law. All such information shall be used by the superintendent exclusively for the purposes of monitoring on a statewide basis the extent of foreclosure filings within this state, to perform an analysis of loan types which were the subject of a pre-foreclosure notice and directing as appropriate available public and private foreclosure prevention and counseling services to borrowers at risk of foreclosure. The superintendent may share information contained in the database with housing counseling agencies designated by the division of housing and community renewal as well as with other state agencies with jurisdiction over housing, for the purpose of coordinating or securing help for borrowers at risk of foreclosure.

5.
The superintendent is hereby authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as shall be necessary to implement the purposes of this section.

Source:
Section 1306 — Filing with superintendent, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/1306 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
