SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_actions_&_proceedings_law_section_1325
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/1325 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Actions & Proceedings Law Section 1325

Receiver

1.
Where the action is for the foreclosure of a mortgage providing that a receiver may be appointed without notice, notice of a motion for such appointment shall not be required.

2.
Where a receiver has been appointed, upon the application of the plaintiff or of any holder of a certificate evidencing an undivided interest in the mortgage or mortgage debt and upon proof that no answer has been interposed affecting the validity of the mortgage or the amount due thereon, or asserting any prior lien, or asserting a plea of tender of payment of the amount due, or which if sustained would affect in any way the right of the plaintiff to a judgment in foreclosure and to the payment of the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint to be due, the court may direct that the receiver of the rents appointed in such action apply, during the pendency of the action, the rents received by him towards the payment of accrued interest on the mortgage, provided due provision shall have been made for the payment of taxes, administration expenses, fees and charges and such reserve as the court may direct. Any monies so paid over by the receiver shall be deducted from the amount of the judgment in said action. 2-a. Where a receiver has been appointed, the order of appointment shall direct the owner or lessee of the mortgaged premises to turn over to the receiver all security deposits received by such owner or lessee and shall further direct the receiver to hold the security subject to such disposition thereof as shall be provided in a further order of the court to be made and entered in the foreclosure action, in accordance with the provisions of section 7-105 of the general obligations law.

3.
In a city with a population of one million or more persons an order appointing a receiver to receive the rents and profits of a multiple dwelling shall provide that the receiver:

(a)
register with any municipal department as provided by applicable law; and

(b)
expend rents and income and profits as described in subdivision two of this section, except that a priority shall be given to the correction of immediately hazardous and hazardous violations of housing maintenance laws within the time set by orders of any municipal department, or, if not practicable, seek a postponement of the time for compliance.

Source:
Section 1325 — Receiver, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/1325 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
