SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_actions_&_proceedings_law_section_1351
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/1351 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Actions & Proceedings Law Section 1351

Judgment of sale

1.
The judgment shall direct that the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to discharge the mortgage debt, the expenses of the sale and the costs of the action, and which may be sold separately without material injury to the parties interested, be sold by or under the direction of the sheriff of the county, or a referee within ninety days of the date of the judgment. The judgment shall also include the name and telephone number of the mortgage servicer for a plaintiff involving a mortgage foreclosure of a one- to four-family residential property.

2.
Where the mortgage debt is not all due, and the mortgaged property is so circumstanced that it can be sold in parcels without injury to the interests of the parties, the final judgment shall direct that no more of the property be sold in the first place than is sufficient to satisfy the sum then due, with the costs of the action and expenses of the sale. Upon a subsequent default in the payment of principal or interest the plaintiff may apply for an order directing the sale of the residue, or of so much thereof as is necessary to satisfy the amount then due, with the costs of the application and the expenses of the sale. The plaintiff may apply for and obtain such an order as often as a default happens. If it appears that the mortgaged property is so circumstanced that a sale of the whole will be most beneficial to the parties, the final judgment may direct that the whole property be sold discharged from the entire mortgage debt and that the proceeds of the sale, after deducting the costs of the action and the expenses of the sale, be either applied to the satisfaction of the whole sum secured by the mortgage, with such a rebate of interest as justice requires; or be first applied to the payment of the sum due, and the balance, or so much thereof as is necessary, be invested at interest for the benefit of the plaintiff, to be paid to him from time to time as any part of the principal or interest becomes due, or may, at the option of the mortgagee, direct that the whole property be sold to satisfy the debt then due with the costs of the action and expenses of the sale, subject to the continuing lien of the mortgage for the amount of the debt not then due and unpaid according to its terms. The provisions of this section shall not limit or affect the plaintiff’s right to judgment and sale in an action specified in section 1315.

3.
If it appears to the satisfaction of the court that there exists no more than one other mortgage on the premisis which is then due and which is subordinate only to the plaintiff’s mortgage but is entitled to priority over all other liens and encumbrances except those described in subdivision 2 of section 1354, upon motion of the holder of such mortgage made without valid objection of any other party, the final judgement may direct payment of the subordinate mortgage debt from the proceeds in accordance with subdivision 3 of section 1354.

Source:
Section 1351 — Judgment of sale, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/1351 (updated Nov. 13, 2020; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
