SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_actions_&_proceedings_law_section_745
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/745 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Actions & Proceedings Law Section 745

Trial

1.
Where triable issues of fact are raised, they shall be tried by the court unless, at the time the petition is noticed to be heard, a party demands a trial by jury, in which case trial shall be by jury. At the time when issue is joined the court, at the request of either party shall adjourn the trial of the issue, not less than fourteen days, except by consent of all parties. A party’s second or subsequent request for adjournment shall be granted in the court’s sole discretion.

2.
In the city of New York:

(a)
In a summary proceeding upon the second of two adjournments granted solely at the request of the respondent, or, upon the sixtieth day after the first appearance of the parties in court less any days that the proceeding has been adjourned upon the request of the petitioner, counting only days attributable to adjournment requests made solely at the request of the respondent and not counting an initial adjournment requested by a respondent unrepresented by counsel for the purpose of securing counsel, whichever occurs sooner, the court may, upon consideration of the equities, direct that the respondent, upon a motion on notice made by the petitioner, deposit with the court sums of rent or use and occupancy that shall accrue subsequent to the date of the court’s order, which may be established without the use of expert testimony. The court shall not order deposit or payment of use and occupancy where the respondent can establish, to the satisfaction of the court that respondent has properly interposed one of the following defenses or established the following grounds:

(i)
the petitioner is not a proper party to the proceeding pursuant to section seven hundred twenty-one of this article; or

(ii)
(A) actual eviction, or (B) actual partial eviction, or (C) constructive eviction; and respondent has quit the premises; or

(iii)
a defense pursuant to section one hundred forty-three-b of the social services law; or

(iv)
a defense based upon the existence of hazardous or immediately hazardous violations of the housing maintenance code in the subject apartment or common areas; or

(v)
a colorable defense of rent overcharge; or

(vi)
a defense that the unit is in violation of the building’s certificate of occupancy or is otherwise illegal under the multiple dwelling law or the New York city housing maintenance code; or

(vii)
the court lacks personal jurisdiction over the respondent. Two adjournments shall not include an adjournment requested by a respondent unrepresented by counsel for the purpose of securing counsel made on a return date of the proceeding. Such rent or use and occupancy sums shall be deposited with the clerk of the court or paid to such other person or entity, including the petitioner or an agent designated by the division of housing and community renewal, as the court shall direct or shall be expended for such emergency repairs as the court shall approve.

(b)
In establishing the monthly amount to be deposited, the court shall not exceed the amount of the regulated rent for the unit under any state, local or federal regulatory scheme, or the amount of the tenant’s rent share under a state, local or federal subsidy program, or the amount of the tenant’s share under an expired subsidy, unless the tenant has entered into an enforceable new agreement to pay the full lease rent.

(c)
(i) The court shall not require the respondent to deposit the portion of rent or use and occupancy, if any, which is payable by direct government housing subsidy, any currently effective senior citizen increase exemption authorized pursuant to sections four hundred sixty-seven-b and four hundred sixty-seven-c of the real property tax law, direct payment of rent or a two-party check issued by a social services district or the office of temporary and disability assistance, or rental assistance that is payable pursuant to court orders issued in litigation commenced in nineteen hundred eighty-seven in a proceeding in which the amount of shelter allowance is at issue on behalf of recipients of family assistance. In the event the respondent or other adult member of the respondent’s household receives public assistance pursuant to title three or title ten of article five of the social services law, the respondent shall, when directed by the court to deposit rent and use or occupancy, only be required to deposit with the court the amount of the shelter allowance portion of the public assistance grant issued by the office of temporary and disability assistance or a social services district. In the event the respondent receives a fixed income, including but not limited to, social security income, supplemental security income pursuant to title sixteen of the federal social security act and title six of article five of the social services law, or pension income, the respondent shall not be required to deposit more than thirty percent of the monthly payments.

(ii)
Any sum required to be deposited with the court pursuant to this subdivision shall be offset by payment, if any, made by the respondent pursuant to section two hundred thirty-five-a of the real property law or section three hundred two-c of the multiple dwelling law.

(d)
(i) In the event that the respondent fails to deposit with the court or pay, as the case may be, upon the due date, all rent or use and occupancy which may become due subsequent to the issuance of the court’s deposit order, the court upon an application of the petitioner may order an immediate trial of the issues raised in the respondent’s answer. An “immediate trial” shall mean that no further adjournments of the proceeding upon respondent’s sole request shall be granted, the case shall be assigned by the administrative judge to a trial ready part and such trial shall commence as soon as practicable and continue day to day until completed.

(ii)
The court may extend any time provided for such deposit under this subdivision for good cause shown.

(iii)
Upon the entry of the final judgment in the proceeding such deposits shall be credited against any judgment amount awarded and, without further order of the court, be paid in accordance with the judgment.

(e)
The court may dismiss any summary proceeding without prejudice and with costs to the respondent by reason of excessive adjournments requested by the petitioner.

(f)
Under no circumstances shall the respondent’s failure or inability to pay use and occupancy as ordered by the court constitute a basis to dismiss any of the respondent’s defenses or counterclaims, with or without prejudice to their assertion in another forum.

Source:
Section 745 — Trial, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/745 (updated Jul. 26, 2019; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
