SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_actions_&_proceedings_law_section_753
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/753 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Actions & Proceedings Law Section 753

Stay in premises occupied for dwelling purposes

1.
In a proceeding to recover the possession of premises occupied for dwelling purposes, other than a room or rooms in an hotel, lodging house, or rooming house, the court, on application of the occupant, may stay the issuance of a warrant and also stay any execution to collect the costs of the proceeding for a period of not more than one year, if it appears that the premises are used for dwelling purposes; that the application is made in good faith; that the applicant cannot within the neighborhood secure suitable premises similar to those occupied by the applicant and that the applicant made due and reasonable efforts to secure such other premises, or that by reason of other facts it would occasion extreme hardship to the applicant or the applicant’s family if the stay were not granted. In determining whether refusal to grant a stay would occasion extreme hardship, the court shall consider serious ill health, significant exacerbation of an ongoing condition, a child’s enrollment in a local school, and any other extenuating life circumstances affecting the ability of the applicant or the applicant’s family to relocate and maintain quality of life. The court shall consider any substantial hardship the stay may impose on the landlord in determining whether to grant the stay or in setting the length or other terms of the stay. In an application brought outside a city of one million or more, the term “neighborhood” shall be construed to mean (i) the same town, village or city where the applicant now resides, or

(ii)
if the applicant has school aged children residing with him or her, “neighborhood” shall mean the school district where such children attend or are eligible to attend.

2.
Such stay shall be granted and continue effective only upon the condition that the person against whom the judgment is entered shall make a deposit in court of the entire amount, or such installments thereof from time to time as the court may direct, for the occupation of the premises for the period of the stay, at the rate for which the applicant was liable as rent for the month immediately prior to the expiration of the applicant’s term or tenancy, plus such additional amount, if any, as the court may determine to be the difference between such rent and the reasonable rent or value of the use and occupation of the premises; such deposit may also include all rent unpaid by the occupant prior to the period of the stay. The amount of such deposit shall be determined by the court upon the application for the stay and such determination shall be final and conclusive in respect to the amount of such deposit, and the amount thereof shall be paid into court, in such manner and in such installments, if any, as the court may direct. A separate account shall be kept of the amount to the credit of each proceeding, and all such payments shall be deposited in a bank or trust company and shall be subject to the check of the clerk of the court, if there be one, or otherwise of the court. The clerk of the court, if there be one, and otherwise the court shall pay to the landlord or the landlord’s duly authorized agent, the amount of such deposit in accordance with the terms of the stay or the further order of the court.

3.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to a proceeding to recover possession upon the ground that an occupant is holding over and is objectionable if the landlord shall establish by competent evidence to the satisfaction of the court that such occupant is objectionable.

4.
In the event that such proceeding is based upon a claim that the tenant or lessee has breached a provision of the lease, the court shall grant a thirty day stay of issuance of the warrant, during which time the respondent may correct such breach.

5.
Any provision of a lease or other agreement whereby a lessee or tenant waives any provision of this section shall be deemed against public policy and void.

Source:
Section 753 — Stay in premises occupied for dwelling purposes, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/753 (updated Jun. 28, 2019; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
