SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_actions_&_proceedings_law_section_796-h
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/796-H (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Actions & Proceedings Law Section 796-H

Judgment

1.
The court shall render a final judgment either:

(a)
Dismissing the petition for failure to affirmatively establish the allegations thereof or because of the affirmative establishment by the owner or a mortgagee or lienor of record of a defense or defenses specified in section seven hundred ninety-six-g of this article; or

(b)
(i) Directing that: (A) the rents due on the date of the entry of such judgment from the petitioning tenants and the rents due on the dates of service of the judgment on all other residential and non-residential tenants occupying such dwelling from such other tenants, shall be deposited with the administrator appointed by the court, pursuant to section seven hundred ninety-six-j of this article; (B) any rents to become due in the future from all tenants occupying such dwelling shall be deposited with such administrator as they come due; (C) such deposited rents shall be used, subject to the court’s direction, to the extent necessary to remedy the condition or conditions alleged in the petition; and (D) upon the completion of such work in accordance with such judgment, any remaining surplus shall be turned over to the owner, together with a complete accounting of the rents deposited and the costs incurred; and

(ii)
granting such other and further relief as to the court may seem just and proper.

2.
(a) A certified copy of such judgment shall be served personally upon each non-petitioning tenant occupying such dwelling. If personal service on any such non-petitioning tenant cannot be made with due diligence, service on such tenant shall be made by affixing a certified copy of such judgment on the entrance door of such tenant’s apartment or other unit and, in addition, within one day after such affixing, by sending a certified copy thereof by registered mail, return receipt requested, to such tenant.

(b)
Any right of the owner of such dwelling to collect such rent moneys from any petitioning tenant of such dwelling on or after the date of entry of such judgment, and from any non-petitioning tenant of such dwelling on or after the date of service of such judgment on such non-petitioning tenant as herein provided, shall be void and unenforceable to the extent that such petitioning or non-petitioning tenant, as the case may be, has deposited such moneys with the administrator in accordance with the terms of such judgment, regardless of whether such right of the owner arises from a lease, contract, agreement or understanding heretofore or hereafter made or entered into or arises as a matter of law from the relationship of the parties or otherwise. It shall be a valid defense in any action or proceeding against any such tenant to recover possession of real property for the non-payment of rent or for use or occupation to prove that the rent alleged to be unpaid was deposited with the administrator in accordance with the terms of a judgment entered under this section.

Source:
Section 796-H — Judgment, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPA/796-H (updated Jun. 16, 2023; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
