SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-2200.17
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 2200.17 - Biennial fees

(a) Every landlord
shall pay a fee of $30 for each controlled housing accommodation in every
building containing housing accommodations subject to these regulations to
obtain an order establishing or adjusting the maximum rent, pursuant to section
2201.4 or 2201.5 of this Title, for each
successive two-year period commencing January 1, 1990. For the purposes of this
section, the number of controlled housing accommodations is the number of such
accommodations shown on the records of the Division of Housing and Community
Renewal, less the number of units for which decontrol orders were issued, or
reports of decontrol were properly filed pursuant to section 42 of the New York
City Rent and Eviction Regulations or section
2203.2 of this Title, on or before
October 1, 1981 or October 1st biennially thereafter for each successive
two-year period.
(b) The fee for
processing and obtaining any order with respect to establishing or adjusting
the maximum rent pursuant to section 2201.4 or
2201.5 of this Title shall be paid
within 30 days of the date of issuance of the landlord's order of eligibility
by the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, which shall in no event be
refunded. In addition to complying with every other requirement of these
regulations applicable to the establishment or adjustment of the maximum rent,
the landlord must pay such fee to be eligible for an order establishing or
adjusting the maximum rent.
(c)
Where a landlord has not paid the fee as required by this section, the
administrator may deny, defer or revoke the order establishing or adjusting the
maximum rent and any increase in the maximum collectible rent for the biennial
period for which the required fee was not paid.
(d) This section shall not apply to any
building with eight or fewer housing accommodations if any housing
accommodations in such building were owner-occupied on October 1st of the year
immediately preceding the biennial period commencing January 1, 1974.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
2200.17
