SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-2200.10
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 2200.10 - Substantial demolition after May 1, 1962

(a) Upon application of the landlord, the
administrator shall issue an order decontrolling all of the housing
accommodations resulting from substantial demolition of a building, provided
that: (1) not less than 50 percent of the
housing after reconstruction shall consist of apartments suitable for occupancy
by larger families, or not less than 50 percent of the total floor area of all
of the housing after reconstruction shall be utilized for apartments suitable
for occupancy by larger families;
(2) all other housing accommodations in the
building shall comply with at least the minimum requirement for a
self-contained family unit, as defined in section
2200.9 of this Part; and
(3) all of the housing accommodations meet
all of the requirements of law and of the city agencies having jurisdiction
thereof, and over the occupancy of such accommodations.
(b) If the building after reconstruction
fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but if all
of the housing accommodations in such building shall comply with at least the
minimum requirements for a self-contained family unit as defined in section
2200.9 of this Part, and if all of
the housing accommodations in such building meet all of the requirements of law
and of the city agencies having jurisdiction thereof, and over the occupancy of
such accommodations, then only those apartments which are suitable for
occupancy by larger families shall be decontrolled, and all other housing
accommodations in such building shall remain subject to control.
(c) The term housing accommodations resulting
from substantial demolition, as used in this section, shall mean any housing
accommodation which is created on or after May 1, 1962 as a result of the
substantial demolition of a multiple dwelling and the reconstruction of such
building in such manner as to retain any portion thereof existing prior to such
demolition, and: (1) which is so created
after the issuance of one or more certificates permitting the eviction of any
tenant or tenants of such multiple dwelling for the purpose of effecting such
demolition where application for such certificates was filed after April 24,
1962; or
(2) where no such
certificates were issued, which was created after the former structure, or any
lesser portion thereof, was vacated on or after November 22, 1963 by voluntary
surrender of possession or in any manner provided in Part 2204 of this
Title.
(d) The term
apartment suitable for occupancy by larger families,as used in this section,
shall mean a housing accommodation with private access, containing four or more
rooms, consisting of at least two bedrooms, a living room/dining room space
area and a kitchen (with cooking and refrigeration facilities and a sink), a
private bathroom (with a washbasin, toilet and bathtub or enclosed shower), and
at least two closets plus an additional closet for each bedroom. Such
accommodations shall contain a minimum total area of 560 square feet, exclusive
of the area of the bathrooms and closets.
(e) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing
provisions of this section, no order shall be issued by the administrator
decontrolling housing accommodations resulting from substantial demolition:
(1) in any building aided by a loan made by
the city under article 8 of the Private Housing Finance Law, so long as maximum
rents are required to be prescribed by the provisions of said article
8;
(2) in any multiple dwelling
with respect to which tax abatement and tax exemption under section J51-2.5 of
the Administrative Code begins after April 30, 1962, until the date on which
such tax abatement or tax exemption terminates, whichever is later;
or
(3) in any building where the
former structure, or any lesser portion thereof, was vacated on or after
November 22, 1963, other than by voluntary surrender of possession or in the
manner provided by Part 2204 of this Title.
(f) Housing accommodations created after May
1, 1962, as a result of the reconstruction of a multiple dwelling which has
been substantially demolished, where no certificates permitting the eviction of
any tenant or tenants of such multiple dwelling for the purpose of effecting
such demolition have been issued, or where application for such certificates
was filed on or before April 24, 1962, shall not require an order of the
administrator decontrolling them and shall not be subject to control pursuant
to section 2200.2(f)(8) of
this Part.
(g) Housing
accommodations decontrolled under this section shall remain decontrolled only
so long as the housing accommodations are not occupied for other than
single-family occupancy.
(h) Any
housing accommodation decontrolled under this section shall become subject to
control if, while in such decontrolled status, it is certified, by a city
agency having jurisdiction, to be a fire hazard or in a continued dangerous
condition or detrimental to life or health; and once subject to control, it
shall continue to be subject to control, notwithstanding the subsequent removal
of the conditions on which such certification was based.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
2200.10
