SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-2520.6
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 2520.6 - Definitions

(a) Housing
accommodation. That part of any building or structure, occupied or intended to
be occupied by one or more individuals as a residence, home, dwelling unit or
apartment, and all services, privileges, furnishings, furniture and facilities
supplied in connection with the occupation thereof. The term housing
accommodation will also apply to any plot or parcel of land which had been
regulated pursuant to the City of Rent Law prior to July 1, 1971, and which
became subject to the RSL after June 30, 1974.
(b) Hotel. Any Class A or Class B multiple
dwelling which provides all of the services included in the rent as set forth
in section 2521.3 of this Title.
(c) Rent. Consideration, charge, fee or other
thing of value, including any bonus, benefit or gratuity demanded or received
for, or in connection with, the use or occupation of housing accommodations or
the transfer of alease for such housing accommodations. Rent shall not include
surcharges authorized pursuant to section
2522.10 of this Title nor for the
purposes of any summary eviction proceeding such fees, charges or penalties;
however, any such excess payments even if denominated as fees, charges or
penalties may be considered aviolation under Part 2525 or an overcharge under
Part 2526 of this Code.
(d) Tenant.
Any person or persons named on a lease as lessee or lessees, or who is or are a
party or parties to a rental agreement and obligated to pay rent for the use or
occupancy of a housing accommodation or is entitled to occupy the housing
accommodation as a tenant pursuant to any other provision of this
Code.
(e) Legal regulated rent. The
rent charged on the base date set forth in subdivision (f) of this section,
plus any subsequent lawful increases and adjustments.
(f) Base date. For all purposes other than
for the purpose of proceedings pursuant to sections
2522.3,
2526.1 and
2526.7 of this Title, base date
shall mean the date which is the most recent of:
(1) For claims filed before June 14, 2019,
the date four years prior to the filing date of such claim except where a
special provision of this Code, the RSL or other law required maintenance of
records or review for a longer period.
(2) For claims filed on or after June 14,
2019, the base date shall be June 14, 2015.
(3) The date on which the housing
accommodation first became subject to the RSL; or
(4) April 1, 1984, for complaints filed on or
before March 31, 1988 for housing accommodations for which initial
registrations were required to be filed by June 30, 1984, and for which a
timely challenge was not filed.
(g) Vacancy lease. The first lease or rental
agreement for a housing accommodation that is entered into between an owner and
a tenant.
(h) Renewal lease. Any
extension of a tenant's lawful occupancy of a housing accommodation pursuant to
section 2523.5 of this Title.
(i) Owner. A fee owner, lessor, sublessor,
assignee, net lessee, or a proprietary lessee of a housing accommodation in a
structure or premises owned by a cooperative corporation or association, or an
owner of a condominium unit of the sponsor of such cooperative corporation or
association or condominium development, or any other person or entity receiving
or entitled to receive rent for the use or occupation of any housing
accommodation, or an agent of any of the foregoing, but such agent shall only
commence a proceeding pursuant to section
2524.5 of this Title, in the name
of such foregoing principals. Any separate entity that is owned, in whole or in
part, by an entity that is considered an owner pursuant to this subdivision,
and which provides only utility services shall itself not be considered an
owner pursuant to this subdivision. Except as is otherwise provided in sections
2522.3 and
2526.1(f) of this
Title, a court-appointed receiver shall be considered an owner pursuant to this
subdivision.
(j) Permanent tenant.
For housing accommodations located in hotels, an individual or such
individual's family members residing with such individual, who have
continuously resided in the same building as a principal residence for a period
of at least six months. In addition, a hotel occupant who requests a lease of
six months or more pursuant to section
2522.5(a)(2) of
this Title, or who is in occupancy pursuant to a lease of six months or more
shall be a permanent tenant even if actual occupancy is less than six months.
Unless otherwise specified, reference in this Code to "tenant" shall include
permanent tenant with respect to hotels.
(k) Subtenant or sublessee. Any person
lawfully occupying the housing accommodation pursuant to an agreement with the
tenant by authority of the lease or by virtue of rights afforded pursuant to
section
226-b of
the Real Property Law. Such person shall be entitled to all of the benefits of
and be subject to all of the obligations of this Code except the right to
renew, and the right to purchase upon conversion to cooperative or condominium
ownership.
(l) Occupant. Any person
occupying a housing accommodation as defined in and pursuant to section
235-f of
the Real Property Law. Such person shall not be considered a tenant for the
purposes of this Code.
(m) Hotel
occupant. Any person residing in a housing accommodation in a hotel who is not
a permanent tenant. Such person shall not be considered a tenant for the
purposes of this Code, but shall be entitled to become a permanent tenant as
defined in subdivision (j) of this section, upon compliance with the procedure
set forth in such subdivision.
(n)
Immediate family. A spouse, son, daughter, stepson, stepdaughter, father,
mother, stepfather, stepmother, brother, sister, grandfather, grandmother,
grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law or
daughter-in-law of the owner.
(o)
Family member. (1) A spouse, son, daughter,
stepson, stepdaughter, father, mother, stepfather, stepmother, brother, sister,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law,
mother-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law of the tenant or permanent
tenant.
(2) Any other person
residing with the tenant or permanent tenant in the housing accommodation as a
primary or principal residence, respectively, who can prove emotional and
financial commitment, and interdependence between such person and the tenant or
permanent tenant. Although no single factor shall be soley determinative,
evidence which is to be considered in determining whether such emotional and
financial commitment and interdependence existed, may include, without
limitation, such factors as listed below. In no event would evidence of a
sexual relationship between such persons be required or considered:
(i) longevity of the relationship;
(ii) sharing of or relying upon each other
for payment of household or family expenses, and/or other common necessities of
life;
(iii) intermingling of
finances as evidenced by, among other things, joint ownership of bank accounts,
personal and real property, credit cards, loan obligations, sharing a household
budget for purposes of receiving government benefits, etc.;
(iv) engaging in family-type activities by
jointly attending family functions, holidays and celebrations, social and
recreational activities, etc.;
(v)
formalizing of legal obligations, intentions, and responsibilities to each
other by such means as executing wills naming each other as executor and/or
beneficiary, granting each other a power of attorney and/or conferring upon
each other authority to make health care decisions each for the other, entering
into a personal relationship contract, making a domestic partnership
declaration, or serving as a representative payee for purposes of public
benefits, etc.;
(vi) holding
themselves out as family members to other family members, friends, members of
the community or religious institutions, or society in general, through their
words or actions;
(vii) regularly
performing family functions, such as caring for each other or each other's
extended family members, and/or relying upon each other for daily family
services;
(viii) engaging in any
other pattern of behavior, agreement, or other action which evidences the
intention of creating a long-term, emotionally committed
relationship.
(p) Common Ownership. For the purposes of
Section 2522.4 of this Part, Common
Ownership shall be defined as any identity of interest or relationship based on
family ties or financial interest between the owner/managing agent of a
property and any other entity with which the owner/managing agent conducts
business.
(q) Disabled person.
Except as provided pursuant to section
2523.5(b)(4) of
this Title (Renewal of Lease), a person who has an impairment which results
from anatomical, physiological or psychological conditions, other than
addiction to alcohol, gambling, or any controlled substance, which are
demonstrable by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic
techniques, and which are expected to be permanent and which prevent such
person from engaging in any substantial gainful employment.
(r) Required services.
(1) That space and those services which the
owner was maintaining or was required to maintain on the applicable base dates
set forth below, and any additional space or services provided or required to
be provided thereafter by applicable law. These may include, but are not
limited to, the following: repairs, decorating and maintenance, the furnishing
of light, heat, hot and cold water, elevator services, janitorial services and
removal of refuse.
(2) For housing
accommodations located in hotels in addition to the definition set forth in
paragraph (1) of this subdivision, required services shall also include the
services set forth in section
2521.3 of this Title, and any other
services provided, or required to be provided by applicable law on the
applicable base dates set forth below, including but not limited to telephone
switchboard, bellhop, secretarial, and front desk services.
(3) Ancillary services. That space and those
required services not contained within the individual housing accommodation
which the owner was providing on the applicable base dates set forth below, and
any additional space and services provided or required to be provided
thereafter by applicable law. These may include, but are not limited to, garage
facilities, laundry facilities, recreational facilities, and security. Such
ancillary services are subject to the following provisions:
(i) No owner shall require a tenant or
prospective tenant to lease, rent or pay for an ancillary service, other than
security, as a condition of renting a housing accommodation.
(ii) Where an ancillary service is provided
to a tenant pursuant to a lease or rental agreement separate and apart from the
lease or rental agreement for the housing accommodation occupied by the tenant,
the tenant shall not be required to renew such lease, or rental agreement, for
the ancillary service upon the expiration of such lease or rental
agreement.
(iii) Where an ancillary
service is provided to a tenant pursuant to a lease or rental agreement for a
housing accommodation, whether at a charge separate and apart from the rental
of the housing accommodation, or included in the legal regulated rent, the
tenant may be required to renew the rental term for the ancillary service upon
the renewal of the lease for the housing accommodation. However, where the
owner requires a tenant to continue such ancillary service, the owner may not
unreasonably withhold consent to the tenant to sublet for the term of each
renewal lease, the space or other facility constituting the ancillary
service.
(iv) For housing
accommodations located in hotels, where telephone switchboard service is not
provided or required to be provided pursuant to paragraph (2) of this
subdivision, an owner shall not deny a permanent tenant permission to install a
private telephone, provided that such installation shall not cause undue
economic hardship to the owner, nor shall an owner cause the removal of a pay
telephone from the premises.
(4) The base dates for required services
shall be: (i) for housing accommodations
subject to the RSL on June 30, 1974, for building-wide and individual dwelling
unit services: May 31, 1968;
(ii)
for housing accommodations subject to the RSL pursuant to section
421-a
of the Real Property Tax Law, for building-wide and individual dwelling unit
services: the date of issuance of the initial Certificate of
Occupancy;
(iii) for housing
accommodations subject to the RSL on June 30, 1971, and exempted thereafter as
a result of a vacancy prior to June 30, 1974, for building-wide services: May
31, 1968; for individual dwelling unit services: May 29, 1974;
(iv) for dwelling units which became subject
to the RSL on July 1, 1974, pursuant to section
423 of
the Real Property Tax Law, for building-wide and individual unit services: May
29, 1974, except that for housing accommodations in the Riverton Apartments at
East 138th Street, Manhattan, which became subject to the RSL on July 1, 1974,
pursuant to an initial legal regulated rent date of June 30, 1973, for
building-wide and individual dwelling unit services: June 30, 1973;
(v) for housing accommodations which are
subject to this Code solely as a condition of receiving or continuing to
receive benefits pursuant to section 11-243 (formerly J51-2.5) or 11-244
(formerly J51-5.0) of the Administrative Code of the City of New York, as
amended, for building-wide and individual unit services: January 1, 1976, or
the date of the issuance of a Certificate of Reasonable Cost, whichever is
later;
(vi) for housing
accommodations for which rents are established by governmental agencies
pursuant to the PHFL, or which are first made subject to this Code pursuant to
the PHFL, the building-wide and individual unit services which were required
for approval in connection with the establishment of initial rents pursuant to
the PHFL: the effective date of the initial rents;
(vii) for housing accommodations whose
rentals were previously regulated under the PHFL or any other State or Federal
law, other than the RSL or the City Rent Law: the date such regulation
ends;
(viii) for housing
accommodations contained in Class B multiple dwelling units, including single
room occupancy facilities, rooming houses or rooming units made subject to the
ETPA on June 4, 1981, for building-wide and individual dwelling unit services:
June 4, 1981;
(ix) for housing
accommodations which are first made subject to this Code pursuant to article
7-C of the MDL, for building-wide and individual dwelling unit services: the
effective date of the initial rents established by the Loft Board;
(x) for all other housing accommodations not
subject to the RSL on June 30, 1974, which become subject to the RSL on or
after July 1, 1974 pursuant to the ETPA, for building-wide and individual
dwelling unit services: May 29, 1974;
(xi) A service as defined in paragraph (3) of
this subdivision for which there is or was a separate charge, shall not be
subject to the provisions of this Code where no common ownership between the
operator of such service and the owner exists or existed on the applicable base
date, or at any time subsequent thereto, and such service is or was provided on
the applicable base date and at all times thereafter by an independent
contractor pursuant to a contract or agreement with the owner. Where, however,
on the applicable base date or at any time subsequent thereto, there is or was
a separate charge, and there is or was common ownership, directly or
indirectly, between the operator of such service and the owner, or the service
was provided by the owner, any increase, other than the charge provided in the
initial agreement with a tenant to lease, rent or pay for such service, shall
conform to the applicable rent guidelines rate. However, notwithstanding such
common ownership, where such service was not provided primarily for the use of
tenants in the building or building complex on the applicable base date or at
any time subsequent thereto, such increases shall not be subject to any
guidelines limitations.
(5) Each housing accommodation must be
painted at least once every three years in compliance with title 27 of the
Administrative Code of the City of New York (the Housing Maintenance Code). In
no event shall a tenant be required to pay a painting deposit or to contribute
to the cost of the painting except to the extent the owner agrees to provide
services in connection with the painting which are not required, and the tenant
consents in writing to pay therefor. Any painting deposit previously required
shall be returned to the tenant on renewal of his or her lease.
(s) Documents. Records, books,
accounts, correspondence, memoranda and other documents, and copies, including
microphotographic or electronically stored or transmitted copies, of any of the
foregoing.
(t) Final order. A final
order shall be an order of a rent administrator not appealed to the
commissioner within the period authorized pursuant to section
2529.2 of this Title, or an order
of the commissioner, unless such order remands the proceeding for further
consideration.
(u) Primary
residence. Although no single factor shall be solely determinative, evidence
which may be considered in determining whether a housing accommodation subject
to this Code is occupied as a primary residence shall include, without
limitation, such factors as listed below: (1)
specification by an occupant of an address other than such housing
accommodation as a place of residence on any tax return, motor vehicle
registration, driver's license or other document filed with a public
agency;
(2) use by an occupant of
an address other than such housing accommodation as a voting address;
(3) occupancy of the housing accommodation
for an aggregate of less than 183 days in the most recent calendar year, except
for temporary periods of relocation pursuant to section
2523.5(b)(2) of
this Title; and
(4) subletting of
the housing accommodation.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
2520.6
Amended
New
York State Register November 8, 2023/Volume XLV, Issue 45, eff.
11/8/2023
