SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-2520.5
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 2520.5 - Designations

When used in this Code, unless a different meaning
clearly appears from the context, the following terms shall mean and
include:
(a) RSL. Title 26 of the
Administrative Code of the City of New York, sections 26-501 through 26-520, as
recodified by chapter 907 of the Laws of New York for the year 1985,
constituting the New York City Rent Stabilization Law.
(b) ETPA. The Emergency Tenant Protection Act
of 1974.
(c) State Rent Law. The
New York State Emergency Housing Rent Control Law, commonly referred to as the
State Rent Control Law.
(d) City
Rent Law. Title 26 of the Administrative Code of the City of New York, sections
26-401 through 26-415, as recodified by chapter 907 of the Laws of New York for
the year 1985, constituting the New York City Rent and Rehabilitation Law,
commonly referred to as the City Rent Control Law.
(e) PHFL. The Private Housing Finance
Law.
(f) MDL. The Multiple Dwelling
Law.
(g) City Rent and Eviction
Regulations. Regulations adopted and promulgated by the State Division of
Housing and Community Renewal pursuant to the City Rent Law, Parts 2200-2211 of
Title 9 NYCRR, officially known as the Official Compilation of Codes, Rules and
Regulations of the State of New York.
(h) DHCR. State Division of Housing and
Community Renewal in the Executive Department.
(i) Commissioner. Commissioner of the
DHCR.
(j) City Rent Agency. DHCR as
defined in the City Rent Law.
(k)
HPD. New York City Department of Housing Preservation and
Development.
(l) Loft Board. The
board created in the City of New York pursuant to article 7-C of the MDL, to
resolve complaints of owners of interim multiple dwellings and of residential
occupants of such buildings qualified for the protection of MDL article 7-C,
and to act upon hardship applications made pursuant to such article.
(m) Rent Guidelines Board. The board created
in the City of New York pursuant to the RSL to establish guidelines annually
for rent adjustments for leases or other rental agreements.
(n) Office of Rent Administration. The office
of the DHCR designated by the commissioner to administer the ETPA, the RSL and
the City and State Rent Laws.
(o)
The office of the tenant protection unit (TPU). The office of the DHCR
designated by the commissioner to investigate and prosecute violations of the
ETPA, the RSL and the city and State rent laws. In furtherance of such
designation, the TPU may invoke all authority under the ETPA, RSL, RSC and the
State and city rent laws and the regulations thereunder that inures to the
commissioner, DHCR or the Office of Rent Administration. However, nothing
contained herein shall limit the mission and authority of the Office of Rent
Administration to administer and enforce the ETPA, the RSL, and the city and
State rent laws and all such regulations promulgated thereunder.
(p) District Rent Office. The local rent
administration office of the DHCR for a particular rent area in the City of New
York.
(q) Rent Administrator. The
person designated by the commissioner to issue orders based on complaints or
applications made to the DHCR.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
2520.5
