SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-466.6
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 466.6 - Access to personal information

(a) Purpose and scope.
(1) It is the responsibility and the intent
of the agency to fully comply with the provisions of article 6-A of the Public
Officers Law, the Personal Privacy Protection Law.
(2) The agency shall maintain in its records
only such personal information that is relevant and necessary to accomplish a
purpose of the agency that is required to be accomplished by statute or
executive order, or to implement a program specifically authorized by
law.
(3) Personal information will
be collected, whenever practicable, directly from the person to whom the
information pertains.
(4) The
agency seeks to ensure that all records pertaining to or used with respect to
individuals are accurate, relevant, timely and complete.
(5) These regulations provide information
regarding the procedure by which members of the public may assert rights
granted by the Personal Privacy Protection Law.
(b) Designation of privacy compliance
officer. (1) The privacy compliance officer
for the division is the division's freedom of information officer. This
business address is: One Fordham Plaza, Bronx, New York 10458.
(2) The privacy compliance officers is
responsible for:(i) assisting a data subject
in identifying and requesting personal information, if necessary;
(ii) describing the contents of systems of
records orally or in writing in order to enable a data subject to learn if a
system of records includes a record or personal information identifiable to a
data subject requesting such record or personal information;
(iii) taking one of the following actions
upon locating the record sought: (a) make the
record available for inspection, in a printed form without codes or symbols,
unless an accompanying document explaining such codes or symbols is also
provided;
(b) permit the data
subject to copy the record; or
(c)
deny access to the record in whole or in part and explain in writing the
reasons therefor;
(iv)
making a copy available, upon request, upon payment of or offer to pay
established fees, if any, or permitting the data subject to copy the
records;
(v) upon request,
certifying that a copy of record is a true copy; or
(vi) certifying, upon request, that:
(a) the agency does not have possession of
the record sought;
(b) the agency
cannot locate the record sought after having made a diligent search;
or
(c) the information sought
cannot be retrieved by use of the description thereof, or by use of the name or
other identifier of the data subject without extraordinary search methods being
employed by the agency.
(c) Proof of identity.
(1) When a request is made in person, or when
records are made available in person following a request made by mail, the
agency may require appropriate identification, such as a driver's license, a
photograph or similar information that confirms that the record sought pertains
to the data subject.
(2) When a
request is made by mail, the agency may require verification of a signature by
appropriate identification.
(3)
Proof of identity shall not be required regarding a request for a record
accessible to the public pursuant to article 6 of the Public Officers
Law.
(d) Location.
(1) Records shall be made available at the
main office of the agency, which is located at: One Fordham Plaza, Bronx, New
York 10458.
(2) Whenever
practicable, records shall be made available at a regional office most
convenient to a data subject. Regional offices are located throughout the
State, the addresses for which may be obtained from the main office of the
agency.
(e) Hours for
public inspection and copying. The agency shall accept requests for records and
produce records during regular business hours, which are 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. on
weekdays.
(f) Requests for records.
(1) All requests shall be made in writing,
except that the agency may make records available upon an oral request made in
person after the applicant has demonstrated proof of identity.
(2) A request shall reasonably describe the
record sought. Whenever possible, the data subject should supply identifying
information that assists the agency in locating the records sought.
(3) Requests based upon categories of
information described in a notice of a system of records or a privacy impact
statement shall be deemed to reasonably describe the record sought.
(4) Within five business days of the receipt
of a request, the agency shall provide access to the record, deny access in
writing explaining the reasons therefor, or acknowledge the receipt of the
request in writing, stating the approximate date when the request will be
granted or denied, which date shall not exceed 30 days from the date of the
acknowledgment.
(g)
Amendment of records. Within 30 business days of a request from a data subject
for correction or amendment of a record or personal information that is
reasonably described and that pertains to the data subject, the agency shall:
(1) make the amendment or correction in whole
or in part and inform the data subject that, on request, such correction or
amendment will be provided to any person or governmental unit to which the
record or personal information has been or is disclosed pursuant to paragraph
(d), (i) or (l) of subdivision 1 of section 96 of the Public Officers Law; or
(2) inform the data subject in writing of is
refusal to correct or amend the record, including the reasons
therefor.
(h) Denial of
request for a record or amendment or correction of a record or personal
information. (1) Denial of a request for
records or amendment or correction of a record or personal information:
(i) shall be in writing, explaining the
reasons therefor; and
(ii)
identifying the person to whom an appeal may be directed.
(2) A failure to grant or deny access to
records within five business days of the receipt of a request or within 30 days
of an acknowledgment or the receipt of a request, or a failure to respond to a
request for amendment or correction of a record within 30 business days of
receipt of such a request, shall be construed as a denial that may be
appealed.
(3) Any such denial may
be appealed to the commissioner, who may decide the appeal him/herself or refer
it to General Counsel, One Fordham Plaza, Bronx, New York 10458.
(i) Appeal.
(1) Any person denied access to a record or
denied a request to amend or correct a record or personal information pursuant
to subdivision (h) of this section may, within 30 days of such denial, appeal
to the commissioner.
(2) The time
for deciding an appeal shall commence upon receipt of an appeal that
identifies: (i) the date and location of a
request for a record or amendment or correction of a record or personal
information;
(ii) the record that
is the subject of the appeal; and
(iii) the name and return address of the
appellant.
(3) Within
seven business days of an appeal of a denial of access, or within 30 days of an
appeal concerning a denial of a request for correction or amendment, the person
determining such appeals shall: (i) provide
access to or correct or amend the record or personal information; or
(ii) fully explain in writing the factual and
statutory reasons for further denial and inform the data subject of the right
to seek judicial review of such determination pursuant to article 78 of the
Civil Practice Law and Rules.
(4) If, on appeal, a record or personal
information is corrected or amended, the data subject shall be informed that,
on request, the correction or amendment will be provided to any person or
governmental unit to which the record or personal information has been or is
disclosed pursuant to paragraph (d), (i) or (l) of subdivision 1 of section 96 of the Public Officers Law.
(5) The agency shall immediately forward to
the Committee on Open Government a copy of any appeal made pursuant to this
Part upon receipt, the determination thereof and the reasons therefor at the
time of such determination.
(j) Statement of disagreement by data
subject. (1) If correction or amendment of a
record or personal information is denied in whole or in part upon appeal, the
determination rendered pursuant to the appeal shall inform the data subject of
the right to: (i) file with the agency a
statement of reasonable length setting forth the data subject's reasons for
disagreement with the determination;
(ii) request that such a statement of
disagreement be provided to any person or governmental unit to which the record
has been or is disclosed pursuant to paragraph (d), (i) or (l) of subdivision 1
of section 96 of the Public Officers Law.
(2) Upon receipt of a statement of
disagreement by a data subject, the agency shall:
(i) clearly note any portions of the record
that are disputed; and
(ii) attach
the data subject's statement as part of the record.
(3) When providing a data subject's statement
of disagreement to a person or governmental unit in conjunction with a
disclosure made pursuant to paragraph (d), (i) or (l) of subdivision 1 of
section 96 of the Public Officers Law, the agency may
also include a concise statement of its reasons for not making the requested
amendment or correction.
(k) Fees.
(1) Unless otherwise prescribed by statute,
there shall be no fee charged for: (i)
inspection of records;
(ii) search
for records; or
(iii) any
certification pursuant to this Part.
(2) Unless otherwise prescribed by statute,
copies of records shall be provided: (i) at a
fee in the amount prescribed by section 87 of the Freedom of Information Act;
or
(ii) upon payment of the actual
cost of reproduction, if the record or personal information cannot be
photocopied.
(3) The
actual cost of reproduction shall be based upon the average unit cost for
copying a record, excluding fixed costs of the agency, such as operator
salaries and overhead.
(l) Severability. If any provision of this
section or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is adjudged
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or
impair the validity of the other provisions of this section or the application
thereof to other persons and circumstances.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
466.6
