SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-466.13
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 466.13 - Discrimination on the basis of gender identity or expression

(a) Statutory Authority. Pursuant to N.Y.
Executive Law § 295.5, it is a power and a duty of the Division to adopt,
promulgate, amend and rescind suitable rules and regulations to carry out the
provisions of the N.Y. Executive Law, article 15 (Human Rights Law).
(b) Definitions.
(1) Gender identity or expression means a
person's actual or perceived gender-related identity, appearance, behavior,
expression or other gender-related characteristic regardless of the sex
assigned to that person at birth, including, but not limited to, the status of
being transgender.
(2) A
transgender person is an individual who has a gender identity or expression
different from the sex assigned to that individual at birth.
(3) Gender dysphoria is a recognized medical
condition related to an individual having a gender identity or expression
different from the sex assigned at birth.
(c) Gender identity or expression is a
protected category defined in the Human Rights Law, and discrimination on the
basis of gender identity or expression is unlawful in all areas of jurisdiction
covered by the Human Rights Law.
(d) Discrimination on the basis of gender
identity or expression is also sex discrimination.
(1) The term "sex" when used in the Human
Rights Law includes gender identity or expression and the status of being
transgender.
(2) The prohibitions
contained in the Human Rights Law against discrimination on the basis of sex,
in all areas of jurisdiction where sex is a protected category, also prohibit
discrimination on the basis of gender identity or expression or the status of
being transgender.
(3) Harassment
on the basis of a person's gender identity or expression or the status of being
transgender is sexual harassment.
(e) Discrimination on the basis of gender
dysphoria or other condition meeting the definition of disability in the Human
Rights Law set out below is disability discrimination.
(1) The term "disability" as defined in Human
Rights Law § 292.21, means (a) a physical,
mental or medical impairment resulting from anatomical, physiological, genetic
or neurological conditions which prevents the exercise of a normal bodily
function or is demonstrable by medically accepted clinical or laboratory
diagnostic techniques or
(b) a
record of such an impairment or
(c) a condition regarded by others as such an
impairment, provided, however, that in all provisions of this article dealing
with employment, the term shall be limited to disabilities which, upon the
provision of reasonable accommodations, do not prevent the complainant from
performing in a reasonable manner the activities involved in the job or
occupation sought or held.
(2) The term "disability" when used in the
Human Rights Law includes gender dysphoria or other condition meeting the
definition of disability in the Human Rights Law set out above.
(3) The prohibitions contained in the Human
Rights Law against discrimination on the basis of disability, in all areas of
jurisdiction where disability is a protected category, also prohibit
discrimination on the basis of gender dysphoria or other condition meeting the
definition of disability in the Human Rights Law set out above.
(4) Refusal to provide reasonable
accommodation for persons with gender dysphoria or other condition meeting the
definition of disability in the Human Rights Law set out above, where requested
and necessary, and in accordance with the Divisions regulations on reasonable
accommodation found at 9 NYCRR §
466.11,
is disability discrimination.
(5)
Harassment on the basis of a person's gender dysphoria or other condition
meeting the definition of disability in the Human Rights Law set out above is
harassment on the basis of disability.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
466.13
Adopted
New
York State Register January 20, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 03,
eff. 1/20/2016
Amended
New
York State Register June 24, 2020/Volume XLII, Issue 25, eff.
6/24/2020
