SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-466.7
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 466.7 - Public access to records

(a)
Public index. Pursuant to section 87.3 of the Freedom of Information Law, the
division shall maintain and make available to the public an index of records. A
copy of said index may be obtained from any office of the division during
regular office hours.
(b) Request
for records. Any person may request to inspect and copy any record in the
division's custody which is required to be made available. Such request shall
be in writing and sent to the division by mail, facsimile or electronic mail. A
form is available on the division's website, www.dhr.state.ny.us.
(c) Inspection of records. Whenever feasible,
records are to be made available for inspection at the division office where
the request therefor was made. If the requested record is not located at such
office, the request form shall be forwarded to the central office, which shall
arrange for inspection. Inspection shall be permitted during regular office
hours.
(d) Fees.
(1) Unless otherwise prescribed by statute,
there shall be no fee charged for: (i)
inspection of records;
(ii) search
for records; or
(iii) any
certification pursuant to this Part.
(2) Unless otherwise prescribed by statute,
copies of records shall be provided: (i) at a
fee in the amount prescribed by section 87 of the Freedom of Information Act;
or
(ii) upon payment of the actual
cost of reproduction, if the record or personal information cannot be
photocopied.
(3) The
actual cost of reproduction shall be based upon the average unit cost for
copying a record, excluding fixed costs of the agency, such as operator
salaries and overhead.
(4) If a
copy of the transcript of a public hearing is requested, the division shall
refer the applicant to the reporting service.
(e) Appeal of denial of record. Any person
denied access to a requested record may, within 30 days, appeal in writing to
the commissioner. The commissioner may decide the appeal himself or herself or
refer it to general counsel. If the commissioner or general counsel denies
access to the requested record, his/her reasons shall be explained fully in
writing within seven business days of the time of the appeal.
(f) Designation of records access officer.
The records access officer for the division is the division's freedom of
information officer. His/her business address is: One Fordham Plaza, Bronx, New
York 10458.
(g) Duty of
administrative officer. The administrative officer of the division shall
maintain a record setting forth the name, public office address, title and
salary of every officer or employee of the division, as required by section
87.3(b) of the Freedom of Information Law. He/she shall respond to and comply
with requests for any such record made pursuant to the Freedom of Information
Law. His/her business address is: One Fordham Plaza, Bronx, NY 10458.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
466.7
