SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-466.16
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 466.16 - Provision of notice regarding discrimination based on lawful source of income

(a)
Statutory Authority. Pursuant to N.Y. Executive Law section 295.5, it is a
power and a duty of the Division to adopt, promulgate, amend and rescind
suitable rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of the N.Y.
Executive Law, article 15 (Human Rights Law) and pursuant to New York Executive
Law section 170-e, the New York State Division of Human Rights "shall
promulgate regulations requiring any state, county, municipal or other
governmental entity. . . or any agency or instrumentality of such an entity,
and any public or private non-profit entity authorized to administer any public
housing program or assistance. . . to ensure that individuals who have applied
for and are eligible to receive such assistance, payment, subsidy or credit are
informed, in writing, of their rights and remedies available under law, with
regard to lawful source of income discrimination...." as such rights are
provided for in Human Rights Law sections 296.2 -a and 296.5.
(b) Effective date. The regulation will be
effective upon publication of a Notice of Adoption in the New York State
Register.
(c) Definitions.
(1) "Public housing program or assistance"
shall mean: section eight housing choice vouchers, or any form of federal,
state or local government-sponsored housing assistance, payment, subsidy or
credit paid to a tenant or applicant for housing, or to a housing provider on
behalf of a tenant or applicant for housing. For the avoidance of doubt, this
term shall not include project-based rental assistance or housing units that
have income-based eligibility restrictions, such as those developed with
low-income housing tax credits and public housing units.
(2) "Lawful source of income" shall include,
but not be limited to: child support, alimony, foster care subsidies, income
derived from social security, or any form of federal, state, or local public
assistance or housing assistance including, but not limited to, section 8
vouchers, or any other form of housing assistance payment or credit whether or
not such income or credit is paid or attributed directly to a landlord, and any
other forms of lawful income.
(3)
"Housing provider" as referenced in the sample notice shall mean:
(i) "the owner, lessee, sub-lessee, assignee,
or managing agent of, or other person having the right to sell, rent or lease a
housing accommodation, constructed or to be constructed, or any agent or
employee thereof" as set forth in Human Rights Law section 296.5; or
(ii) "the owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, or managing agent of publicly-assisted housing accommodations or
other person having the right of ownership or possession of or the right to
rent or lease such accommodations" as set forth in Human Rights Law section
296.2 -a.
(4) "Housing" or
"housing accommodation" as referenced in the sample notice includes "any
building, structure, or portion thereof which is used or occupied or is
intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied, as the home, residence
or sleeping place of one or more human beings" as set forth in Human Rights Law
section 292.10.
(5)
"Publicly-assisted housing accommodations" as referenced in the sample notice
shall include: (i) "public housing" as set
forth in Human Rights Law section 292.10(a);
(ii) "housing operated by housing companies
under the supervision of the commissioner of housing" as set forth in Human
Rights Law section 292.10(b); or
(iii) other publicly-assisted housing as
described in Human Rights Law section 292.10(c), (d) and
(e).
(d)
Actions required by Executive Law section 170-e.
(1) Entities that administer any Public
housing program or assistance, as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c)
of this section, must provide notice, as provided for in this regulation, to
all recipients of Public housing vouchers or assistance in following manner:
(i) For current Public housing program or
assistance recipients, within thirty days after the effective date of this
regulation.
(ii) For individuals who
receive Public housing program or assistance benefits after the effective date
of this regulation, upon notification such individual qualifies for the voucher
or assistance.
(iii) In writing, and
in 14 point or other easily legible font.
(iv) By email, text, electronic messaging
system, facsimile, or hardcopy. An electronic communication containing a link
to the notice required pursuant to this regulation shall be permissible,
provided the communication also contains text to inform the prospective tenant
that the link contains information regarding lawful source of income
discrimination. The notice must be available for printing and
downloading.
(v) Where such
communication is in paper form, the notice must be included within such
communication..
(vi) May be
accomplished by including the notice in or with other written communications
routinely provided to voucher or assistance recipients.
(vii) Oral disclosure does not satisfy the
requirements imposed by this section.
(viii) "Posting" of the notice either on
paper, on a bulletin board, or on an electronic bulletin board or notice area,
does not satisfy the requirements imposed by this section.
(2) In addition to the delivery of notice
above, all entities that administer housing programs or assistance shall
provide notice on all websites created and maintained by such entities by
prominently and conspicuously displaying on the homepage of such website a link
to the Division's notice as required by this regulation which shall be made
available by the Division.
(3) The
notice is to advise individuals of their right to nondiscrimination based on
lawful source of income in housing pursuant to Human Rights Law section 296.2
-a (publicly-assisted housing) or Human Rights Law section 296.5 (private
housing).
(e) Content of
the required notice. The following shall be deemed sufficient notice when
provided to the individual to be notified.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
466.16
Adopted
New
York State Register August 17,2022/Volume XLIV, Issue 33, eff.
8/17/2022
