SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-466.8
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 466.8 - Discrimination on the basis of sex or marital status in extension of credit

(a) Inquiries
concerning marital history, status and number of dependents. For purposes of
Executive Law, section
296-a(1)(c), it shall not
be considered an expression of limitation, specifications or discrimination on
the basis of sex or marital status if: (1) a
creditor requires an applicant to disclose the name or names by which he or she
has previously been known, provided that this information is used solely to
determine the applicant's identity and previous credit history;
(2) where application is made for a mortgage
and the creditor determines that the signature of the spouse is required in
order to pass clear title in the event of a default, a creditor requests
information concerning marital status, provided that the information disclosed
by such inquiry is used solely for the purpose of perfecting title;
(3) a creditor inquires as to the number of
the applicant's dependents, provided that the information disclosed by such
inquiry is used solely to determine costs and expenses payable by the
applicant.
(b) Statement
of reasons for rejection. For purposes of Executive Law, section
296-a(4)(a), a statement
of the specific reasons for rejection of an application for credit shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section if it is a clear and meaningful
statement of all of the factors which justified rejection.
(c) Attribution of past joint obligations.
For purposes of Executive Law, section
296-a(4)(b), a response
to a request for a separate credit history, made after July 15, 1974, shall
include all obligations, whenever entered into, as to which the creditor or
credit reporting bureau then has information in its files. In creating such a
separate history, all obligations on which two parties were jointly liable
shall be reported as the obligation of each, irrespective of the actual source
of payments.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
466.8
