SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-466.3
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 466.3 - Posting of notices concerning housing accommodations and commercial space

(a) Notices at
housing accommodations. (1) Every person
being the owner, lessee, sublessee, assignee, or managing agent of housing
accommodations subject to the Human Rights Law, shall post and maintain at such
accommodations, notices furnished by the Division of Human Rights, indicating
the substantive provisions of the Human Rights Law relative to housing
accommodations, the place where complaints may be filed and such other
information as the Division of Human Rights deems pertinent.
(2) Such notices must be posted conspicuously
in easily accessible and well- lighted places at the housing accommodations,
where they may be readily observed by those seeking such housing accommodations
and/or facilities or services in connection therewith.
(b) Notices at sites of commercial space.
(1) Every person being the owner, lessee,
sublessee or managing agent of commercial space, subject to the Human Rights
Law, shall post and maintain it at the site of such commercial space, notices
furnished by the Division of Human Rights, indicating the substantive
provisions of the Human Rights Law relative to commercial space, the place
where complaints may be filed and such other information as the Division of
Human Rights deems pertinent.
(2)
Such notices must be posted conspicuously in easily accessible and well-lighted
places at the site of such commercial space where they may be readily observed
by those seeking such commercial space or the facilities or services in
connection therewith.
(c) Notices at real estate offices.
(1) Every person being a real estate broker
or real estate salesman who has an office or office space in which he conducts
his real estate transactions shall display and maintain at such office or in
such office space notices furnished by the Division of Human Rights, indicating
the substantive provisions of the Human Rights Law relative to housing
accommodations and commercial space, the place where complaints may be filed
and such other information as the Division of Human Rights deems
pertinent.
(2) Such notices must be
posted conspicuously at the real estate offices in easily accessible and
well-lighted places, where the notices may be readily observed by those seeking
housing accommodations or commercial space.
(d) Notices at lending institutions.
(1) Every bank, trust company, private
banker, savings bank, industrial bank, savings and loan association, credit
union, investment company, mortgage company, insurance company or other
financial or lending institution, subject to the Human Rights Law, shall post
and maintain at its public offices, notices furnished by the Division of Human
Rights indicating the substantive provisions of the Human Rights Law relative
to the financing of housing accommodations and commercial space, the place
where complaints may be filed and such other information as the Division of
Human Rights deems pertinent.
(2)
Such notices must be posted conspicuously in easily accessible and well-lighted
places in the public offices of such institutions where they may be readily
observed by those seeking financial assistance.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
466.3
