SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-540.4
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 540.4 - Electronic signatures

(a) The use of an
electronic signature as defined in ESRA shall have the same validity and effect
as the use of a signature affixed by hand.
(b) In accordance with ESRA, an electronic
signature is an electronic sound, symbol, or process, attached to or logically
associated with an electronic record and executed or adopted by a person with
the intent to sign the record. An electronic signature is considered to be
"attached to or logically associated with an electronic record" if the
electronic signature is linked to the record during transmission and
storage.
(c) A governmental entity
shall complete and document a business analysis and risk assessment when
selecting an electronic signature to be used or accepted by that governmental
entity in an electronic transaction. A governmental entity may elect to
collaborate with other governmental entities in the completion and
documentation of a business analysis and risk assessment when selecting an
electronic signature for use or acceptance in an electronic transaction common
to such governmental entities. A governmental entity may elect to adopt an
existing business analysis and risk assessment completed and documented by
another governmental entity when selecting an electronic signature for use or
acceptance in the same type of electronic transaction to which the existing
business analysis and risk assessment applies.
(d) Where a governmental entity agrees to use
or accept an electronic signature that involves the services of a certification
authority, the certification authority shall meet the following standards and
operating practices: (1) produce and maintain
a certification practice statement or other documents containing, but not
limited to, the following information: (i)
community and applicability--describing the types of entities that the
certificate authority certifies and the applications for which certificates may
be used, and any restrictions relating to their use;
(ii) identification and authentication
policy--the policies used to bind a public key to an individual, including
those policies addressing initial registration, reissuing a certificate with a
new public key, reissuing a certificate with a new public key after revocation,
revocation request and how name disputes, if any, are resolved;
(iii) key management policy--describing the
security measures taken by the certificate authority to protect its
cryptographic keys and critical security parameters including the life- cycle
management of keys from generation, through storage and usage, to archiving and
destruction;
(iv) local security
policy--describing the physical, personnel and procedural controls used by the
certificate authority to perform certificate authority functions securely,
including key generation, user authentication, certificate registration,
certificate revocation, audit, and archival and records management;
(v) technical security policy--describing the
software, hardware and network security controls used by a certificate
authority to perform certificate authority functions including key generation,
user authentication, certificate registration, certificate revocation, audit,
and archival and records management;
(vi) operations policy--describing the
frequency of routine certificate revocation list (CRL) issuance, frequency of
special CRL issuance (e.g., key compromise CRL), and frequency of certificate
authority key changeover;
(vii)
legal provisions--describing the liability and obligations of the parties. This
information must be prominently displayed in the documents required by this
paragraph;
(viii) certificate and
CRL standards--describing the standards, versions and data included;
(ix) policy administration--defining the
authority that is responsible for the registration, maintenance and
interpretation of policy including contact information and practice statement
change procedures;
(x) audit
policy--describing the type and frequency of internal and external
audits;
(xi) personal privacy
policy--reciting the certification authority's statutory obligation to maintain
the confidentiality of personal information in accordance with the provisions
of subdivision 2 of section
308 of the
State Technology Law and section
540.6 of this Part;
(2) make the certification
practice statement or other documents maintained in accordance with paragraph
(1) of this subdivision available to any person who requests the
same;
(3) have an audit performed
by a certified public accounting firm that reports on the policies and
procedures of the certification authority as set forth and maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this subdivision, and tests the operational
effectiveness of such procedures during the first year in service to a
governmental entity, and every two years thereafter or when there is material
change to its certification practices, whichever comes first; and
(4) make available to the public the final
opinion letter resulting from an audit performed under paragraph (3) of this
subdivision.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes
R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
540.4
