SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-540.5
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 540.5 - Electronic records

(a) An electronic
record used by a person shall have the same force and effect as those records
not produced by electronic means.
(b) Pursuant to ESRA and this Part,
governmental entities are authorized and empowered to produce, receive, accept,
acquire, record, file, transmit, forward and store electronic records. If any
governmental entity uses electronic records it shall:
(1) ensure that anyone who uses the services
of such governmental entity may obtain access to records as permitted by law,
and may receive copies of such records in paper form in accordance with fees
prescribed by law;
(2) not refuse
to accept hard copy, nonelectronic forms, reports, and other paper documents
for submission or filing, except as otherwise provided by law; and
(3) not require the submission or filing of
any record electronically, except as otherwise provided by law.
(c) All laws applicable to
government records shall be applicable to electronic records maintained by
governmental entities, including, but not limited to, retention, accessibility
and disposition requirements established under the Arts and Cultural Affairs
Law or the Judiciary Law.
(d)
Governmental entities shall employ procedures and controls designed to ensure
the authenticity, integrity, security and, when appropriate, the
confidentiality of electronic records.
(e) Governmental entities using electronic
records shall, in the absence of specific statutory or regulatory requirements,
have the authority to specify the manner and format in which electronic records
will be received, produced, accepted, acquired, recorded, filed, transmitted,
forwarded, acknowledged and stored. For the purposes of ensuring the receipt of
electronic records, governmental entities must designate the receiving
device.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes
R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
540.5
