SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-540.3
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 540.3 - Electronic facilitator

(a) ITS, as
the electronic facilitator, is responsible for administering this Part. In
accordance with ESRA, ITS has the following functions, powers and duties
including, but not limited to: (1) coordinate
and facilitate statewide planning and establish statewide policy on the use of
electronic signatures and records by governmental entities;
(2) request and receive information from
governmental entities enabling ITS to properly carry out its functions, powers
and duties under ESRA and this Part;
(3) identify and evaluate electronic
technologies that meet the ESRA definition of an electronic signature. These
duties shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(i) establish a process to gather information
on, review and evaluate these technologies; and
(ii) disseminate information about criteria
for the selection and use of electronic signature technologies through
preferred technology standards, guidelines and advisory services;
(4) develop guidelines that
identify preferred technology standards, including, but not limited to,
interoperability, consistency, security, confidentiality and privacy of
electronic signatures and records;
(5) periodically review ITS' policies,
technology standards and guidelines to ensure that they are consistent with
national and international standards and current technology and business
practices;
(6) review and
coordinate the purchase of technology related to electronic signatures and
records solutions by State agencies. Such review and coordination shall promote
consistency with the goals of interoperability, statewide technology standards,
guidelines, security of confidential records and proper dissemination of public
information;
(7) advise and assist
in developing policies, plans and programs for acquisition, deployment and use
of electronic signature and records technology; and
(8) establish advisory committees, working
groups, or other bodies to assist and advise ITS in carrying out the above
duties and responsibilities.
(b) Governmental entities may define
additional standards for electronic signatures and records after consulting
with ITS to ensure that such standards are consistent with ESRA and this
Part.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes
R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
540.3
Amended
New
York State Register April 4, 2018/Volume XL, Issue 14, eff.
4/4/2018
