SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-540.1
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 540.1 - Purpose, intent and applicability

(a)
The purpose of this Part is to establish standards and procedures governing the
use and authentication of electronic signatures and the utilization of
electronic records in accordance with article III of the State Technology Law,
which establishes the Electronic Signatures and Records Act (ESRA). ESRA
requires the Office of Information Technology Services (ITS), as the electronic
facilitator, to establish rules governing the use of electronic signatures and
records. ESRA recognizes the importance of technology to the State and the need
to build a foundation for its acceptance, implementation and use by State
agencies, local government, the private sector and citizens. Consistent with
legislative intent, ESRA establishes that electronic signatures and records
have the same force and effect as signatures and records produced by
nonelectronic means and should be utilized to facilitate both business in, as
well as the business of, New York State.
(b) ESRA and this Part, among other things,
ensure that persons who voluntarily elect to use electronic signatures or
electronic records can do so with confidence that they carry the same force and
effect as nonelectronic signatures and records. Consistent with ESRA and this
Part, parties agreeing to engage in electronic transactions may deploy
electronic signatures and records in a manner that meets their practices and
needs.
(c) New technologies are
frequently being introduced. The intent of this Part is to be flexible enough
to embrace future technologies that comply with ESRA and all other applicable
statutes and regulations. The electronic facilitator shall conduct periodic
reviews of the regulations to ensure that the regulations facilitate and
promote the use of technological advancements and address privacy and
confidentiality issues.
(d) Neither
ESRA nor this Part requires any person to use a document bearing an electronic
signature. Under ESRA and this Part, the use or acceptance of electronic
records by governmental entities is voluntary.
(e) In accordance with ESRA, the use of an
electronic signature as defined in ESRA shall have the same validity and effect
as the use of a signature affixed by hand. Neither ESRA, nor this Part, shall
in whole, or in part, be construed to limit any legal rights or privileges,
contractual or otherwise, that parties may have in the use of electronic
signatures and records.
(f) ESRA
and this Part are designed to, among other things, afford governmental entities
the greatest latitude to determine the most effective protocols for producing,
receiving, accepting, acquiring, recording, filing, transmitting, forwarding
and storing electronic signatures and electronic records within the confines of
existing statutory and regulatory requirements regarding privacy,
confidentiality and records retention.
(g) This Part also establishes standards to
implement chapter 549 of the Laws of 2011 in relation to the electronic
recording of instruments affecting real property by recording officers in New
York State. Chapter 549 amended ESRA to allow for the use and acceptance of
electronic signatures and records with conveyances and other instruments
recordable under article nine of the Real Property Law. Chapter 549 also added
a new section 291-i to the Real Property Law, permitting, but not requiring,
recording officers to participate in electronic recording of instruments
affecting real property. Real Property Law section 291-i requires ITS, as the
electronic facilitator, to promulgate rules and regulations governing the use
and acceptance of digitized paper documents, electronic records and electronic
signatures in the recording of instruments affecting real property. These rules
and regulations are to prescribe standards to ensure that electronic records of
instruments affecting real property documents a re accurate, authentic,
adequately preserved for long-term electronic storage and resistant to
tampering.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes
R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
540.1
Amended
New
York State Register April 4, 2018/Volume XL, Issue 14, eff.
4/4/2018
