SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-540.2
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 540.2 - Definitions

For the purposes of this Part, the terms below have the
following meanings:
(a) Business
analysis and risk assessment means identifying and evaluating various factors
relevant to the selection of an electronic signature for use or acceptance in
an electronic transaction. Such factors include, but are not limited to,
relationships between parties to an electronic transaction, value of the
transaction, risk of intrusion, risk of repudiation of an electronic signature,
risk of fraud, functionality and convenience, business necessity and the cost
of employing a particular electronic signature process.
(b) Certificate means a data structure used
in a public key system to bind a particular authenticated individual to a
particular public key conforming to widely used industry standards.
(c) Certification authority means a trusted
party in a public key system that vouches for the authenticity of the
individual or system in question by issuing certificates that are used for
verification of electronic signatures produced by corresponding private keys.
For purposes of this subdivision, a trusted party that issues certificates
which only the same trusted party uses for electronic signature verification
purposes is not considered a certification authority. A certification authority
is also commonly referred to as a certificate authority.
(d) Certificate revocation list (CRL) means a
publicly available list of certificates that have been revoked before their
expiration date.
(e) Cryptographic
keys means the items of information used by a given algorithm to transform data
into an unreadable format.
(f)
Electronic signatory means the person authorized to generate an electronic
signature.
(g) Electronic
transaction means an action or set of actions occurring through the use of
electronic technology by or with a governmental entity.
(h) Governmental entity means any State
department, board, bureau, division, commission, committee, public authority,
public benefit corporation, council, office, or other governmental entity or
officer of the State having statewide authority, except the State Legislature,
and any political subdivision of the State.
(i) Material change means a substantial
change in the operating practices of a certification authority that affects the
issuance, revocation, security, disposition, and any other aspect of the
management of a certificate.
(j)
Person means a natural person, corporation, trust, estate, partnership,
incorporated or unincorporated association or any other legal entity and also
includes any department, agency, authority, or instrumentality of the State or
its political subdivisions.
(k)
Public key, for purposes of public key cryptography, means the key made public
for encryption.
(l) Receiving
device means any physical or virtual point capable of receiving electronic
records including, but not limited to, a website, e-mail address, hardware
device or application.
(m)
Electronic recording means an electronic process by which digitized paper
documents or electronic records affecting real property are delivered to a
recording officer for incorporation into the public record.
(n) PRIA means the Property Records Industry
Association, located at 110 Horizon Drive, Suite 210, Raleigh, NC
27615.
(o) Recording officer means
the county clerk of the county, except in a county having a register, where it
means the register of the county.
(p) Registered submitter is a person whose
identity has been verified and authenticated by a recording officer prior to
the submission of digitized paper documents or electronic records to the
recording officer for electronic recording.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes
R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
540.2
Amended
New
York State Register April 4, 2018/Volume XL, Issue 14, eff.
4/4/2018
