SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/9-NYCRR-540.7
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 9 § 540.7 - Electronic recording of instruments affecting real property

(a) Electronic
recording of instruments affecting real property shall, at a minimum, meet the
following technical standards and guidelines prescribed by PRIA: PRIA Request
Version 2.4.2, August 2007; PRIA Response Version 2.4.2, August 2007; Document
Version 2.4.1, October 2007; Notary Version 2.4.1, October 2007; and eRecording
XML Implementation Guide for Version 2.4.1, Revision 2, March 2007,
(collectively, "PRIA Guidelines"), which guidelines are hereby incorporated by
reference. PRIA Guidelines may be found on the PRIA website at: www.pria.us,
and may be viewed at the New York State Office of Information Technology
Services, Empire State Plaza, Swan Street Building Core 4, Albany, NY
12223.
(b) A recording officer who
elects to accept electronic recording of instruments affecting real property
shall accept one or more of the models of electronic recording supported by
PRIA. Recording officers who elect to accept a model containing an electronic
signature shall comply with section
540.4(c) and any
other applicable section of this Part.
(c) An instrument affecting real property
submitted to a recording officer for electronic recording shall be submitted
and retained in a freely available, readable and searchable format. The
utilized format must ensure the preservation of the instrument and its contents
and the ability of the instrument to be retrieved in a fashion that prevents
content modification or destruction. Examples of such acceptable formats
include, but are not limited to, PDF/A (an International Organization for
Standardization standardized version of the Portable Document Format) and TIFF
(Tagged Image File Format for Image Technology).
(d) Recording officers who elect to accept
electronic recording of instruments affecting real property shall:
(1) ensure that electronic recording complies
with the security principles identified in chapter 6 of the PRIA e-recording
XML Implementation Guide for Version 2.4.1, Revision 2, March 2007, and
applicable security standards established by New York State and local laws;
and
(2) implement reasonable
measures to ensure that digitized paper documents and electronic records of
instruments that have been submitted for electronic recording are protected
from alteration and unauthorized access from the time of submission to the
recording officer throughout such time as the recording officer is required to
maintain the document or record.
(e) A notary shall perform a notarization of
an instrument affecting real property that exists as an electronic record only
where the signatory appears before the notary at the time of notarization to
execute the record or to affirm a prior execution, as permitted by New York
State law. The methods that a notary uses to identify a signatory shall comply
with the regulations issued by the New York Department of State found in 19
NYCRR Part 182 . Electronic signatures used by a notary on an instrument
affecting real property shall comply with section
291-i
(c) of the Real Property Law, and shall be:
(1) unique to the notary;
(2) capable of independent
verification;
(3) under the
notary's sole control;
(4) attached
to, or logically associated with, the electronic record in such a manner that
it can be determined if any data contained in the electronic record has been
changed subsequent to the electronic notarization; and
(5) implemented in compliance with the
regulations issued by the New York Department of State found in 19 NYCRR Part
182.
(f) A recording
officer is not required to verify or authenticate electronic signatures or
notarizations on an instrument affecting real property.
(g) Recording officers who elect to accept
electronic recording of instruments affecting real property shall accept such
electronic instruments only from registered submitters whose identity has been
electronically verified and authenticated. A recording officer shall maintain a
listing of persons so registered by the recording officer.
(h) Prior to submitting electronic
instruments to a recording officer for recording, a registered submitter shall:
(1) comply with the standards and
specifications set forth in this regulation; and
(2) agree to terms and conditions required by
the recording officer, which shall include the terms and conditions set forth
in subdivision (i) of this section.
(i) A recording officer shall require its
registered submitters to agree to terms and conditions which shall include the
rights and responsibilities of both the recording officer and the registered
submitter when participating in electronic recording. At a minimum, the terms
and conditions shall address the following:
(1) the manner in which a registered
submitter's identity will be electronically verified and authenticated by the
recording officer;
(2) the manner
in which the transmission of electronic instruments will be acknowledged by a
recording officer;
(3) the models
of electronic recording accepted by the recording officer;
(4) requirements for electronic
submission;
(5) payment options for
recording fees and applicable taxes;
(6) the recording officer's business
hours;
(7) requirements and
procedures for acceptance or rejection of digitized paper documents or
electronic records for recording purposes;
(8) provisions for amending or terminating a
person's registration as a registered submitter; and
(9) rules for amending the terms and
conditions agreement.
(j) For purposes of electronic recording of
instruments affecting real property, recording officers may accept by
electronic means any recording fee, filing fee or tax authorized to be
collected by New York State or local law or regulation, in a manner compatible
with the recording officer's internal software and financial practices. Upon
receipt of a payment by electronic means, a recording officer shall cause an
electronic receipt of payment to be provided to the party making the
payment.
(k) Recording officers who
elect to accept electronic recording of instruments affecting real property
shall ensure that such electronic instruments are retained and preserved in
accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the New York State
Commissioner of Education which govern the retention and preservation of
electronic records by local governments, including, but not limited to, Title 8
NYCRR Part 185, and any records retention and disposition schedules published
by the New York State Archives. Recording officers also shall ensure compliance
with New York State and local laws and regulations concerning the backup of
real property instruments for disaster recovery purposes.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp. Codes
R. & Regs. Tit. 9
§
540.7
Amended
New
York State Register January 10, 2024/Volume XLVI, Issue 2, eff.
1/10/2024
