SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._business_corporation_law_section_1304
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/BSC/1304 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Business Corporation Law Section 1304

Application for authority

contents

(a)
A foreign corporation may apply for authority to do business in this state. An application, entitled "Application for authority of ...... (name of corporation) under section 1304 of the Business Corporation Law", shall be signed and delivered to the department of state. It shall set forth:

(1)
The name of the foreign corporation.

(2)
The fictitious name the corporation agrees to use in this state pursuant to section 1301 of this chapter, if applicable.

(3)
The jurisdiction and date of its incorporation.

(4)
The purpose or purposes for which it is formed, it being sufficient to state, either alone or with other purposes, that the purpose of the corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under this chapter, provided that it also state that it is not formed to engage in any act or activity requiring the consent or approval of any state official, department, board, agency or other body without such consent or approval first being obtained. By such statement all lawful acts and activities shall be within the purposes of the corporation, except for express limitations therein or in this chapter, if any.

(5)
The county within this state in which its office is to be located.

(6)
A designation of the secretary of state as its agent upon whom process against it may be served and the post office address within or without this state to which the secretary of state shall mail a copy of any process against it served upon him or her. The corporation may include an email address to which the secretary of state shall email a notice of the fact that process against it has been electronically served upon him or her.

(7)
If it is to have a registered agent, his name and address within this state and a statement that the registered agent is to be its agent upon whom process against it may be served.

(8)
A statement that the foreign corporation has not since its incorporation or since the date its authority to do business in this state was last surrendered, engaged in any activity in this state, except as set forth in paragraph (b) of section 1301 (Authorization of foreign corporations), or in lieu thereof the consent of the state tax commission to the filing of the application, which consent shall be attached thereto.

(b)
Attached to the application for authority shall be a certificate by an authorized officer of the jurisdiction of its incorporation that the foreign corporation is an existing corporation. If such certificate is in a foreign language, a translation thereof under oath of the translator shall be attached thereto.

Source:
Section 1304 — Application for authority; contents, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/BSC/1304 (updated Jan. 6, 2023; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
