SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._business_corporation_law_section_1309
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/BSC/1309 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Business Corporation Law Section 1309

Certificate of amendment

contents, effect

(a)
To accomplish such amendment a certificate, entitled "Certificate of amendment of application for authority of ......(name of corporation) under section 1309 of the Business Corporation Law", shall be signed and delivered to the department of state. It shall set forth:

(1)
The name of the foreign corporation as it appears on the index of names of existing domestic and authorized foreign corporations of any type or kind in the department of state, division of corporations and the fictitious name the corporation has agreed to use in this state pursuant to paragraph (d) of section 1301 of this chapter.

(2)
The jurisdiction of its incorporation. If the jurisdiction of its incorporation has been changed, a statement that the change of jurisdiction has been effected under laws permitting such a change to occur, citing such laws, and including the date the change in jurisdiction was so effected; and a statement that annexed to this certificate of amendment of application for authority is the certificate required by paragraph (b) of this section.

(3)
The date it was authorized to do business in this state.

(4)
Each amendment effected thereby.

(5)
If the true corporate name of the foreign corporation is to be changed, a statement that the change of name has been effected under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and the date the change was so effected.

(6)
If the business it proposes to do in this state is to be enlarged, limited or otherwise changed, a statement that it is authorized to do in the jurisdiction of its incorporation the business which it proposes to do in this state.

(b)
If the jurisdiction of its incorporation has been changed, annexed to the certificate of amendment of application for authority shall be a certificate by an authorized officer of the new jurisdiction of its incorporation that such foreign corporation is an existing corporation domiciled in that jurisdiction. If the annexed certificate by an authorized officer is not in the English language, there shall be attached thereto a translation thereof in the English language under oath of the translator.

(c)
If an authorized foreign corporation has changed its name in the jurisdiction of its incorporation, or has changed its jurisdiction of incorporation, it shall deliver to the department of state within twenty days after the change became effective in that jurisdiction a certificate of amendment under paragraph (a) of this section. Upon its failure to deliver such certificate, its authority to do business in this state shall upon the expiration of said twenty days be suspended. The filing by the department of state of a certificate of amendment changing the corporate name or jurisdiction of incorporation within one hundred twenty days after the effective date of the change of name in the jurisdiction of its incorporation or of the change of jurisdiction of its incorporation effected under laws permitting such a change to occur shall annul the suspension, and its authority to do business in this state shall be restored and continue as if no suspension had occurred. The secretary of state shall continue as agent of the foreign corporation upon whom process against the foreign corporation may be served in the manner set forth in paragraph (b) of section 306 (Service of process), in any action or special proceeding based upon any liability or obligation incurred by it within this state before the filing of the certificate of amendment changing the corporate name or changing the jurisdiction of incorporation.

Source:
Section 1309 — Certificate of amendment; contents, effect, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/BSC/1309 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
