Bill Text - SBX1-2 Energy: transportation fuels: supply and pricing: maximum gross gasoline refining margin. (https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=202320241SB2)
citeturn1197view0 [wordlim: 200] Crawled: last week; Content type: text/html; Source: open({"ref_id":"https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=202320241SB2","lineno":null}); Total lines: 569
L0: [Input]
L1: 
L2:   * cite0†Home L3:   * cite0†Bill Information L4:   * cite0†California Law L5:   * cite0†Publications L6:   * cite0†Other Resources L7:   * cite0†My Subscriptions L8:   * cite0†My Favorites L9: 
L10: [Input]
L11: 
L12:   * cite1†Bill Information >>
L13:   * cite1†Bill Search >>
L14:   * Text
L15: 
L16: # Bill Text
L17: 
L18: # Bill Information
L19: 
L20: [Input] [Input][Input]
L21: 
L22: cite0†PDF2 cite2†Bill PDF |cite0†Add To My Favorites | Version:[Select][Input]
L23: # SB-2 Energy: transportation fuels: supply and pricing: maximum gross gasoline refining margin.(2023-2024)
L24: 
L25: cite3†Text >> cite4†Votes >> cite5†History >> cite6†Bill Analysis >> cite7†Today's Law As Amended >> cite8†Compare Versions >> cite9†Status >> cite0†Comments To Author >> cite0†Add To My Favorites >> L26: 
L27: [Input]
L28: 
L29: [Input]
L30: 
L31: SHARE THIS:
L32: 
L33: Date Published: 03/28/2023 09:00 PM
L34: 
L35: [Input]
L36: 
L37: SB2:v96#DOCUMENT
L38: 
L39: Senate Bill No. 2
L40: 
L41: CHAPTER 1
L42: An act to amend Sections 25354, 25355, 25362, and 25364 of, to add Sections 25354.2, 25355.5, 25355.7, and 25367 to, and to add Chapter 4.6 (commencing with Section 25370) to Division 15 of, the Public Resources Code, relating to energy.
L43: 
L44: [ Approved by Governor  March 28, 2023. Filed with Secretary of State  March 28, 2023. ]
L45: ## LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST
L46: 
L47: SB 2, Skinner. Energy: transportation fuels: supply and pricing: maximum gross gasoline refining margin.
L48: Existing law requires operators of refineries in the state that produce gasoline meeting California specifications, within 30 days of the end of each calendar month, to submit a report to the State Energy Resources Conservation and Development Commission containing certain information regarding its refining activities related to the production of gasoline in that month, including the gross gasoline refining margin of gasoline sold in that month.
L49: Existing law requires the commission within 45 days of the end of each calendar month to post certain information on its internet website.
L50: This bill would authorize the commission to set a maximum gross gasoline refining margin, as provided. The bill would require the commission, if the commission establishes the maximum gross gasoline refining margin, to establish a penalty for exceeding the maximum gross gasoline refining margin, as provided. The bill would authorize the commission to petition the court to enjoin a refiner from exceeding the maximum gross gasoline refining margin.
L51: The bill would also authorize the commission to impose an administrative civil penalty on a refiner for exceeding the maximum gross gasoline refining margin, as provided. The bill would require the commission to consider a refiner’s request for an exemption from the maximum gross gasoline refining margin, as provided. The bill would require a refiner seeking an exemption to file a statement under the penalty of perjury setting forth the facts that form the basis for the request for exemption.
L52: By requiring the statement to be filed under the penalty of perjury, the bill would expand the scope of the crime of perjury, thereby imposing a state-mandated local program. The bill would require the penalties collected to be deposited into the Price Gouging Penalty Fund, which the bill would create in the State Treasury. The bill would require moneys in the fund, upon appropriation by the Legislature, to be used to address any consequences of price gouging on Californians.
L53: The bill would require the California State Auditor, no later than March 1, 2033, to complete an audit and performance review of the maximum gross gasoline refining margin and penalty, if set by the commission.
L54: The bill would require the California State Auditor to make a determination in a report to the Legislature and the commission, by no later than June 1, 2033, as to whether the maximum gross gasoline refining margin and penalty is achieving the intended goal to reduce gasoline price spikes and stabilize the gasoline fuel supply market.
L55: If the California State Auditor concludes that the maximum gross gasoline refining margin and penalty should be terminated, the bill would require the commission, within 180 days after the issuance of the report, to cease implementing the maximum gross gasoline refining margin and penalty, except as provided.
L56: This bill would require the commission, in cooperation with the California Department of Tax and Fee Administration, to submit a report to the Legislature, on or before March 1 of each year, that includes a review of the price of gasoline in California and its impact on state revenues for the previous calendar year, as provided.
L57: The bill would authorize the department to request from any person certain records required to be maintained and any records in the person’s possession, custody, or control that the department deems necessary to facilitate the report or to assist the commission.
L58: This bill would require the commission, on or before January 1, 2024, and every 3 years thereafter, to submit an assessment to the Governor and the Legislature that, among other things, identifies methods to ensure a reliable supply of affordable and safe transportation fuels in California, as provided.
L59: The bill would require the commission to use reasonable means necessary and available to seek and obtain information from any sources for purposes of preparing the assessment and would authorize the commission to impose a civil penalty if a person fails to timely provide information necessary for preparing the assessment.
L60: The bill would require the commission and the State Air Resources Board, on or before December 31, 2024, and taking into account the assessment, to prepare a Transportation Fuels Transition Plan, as provided.
L61: This bill would establish the Division of Petroleum Market Oversight in the commission that is led by a director appointed by the Governor and subject to Senate confirmation. The bill would specify that the division operates with authority independent of the commission’s authority.
L62: The bill would specify the duties of the division, including, among other duties, the duty to provide guidance and recommendations to the Governor and the commission on any issues related to transportation fuels pricing and transportation decarbonization in California. The bill would establish the Independent Consumer Fuels Advisory Committee, consisting of specified members, within the commission, and would require the committee to advise the commission and the division.
L63: This bill would require operators of refineries to report additional information, including the net gasoline refining margin per barrel of gasoline sold in that month. The bill would require the commission to post on its internet website certain information related to the net gasoline refining margin.
L64: 
L65: Existing law requires major oil producers, refiners, marketers, oil transporters, and oil storers to annually submit certain information to the commission, as provided.
L66: This bill would revise and recast the above reporting requirement to, among other things, require pipeline operators and operators of ports through which refined gasoline is imported to annually report their capacities for all pipelines and ports used to transport refined gasoline, require all importers of refined products and renewable fuels via marine vessel to submit reports to the commission, as specified, require nonrefiners that commercially trade in gasoline, gasoline blending components, diesel fuel, or renewable fuel inventory to submit weekly reports to the commission, as provided, require refiners and nonrefiners that consummate spot market transactions to submit a daily report to the commission containing certain information for each transaction occurring in the preceding day, as provided, and require refiners to report maintenance activities, both planned and unplanned, to the commission, as provided.
L67: Existing law subjects a person who fails to provide information to the commission after being notified of the failure to civil penalties in specified amounts.
L68: 
L69: This bill would increase the amount of civil penalties that may be imposed.
L70: Existing constitutional provisions require that a statute that limits the right of access to the meetings of public bodies or the writings of public officials and agencies be adopted with findings demonstrating the interest protected by the limitation and the need for protecting that interest.
L71: 
L72: This bill would make legislative findings to that effect.
L73: The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
L74: 
L75: This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.
L76: 
L77: Vote: MAJORITY   Appropriation: NO   Fiscal Committee: YES   Local Program: YES
L78: 
L79: * * *
L80: ## The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
L81: ### SECTION 1.
L82: 
L83:  The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:
L84: 
L85: (a) From August to October of 2022, Californians experienced some of the highest gasoline prices ever recorded in the state, even though the price of crude oil declined, state taxes and fees remained unchanged, and gasoline prices did not increase outside the western United States.
L86: (b) Much of this increase was caused by refiners, which increased the costs and profits they added to the price California consumers paid at the pump, leading to prices that were substantially higher per gallon than average prices in the rest of the United States.
L87: (c) During the third and fourth quarters of 2022, the overlap in timing of planned maintenance at refiners’ facilities resulted in a larger decrease in crude oil processing capacity than would otherwise have occurred if planned maintenance at refiners’ facilities had not coincided.
L88: 
L89: (d) During this same period of time, refiners allowed gasoline inventory levels to reach decade-low levels, placing an upward pressure on gasoline prices.
L90: (e) This refiner conduct makes clear that greater transparency into and oversight of refinery maintenance schedules and inventory is necessary, to avoid preventable supply shocks in the market for transportation fuels.
L91: (f) Historically, refinery outages and issues have created an opportunity for market participants to take advantage of naturally high prices by manipulating prices to stay higher longer, as evidenced by gasoline prices in California remaining elevated without explanation following a temporary price shock after a refinery explosion in 2015.
L92: This further demonstrates the need for greater visibility into the pricing, contracting, and marketing practices of industry participants at all levels of the supply chain, and greater oversight by regulators empowered with the information and investigative tools needed to deter and detect anticompetitive conduct and other behavior that harms California consumers.
L93: (g) Although preventable capacity limitations and inventory shortages played a role in the third quarter of 2022 price increases, they cannot account for all of those increases. Similar factors did not lead to extreme price spikes in prior years, suggesting that the sky-high prices Californians faced from August to October of 2022 were due in significant part to opportunistic price gouging by oil companies.
L94: (h) Indeed, during a 90-day period in 2022, refiners earned a record $63,000,000,000 in profits, with some refiners earning more than tenfold their profits for the same period of time in 2021. Refiners’ annual profits for 2022 also set new record highs.
L95: (i) Fundamental change is necessary to prevent future extreme price spikes and price gouging by oil companies, which are entitled to a reasonable return but are not entitled to reap exorbitant profits at the expense of Californians, many of whom rely on gasoline as an essential commodity or who are impacted by the increased cost of goods and services that results from the gasoline price spikes, even as the state begins to transition away from dependence on the fossil fuels that are destroying our climate.
L96: ### SEC. 2.
L97: 
L98:  Section 25354 of the Public Resources Code is amended to read:
L99: ###### 25354.
L100:  (a) Each refiner and major marketer shall submit information each month to the commission in such form and extent as the commission prescribes pursuant to this section. For purposes of this section, the term “refiner” and “refinery” shall include refiners and refineries as defined in Sections 25127 and 25128, and also those persons and facilities that process renewable feedstocks instead of crude oil feedstocks and otherwise meet the definitions in Sections 25127 and 25128.
L101: The information shall be submitted within 30 days after the end of each monthly reporting period and shall include the following:
L102: (1) Refiners shall report, by volume, price, and type, for each of their refineries, feedstock inputs, origin of petroleum receipts, imports of finished petroleum products and blendstocks and ethanol, including the source of those imports, exports of finished petroleum products and blendstocks and ethanol, including the destination of those exports and the entity receiving those exports, refinery outputs, refinery stocks, finished product supply and distribution, including all gasoline sold unbranded by the refiner, blender, or importer, and all current inventories of refined and unrefined petroleum products.
L103: (2) Major marketers shall report, by volume, price, and type, on petroleum product receipts and the sources of these receipts, inventories of finished petroleum products and blendstocks and ethanol, distributions through branded and unbranded distribution networks, and exports of finished petroleum products and blendstocks and ethanol from the state.
L104: (b) Each major oil producer, refiner, marketer, oil transporter, oil storer, pipeline operator, or port through which refined gasoline is imported or exported, shall annually submit information to the commission in such form and extent as the commission prescribes pursuant to this section. The information shall be submitted within 30 days after the end of each reporting period, and shall include the following:
L105: (1) Major oil transporters shall report on petroleum by reporting the capacities of each major transportation system, the amount transported by each system, and inventories thereof. The commission may prescribe rules and regulations that exclude pipeline and transportation modes operated entirely on property owned by major oil transporters from the reporting requirements of this section if the data or information is not needed to fulfill the purposes of this chapter.
L106: The provision of the information shall not be construed to increase or decrease any authority the Public Utilities Commission may otherwise have.
L107: (2) Major oil storers shall report on storage capacity, inventories, receipts and distributions, and methods of transportation of receipts and distributions.
L108: 
L109: (3) Major oil producers shall, with respect to thermally enhanced oil recovery operations, report annually by designated oil field, the monthly use, as fuel, of crude oil and natural gas.
L110: 
L111: (4) Refiners shall report on facility capacity, and utilization and method of transportation of refinery receipts and distributions.
L112: (5) Major oil marketers shall report on facility capacity and methods of transportation of receipts and distributions.
L113: 
L114: (6) Pipeline operators and port operators shall report their capacities for all pipelines and ports used to transport refined gasoline.
L115: (7) All major oil producers, refiners, marketers, oil transporters, oil storers, pipeline operators, or port operators submitting information under this subdivision shall include in the report for each reporting period the full names of all persons or entities that directly or indirectly own 10 percent or more of the major oil producer, refiner, marketer, oil transporter, oil storer, pipeline operator, or port operator submitting the information.
L116: (c) Each person required to report pursuant to subdivision (a) shall submit a projection each month of the information to be submitted pursuant to subdivision (a) for the quarter following the month in which the information is submitted to the commission.
L117: (d) In addition to the data required under subdivision (a), each integrated oil refiner that produces, refines, transports, and markets in interstate commerce and that supplies more than 500 branded retail outlets in California shall submit to the commission an annual industry forecast for Petroleum Administration for Defense, District V, covering Arizona, Nevada, Washington, Oregon, California, Alaska, and Hawaii.
L118: The forecast shall include the information to be submitted under subdivision (a), and shall be submitted by March 15 of each year. The commission may require California-specific forecasts only if the commission finds them necessary to carry out its responsibilities.
L119: (e) The commission may by order or regulation modify the reporting period as to any individual item of information setting forth in the order or regulation its reason for so doing.
L120: 
L121: (f) (1) Destination facilities shall submit to the commission, by deadlines set by the commission, the following information regarding crude oil transported to or within California via rail car or marine vessel:
L122: 
L123: (A) The route of transport within California.
L124: 
L125: (B) The marketable crude oil name.
L126: (C) The loading facility, including the loading facility name, and the latitude, longitude, and state where the facility is located.
L127: 
L128: (D) The name of the destination facility, the type of facility, and the latitude and longitude where the facility is located.
L129: 
L130: (E) Whether the crude oil is nonfloating oil, as defined in Section 8670.3 of the Government Code.
L131: (2) The commission shall quarterly prepare and make available to the public a report based on the data collected pursuant to paragraph (1) that shall include, at a minimum, the routes of transport of crude oil within California, the types of crude oil transported over each of those routes, and the frequency with which nonfloating oil has been transported over each of those routes during the reporting period.
L132: The commission shall aggregate information used in a report prepared under this paragraph to the extent necessary to assure confidentiality if public disclosure of the specific information or data would result in unfair competitive disadvantage to the person supplying the information or would adversely affect market competition.
L133: (3) The commission may require additional information to be submitted as necessary to perform its responsibilities under this chapter.
L134: 
L135: (g) Any person required to submit information or data under this chapter, in lieu thereof, may submit a report made to any other governmental agency, if:
L136: 
L137: (1) The alternate report or reports contain all of the information or data required by this chapter.
L138: 
L139: (2) The person clearly identifies the specific provision of this chapter to which the alternate report is responsive.
L140: (h) Each refiner shall submit to the commission, within 30 days after the end of each monthly reporting period, all of the following information in such form and extent as the commission prescribes:
L141: 
L142: (1) Monthly California weighted average prices and sales volumes of finished leaded regular, unleaded regular, and premium motor gasoline sold through company-operated retail outlets, to other end-users, and to wholesale customers.
L143: (2) Monthly California weighted average prices and sales volumes for residential sales, commercial and institutional sales, industrial sales, sales through company-operated retail outlets, sales to other end-users, and wholesale sales of No. 2 diesel fuel, No. 2 fuel oil, and any renewable fuels.
L144: (3) Monthly California weighted average prices and sales volumes for retail sales and wholesale sales of No. 1 distillate, kerosene, finished aviation gasoline, kerosene-type jet fuel, No. 4 fuel oil, residual fuel oil with 1 percent or less sulfur, residual fuel oil with greater than 1 percent sulfur, and consumer grade propane.
L145: (i) (1) Beginning the first week after January 1, 2004, and each week thereafter, an oil refiner, oil producer, petroleum product transporter, petroleum product marketer, petroleum product pipeline operator, and terminal operator, as designated by the commission, shall submit a report in the form and extent as the commission prescribes pursuant to this section. The commission may determine the form and extent necessary by order or by regulation.
L146: 
L147: (2) A report may include any of the following information:
L148: (A) Receipts and inventory levels of crude oil and petroleum products at each refinery and terminal location.
L149: 
L150: (B) Amount of gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, blending components, and other petroleum products imported and exported.
L151: 
L152: (C) Amount of gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, blending components, and other petroleum products transported intrastate by marine vessel.
L153: 
L154: (D) Amount of crude oil imported, including information identifying the source of the crude oil.
L155: (E) The regional average of invoiced retailer buying price. This subparagraph does not either preclude or augment the current authority of the commission to collect additional data under paragraph (3) of subdivision (f).
L156: (F) Copies of all contracts or agreements entered into, or amendments to contracts or agreements, with other oil refiners, oil producers, petroleum product transporters, petroleum product marketers, petroleum product pipeline operators, terminal operators, or any other entity that trades in petroleum products whether or not those entities take possession of petroleum products, as designated by the commission, during the monthly reporting period, along with records of every transaction made under those contracts or agreements and the prices charged for those transactions.
L157: (3) This subdivision is intended to clarify the commission’s existing authority under subdivision (f) to collect specific information. This subdivision neither precludes nor augments the existing authority of the commission to collect information.
L158: 
L159: (j) All importers of refined products and renewable fuels via marine vessel shall report to the commission, at least 96 hours before the arrival of a marine vessel delivery to California, all of the following information:
L160: (1) The name of the product tanker or name of the barge, including associated tug name.
L161: 
L162: (2) The loading location or locations for cargo.
L163: 
L164: (3) The volume by each type of transportation fuel, such as gasoline, gasoline blending components, diesel fuel, renewable diesel fuel, jet fuel, sustainable aviation fuel, biodiesel, and ethanol.
L165: (4) The cargo landed cost, including the cost incurred to purchase, load, transport, and all other costs and fees to deliver, each type of transportation fuel, such as gasoline, gasoline blending components, diesel fuel, renewable diesel fuel, jet fuel, sustainable aviation fuel, biodiesel, and ethanol.
L166: 
L167: (5) The status of any transportation fuel as sold before discharge, the identity of the buyer for any presold product, and the sale price of any presold product.
L168: (6) The planned discharge location, such as the marine berth designation, or locations.
L169: 
L170: (7) The foreign, domestic, and intrastate marine movements of the vessel from the port of origin to the port of delivery of the cargo.
L171: (k) Nonrefiners, such as proprietary storage companies, that commercially trade in gasoline, gasoline blending components, diesel fuel, or renewable diesel fuel inventory not subject to contractual supply obligations, shall submit weekly reports to the commission, starting 30 days after the effective date of the act adding this subdivision, that include the weekly inventory volume, by type, such as gasoline, gasoline blending components, diesel fuel, or renewable fuels, for each position holder by name of company, and copies of all contracts or agreements entered into with any refiners, oil producers, petroleum product transporters, petroleum product marketers, petroleum product pipeline operators, terminal operators, or any other entity that trades in petroleum products whether or not those entities take possession of those products, as designated by the commission.
L172: (l) Refiners and nonrefiners that consummate spot market transactions shall submit a daily report to the commission, starting 30 days after the effective date of the act adding this subdivision, that includes all of the following information for each transaction occurring during the preceding day:
L173: 
L174: (1) The identity of the spot market where the transaction occurred.
L175: (2) Whether the transaction was reported to the Oil Price Information Service (OPIS), or any other price reporting service, and the time of the reporting.
L176: 
L177: (3) The date of the transaction.
L178: 
L179: (4) The time of the transaction.
L180: 
L181: (5) The contract identification number for the transaction.
L182: 
L183: (6) The position sequence number for the transaction.
L184: 
L185: (7) The contract position identification number for the transaction.
L186: 
L187: (8) The name, or nonanonymized identification of the executing trader for the transaction.
L188: (9) The counterparty for the transaction, including company name and name or nonanonymized identification of the executing trader.
L189: 
L190: (10) Whether the reporting entity is the seller or buyer.
L191: 
L192: (11) The broker, including company name and name or nonanonymized identification of the executing broker.
L193: 
L194: (12) The type of refined transportation fuel, such as gasoline, diesel, or jet fuel.
L195: 
L196: (13) The product name for each type of refined transportation fuel.
L197: (14) The volume of each transaction in thousands of barrels, or specified unit of measurement if unable to be indicated in thousands of barrels.
L198: 
L199: (15) The invoiced volume of each transaction in thousands of barrels, or specified unit of measurement if unable to be indicated in thousands of barrels.
L200: 
L201: (16) The time and date the material that is the subject of the transaction is scheduled to be delivered or was delivered.
L202: (17) The delivery location specified in the contract for the transaction and the actual delivery location.
L203: 
L204: (18) The method of transportation for the delivery, such as pipeline, marine vessel, or truck, and the name of the transport.
L205: 
L206: (19) The actual title transfer date.
L207: 
L208: (20) The contract subcycle, including descriptors such as “Any,” “L3,” “FH,” “BH,” “C1,” “C2,” “C3,” or “C4.”
L209: (21) The type of pricing method, including exchange of futures for physical (EFP), fixed price, fixed date range, floating date range, reference formula, OPIS close, event-related date range, such as three days on and around delivery or discharge, or any other utilized method of pricing.
L210: 
L211: (22) The contract price formula, including the differential from any contract formula and the unit of measurement for any price differential.
L212: 
L213: (23) The pricing start and end dates for each contract.
L214: (24) The price value of the contract.
L215: 
L216: (25) For EFP contracts, the name of the futures product, the contract month of the futures product expressed as the two-digit month and the two-digit year (MM-YY), and the price value of the futures product.
L217: (m) It is the intent of the Legislature that all refiners shall, while protecting the health and safety of the public and employees, schedule planned maintenance and turnaround in a manner that ensures minimum levels of transportation fuels in production or reserves necessary to prevent supply shortages or price spikes. To advance that purpose, refiners shall report maintenance activities for each refinery to the commission as follows:
L218: (1) Notwithstanding any other law, a refiner shall notify the executive director of the commission of all plans to undertake turnaround and planned maintenance. A refiner’s notification shall include, at a minimum, all of the following information:
L219: 
L220: (A) A brief description of planned work.
L221: 
L222: (B) The scheduled start date.
L223: 
L224: (C) The scheduled return-to-service date.
L225: 
L226: (D) The individual process units involved.
L227: 
L228: (E) The name and operational capacity of each process unit.
L229: (F) The estimated daily decrease in output of material or substance produced by the unit, such as gasoline, diesel, or jet fuel components.
L230: 
L231: (G) The projected quantity of contractual supply obligations for finished gasoline due during the planned maintenance event or turnaround.
L232: (H) The drawdown of inventory levels of gasoline and gasoline blending components and other material or substance produced by the unit that are controlled by the refiner at the refinery and at other storage locations in California during the planned maintenance event or turnaround, the current levels of such inventories at the time notice is provided, and the anticipant levels of such inventories immediately before the commencement of the planned maintenance event or turnaround.
L233: (I) Imports of gasoline and gasoline blend components and other material or substance produced by the unit in preparation for or during the planned maintenance event.
L234: 
L235: (J) Planned purchases of gasoline and gasoline blending components and other material or substance produced by the unit from other market participants in California related to the planned maintenance event.
L236: (K) Planned reductions of noncontracted sales of gasoline or other material or substance produced by the unit related to the planned maintenance event.
L237: 
L238: (2) The refiner’s notification shall be submitted to the executive director of the commission at least 120 days before the planned maintenance or turnaround.
L239: (3) Before submitting its turnaround schedule notification to the Division of Occupational Safety and Health pursuant to Section 7872 of the Labor Code, each refiner shall submit its turnaround schedule to the executive director of the commission. When submitting its schedule to the division, each refiner shall indicate that, for each scheduled turnaround, the notification to the commission was submitted.
L240: (4) For unplanned maintenance resulting in a shutdown of a refinery process of greater than 24 hours, submit initial and final reports as follows:
L241: 
L242: (A) The initial report, due within 48 hours of the initial outage, shall include all of the following information:
L243: 
L244: (i) The name and operational capacity of each process unit involved in the unplanned outage.
L245: (ii) The initial estimated daily decrease in output of gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel components from each process unit affected by the unplanned outage.
L246: 
L247: (iii) The current inventory levels of the material or substance produced by the unit affected by the unplanned outage that are controlled by the refiner at the refinery and at other storage locations in California during the unplanned maintenance event.
L248: 
L249: (iv) A description of the reason for the unplanned maintenance or outage.
L250: (v) The projected duration of production reduction.
L251: 
L252: (B) The final report, due within 48 hours of the completion of repairs, shall include all of the following information:
L253: 
L254: (i) The return-to-service date.
L255: 
L256: (ii) The total decreased output of gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel components from each of the affected process units.
L257: (iii) The total increased output from other process units by type of refined product to partially compensate for the reduced output from the process units affected by the unplanned outage.
L258: 
L259: (iv) The amount of material obtained from other sources that compensated for the decrease described in clause (ii) and enabled the refiner to cover for the loss of that production.
L260: (v) The drawdown of inventory levels of any material or substance produced by the unit that are controlled by the refiner at the refinery and at other storage locations in California during the unplanned maintenance event.
L261: (5) Upon receipt of a notification under this subdivision, the executive director of the commission shall review the notification and may request any additional information from the refiner that is necessary for the commission to assess the potential effect of the planned maintenance event on the supply and prices of transportation fuels in the state.
L262: (n) (1) Notwithstanding any other law, information in the notification provided to the commission by a refiner providing a notice or report of its planned maintenance, unplanned maintenance, or turnaround schedule, including notifications under subdivision (m) shall be considered confidential information not subject to public disclosure under the California Public Records Act (Division 10 (commencing with Section 7920.000) of Title 1 of the Government Code).
L263: The commission may share the information with other state agencies, including the Attorney General, only if the other state agency agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the information.
L264: (2) The commission may adopt guidelines to prescribe the manner in which the executive director of the commission shall implement subdivision (m) at a commission business meeting. The Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code) does not apply to any regulations, guidelines, or other standards adopted by the commission pursuant to this paragraph.
L265: (o) Refiners shall report annually to the commission their planned production levels and schedule for turnarounds and planned maintenance for the following 12 months, by month and by finished product.
L266: 
L267: (p) (1) The operator of any refinery in this state shall report to the Commission at least 12 months in advance if that refinery operator intends to permanently shut down, shut down to reconfigure, or sell a refinery in a transaction that may result in a refinery shutting down or reconfiguring.
L268: (2) Upon receipt of a notice pursuant to paragraph (1), the commission shall notify the Legislature in a manner that does not disclose confidential information, if applicable.
L269: 
L270: (3) After the completion of the report by the commission required by Section 25371 and its submission to the Legislature, the commission may modify the notice required under this subdivision. The commission shall not reduce the notice period to less than 12 months.
L271: ### SEC. 3.
L272: 
L273:  Section 25354.2 is added to the Public Resources Code, to read:
L274: ###### 25354.2.
L275:  The commission, in consultation with the Labor and Workforce Development Agency and labor and industry stakeholders, shall consider ways to manage necessary refinery turnarounds and maintenance that would protect the health and safety of employees and the public, and minimize the impact of maintenance-related production losses on fuel prices. The commission may, by regulation, impose requirements governing the timing of turnaround and maintenance developed through consultations under this section.
L276: ### SEC. 4.
L277: 
L278:  Section 25355 of the Public Resources Code is amended to read:
L279: ###### 25355.
L280: 
L281:  (a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
L282: 
L283: (1) “Gross gasoline refining margin” means the difference, expressed in dollars per barrel, between the volume-weighted average price of wholesale gasoline sold by a refiner in the state and the average price of crude oil received by the refinery.
L284: 
L285: (2) “Net gasoline refining margin” means the gross gasoline refining margin minus the refinery’s operational costs.
L286: (3) “Operational costs” means costs, expressed in dollars per barrel, necessarily incurred by the operator of a refinery in the state to produce gasoline meeting California specifications, including, but not limited to, costs of labor, electricity, natural gas, chemicals, maintenance, hydrogen, and other intermediate oil products, federal renewable identification numbers, obligation costs, capital investments, logistics costs, and additive costs.
L287: (b) Within 30 days of the end of each calendar month, the operator of each refinery operating in the state that produces gasoline meeting California specifications shall submit to the commission a report for the refinery containing all of the following information:
L288: 

