Bill Text - SB-610 Disaster assistance: tenants, mobilehome parks, and mortgages. (https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billTextClient.xhtml?bill_id=202520260SB610)
citeturn1092view0 [wordlim: 200] Crawled: today; Content type: text/html; Source: open({"ref_id":"https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billTextClient.xhtml?bill_id=202520260SB610","lineno":null}); Total lines: 157
L0: [Input]
L1: 
L2:   * cite0†Home L3:   * cite0†Bill Information L4:   * cite0†California Law L5:   * cite0†Publications L6:   * cite0†Other Resources L7:   * cite0†My Subscriptions L8:   * cite0†My Favorites L9: 
L10: [Input]
L11: 
L12:   * cite1†Bill Information >>
L13:   * cite1†Bill Search >>
L14:   * Text
L15: 
L16: # Bill Text
L17: 
L18: [Input] [Input][Input]
L19: 
L20: cite0†PDF2 cite2†Bill PDF |cite0†Add To My Favorites |cite0†Track Bill | Version:[Select][Input]
L21: # SB-610 Disaster assistance: tenants, mobilehome parks, and mortgages.(2025-2026)
L22: 
L23: cite3†Text >> cite4†Votes >> cite5†History >> cite6†Bill Analysis >> cite7†Today's Law As Amended >> cite8†Compare Versions >> cite9†Status >> cite0†Comments To Author >> cite10†Track Bill >> cite0†Add To My Favorites >> L24: 
L25: [Input]
L26: 
L27: [Input]
L28: 
L29: SHARE THIS:
L30: 
L31: Date Published: 10/13/2025 02:00 PM
L32: 
L33: [Input]
L34: 
L35: SB610:v92#DOCUMENT
L36: 
L37: Senate Bill No. 610
L38: 
L39: CHAPTER 547
L40: An act to add Sections 798.64, 1941.8, and 1941.9 to the Civil Code, to add Section 338 to the Financial Code, and to amend Section 65863.7 of the Government Code, relating to housing.
L41: 
L42: [ Approved by Governor  October 10, 2025. Filed with Secretary of State  October 10, 2025. ]
L43: ## LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST
L44: 
L45: SB 610, Pérez. Disaster assistance: tenants, mobilehome parks, and mortgages.
L46: 
L47: (1) Existing law, the Mobilehome Residency Law, prescribes various terms and conditions of tenancies in mobilehome parks.
L48: Existing law, the Planning and Zoning Law, requires a person or entity proposing a change in use of a mobilehome park to file a report on the impact of the conversion, closure, or cessation of use of the mobilehome park that includes a replacement and relocation plan, as specified. Existing law requires the legislative body or advisory agency to review the report before any change of use, as provided.
L49: Existing law establishes the Department of Housing and Community Development and requires it to administer various programs intended to promote the development of housing.
L50: This bill would require, if a closure, cessation, or change of use is the result of damage or destruction of the mobilehome park by a disaster, as defined, the person or entity proposing that closure, cessation, or change of use to file an impact report, as described in the paragraph above, which also includes a technical service inspection report from the Department of Housing and Community Development that identifies the observed conditions within the park.
L51: By placing new requirements on local legislative bodies when approving permits for a change of use for mobilehome parks, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.
L52: Existing law requires the person or entity proposing the change of use of a mobilehome park to pay to the displaced resident the in-place market value of the displaced resident’s mobilehome, as provided.
L53: This bill would provide that if the proposed closure, cessation, or change of use is related to damage or destruction by a disaster, the person or entity proposing the change of use of a mobilehome park is not required to pay to the displaced resident the in-place market value of the displaced resident’s mobilehome.
L54: (2) Existing law regulates the terms and conditions of residential tenancies. Existing law requires the lessor of a building intended for human occupation to repair dilapidations, as specified, rendering it untenantable. Existing law requires a dwelling to be deemed untenantable if it substantially lacks certain affirmative standard characteristics.
L55: This bill would impose a duty upon the landlord to undertake certain actions, within a reasonable time and according to specified cleaning protocols, as may be necessary to remediate any dilapidations that arise as a result of a disaster. The bill would establish a presumption that the presence at the rental unit of debris from the disaster renders the unit untenantable, until a determination has been made by a local public health agency or official that the debris does not contain toxic substances.
L56: This bill would require the landlord to notify the tenant in writing that the landlord has fulfilled its duty to remediate dilapidations and that the tenant may view various reports, if requested.
L57: The bill would specify that these provisions do not require a landlord to rebuild a residential real property or any portion thereof that has sustained damage as a result of a disaster, and that, unless lawfully terminated by either party, the tenancy remains in effect and the tenant has the right to return to the rental unit, at the same rental rate in effect immediately prior to the disaster, as soon as it is safe and practicable.
L58: (3) Existing law terminates the hiring of a thing by the destruction of the thing hired, or when the greater part of the thing hired perishes from any other cause than the want of ordinary care of the hirer.
L59: This bill would require the landlord to return to the tenant any advance rental payments made by the tenant when the hiring of residential real property is terminated due to damage or destruction of the property. The bill would also require management of a mobilehome park to return to the homeowner any advance rental payments made by the homeowner when the mobilehome tenancy is terminated due to damage or the destruction of the mobilehome park or any space as a result of a disaster.
L60: The bill would discharge the tenant’s or homeowner’s obligation to pay rent during any period during which a tenant or homeowner is unable to occupy their rental unit due to a mandatory evacuation order pursuant to a disaster, as provided.
L61: (4) Existing law makes the Commissioner of Financial Protection and Innovation the head of the Department of Financial Protection and Innovation, which executes the laws of this state relating to, among other things, residential mortgage lenders and servicers and mortgage loan originators employed or supervised by finance lenders or residential mortgage lenders.
L62: This bill would require the commissioner to, upon the declaration of a state of emergency due to wildfire, as specified, coordinate with mortgage lenders and servicers subject to the commissioner’s jurisdiction operating in this state to facilitate and monitor the implementation and promotion of mortgage forbearance, foreclosure prevention, and loss mitigation programs available to borrowers who experience a material decrease in household income or a material increase in household expenses due, directly or indirectly, to the wildfire emergency.
L63: (5) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.
L64: 
L65: This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to the statutory provisions noted above.
L66: Vote: MAJORITY   Appropriation: NO   Fiscal Committee: YES   Local Program: YES
L67: 
L68: * * *
L69: ## The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
L70: 
L71: ### SECTION 1.
L72: 
L73:  Section 798.64 is added to the Civil Code, immediately following Section 798.62, to read:
L74: ###### 798.64.
L75: 
L76:  (a) (1) When a mobilehome tenancy is terminated due to damage or the destruction of the mobilehome park or any space as a result of a disaster, management shall return to the homeowner any advance rental payments received from the homeowner that cover any period of time after the date of the termination.
L77: (2) Any payment required pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be made within 21 days of the date of the termination and shall be sent to the address provided by the homeowner. If the homeowner does not provide an address, mailings pursuant to this subdivision shall be sent to the address where the mobilehome was located.
L78: 
L79: (3) For purposes of this subdivision, the date of the termination shall be the date upon which the mobilehome park or the mobilehome space was damaged or destroyed.
L80: (b) During any period that a homeowner is unable to occupy their mobilehome or mobilehome space due to a mandatory evacuation order pursuant to a disaster, the homeowner’s obligation to pay rent shall be discharged for the period during which the homeowner is required to be evacuated.
L81: If the homeowner has paid rent in advance for any portion of the evacuation period, management shall return that portion of prepaid rent to the homeowner within 10 calendar days after the evacuation order is lifted, or the homeowner may deduct that amount from the next month’s rent which becomes due and payable after the evacuation order is lifted.
L82: (c) For purposes of this section, “disaster” means a natural or manmade emergency resulting from an earthquake, flood, fire, riot, storm, drought, plant or animal infestation or disease, pandemic or epidemic disease outbreak, or other natural or manmade disaster for which a state of emergency has been declared by the President of the United States or the Governor.
L83: ### SEC. 2.
L84: 
L85:  Section 1941.8 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
L86: ###### 1941.8.
L87: 
L88:  (a) Subject to subdivision (e), for any structure intended for human habitation, it shall be the duty of a landlord to undertake one or both of the following actions as may be necessary to remediate any dilapidations that arise as a result of a disaster:
L89: 
L90: (1) Removal of debris caused by the disaster.
L91: 
L92: (2) Mitigation of hazards arising from the disaster, including, but not limited to, the presence of mold, smoke, smoke residue, smoke odor, ash, asbestos, or water damage.
L93: (b) Until a determination has been made by a local public health agency or official that the debris from the disaster, including, but not limited to, ash, sludge, or runoff, does not contain toxic substances, the presence of the debris at a rental unit shall be presumed to render the rental unit untenantable pursuant to Section 1941.1.
L94: (c) The landlord shall comply with subdivision (a) within a reasonable time after the property sustains damage, and shall follow any and all cleaning protocols issued by government officials, including contracting with licensed remediation companies where required.
L95: If the tenant has provided the landlord with a postal or email address, the landlord shall notify the tenant in writing that the landlord has complied with subdivision (a) and that the tenant may view and, if requested, obtain copies of any environmental studies, testing, or reports conducted.
L96: (d) Unless lawfully terminated by either party, the tenancy shall remain in effect and the tenant shall have the right to return to the rental unit at the same rental rate in effect immediately prior to the disaster as soon as it is safe and practicable.
L97: 
L98: (e) Nothing in this section shall require a landlord to rebuild a residential rental property or any portion thereof that has sustained damage as a result of a disaster.
L99: (f) The rights, obligations, and remedies under this section are cumulative and in addition to any other rights, obligations, or remedies available under federal, state, or local law.
L100: 
L101: (g) Nothing in this section preempts any local ordinance from providing for additional protections for tenants or imposing additional obligations on the landlord.
L102: (h) For purposes of this section, “disaster” means a natural or manmade emergency resulting from an earthquake, flood, fire, riot, storm, drought, plant or animal infestation or disease, pandemic or epidemic disease outbreak, or other natural or manmade disaster for which a state of emergency has been declared by the President of the United States or the Governor.
L103: ### SEC. 3.
L104: 
L105:  Section 1941.9 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
L106: ###### 1941.9.
L107: 
L108:  (a) (1) When the hiring of residential real property is terminated pursuant to paragraph (2) of Section 1932 or paragraph (4) of Section 1933, the landlord shall return to the tenant any advance rental payments made by the tenant that cover any period after the date of the termination.
L109: (2) Any payment from the landlord to the tenant required pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be made within 21 days of the date of the termination and shall be sent to the address provided by the tenant. If the hirer does not provide an address, mailings pursuant to this subdivision shall be sent to the address of the unit that was the subject of the terminated hiring.
L110: 
L111: (3) For purposes of this subdivision, the date of the termination shall be either of the following, as applicable:
L112: (A) The date that the tenant informs the landlord or the landlord’s agent of the tenant’s intent to terminate the hiring pursuant to paragraph (2) of Section 1932.
L113: 
L114: (B) The date that the residential real property was destroyed, if the termination happened pursuant to paragraph (4) of Section 1933.
L115: (b) During any period during which a tenant in residential real property is unable to occupy their rental unit due to a mandatory evacuation order pursuant to a disaster, as defined in Section 1941.8, the tenant’s obligation to pay rent shall be discharged for the period during which the tenant must be evacuated.
L116: If the tenant already paid rent for the period of an evacuation, the landlord shall return the rent within 10 calendar days after the evacuation order is lifted or the tenant may deduct the amount from the next month’s rent.
L117: ### SEC. 4.
L118: 
L119:  Section 338 is added to the Financial Code, to read:
L120: ###### 338.
L121:  Upon declaration of a state of emergency, pursuant to the California Emergency Services Act (Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 8550) of Division 1 of Title 2 of the Government Code) due to a wildfire, including, but not limited to, any unplanned, unwanted wildland fire, including unauthorized human-caused fires, escaped wildland fire use events, escaped prescribed fire projects, and all other wildland fires where the objective is to extinguish the fire, the commissioner shall coordinate with mortgage lenders and servicers subject to the commissioner’s jurisdiction, including those who lend money in connection with the purchase or financing of a mobilehome as that term is defined in Section 798.3 of the Civil Code, operating in this state to facilitate and monitor the implementation and promotion of mortgage forbearance, foreclosure prevention, and loss mitigation programs available to borrowers who experience a material decrease in household income or a material increase in household expenses due, directly or indirectly, to the wildfire emergency.
L122: ### SEC. 5.
L123: 
L124:  Section 65863.7 of the Government Code is amended to read:
L125: ###### 65863.7.
L126:  (a) (1) (A) Prior to the conversion of a mobilehome park to another use, except pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act (Division 2 (commencing with Section 66410)), or prior to closure of a mobilehome park or cessation of use of the land as a mobilehome park, the person or entity proposing the change in use shall file a report on the impact of the conversion, closure, or cessation of use of the mobilehome park.
L127: The report shall include a replacement and relocation plan that adequately mitigates the impact upon the ability of the displaced residents of the mobilehome park to be converted or closed to find adequate housing in a mobilehome park.
L128: (B) (i) If the proposed closure, cessation, or change of use is related to damage or destruction by a disaster, as described in subdivision (k), the impact report described in subparagraph (A) shall also include a technical service inspection report from the Department of Housing and Community Development that identifies the observed conditions within the park. Technical service has the same meaning as in Section 1002 of Title 25 of the California Code of Regulations.
L129: (ii) For purposes of this subparagraph, management, as defined in Section 798.2 of the Civil Code, is the person or entity proposing the change in use for purposes of preparing the impact report required by this section and is required to take steps to mitigate the adverse impact of the change as may be required in subdivision (e).
L130: (2) (A) If a displaced resident cannot obtain adequate housing in another mobilehome park, the person or entity proposing the change of use shall pay to the displaced resident the in-place market value of the displaced resident’s mobilehome.
L131: (B) For the purposes of this paragraph, except as specified in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (e), in-place market value shall be determined by a state-certified appraiser with experience establishing the value of mobilehomes. The appraisal shall be based upon the current in-place location of the mobilehome and shall assume the continuation of the mobilehome park.
L132: (C) The person or entity proposing the change of use shall pay for an appraisal specified in subparagraph (B) and shall include the appraisal in the report specified in paragraph (1).
L133: 
L134: (D) This paragraph shall not apply when the proposed closure, cessation, or change of use is related to damage or destruction by a disaster, as defined in Section 798.64 of the Civil Code.
L135: (b) The person proposing the change in use shall provide a copy of the report to a resident of each mobilehome in the mobilehome park at least 60 days prior to the hearing, if any, on the impact report by the advisory agency, or if there is no advisory agency, by the legislative body.
L136: (c) When the impact report is filed prior to the closure or cessation of use, the person or entity proposing the change shall provide a copy of the report to a resident of each mobilehome in the mobilehome park at the same time as the notice of the change is provided to the residents pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (g) of Section 798.56 of the Civil Code.
L137: (d) When the impact report is filed prior to the closure or cessation of use, the person or entity filing the report or park resident may request, and shall have a right to, a hearing before the legislative body on the sufficiency of the report.
L138: 
L139: (e) (1) Before the approval of any change of use, the legislative body, or its delegated advisory agency, shall do all of the following:
L140: 
L141: (A) Review the report and any additional relevant documentation.
L142: (B) Make a finding as to whether or not approval of the park closure and the park’s conversion into its intended new use, taking into consideration both the impact report as a whole and the overall housing availability within the local jurisdiction, will result in or materially contribute to a shortage of housing opportunities and choices for low- and moderate-income households within the local jurisdiction.
L143: (2) The legislative body, or its delegated advisory agency, may require, as a condition of the change, the person or entity proposing the change in use to take steps to mitigate any adverse impact of the conversion, closure, or cessation of use on the ability of displaced mobilehome park residents to find adequate housing in a mobilehome park.
L144: (f) If the closure or cessation of use of a mobilehome park results from the entry of an order for relief in bankruptcy, the provisions of this section shall not be applicable.
L145: 
L146: (g) The legislative body may establish reasonable fees pursuant to Section 66016 to cover any costs incurred by the local agency in implementing this section and Section 65863.8. Those fees shall be paid by the person or entity proposing the change in use.
L147: 
L148: (h) This section is applicable to charter cities.
L149: (i) This section is applicable when the closure, cessation, or change of use is the result of a decision by a local governmental entity or planning agency not to renew a conditional use permit or zoning variance under which the mobilehome park has operated, or as a result of any other zoning or planning decision, action, or inaction.
L150: In this case, the local governmental agency is the person proposing the change in use for the purposes of preparing the impact report required by this section and is required to take steps to mitigate the adverse impact of the change as may be required in subdivision (e).
L151: (j) This section is applicable when the closure, cessation, or change of use is the result of a decision by an enforcement agency, as defined in Section 18207 of the Health and Safety Code, to suspend the permit to operate the mobilehome park. In this case, the mobilehome park owner is the person proposing the change in use for purposes of preparing the impact report required by this section and is required to take steps to mitigate the adverse impact of the change as may be required in subdivision (e).
L152: (k) This section, except paragraph (2) of subdivision (a), is applicable when the closure, cessation, or change of use is the result of damage or destruction of the mobilehome park by a disaster as defined in Section 798.64 of the Civil Code.
L153: (l) This section establishes a minimum standard for local regulation of the conversion of a mobilehome park to another use, the closure of a mobilehome park, and the cessation of use of the land as a mobilehome park and shall not prevent a local agency from enacting more stringent measures.
L154: ### SEC. 6.
L155: 
L156:  If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.

