SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/19-NYCRR-175.29
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 19 § 175.29 - Posting of Fair Housing Laws

(a) A real
estate broker shall display and maintain at every office and branch office
operated by such broker a notice, furnished by the Department, indicating the
substantive provisions of the New York State Human Rights Law relative to
housing accommodations. The notice shall set forth how Human Rights Law
complaints may be filed and such other information as the Department deems
pertinent.
(b) The notice required
by paragraph (a) of this section shall be prominently displayed in the window
of such office and any branch office maintained by such broker if such broker
also provides listings or other postings in the window of such location and
must be visible to persons on that portion of the sidewalk adjacent to such
office or branch office. If any office or branch office is not accessible from
the sidewalk or if postings are otherwise prohibited by any other applicable
law, then the notice required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall
be prominently posted in the same location the business license is posted
pursuant to subdivision 3 of section 441-a of article 12 of the Real Property
Law.
(c) All websites created and
maintained by real estate brokers, associate real estate brokers, real estate
salespersons and any real estate team, as such term is defined by section
175.25 of this title, shall
prominently and conspicuously display on the homepage of such website a link to
the Department's notice as required by paragraph (a) of this section, which
shall be made available by the Department.
(d) A real estate broker, licensed real
estate salesperson, or licensed associate broker shall have displayed at all
open houses of all real property the notice required by paragraph (a) of this
section. In addition, a real estate broker, licensed real estate agent, or
licensed associate broker shall have available at all open houses and showings
of all real property the notice required by paragraph (a) of section
175.28 of this part.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 19
§
175.29
Adopted
New
York State Register May 6, 2020/Volume XLII, Issue 18, eff.
6/20/2020
