SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/19-NYCRR-175.28
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 19 § 175.28 - Notification of Fair Housing Laws

(a) A real
estate broker shall be responsible to ensure that each individual licensed
pursuant to Article 12-A of the New York Real Property Law and associated with
such broker provides to a prospective purchaser, tenant, seller, or landlord
upon first substantive contact a disclosure notice furnished by the Department,
containing substantive provisions of the New York State Human Rights Law. The
disclosure notice shall set forth how Human Rights Law complaints may be filed,
and such other information as the Department deems pertinent.
(b) The disclosure notice required pursuant
to paragraph (a) of this section, may be provided to a prospective purchaser,
tenant, seller, or landlord by any of the following means: email, text,
electronic messaging system, facsimile, or hardcopy. An electronic
communication containing a link to the disclosure notice required pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this section shall be permissible, provided the communication
also contains text to inform the prospective purchaser, tenant, seller, or
landlord that the link contains information regarding the New York State Human
Rights Law. Oral disclosure does not satisfy the requirements imposed by this
section.
(c) The disclosure notice
required by paragraph (a) of this section shall apply to all real property
whether or not it is used or occupied, or intended to be used or occupied,
wholly or partly, as a home or residence of one or more persons regardless of
the number of units, and shall include: condominiums; cooperative apartments;
vacant lands, including unimproved real property upon which such dwellings are
to be constructed; or commercial properties.
(d) A real estate broker, licensed real
estate salesperson, or licensed associate broker that provides the disclosure
notice required pursuant to this section by hardcopy, shall obtain a signed
acknowledgment from the prospective buyer, tenant, seller, or landlord. Such
signed disclosure notice shall be retained for not less than three years. A
real estate broker, licensed real estate salesperson, or licensed associate
broker that provides the disclosure notice required pursuant to this section by
email, text, electronic messaging system, or facsimile, shall maintain a
duplicate copy of such disclosure and shall retain the same for not less than
three years. If the prospective buyer, tenant, seller, or landlord declines to
sign the disclosure notice, the real estate broker, licensed real estate
salesperson or licensed associate broker shall set forth under oath or
affirmation a written declaration of the facts regarding when such notice was
provided and shall maintain a copy of the declaration for not less than three
years.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 19
§
175.28
Adopted
New
York State Register May 6, 2020/Volume XLII, Issue 18, eff.
6/20/2020
