SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/19-NYCRR-175.25
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 19 § 175.25 - Advertising

(a)
Definitions. (1) Advertising and
advertisement mean promotion and solicitation related to licensed real estate
activity, including but not limited to, advertising via mail telephone,
websites, e-mail, electronic bulletin boards, business cards, signs,
billboards, and flyers. Advertising and advertisement shall not include
commentary made by a duly licensed real estate salesperson, real estate
associate broker or real estate broker that is not related to promoting
licensed real estate activity.
(2)
Team means two or more persons, one of whom must be an associate real estate
broker or real estate salesperson, associated with the same real estate
brokerage who hold themselves out or operate as a team.
(3) Real estate brokerage means a real estate
company represented by a real estate broker.
(4) Logo means a graphic mark used to
identify a real estate broker, associate broker, salesperson or team, but not a
photograph of a real estate broker, associate broker, salesperson or team
contained in an advertisement.
(5)
Property means real property or shares of stock in a cooperative
corporation.
(b)
Placement of advertisements. (1) Only a real
estate broker is permitted to place or cause to be published advertisements
related to the sale or lease of property. Advertisements placed or caused to be
published by an associate real estate broker, a real estate salesperson or a
team for the sale or lease of property listed with or represented by a real
estate broker are not permitted except where the property is listed with or
represented by the real estate broker with whom the associate real estate
broker, real estate salesperson or team placing the ad is associated and said
real estate broker approved placement of the advertisement.
(2) Authorization
(i) No property shall be advertised unless
the real estate broker has obtained authorization for such advertisement from
the owner of the property or as hereinafter provided.
(ii) Real estate brokers shall not advertise
property that is subject to an exclusive listing held by another real estate
broker without the permission of the listing broker.
(iii) Proprietary information. Photographs of
property that are posted on a real estate broker's website shall not be used or
reproduced without written permission from the copyright holder of such
photographs.
(c) Content of advertisements.
(1) Name of real estate broker.
Advertisements shall indicate that the advertiser is a real estate broker or
provide the name of the real estate broker or real estate brokerage and either:
(i) the full address of the real estate
broker or real estate brokerage or,
(ii) the telephone number of the real estate
broker or brokerage.
(2)
Name of associated licensees. The advertisement may include the names of one or
more associate real estate brokers or real estate sales persons associated with
the real estate broker or brokerage placing the advertisement. Where an
advertisement includes the name of an associate broker, real estate salesperson
or a team, the name of the real estate broker and/or real estate brokerage must
also be printed in the advertisement.
(3) Nicknames. Real estate brokers, associate
real estate brokers, and real estate salespersons shall advertise using the
name under which said real estate broker, associate real estate broker or real
estate salesperson is licensed with the Department of State. A nickname may be
used in an advertisement provided that the full-licensed name is listed clearly
and conspicuously.
(4) License
type. Except as provided in subdivision (d) of this section, advertisements
shall correctly and accurately state the type of license held by the real
estate broker, associate real estate broker or real estate salesperson named in
the advertisement. Licensees may abbreviate the type of license held, provided
that such abbreviation is not misleading. The use of the titles, "sales
associate", "licensed sales agent" or simply "broker" is prohibited. Real
estate brokers, associate real estate brokers or real estate salespersons who
have additional titles or designations are permitted to advertise such titles
or designations.
(5) Contact
information. An associate real estate broker, real estate salesperson or team
may provide additional contact information, such as a post office box, in an
advertisement.
(6) Home offices. A
residence may be used as an office provided that it is properly licensed by the
Department of State.
(7) Telephone
numbers. Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this subdivision, a real estate
broker, associate broker, real estate salesperson or team may provide telephone
numbers other than that of the brokerage in an advertisement, provided that the
advertisement clearly identifies the type of such other telephone number as
desk, home, cell phone, or otherwise.
(8) Logos. A real estate team, associate real
estate broker or real estate salesperson may use a logo different from that of
the real estate broker or real estate brokerage with whom they are associated,
provided that the name or logo of the real estate broker or real estate
brokerage is also printed in the advertisement.
(9) Property description. Advertisements
shall include an honest and accurate description of the property to be sold or
leased. All advertisements that state the advertised property is in the
vicinity of a geographical area or territorial subdivision shall include as
part of such advertisement the name of the geographical area or territorial
subdivision in which such property is actually located. Use by real estate
brokers, associate real estate brokers and real estate salespersons of a name
to describe an area that would be misleading to the public is
prohibited.
(10) Guaranteed
Profits. Advertisements shall not guarantee future profits from any real estate
activity.
(d) Additional
requirements and exceptions.(1) Classified
Advertisements. Classified and multi-property advertisements shall indicate
that the advertiser is a real estate broker or brokerage; or provide the name
of the real estate broker or real estate brokerage. Classified and
multi-property advertisements may omit the license type of any associate real
estate broker or real estate salesperson named in the advertisement.
(2) Business cards. Notwithstanding
subdivision (c) of this section, business cards must contain the business
address of the licensee, license type, and the name of the real estate broker
or real estate brokerage with whom the associate real estate broker or real
estate salesperson is associated. All business cards must also contain the
office telephone number for the associate real estate broker, real estate
salesperson or team.
(3) Web-based
advertising. (i) Websites created and
maintained by associate real estate brokers, real estate salespersons and teams
are permitted, provided that said associate real estate brokers, real estate
salespersons and teams are duly authorized by their supervising real estate
broker to create and maintain such websites and such websites remain subject to
the supervision of the real estate broker with whom the licensees are
associated while the website is live.
(ii) Every page of such a website, including
any page that displays multiple properties or property search results, shall
include the information required by these rules and regulations. In addition, a
link to the broker or brokerage website with whom the associate broker,
salesperson or team is associated is required on the homepage of the associate
broker, salesperson or team website unless the broker or brokerage does not
have a website.
(4)
E-mail. An initial e-mail from a real estate broker, associate real estate
broker, real estate salesperson or team to a client or potential client shall
provide the information required by these rules and regulations. Such
information may be omitted from subsequent e-mail communications to the same
recipient.
(5) For-Sale Signs.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless otherwise prohibited
by local law, any property listed through a real estate broker must be
advertised as such, and any signage placed upon such property soliciting the
sale or lease of the property must identify the representative broker or
brokerage.
(6) Advertisements
referencing property not listed with broker.
(i) No real estate broker, associate real
estate broker, or real estate salesperson shall advertise in any manner or make
reference to in any advertisement property that is subject to an exclusive
listing agreement of another broker, without authorization from the exclusive
listing broker. Such advertisements must clearly and conspicuously disclose the
name of the exclusive listing broker immediately after one of the following
phrases: "Listing Provided by ", "Listing by ", "Listing Broker Contact ",
"Listing of ", "Listing Provided Courtesy of ", "Listing Courtesy of ", or
"Listing Agent Contact ".
(ii) Any
real estate broker, associate real estate broker, or real estate salesperson
that pays a third-party for advertising involving a property that is subject to
an exclusive listing agreement of another broker must, in addition to the
requirements in subparagraph (i), include in any advertisement that provides
the advertising broker's name words to disclose that the advertisement is a
paid advertisement, using at a minimum the word "advertisement" immediately
following the real estate broker, associate real estate broker, or real estate
salesperson's name.
(e) Teams.
(1) Team name. Team names shall either:
(i) include the full licensed name of the
real estate brokers, associate brokers or real estate salespersons who are part
of said team; or
(ii) if the names
are not included, the team name must be immediately followed by "at/of ."
Team names shall use the term "team." The use of any other
terms besides "team," such as "associate," "realty" or "group" is prohibited.
The use of the name of a non-licensed individual in a team name is prohibited.
(2) Unlicensed
team members. If any unlicensed individuals are named in advertising for a
team, the advertisement must clearly and conspicuously state which individuals
are real estate licensees and which ones are not.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 19
§
175.25
Amended
New
York State Register January 4, 2017/Volume XXXIX, Issue 01, eff.
1/4/2017
Amended
New
York State Register May 6, 2020/Volume XLII, Issue 18, eff.
11/2/2020
