SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/19-NYCRR-175.17
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 19 § 175.17 - Prohibitions in relation to solicitation and unlawful discriminatory practice

(a)
(1) No broker or salesperson shall induce or
attempt to induce an owner to sell or lease any residential property or to list
same for sale or lease by making any representations regarding the entry or
prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular
race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation,
disability, gender identity, military status, familial status or any other
protected category under any Federal, State or local law applicable to the
activities of real estate licensees in New York State
(2)
(i) No
licensed real estate broker or salesperson shall solicit the sale, lease, or
the listing for sale or lease of residential property after such licensee has
received written notice from an owner thereof that such owner or owners do not
desire to sell, lease, or list such property.
(ii) Notice provided under the provisions of
this subdivision to a real estate broker shall constitute notice to all
associate brokers and salespersons who are employed by the real estate
broker.
(3)
(i) No licensed real estate broker or
salesperson shall solicit the sale, lease, or the listing for sale or lease of
residential property from an owner of residential property located in a
designated cease-and-desist zone if such owner has filed a cease-and-desist
notice with the Department of State indicating that such owner or owners do not
desire to sell, lease, or list their residential property and do not desire to
be solicited to sell, lease, or list their residential property.
(ii) The following geographic areas are
designated as cease-and-desist zones, and, unless sooner redesignated, the
designation for the following cease-and-desist zones shall expire on the
following dates:
Zone
County of Bronx
Expiration Date October 1, 2022
Within the County of Bronx as follows:
The sections of the area of land in the County of Bronx,
City of New York, within the neighborhood commonly referred to as Country Club,
and more specifically bounded by and described as follows:
All the land west of the Eastchester Bay south of Griswold
Avenue to Bruckner Expressway; thence southerly along the Bruckner Expressway/
Throgs Neck Expressway to Layton Avenue; then easterly to the East-chester
Bay.
Zone
County of Queens
Expiration Date October 1, 2022
Within the County of Queens as follows:
The sections of the area of land in the County of Queens,
City of New York, within the neighborhood commonly referred to as College
Point, and more specifically bounded by and described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of interstate 678 and the
East River; thence southerly along interstate 678 to the intersection of
interstate 678 and 14th Avenue; thence westerly along 14th Avenue to College
Point Boulevard; thence southerly along College Point Boulevard to 28th Avenue;
thence westerly to Flushing Bay; thence northeasterly along Flushing Bay and
the East River to the point of the beginning.
The sections of the area of land in the County of Queens,
City of New York, within the neighborhoods commonly referred to as: Bay Side,
Bay Terrace and Murray Hill, and more specifically bounded by and described as
follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the Cross Island Parkway
and 149th Street; thence southerly along 149th Street to 46th Avenue; thence
easterly along 46th Avenue and continuing along Hollis Court Boulevard to
interstate 495; thence easterly along interstate 495 to the Cross Island
Parkway; thence northerly along the Cross Island Parkway to the point of the
beginning.
Zone
County of Rockland
Expiration Date July 1, 2023
Within the County of Rockland as follows:
The area of land situated in the County of Rockland that
currently comprises the Incorporated Village of Chestnut Ridge in its entirety.
The Village of Chestnut Ridge is more specifically located within the Town of
Ramapo, north of the State of New Jersey and the Town of Orangetown; east of
the Village of Airmont; south of the Village of Spring Valley; and west of the
Towns of Clarkstown and Orangetown.
Zone
County of Kings
Expiration Date
November 1, 2025
Within the County of Kings as follows:
Beginning at the Queens border of Brooklyn to the east and
the intersection of Jamaica Avenue to the north; thence westerly along Jamaica
Avenue to Pennsylvania Avenue; thence southerly along Pennsylvania Avenue to
Sutter Avenue; thence westerly on Sutter Avenue to Van Sinderen Avenue to the
west; thence southerly along Van Sinderen Avenue to Linden Boulevard to the
south; thence easterly along Linden Boulevard to the Queens border; thence
northerly along the border to the point of the beginning on Jamaica
Avenue.
Zone
County of Kings
Expiration Date July 1, 2028
Within the County of Kings as follows:
The sections of the area of land in the County of Kings,
City of New York, within the neighborhood commonly referred to as Community
Board 17, and more specifically bounded by and described as follows: Beginning
at the intersection of Utica Avenue and Clarkson Avenue; thence westerly along
Clarkson Avenue to East 43rd Street; thence southerly along East 43rd Street to
Linden Boulevard; thence westerly along Linden Boulevard to Rogers Avenue;
thence southerly along Rogers Avenue to Snyder Avenue; thence westerly along
Snyder Avenue to Bedford Avenue; thence southerly along Bedford to Foster
Avenue; thence easterly along Foster Avenue to New York Avenue; thence
southerly along New York Avenue to Farragut Road; thence westerly along
Farragut Road to East 32nd Street; thence southerly along East 32nd Street to
Avenue H; thence easterly along Avenue H to Brooklyn Avenue; thence northerly
along Brooklyn Avenue to Glenwood Road; thence easterly along Glenwood Road to
Albany Avenue; thence northerly along Albany Avenue to Farragut Road; thence
easterly along Farragut Road to Schenectady Avenue; thence northerly along
Schenectady Avenue to Avenue D; thence easterly along Avenue D to Ditmas
Avenue; thence continuing easterly along Ditmas Avenue to Rockaway Parkway,
thence northwesterly along Rockaway Parkway to East New York Avenue; thence
southwesterly along East New York Avenue to Utica Avenue; thence southerly
along Utica Avenue to the point of the beginning at the intersection of Utica
Avenue and Clarkson Avenue.
(iii) The names and addresses of owners who
have filed a cease-and-desist notice with the Department of State shall be
compiled according to the street address for each cease-and-desist zone.
Following the first compilation of a list, the list shall be revised and
updated annually on or before December 31st. Individual lists shall be
identified by geographic area and year.
(iv) A copy of each cease-and-desist list
shall be available for inspection at the following offices of the Department of
State:
Department of State Division of Licensing Services 99
Washington Avenue Albany, New York 12231-0001
Department of State Division of Licensing Services State
Office Building Annex 164 Hawley Street Binghamton, New York 13901-4053
Department of State Division of Licensing Services 65 Court
Street Buffalo, New York 14202-3471
Department of State Division of Licensing Services Hughes
State Office Building Syracuse, New York 13202-1428
Department of State Division of Licensing Services State
Office Building Veterans Memorial Highway Hauppauge, New York 11788-5501
Department of State Division of Licensing Services 123
William Street New York, New York 10038-3804
(v) The cost of each list compiled pursuant
to this subdivision shall be $10 and shall be available upon written request to
the following address:
Department of State Division of Licensing Services 123
William Street New York, New York 10038-3804
(vi) The original cease-and-desist notice
shall be filed with the Department of State's Division of Licensing Services at
123 William Street, New York, New York 10038-3804, and shall be available for
public inspection and copying upon written request and appointment.
(vii) For the purposes of Real Property Law,
section
441-c, it
shall not be a demonstration of untrustworthiness or incompetence for a
licensee to solicit an owner who had filed a cease-and-desist notice with the
Department of State if the owner's name and address do not appear on the
current cease-and-desist list compiled by the Department of State pursuant to
subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph.
(4)
(i) For
the purposes of this subdivision, solicitation shall mean an attempt to
purchase or rent or an attempt to obtain a listing of property for sale, for
rent or for purchase. Solicitation shall include but not be limited to use of
the telephone, mails, delivery services, personal contact or otherwise causing
any solicitation, oral or written, direct or by agent:
(a) to be delivered or presented to the owner
or anyone else at the owner's home address;
(b) to be left for the owner or anyone else
at the owner's home address; or
(c)
to be placed on any vehicle, structure or object located on the owner's
premises.
(ii)
Solicitation shall not include classified advertising in regularly printed
periodicals that are not primarily real estate related; advertisements placed
in public view if they are not otherwise in violation of this subdivision; or
radio and television advertisements.
(5) For the purposes of this subdivision,
residential property shall mean one-, two- or three-family houses, including a
cooperative apartment or condominium.
(b) No real estate broker or salesperson
shall engage in an unlawful discriminatory practice, as proscribed by any
Federal, State or local law applicable to the activities of real estate
licensees in New York State. A finding by any Federal, State or local agency or
court of competent jurisdiction that a real estate broker or salesperson has
engaged in unlawful discriminatory practice in the performance of licensed real
estate activities shall be presumptive evidence of untrustworthiness and will
subject such licensee to discipline, including a proceeding for revocation.
Nothing herein shall limit or restrict the department from otherwise exercising
its authority pursuant to section
441-c of
the Real Property Law.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 19
§
175.17
Amended
New
York State Register March 18, 2016/Volume XXXVIII, Issue 20, eff.
5/18/2016
Amended
New
York State Register September 27, 2017/Volume XXXIX, Issue 39,
eff. 10/1/2017
Amended
New
York State Register June 6, 2018/Volume XL, Issue 23, eff.
7/1/2018
Amended
New
York State Register June 28, 2023/Volume XLV, Issue 26, eff.
7/1/2023
