SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/19-NYCRR-175.24
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 19 § 175.24 - Exclusive listings-residential property

(a) Residential
real property as used in this section shall mean real property used or
occupied, or intended to be used or occupied, wholly or partly, as a home or
residence of one or more persons improved by:
(i) a one to four family dwelling
or
(ii) condominium or cooperative
apartments but shall not refer to unimproved real property upon which such
dwellings are to be constructed.
(b) In all commission agreements obtained by
a broker which provide for an exclusive listing of residential property, the
broker shall have attached to the listing or printed on the listing and signed
or initialed by the homeowner or the homeowner's agent the following
explanation in type size of not less than six point:
"EXPLANATION:
An "exclusive right to sell" listing means that if you, the
owner of the property, find a buyer for your house, or if another broker finds
a buyer, you must pay the agreed commission to the present broker. An
"exclusive agency" listing means that if you, the owner of the property find a
buyer, you will not have to pay a commission to the broker. However, if another
broker finds a buyer, you will owe a commission to both the selling broker and
your present broker."
(c)
If an exclusive listing of residential property is obtained by a broker who is
a member of a multiple listing service, the listing agreement shall provide
that the homeowner shall have the option of having all negotiated offers to
purchase the listed residential property submitted either through the listing
broker or submitted through the selling broker.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 19
§
175.24
Amended
New
York State Register May 20, 2015/Volume XXXVII, Issue 20, eff.
5/20/2015
