SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_law_section_235-f
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/235-F (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Law Section 235-F

Unlawful restrictions on occupancy

1.
As used in this section, the terms:

(a)
“Tenant” means a person occupying or entitled to occupy a residential rental premises who is either a party to the lease or rental agreement for such premises or is a statutory tenant pursuant to the emergency housing rent control law or the city rent and rehabilitation law or article seven-c of the multiple dwelling law.

(b)
“Occupant” means a person, other than a tenant or a member of a tenant’s immediate family, occupying a premises with the consent of the tenant or tenants.

2.
It shall be unlawful for a landlord to restrict occupancy of residential premises, by express lease terms or otherwise, to a tenant or tenants or to such tenants and immediate family. Any such restriction in a lease or rental agreement entered into or renewed before or after the effective date of this section shall be unenforceable as against public policy.

3.
Any lease or rental agreement for residential premises entered into by one tenant shall be construed to permit occupancy by the tenant, immediate family of the tenant, one additional occupant, and dependent children of the occupant provided that the tenant or the tenant’s spouse occupies the premises as his primary residence.

4.
Any lease or rental agreement for residential premises entered into by two or more tenants shall be construed to permit occupancy by tenants, immediate family of tenants, occupants and dependent children of occupants; provided that the total number of tenants and occupants, excluding occupants’ dependent children, does not exceed the number of tenants specified in the current lease or rental agreement, and that at least one tenant or a tenants’ spouse occupies the premises as his primary residence.

5.
The tenant shall inform the landlord of the name of any occupant within thirty days following the commencement of occupancy by such person or within thirty days following a request by the landlord.

6.
No occupant nor occupant’s dependent child shall, without express written permission of the landlord, acquire any right to continued occupancy in the event that the tenant vacates the premises or acquire any other rights of tenancy; provided that nothing in this section shall be construed to reduce or impair any right or remedy otherwise available to any person residing in any housing accommodation on the effective date of this section which accrued prior to such date.

7.
Any provision of a lease or rental agreement purporting to waive a provision of this section is null and void.

8.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as invalidating or impairing the operation of, or the right of a landlord to restrict occupancy in order to comply with federal, state or local laws, regulations, ordinances or codes.

9.
Any person aggrieved by a violation of this section may maintain an action in any court of competent jurisdiction for:

(a)
an injunction to enjoin and restrain such unlawful practice;

(b)
actual damages sustained as a result of such unlawful practice; and

(c)
court costs.

Source:
Section 235-F — Unlawful restrictions on occupancy, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/235-F (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
