SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_law_section_242
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/242 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Law Section 242

Disclosure prior to the sale of real property

1.
(a) Any person, firm, company, partnership or corporation offering to sell real property to which no utility electric service is provided shall provide written notice to the prospective purchaser or to the prospective purchaser’s agent, clearly indicating this fact. Such notice shall be provided prior to accepting a purchase offer.

(b)
Any prospective or actual purchaser who has suffered a loss due to a violation of this section is entitled to recover any actual damages incurred from the person offering to sell said real property.

(c)
The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply in instances where the real property being sold lies within the applicable free footage allowance or service lateral specified by the public service commission in rule, regulation or public utility tariff.

2.
Disclosure prior to the sale of real property to which utility surcharge payments attach.

(a)
Any person, firm, company, partnership or corporation offering to sell real property against which an electric, gas or water utility surcharge is assessed for the purpose of defraying the costs associated with an electric, gas or water line extension, or for the purpose of defraying the costs associated with related facilities, shall provide written notice to the prospective purchaser or the prospective purchaser’s agent, stating as follows: “This property is subject to an electric, gas and/or water utility surcharge”. In addition, such notice shall also state, the type and purpose of the surcharge, the amount of the surcharge and whether such surcharge is payable on a monthly, yearly or other basis. Such notice shall be provided by the seller prior to accepting a purchase offer.

(b)
Any prospective or actual purchaser who has suffered a loss due to a violation of this subdivision is entitled to recover any actual damages incurred from the person offering to sell or selling said real property.

3.
Any person, firm, company, partnership or corporation offering to sell real property on which uncapped natural gas wells are situated, and of which such person, firm, company, partnership or corporation has actual knowledge, shall inform any purchaser of the existence of these wells prior to entering into a contract for the sale/purchase of such property.

4.
Disclosure prior to the sale of real property to which a green jobs-green New York on-bill recovery charge applies.

(a)
Any person, firm, company, partnership or corporation offering to sell real property which is subject to a green jobs-green New York on-bill recovery charge pursuant to title nine-A of article eight of the public authorities law shall provide written notice to the prospective purchaser or the prospective purchaser’s agent, stating as follows: “This property is subject to a green jobs-green New York on-bill recovery charge”. Such notice shall also state the total amount of the original charge, the payment schedule and the approximate remaining balance, a description of the energy efficiency services performed, including improvements to the property, and an explanation of the benefit of the green jobs-green New York qualified energy efficiency services. Such notice shall be provided by the seller prior to accepting a purchase offer.

(b)
Any prospective or actual purchaser who has suffered a loss due to a violation of this subdivision is entitled to recover any actual damages incurred from the person offering to sell or selling said real property.

Source:
Section 242 — Disclosure prior to the sale of real property, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/242 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
