SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_law_section_253
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/253 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Law Section 253

Construction of covenants in grants of freehold interests

In grants of freehold interests in real property, the following or similar covenants must be construed as follows:

1.
Seizin.-- A covenant that the grantor “is seized of the said premises (described) in fee simple, and has good right to convey the same,” must be construed as meaning that such grantor, at the time of the execution and delivery of the conveyance, is lawfully seized of a good, absolute and indefeasible estate of inheritance in fee simple, of and in all and singular the premises thereby conveyed, with the tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances thereto belonging, and has good right, full power and lawful authority to grant and convey the same by the said conveyance.

2.
Quiet enjoyment.-- A covenant that the grantee “shall quietly enjoy the said premises,” must be construed as meaning that such grantee, his heirs, successors and assigns, shall and may, at all times thereafter, peaceably and quietly have, hold, use, occupy, possess and enjoy the said premises, and every part and parcel thereof, with the appurtenances, without any let, suit, trouble, molestation, eviction, or disturbance of the grantor, his heirs, successors or assigns, or any person or persons lawfully claiming or to claim the same.

3.
Freedom from incumbrances.-- A covenant “that the said premises are free from incumbrances,” must be construed as meaning that such premises are free, clear, discharged and unincumbered of and from all former and other gifts, grants, titles, charges, estates, judgments, taxes, assessments, liens and incumbrances, of what nature or kind soever.

4.
Further assurance.-- A covenant that the grantor will “execute or procure any further necessary assurance of the title to said premises,” must be construed as meaning that the grantor and his heirs, or successors, and all and every person or persons whomsoever lawfully or equitably deriving any estate, right, title or interest of, in, or to the premises conveyed by, from, under, or in trust for him or them, shall and will at any time or times thereafter upon the reasonable request, and at the proper costs and charges of the grantee, his heirs, successors and assigns, make, do, and execute, or cause to be made, done and executed, all and every such further and other lawful and reasonable acts, conveyances and assurances in the law for the better and more effectually vesting and confirming the premises thereby granted or so intended to be, in and to the grantee, his heirs, successors or assigns forever, as by the grantee, his heirs, successors or assigns, or his or their counsel learned in the law, shall be reasonably advised or required.

5.
Warranty of title.-- A covenant that the grantor “will forever warrant the title” to the said premises, must be construed as meaning that the grantor and his heirs, or successors, the premises granted, and every part and parcel thereof, with the appurtenances, unto the grantee, his heirs, successors or assigns, against the grantor and his heirs or successors, and against all and every person or persons whomsoever lawfully claiming or to claim the same shall and will warrant and forever defend.

6.
Grantor has not incumbered.-- A covenant that the grantor “has not done or suffered anything whereby the said premises have been incumbered,” must be construed as meaning that the grantor has not made, done, committed, executed, or suffered any act or acts, thing or things whatsoever, whereby or by means whereof, the above mentioned and described premises, or any part or parcel thereof, now are, or at any time hereafter shall or may be impeached, charged or incumbered in any manner or way whatsoever.

Source:
Section 253 — Construction of covenants in grants of freehold interests, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/253 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
