SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_law_section_254-b
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/254-B (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Law Section 254-B

Limitation on late charges

1.
If a bond or note, or the mortgage on real property, heretofore or hereafter made, improved by a one to six family residence occupied by the owner, securing the payment of same, or a note representing a loan for the purpose of financing the purchase of an ownership interest in, and proprietary lease from, a corporation or partnership formed for the purpose of the cooperative ownership of residential real estate, contains a provision whereby the mortgagee or lender retains the right to collect a late charge on any instalment which has become due and remains unpaid, such charge on any such delinquent instalment, regardless of the period it remains in default, shall not exceed and shall only be enforced to the extent of two percent of such delinquent instalment; provided, however, that no charge shall be imposed on any instalment paid within fifteen days after the due date. No such late charge shall be deducted from any regular instalment payment by the mortgagor or borrower, but shall be separately charged and collected by the mortgagee or lender. In the absence of a specific provision in a bond, note or mortgage no late charge on any delinquent instalment shall be assessed or collected. The term “instalment” shall include amounts representing interest, amortization of principal and payments in respect of insurance premiums, taxes and utility charges if the bond, note or mortgage provides for collection thereof by the mortgagee.

2.
The provisions in this section shall not apply to any loan or forbearance insured by the federal housing commissioner or for which a commitment to insure has been made by the federal housing commissioner or to any loan or forbearance insured or guaranteed pursuant to the provisions of an act of congress entitled “Servicemen’s Readjustment Act of 1944”, or to the extent the provisions of this section are inconsistent with any other federal law or regulation.

3.
If any provision of this section, or the application of such provision to any individual, company, corporation, or circumstance, shall be held invalid, the remainder of this section, and the application of such section to individuals, companies, corporations, or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby.

Source:
Section 254-B — Limitation on late charges, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/254-B (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
