SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_law_section_440-a
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/440-A (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Law Section 440-A

License required for real estate brokers and salespersons

No person, co-partnership, limited liability company or corporation shall engage in or follow the business or occupation of, or hold themselves or itself out or act temporarily or otherwise as a real estate broker or real estate salesperson in this state without first procuring a license therefor as provided in this article. No person shall be entitled to a license as a real estate broker under this article, either as an individual or as a member of a co-partnership, or as a member or manager of a limited liability company or as an officer of a corporation, unless they are twenty years of age or over. No person shall be entitled to a license as a real estate salesperson under this article unless they are over the age of eighteen years. No person shall be entitled to a license as a real estate broker or real estate salesperson under this article who has been convicted in this state or elsewhere of a crime, unless the secretary makes a finding in conformance with all applicable statutory requirements, including those contained in article twenty-three-A of the correction law, that such convictions do not constitute a bar to licensure. No person shall be entitled to a license as a real estate broker or real estate salesperson under this article who does not meet the requirements of section 3-503 of the general obligations law. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, tenant associations and not-for-profit corporations authorized in writing by the commissioner of the department of the city of New York charged with enforcement of the housing maintenance code of such city to manage residential property owned by such city or appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to manage residential property owned by such city shall be exempt from the licensing provisions of this section with respect to the properties so managed.

Source:
Section 440-A — License required for real estate brokers and salespersons, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/440-A (updated Aug. 19, 2022; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
