SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_law_section_440
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/440 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Law Section 440

Definitions

1.
Whenever used in this article “real estate broker” means any person, firm, limited liability company or corporation, who, for another and for a fee, commission or other valuable consideration, lists for sale, sells, at auction or otherwise, exchanges, buys or rents, or offers or attempts to negotiate a sale, at auction or otherwise, exchange, purchase or rental of an estate or interest in real estate, or collects or offers or attempts to collect rent for the use of real estate, or negotiates or offers or attempts to negotiate, a loan secured or to be secured by a mortgage, other than a residential mortgage loan, as defined in section five hundred ninety of the banking law, or other incumbrance upon or transfer of real estate, or is engaged in the business of a tenant relocator, or who, notwithstanding any other provision of law, performs any of the above stated functions with respect to the resale of condominium property originally sold pursuant to the provisions of the general business law governing real estate syndication offerings. In the sale of lots pursuant to the provisions of article nine-A of this chapter, the term “real estate broker” shall also include any person, partnership, association or corporation employed by or on behalf of the owner or owners of lots or other parcels of real estate, at a stated salary, or upon a commission, or upon a salary and commission, or otherwise, to sell such real estate, or any parts thereof, in lots or other parcels, and who shall sell or exchange, or offer or attempt or agree to negotiate the sale or exchange, of any such lot or parcel of real estate. For purposes of this subdivision the term, “interest in real estate” shall include the sale of a business wherein the value of the real estate transferred as part of the business is not merely incidental to the transaction, and shall not include the assignment of a lease, and further, the transaction itself is not otherwise subject to regulation under state or federal laws governing the sale of securities. In connection with the sale of a business the term “real estate broker” shall not include a person, firm or corporation registered pursuant to the provisions of article twenty-three-A of the general business law or federal securities laws.

2.
“Associate real estate broker” means a licensed real estate broker who shall by choice elect to work under the name and supervision of another individual broker or another broker who is licensed under a partnership, trade name, limited liability company or corporation. Such individual shall retain their license as a real estate broker as provided for in this article; provided, however, that the practice of real estate sales and brokerage by such individual as an associate broker shall be governed exclusively by the provisions of this article as they pertain to real estate salespersons. Nothing contained herein shall preclude an individual who elects to be licensed as an associate broker from also retaining a separate real estate broker’s license under an individual, partnership, trade name, limited liability company or corporation.

3.
“Real estate salesperson” means a person associated with a licensed real estate broker to list for sale, sell or offer for sale, at auction or otherwise, to buy or offer to buy or to negotiate the purchase or sale or exchange of real estate, or to negotiate a loan on real estate other than a mortgage loan as defined in section five hundred ninety of the banking law, or to lease or rent or offer to lease, rent or place for rent any real estate, or collects or offers or attempts to collect rent for the use of real estate for or in behalf of such real estate broker, or who, notwithstanding any other provision of law, performs any of the above stated functions with respect to the resale of a condominium property originally sold pursuant to the provisions of the general business law governing real estate syndication offerings.

4.
“Tenant relocator” means any person, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company or any legal entity whatsoever, which, for another and for a fee, commission or other valuable consideration, supervises, organizes, arranges, coordinates, handles or is otherwise in charge of or responsible for the relocation of commercial or residential tenants from buildings or structures that are to be demolished, rehabilitated, remodeled or otherwise structurally altered.

5.
“Association, associated; or associated with” whenever used in this article shall be deemed to make reference to a salesperson’s relationship with their broker. Nothing in this article shall be deemed or construed to be indicative or determinative of the legal relationship of a salesperson to a broker nor shall any provision of this article be deemed or construed to alter or otherwise affect the legal responsibility of a real estate broker to third parties for the acts of anyone associated with such broker pursuant to this article.

6.
“Office manager” means a licensed associate real estate broker who shall by choice elect to work as an office manager under the name and supervision of another individual broker or another broker who is licensed under a partnership, trade name, limited liability company or corporation. An associate real estate broker shall be required to have been active as a licensed associate broker for at least two of the four years preceding appointment as an office manager. Such individual shall retain their license as a real estate broker as provided for in this article and shall be required to exercise the same duty of supervision over salespersons and associate brokers as a licensed real estate broker; provided, however, that the practice of real estate sales and brokerage by such individual as an associate broker shall be governed exclusively by the provisions of this article as they pertain to real estate salespersons. Nothing contained in this subdivision shall preclude an individual who is licensed as an associate broker who elects to work as an office manager from also retaining a separate real estate broker’s license under an individual, partnership, trade name, limited liability company or corporation.

Source:
Section 440 — Definitions, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/440 (updated Aug. 19, 2022; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
