SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_law_section_441-e
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/441-E (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Law Section 441-E

Denial of license

complaints

notice of hearing

1.
Denial of license. The department of state shall, before making a final determination to deny an application for a license, notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for such proposed denial and shall afford the applicant an opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel prior to denial of the application. Such notification shall be served personally or by certified mail or in any manner authorized by the civil practice law and rules. If the applicant is a salesperson or has applied to become a salesperson, the department shall also notify the broker with whom such salesperson is associated, or with whom such salesperson or applicant is about to become associated, of such proposed denial. If a hearing is requested, such hearing shall be held at such time and place as the department shall prescribe. If the applicant fails to make a written request for a hearing within thirty days after receipt of such notification, then the notification of denial shall become the final determination of the department. The department, acting by such officer or person in the department as the secretary of state may designate, shall have the power to subpoena and bring before the officer or person so designated any person in this state, and administer an oath to and take testimony of any person or cause their deposition to be taken. A subpoena issued under this section shall be regulated by the civil practice law and rules. If, after such hearing, the application is denied, written notice of such denial shall be served upon the applicant personally or by certified mail or in any manner authorized by the civil practice law and rules, and if the applicant is a salesperson, or has applied to become a salesperson, the department shall notify the broker with whom such applicant is associated.

2.
Revocation, suspension, reprimands, fines. The department of state shall, before revoking or suspending any license or imposing any fine or reprimand on the holder thereof or before imposing any fine upon any person not licensed pursuant to this article who is deemed to be in violation of section four hundred forty-two-h of this article, and at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing, notify in writing the holder of such license or such unlicensed person of any charges made and shall afford such licensee or unlicensed person an opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel in reference thereto. Such written notice may be served by delivery of same personally to the licensee, or by mailing same by certified mail to the last known business address of such licensee or unlicensed person, or by any method authorized by the civil practice law and rules. If said licensee be a salesperson, the department shall also notify the broker with whom they are associated of the charges by mailing notice by certified mail to the broker’s last known business address. The hearing on such charges shall be at such time and place as the department shall prescribe.

3.
Power to suspend a license. The department, acting by such officer or person in the department as the secretary of state may designate, shall have the power to suspend a license pending a hearing and to subpoena and bring before the officer or person so designated any person in this state, and administer an oath to and take testimony of any person or cause his deposition to be taken. A subpoena issued under this section shall be regulated by the civil practice law and rules.

Source:
Section 441-E — Denial of license; complaints; notice of hearing, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/441-E (updated Aug. 19, 2022; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
