SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_law_section_441-b
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/441-B (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Real Property Law Section 441-B

License fees

1.
The fee for a license issued or reissued under the provisions of this article entitling a person, co-partnership, limited liability company or corporation to act as a real estate broker shall be one hundred fifty-five dollars plus an additional thirty dollar surcharge. Such surcharge shall be collected by the department of state and deposited into the anti-discrimination in housing fund established pursuant to section eighty-a of the state finance law to be used for statewide fair housing testing efforts. The fee for a license issued or reissued under the provisions of this article entitling a person to act as a real estate salesperson shall be fifty-five dollars plus an additional ten dollar surcharge. Such surcharge shall be collected by the department of state and deposited into the anti-discrimination in housing fund established pursuant to section eighty-a of the state finance law to be used for statewide fair housing testing efforts. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision seven of section four hundred forty-one-a of this article, after January first, nineteen hundred eighty-six, the secretary of state shall assign staggered expiration dates for outstanding licenses that have been previously renewed on October thirty-first of each year from the assigned date unless renewed. If the assigned date results in a term that exceeds twenty-four months, the applicant shall pay an additional prorated adjustment together with the regular renewal fee. The secretary of state shall assign dates to existing licenses in a manner which shall result in a term of not less than two years. 1-A. The fee for a person to take an examination offered by the secretary of state pursuant to this article shall be fifteen dollars. Fees collected by the department of state pursuant to this article shall be deposited to the credit of the business and licensing services account established pursuant to section ninety-seven-y of the state finance law.

2.
Corporations and co-partnerships. If the licensee be a corporation, the license issued to it shall entitle the president thereof or such other officer as shall be designated by such corporation, to act as a real estate broker. For each other officer who shall desire to act as a real estate broker in behalf of such corporation an additional license expiring on the same date as the license of the corporation shall be applied for and issued, as hereinbefore provided, the fee for which shall be the same as the fee required by this section for the license to the corporation. No license as a real estate salesperson shall be issued to any officer of a corporation nor to any manager or member of a limited liability company nor to a member of a co-partnership licensed as a real estate broker. If the licensee be a co-partnership the license issued to it shall entitle one member thereof to act as a real estate broker, and for each other member of the firm who desires to act as a real estate broker an additional license expiring on the same date as the license of the co-partnership shall be applied for and issued, as hereinbefore provided, the fee for which shall be the same as the fee required by this section for the license to the co-partnership. If the licensee be a limited liability company, the license issued to it shall entitle one member thereof or one manager thereof to act as a real estate broker, and for each other member or manager of the firm who desires to act as a real estate broker an additional license expiring on the same date as the license of the limited liability company shall be applied for and issued, as hereinbefore provided, the fee for which shall be the same as the fee required by this section for the license to the limited liability company. In case a person licensed individually as a real estate broker thereafter becomes an officer of a corporation or a member or manager of a limited liability company or a member of a co-partnership an application shall be made in behalf of such corporation, limited liability company or co-partnership for a broker’s license for them as its representative for the remainder of the then current license term, provided that the license and pocket card previously issued to the licensee in their individual capacity shall have been returned to the department whereupon the department shall cause a properly signed endorsement to be made without charge on the face of such license and pocket card as to such change of license status and return the license and pocket card to the licensee.

3.
Disposition of fees. The department of state shall on the first day of each month make a verified return to the department of taxation and finance of all fees received by it under this article during the preceding calendar month, stating from what city or county received and by whom and when paid.

Source:
Section 441-B — License fees, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/RPP/441-B (updated Aug. 19, 2022; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
