SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/16-NYCRR-96.1
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.1 - Definitions

The following definitions apply for purposes of this
Part:
(a) Assisted living facilities.
Multi-unit residential premises, identified as assisted living facilities and
certified by the New York State Department of Health as such, which provide
congregate residential housing with supportive services, including on-site
monitoring, and personal care services and/or home care services in a homelike
setting.
(b) Campground,
recreational trailer park, marinas, and parking facilities. Facilities for use
on an intermittent, temporary, or irregular basis by campground, recreational,
trailer park, marina, or vehicle charging stations where electric service is
delivered by the utility to the facility owner and redistributed to individual
campsites, trailers, boats or plug-in electric vehicle charging stations with
or without submetering.
(c)
Condominium. Separate ownership of individual units in a multi-unit residential
premises. Each unit owner holds title to a unit of real property and also owns
a common tenancy with owners of other units for the common areas of the
building, which are managed by a homeowners' association, or as established in
the condominium bylaws.
(d)
Cooperative apartment. Multi-unit residential premises in which residents own a
share in the corporation that owns the real estate, which entitles the
shareholder to occupy a dwelling unit. Each shareholder is granted the right to
occupy one housing unit through an occupancy agreement, which is similar to a
lease. A board of directors manages the cooperative.
(e) Direct metering. In multi-unit
residential premises, the measurement of electricity use in each unit through a
meter that has been provided by the distribution utility company, wherein each
individual residential unit is assigned its own meter.
(f) Electric heating. Heat provided to an
entire living space with electricity primarily by means of non-portable
electric heating appliances.
(g)
HEFPA. The Home Energy Fair Practices Act, Public Service Law, sections 30-53
and all commission regulations adopted to implement such provisions.
(h) Master-metering. The measurement through
a single meter of the quantity of electricity delivered to a multi-unit
residential premises by a utility, wherein the owner or manager of such
building is the utility customer and wherein the electricity may be
redistributed to the individual residential units in the building either with
or without submetering.
(i) Rate
cap. The maximum rate, calculated in each billing period, that may be used to
compute the charges for electric service to a submetered resident. Unless a
different rate cap is set pursuant to sections
96.2(a) and
96.8(b) and (c)
of this Part, the rate cap shall be the rates and charges of the distribution
utility for delivery and commodity in that billing period to similarly
situated, direct metered residential customers. Where residents are billed for
time-of-use, the maximum rate for purposes of calculating the rate cap shall be
the average annual residential rate.
(j) Resident. The occupant of a unit used as
a home in a multi-unit residential premises.
(k) Senior living facility. Multi-unit
residential premises in which energy-efficient housing and other services are
provided, and will be provided in the future, to resident senior citizens, in
which electric usage does not vary significantly from unit to unit because
units are uniform in size and in the types of appliances, and which promotes
economic development.
(l)
Submeterer. Any multi-unit residential premises owner or utility customer of
record who purchases electricity for delivery by the utility to the premises
and facilitates the sale or redistribution of such electricity for use by the
premises occupants whose units are separately metered and billed based on the
measurement of electricity use in each occupant's unit. Any entity acting on
behalf of such owner that arranges for the installation of submeters and the
billing of submetered usage to individual residents shall be considered the
agent of the submeterer. The submeterer may engage the services of a
submetering service provider to install meters, read meters and/or handle
billing.
(m) Submetering. A system
of measuring electricity use in a residential unit in a master-metered
multi-unit residential premises, or campground, trailer park, marina or parking
facility by means of a submeter installed on the wiring to each residential
unit, campsite, trailer, boat hookup or plug-in electric vehicle charging
station.
(n) Time-of-use rates. The
pricing of electricity based on actual usage during particular time intervals.
Time-of-use rates may be applicable to blocks of time over a 24-hour
period.
(o) Time-of-use meter. A
meter that registers accumulated energy consumption (data) over specific time
intervals.
(p) Utility customer.
For purposes of this Part, an electricity consumer whose use of electricity is
directly metered by the distribution utility and is a customer of record of the
distribution utility.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16
§
96.1
