SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/16-NYCRR-96.2
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.2 - Electric service to submetered multi-unit residential premises-general provisions

(a)
Provisions applicable to all submetering.(1)
Electric service shall only be provided to a multi-unit residential premises in
which individual dwelling units in the premises receive submetered electric
service if the submetering (i) is and continues to be authorized by commission
order where a commission order was necessary, (ii) is and continues to be
consistent with any conditions imposed by such order, and (iii) is and
continues to be consistent with this Part notwithstanding previous
authorization to submeter that did not include the requirements
herein.
(2) If electric service is
provided to a multi-unit residential premises in which the individual dwelling
units in such premises receive submetered electric service, but which, after
the procedures provided for in section
96.8(b) and (c)
of this Part, has been found to be (i) inconsistent with any conditions imposed
by the commission's order authorizing such service, or (ii) inconsistent with
applicable provisions of this Part, the rate cap for such service may be
reduced by up to 40 percent. The rate cap will continue at such reduced level
from the date specified in the notice of rate cap reduction until such time as
the department confirms to the submeterer that such inconsistency has been
corrected. Further, when such inconsistency existed for a period of time prior
to the department's notice of alleged violation, contained in section
96.8 of this Part, the reduced
rate cap may be extended to all or a portion of such period, not exceeding two
years, and the submeterer shall refund to residents the difference between the
reduced rate cap established for that period pursuant to this paragraph and any
charges for electric service paid by residents in such period. A rate cap
reduction made pursuant to this section is appealable to the commission within
15 days of the date of the notice of rate cap reduction.
(b) Existing direct metered multi-unit
residential premises.
Except as otherwise provided in this Part, electric service
provided to individual residential units in existing multi-unit residential
premises through direct metering may not be discontinued or replaced by master
metering. If, however, a petition to submeter is filed, which:
(1) complies with the applicable requirements
of sections 96.5 and
96.6 of this Part;
(2) seeks to convert such premises from
direct metering to master-metering with submetering; and
(3) demonstrates that the building or complex
for which master metering with submetering is sought will participate in
building level demand response programs or will employ on-site co-generation
plant or an alternative, advanced energy efficiency design, the conversion to
submetering may be authorized by the commission.
(c) Assisted living and senior living
facilities. Electric service is authorized to be established or continued to
assisted living or senior living facilities through master metering.
(d) Campgrounds, recreational trailer parks,
marinas, and parking facilities. Electric service may be provided to the
facility owner or operator of campgrounds, recreational trailer parks, marinas
and parking facilities for redistribution to individual campsites, trailer,
boat hookups, or plug-in electric vehicle charging stations with or without
submetering. Master metering and submetering, at the facility owner's or
operator's option, may be installed and used for billing without commission
approval and are not subject to submetering service conditions.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16
§
96.2
