SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/16-NYCRR-96.3
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.3 - Filings seeking authorization to convert existing master-metered residential rental premises to submetering and submetering in new premises

(a) Notice of intent to submeter. Except when
a conversion to submetering results in the cost of electric heat becoming the
responsibility of the residents or when a building owner seeks authorization to
install submetering in place of direct metering pursuant to section
96.2(b) of this
Part, a master-metered multi-unit residential rental premises with submetering
shall be authorized:(1) after filing a notice
of intent to submeter, which includes the information, descriptions, plans,
forms, certifications, and other materials and representations specified for
such Notices in section
96.5 of this Part;
(2) after individual notices to residents are
provided pursuant to subdivision (c) of this section;
(3) upon the commission's determination and
order approving such submetering as in the public interest and consistent with
the provision of safe and adequate electric service to residents. In making
this determination, the commission may rely on the notice of intent to submeter
and the information therein, when complete, as a rebuttable presumption that
submetering at such premises is in the public interest and consistent with the
provision of safe and adequate service to residents.
(b) Petition to submeter.
(1) When payment for electricity for electric
heat will become the responsibility of residents, submetering will be
authorized:(i) after filing a petition to
submeter which includes the information, descriptions, plans, forms,
certifications, and other materials and representations specified for such
petitions in section
96.5 of this Part;
(ii) after individual notices to residents
are provided pursuant to subdivision (c) of this section where necessary;
and
(iii) upon the commission's
determination and order approving such submetering as in the public interest
and consistent with the provision of safe and adequate electric service to
residents. Such determinations will be considered by the commission on a
case-by-case basis. In making such determination, the commission may rely on
the petition to submeter, supplemental information provided with the petition,
information supplied in public comments, and staff's investigation.
(2) Replacement of direct metering
with submetering shall be authorized: (i)
after filing a petition to submeter which includes the information required by
section 96.5 of this Part and the
demonstration described in section
96.2(b) of this
Part;
(ii) after individual notices
to residents are provided pursuant to subdivision (c) of this section;
and
(iii) upon the commission's
determination and order approving such submetering as in the public interest
and consistent with the provision of safe and adequate electric service to
residents. Such determinations will be considered by the commission on a
case-by-case basis. In making such determination, the commission may rely on
the petition to submeter, supplemental information provided with the petition,
information supplied in public comments, and staff's investigation.
(c) The following
notice to residents is required for conversions to submeter. The submeterer
shall provide or shall have provided proof, in the form of a sworn affidavit,
that the following individual, written notices have been provided to all
current residents:(1) Prior to filing a
notice of intent to submeter or a petition to submeter pursuant to this Part.
Prior to submitting a notice of intent to submeter or a petition to submeter,
the prospective submeterer identified in such notice or petition shall provide
individual notice to current residents of the prospective submeterer's intent
to submit a notice of intent to submeter or petition to submeter. Such
notification to residents shall include the identification of a location in the
premises where, and at times convenient to the residents, the information
required to be provided to the commission under section
96.5 of this Part may be reviewed
by residents. Such notification shall also include an offer to provide, upon
request by a resident, a copy of such notice or petition.
(2) Prior to approval. A notice of intent to
submeter or petition to submeter filed pursuant to this section shall not be
noticed for comment in the New York State Register until all information
required in section
96.5 of this Part in connection
with such notice or petition is filed with the secretary. Immediately upon
publication of the notice of intent to submeter or petition to submeter in the
State Register, the prospective submeterer shall inform current residents
individually that the commission has commenced a proceeding and how they may
submit comments to the Department of Public Service within the State
Administrative Procedure Act comment period.
(3) After submetering approval. After
submetering is authorized pursuant to this Part, the submeterer shall notify
residents individually no less than two months prior to the actual commencement
of billing for submetered electric service. The submeterer shall file with the
secretary a copy of the notice provided to current residents of the date upon
which submetering will commence. Such required notice shall include:
(i) a statement indicating that prospective
residents will be notified prior to signing a lease or purchase agreement that
electricity will be supplied on a submetered basis and the residents will be
responsible for electric charges;
(ii) a copy of the annual notice used or to
be used for compliance with Public Service Law section 44, which summarizes the
residents' HEFPA rights and responsibilities, including complaint handling
procedures; and
(iii) the precise
manner in which submetered residents may contact the Department of Public
Service Office of Consumer Services.
(d) The submeterer shall commit in writing to
accept all of the conditions required by the commission in its order
authorizing submetering and in these regulations.
(e) Submeters shall be installed and
submetered billing shall commence within five years of the commission order
authorizing submetering. If submetering has not commenced within five years of
such commission order, a new notice of intent to submeter or petition to
submeter shall be filed with the commission.
(f) Authorization to submeter shall continue
when ownership of a submetered premises is transferred.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16
§
96.3
