SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/16-NYCRR-96.5
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.5 - Notice of intent to submeter and petition to submeter- contents

Each notice of intent to submeter or petition to submeter
filed pursuant to this Part shall include:
(a) A description of the type of submetering
system to be installed, including a demonstration in all notices and petitions
submitted after January 1, 2016, that the submetering system, when installed,
will be capable of service termination to individual units. Such description
shall include the meter classification according to the manufacturer's name and
proof of each submeter's conformance to the requirements in Parts 92 and 93 of
this Title. Authorization to submeter pursuant to this Part will be, unless
modified by commission order, contingent upon use of the named, or an
identified comparable submetering system.
(b) A description of the methods to be used
to calculate the bills for individual residents when submetering is
implemented, including the methods to be used to determine that the submetered
bills, when rendered, will comply with the rate cap as set forth in this
Part.
(c) A plan for complying with
the provisions of HEFPA. Such plan shall include, but is not limited to, a
description or sample of the prospective submeterer's form to be used to
determine residents assets, budget billing form, quarterly billing form,
reminder notice, notice to social services of a resident's inability to pay,
final termination notice, final suspension notice, the annual resident
notification of rights, bill contents, budget or levelized payment plan,
deferred payment agreement, and complaint handling procedures.
(d) A "Submeterer Identification Form," which
shall contain the premises' utility company account number(s) and the name,
telephone number and address of the individual or individuals responsible for
billing and for resolving resident complaints. For new accounts for which
account numbers are not available when the notice of intent to submeter or
petition to submeter is filed, account numbers shall be made part of the
submeterer identification form when available to the applicant.
(e) Where applicable, a description of the
method to be used to back out electric charges from rent, which shall include:
(1) a detailed description of how such
monthly reduction to rent charges will be calculated; and
(2) a copy of the individual notice provided
to residents explaining the basis and methodology for such rent or monthly
maintenance reductions.
(f) Certification by the prospective
submeterer that the following shall be included in plain language in all leases
or agreements governing the premises to be submetered, which shall be filed
with the commission in the notice of intent to submeter or petition to
submeter:(1) submetering complaint
procedures;
(2) the HEFPA rights
and responsibilities of residents; and
(3) a provision stating that submetering
refunds will be credited to submetered residents affected by the submeterer's
actions that led to such refunds provided that the submeterer has such contact
information for such resident.
(g) Proof of service that a notice of intent
to submeter or petition to submeter was sent from the prospective submeterer to
the utility company providing electric service to the premises to be
submetered.
(h) Documentation
sufficient to establish that the refrigerators in all rental dwelling units are
no more than 10 years old or meet the most recently adopted Federal energy
efficiency standards for such appliances.
(i) A description of the electric energy
efficiency measures that have been or will be installed.
(j) A description of the information and
education programs that have been and will be provided to residents on how to
reduce electric usage. Such programs shall include information to all residents
before submetering commences as well as supplemental information to residents
with above-average electricity usage in the first 12 months after submetering
has begun.
(k) When a notice of
intent to submeter or petition to submeter is made with respect to a premises
in which 20 percent or more of the residents receive income-based housing
assistance, such notice or petition shall include:
(1) the name of each such assistance program
in place at the premises, the agency administrator of each such program, the
number of residents receiving assistance under each such program, whether the
administrator of such program must approve the proposed submetering at such
premises and, if so, when such approval was or may be granted;
(2) the utility allowance or rent reduction
applicable to residents pursuant to each such assistance program;
(3) proof that an energy audit by a certified
energy consultant has been conducted, a description of the energy efficiency
plan for the premises, including, but not limited to, a refrigerator
replacement plan, other specific conservation and weatherization measures that
have been or will be installed, including those sponsored by the New York State
Energy Research and Development Authority and/or other organizations, and
information and education programs that have been or will be provided to
residents on how to reduce electric usage. If a premises owner or operator has
participated in a NYSERDA and/or other program to encourage energy efficiency,
the prospective submeterer shall provide formal documentation in its notice of
intent to submeter or petition to submeter describing the energy efficiency
rating its premises has achieved, which appliances will be EnergyStar®
rated, and NYSERDA certification that its energy reduction plan is
complete.
(l) When a
proposed conversion to submetering of an electric heat property or submetering
in a new electric heat property is addressed through a petition to submeter,
such petition shall, unless waived by the commission for good cause shown,
include:(1) a detailed description of the
manner and extent to which electric heat is or will be provided to the
residential units subject to submetering;
(2) a demonstration that electricity
consumption for heating in dwelling units may be controlled by the resident of
each unit by the use of programmable thermostats;
(3) either a forecast based on one year of
apartment-level shadow billing or a study of actual submetered data from
comparably situated buildings. Such forecast or study shall demonstrate that,
when submetering is introduced, more than 60 percent of residents are expected
to pay less, after accounting for savings from energy efficiency measures,
energy conservation, and assistance that may be available from the Home Energy
Assistance Program or other energy assistance programs, for the submetered
electricity during the first 12 months of electric service than the amount of
rent reduction they will receive as a result of the introduction of submetering
during this period;
(4) proof that
an energy audit by a certified energy consultant has been conducted, a
description of the energy efficiency plan for the premises, including, but not
limited to, a refrigerator replacement plan, other specific conservation and
weatherization measures that have been or will be installed, including those
sponsored by the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority
and/or other organizations, and information and education programs that have
been or will be provided to residents on how to reduce electric usage. If a
premises owner or operator has participated in a NYSERDA and/or other program
to encourage energy efficiency, the prospective submeterer shall provide formal
documentation in its petition to submeter describing the energy efficiency
rating its premises has achieved, which appliances will be EnergyStar®
rated, and NYSERDA certification that its energy reduction plan is
complete;
(5) when the petition to
submeter is made with respect to a premises in which at least 25 of the
residents receive income-based housing assistance, documentation to establish
that the submeterer has registered as a Home Energy Assistance Program (HEAP)
vendor. The commission may require, when necessary, that a submeterer become a
HEAP vendor;
(6) submetering of
electric in new premises shall not be subject to the filing requirements of
paragraph (3) or (4) of this subdivision.
(m) When a petition to submeter is for a
conversion from direct metering to submetering pursuant to section
96.2(b) of this
Part, the Petition shall include a demonstration that the building or complex
for which submetering is sought will participate in building level demand
response programs or will employ on-site co-generation plant or an alternative,
advanced energy efficiency design.
(n) Such other or further demonstration,
documentation, commitment or information which, in an order issued prior to the
date on which such notice of intent to submeter or petition to submeter is
filed, the commission shall have identified as necessary to a determination
that approval of such notice or petition is in the public interest and
consistent with the provision of safe and adequate service to
residents.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16
§
96.5
The amended version of this section by
New
York State Register June 11, 2025/Volume XLVII, Issue 23, eff.
5/21/2025 is not yet
available.
