SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/16-NYCRR-96.7
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.7 - Electric submetering equipment requirements

All submeterers, whether authorized to submeter by
commission order, rule, or past practice shall provide or continue to provide
submetered service under the following conditions unless waived in whole or in
part by commission order for good cause shown:
(a) All submetering products and ancillary
equipment used to monitor electric flow to submetered residents and installed
or replaced after January 1, 2014 must:(1)
comply with the provisions of Parts 92 and 93 of this Title; and
(2) be physically compatible with the service
endpoints of the premises' electrical system. Submeters shall be equipped with
viewable registers, accessible to the resident so the resident may monitor
their own kWh consumption or shall provide alternate mechanisms to allow
residents to monitor their own consumption such as through a computer
program;
(3) submeters that are
calibrated to register a fixed fraction of the electricity consumed should
display the meter register multiplier which will be used to determine the
resident's actual kilowatt hour usage. Any register multiplier used should be
indicated on resident bills.
(b) Ensuring continued submeter performance -
submeter inspection and testing programs shall be instituted to ensure that
residents of submetered premises continue to receive reliable and accurate
electric consumption measurements. The submeterer or submeterer's agent shall
conduct an annual testing program to analyze a statistically significant sample
of the in-service submeters in accordance with the testing procedures and
standards outlined in Parts 92 and 93 of this Title. Submeters that do not meet
the requirements of Parts 92 and 93 of this Title shall be corrected or
recalibrated as soon as practicable but no later than one year after testing
unless otherwise ordered by the commission.
(c) Cost of meter tests for all submeters -
the cost of testing a submeter's accuracy shall be borne by the submeterer to
the extent described in this paragraph. A recipient of submetered service may
request and receive one submeter test at no cost during a 12-month period when
the request is made pursuant to a consumer complaint. A recipient of submetered
service may request more than one meter test during a twelve month period and
may request that the test be witnessed by Department of Public Service staff;
however, if the submeter is not out of the limits as prescribed by Part 92 of
this Title, the person requesting more than one annual test will bear the cost
of such additional meter tests.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16
§
96.7
