SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/16-NYCRR-96.8
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of Cornell LII's republication of the official NYCRR (govt.westlaw.com/nycrr is Cloudflare-walled to curl); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_nycrr.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.8 - Failure to comply with this part

(a) Any
failure to submeter in compliance with this Part or Part 92 or 93 of this
Title, as referenced herein, may result in commission action that:
(1) rescinds, suspends, limits or stays the
submeterer's authorization to submeter electricity, or its authority to render
bills to and collect payments from submetered residents;
(2) terminates electric service to the
submetered premises or orders rebilling, or billing refunds; or
(3) results in a penalty action under the
Public Service Law or in other commission enforcement proceedings.
Any such actions shall be taken in accordance with the
Public Service Law and commission procedures.
(b) In addition, or in the alternative, a
failure to submeter in compliance with this Part or Part 92 or 93 of this Title
as referenced herein, may result in up to a 40 percent reduction of the rate
cap. Prior to establishing a reduced rate cap, the Department of Public Service
shall:(1) provide to the submeterer a notice
of alleged violation stating with specificity the violations(s) of regulations,
commission orders, statute(s) or tariff(s) found after department investigation
as well as the department's proposed rate cap;
(2) require that the submeterer provide a
copy of the notice of alleged violation to residents along with information on
how residents may provide comments within 10 days to the Department of Public
Service regarding such notice;
(3)
allow the submeterer 15 days from the date of the notice of alleged violation
to respond to such notice;
(4)
allow the submeterer 20 days from the date of such response or 30 days from the
notice of alleged violation to cure the failures identified therein;
and
(5) send to the submeterer a
notice of rate cap reduction stating the basis for the rate cap reduction, the
level of rate cap reduction and, the date(s) upon which the rate cap reduction
shall be in effect. The rate cap reduction shall be in effect no less than 20
days after the notice of rate cap reduction.
(c) Any rate cap reduction implemented by the
Department of Public Service pursuant to section
96.2(a)(2) of
this Part (rate cap) of this Part may be appealed to the commission within 15
days of the notice of rate cap reduction. Any such appeal will toll the period
during which a department rate cap reduction will be in effect.
(d) By undertaking to submeter pursuant to a
commission order granting a notice of intent to submeter or a petition to
submeter issued under this Part or by continuing to submeter, the submeterer
shall have consented to the jurisdiction of the commission to impose the
enforcement remedies (1) described in this Part, or (2) described in the Public
Service Law and applicable in the event a company, corporation or person fails
to obey and comply with a provision of the Public Service Law, or a regulation
or order of the commission applicable to it.

NOTES (LII amendment history):
Notes
N.Y. Comp.
Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16
§
96.8
