SOURCE: https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?path=/prelim@title11/title11a&edition=prelim
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from the Office of the Law Revision Counsel USLM XML (uscode.house.gov release point 119-111, xml_usc11a@119-111.zip), element /us/usc/ptIX/rule9038; text extracted mechanically (editorial notes omitted; source credit appended)

9038. Bankruptcy Rules Emergency

Rule 9038.
Bankruptcy Rules Emergency
(a)
Conditions for an Emergency.
The Judicial Conference of the United States may declare a Bankruptcy Rules emergency if it determines that extraordinary circumstances relating to public health or safety, or affecting physical or electronic access to a bankruptcy court, substantially impair the court’s ability to perform its functions in compliance with these rules.
(b)
Declaring an Emergency.
(1)
Content. The declaration must:
(A)
designate the bankruptcy court or courts affected;
(B)
state any restrictions on the authority granted in (c); and
(C)
be limited to a stated period of no more than 90 days.
(2)
Early Termination. The Judicial Conference may terminate a declaration for one or more bankruptcy courts before the termination date.
(3)
Additional Declarations. The Judicial Conference may issue additional declarations under this rule.
(c)
Tolling and Extending Time Limits.
(1)
In an Entire District or Division. When an emergency is in effect for a bankruptcy court, the chief bankruptcy judge may, for all cases and proceedings in the district or in a division:
(A)
order the extension or tolling of a Bankruptcy Rule, local rule, or order that requires or allows a court, a clerk, a party in interest, or the United States trustee, by a specified deadline, to commence a proceeding, file or send a document, hold or conclude a hearing, or take any other action, despite any other Bankruptcy Rule, local rule, or order; or
(B)
order that, when a Bankruptcy Rule, local rule, or order requires that an action be taken “promptly,” “forthwith,” “immediately,” or “without delay,” it be taken as soon as is practicable or by a date set by the court in a specific case or proceeding.
(2)
In a Specific Case or Proceeding. When an emergency is in effect for a bankruptcy court, a presiding judge may take the action described in (1) in a specific case or proceeding.
(3)
When an Extension or Tolling Ends. A period extended or tolled under (1) or (2) terminates on the later of:
(A)
the last day of the time period as extended or tolled or 30 days after the emergency declaration terminates, whichever is earlier; or
(B)
the last day of the time period originally required, imposed, or allowed by the relevant Bankruptcy Rule, local rule, or order that was extended or tolled.
(4)
Further Extensions or Shortenings. A presiding judge may lengthen or shorten an extension or tolling in a specific case or proceeding. The judge may do so only for good cause after notice and a hearing and only on the judge’s own motion or on motion of a party in interest or the United States trustee.
(5)
Exception. A time period imposed by statute may not be extended or tolled.

SOURCE CREDIT: (Added Apr. 24, 2023, eff. Dec. 1, 2023; amended Apr. 2, 2024, eff. Dec. 1, 2024.)
