                        OCTOBER TERM, 2017                              71

                                 Syllabus


            ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

   certiorari to the district of columbia court of
                       appeals
   No. 16–460. Argued November 1, 2017—Decided January 22, 2018
Federal district courts may exercise supplemental jurisdiction over state
  claims not otherwise within their adjudicatory authority if those claims
  are “part of the same case or controversy” as the federal claims the
  plaintiff asserts. 28 U. S. C. § 1367(a). When a district court dismisses
  all claims independently qualifying for the exercise of federal juris-
  diction, it ordinarily also dismisses all related state claims. See
  § 1367(c)(3). Section 1367(d) provides that the “period of limitations
  for” refling in state court a state claim so dismissed “shall be tolled
  while the claim is pending [in federal court] and for a period of 30 days
  after it is dismissed unless State law provides for a longer tolling
  period.”
     When petitioner Artis fled a federal-court suit against respondent
  District of Columbia (District), alleging a federal employment-
  discrimination claim and three allied claims under D. C. law, nearly two
  years remained on the applicable statute of limitations for the D. C.-law
  violations. Two and a half years later, the Federal District Court ruled
  against Artis on her sole federal claim and dismissed the D. C.-law
  claims under § 1367(c). Fifty-nine days after the dismissal, Artis refled
  her state-law claims in the D. C. Superior Court, but that court dis-
  missed them as time barred. The D. C. Court of Appeals affrmed, hold-
  ing that § 1367(d) accorded Artis only a 30-day grace period to refle in
  state court and rejecting her argument that the word “tolled” in
  § 1367(d) means that the limitations period is suspended during the
  pendency of the federal suit.
Held:
    1. Section 1367(d)'s instruction to “toll” a state limitations period
 means to hold it in abeyance, i. e., to stop the clock. Pp. 80–88.
      (a) Statutes that shelter from time bars claims earlier commenced
 in another forum generally employ one of two means. First, the period
 of limitations may be “tolled,” i. e., suspended, while the claim is pend-
 ing elsewhere; the time clock starts running again when the tolling pe-
 riod ends, picking up where it left off. A legislature may instead elect
 simply to provide a grace period, permitting the statute of limitations
 to run while the claim is pending in another forum and averting the risk
 of a time bar by according the plaintiff a fxed period in which to refle.
72              ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                                Syllabus

 The District has identifed no federal statute in which a grace-period
 meaning has been ascribed to the word “tolled” or any word similarly
 rooted. And the one case in which this Court used tolling language to
 describe a grace period, see Hardin v. Straub, 490 U. S. 536, is a feather
 on the scale against the weight of decisions in which “tolling” a statute
 of limitations signals stopping the clock. Pp. 80–83.
       (b) Considering frst the ordinary meaning of the statutory lan-
 guage, § 1367(d) is phrased as a tolling provision. It suspends the stat-
 ute of limitations both while the claim is pending in federal court and
 for 30 days postdismissal. Artis' interpretation is a natural ft with this
 language. The District, in contrast, reads “tolled” to mean to remove,
 temporarily, the bar that would ordinarily accompany the expiration of
 the limitations period. But the District offers no reason to home in
 only on the word “tolled” itself and ignore information about the verb's
 ordinary meaning gained from its grammatical object, “period of limita-
 tions.” That object sheds light on what it means to “be tolled.” The
 District's reading also tenders a strained interpretation of the phrase
 “period of limitations”; makes the frst portion of the tolling period, the
 duration of the claim's pendency in federal court, superfuous; and could
 yield an absurdity, permitting a plaintiff to refle in state court even if
 the limitations period on her claim had expired before she fled in fed-
 eral court. Pp. 83–85.
       (c) The D. C. Court of Appeals erred in concluding that Congress
 adopted an American Law Institute (ALI) recommendation to allow re-
 fling in state court only for 30 days after a dismissal. The ALI provi-
 sion, like § 1367(d), established a 30-day federal foor on the time allowed
 for refling, but it did not provide for tolling “while the [state] claim is
 pending” in federal court. Pp. 85–86.
       (d) The 30-day provision casts no large shadow on Artis' stop-the-
 clock interpretation. The provision accounts for cases in which a plain-
 tiff commenced a federal action close to the expiration date of the rele-
 vant state statute of limitations, by giving such a plaintiff breathing
 space to refle in state court. Adding a brief span of days to the tolling
 period is not unusual in stop-the-clock statutes. See, e. g., 46 U. S. C.
 § 53911. Section 1367(d)'s proviso “unless State law provides for a
 longer tolling period” could similarly aid a plaintiff who fled in federal
 court just short of the expiration of the state limitations period.
 Pp. 87–88.
    2. The stop-the-clock interpretation of § 1367(d) does not present a
 serious constitutional problem. In Jinks v. Richland County, 538 U. S.
 456, the Court rejected an argument that § 1367(d) impermissibly ex-
 ceeds Congress' authority under the Necessary and Proper Clause. Id.,
 at 464–465. The District contends that a stop-the-clock prescription
                       Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                      73

                                 Syllabus

  serves “no federal purpose” that could not be served by a grace-period
  prescription. But both devices are standard, off-the-shelf means of ac-
  counting for the fact that a claim was timely pressed in another forum.
  Requiring Congress to choose one over the other would impose a tighter
  constraint on Congress' discretion than this Court has countenanced.
  A concern that a stop-the-clock prescription entails a greater imposition
  on the States than a grace-period prescription may also be more theoret-
  ical than real. Finally, a stop-the-clock rule like § 1367(d) is suited to
  the primary purposes of limitations statutes: “ `preventing surprises' ”
  to defendants and “ `barring a plaintiff who has slept on his rights.' ”
  American Pipe & Constr. Co. v. Utah, 414 U. S. 538, 554. Pp. 89–92.
135 A. 3d 334, reversed and remanded.

   Ginsburg, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which Roberts,
C. J., and Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., joined. Gorsuch, J.,
fled a dissenting opinion, in which Kennedy, Thomas, and Alito, JJ.,
joined, post, p. 92.

   Adam G. Unikowsky argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs were David A. Strauss, Sarah M.
Konsky, Matthew S. Hellman, and Donald M. Temple.
   Loren L. Alikhan, Deputy Solicitor General of the District
of Columbia, argued the cause for respondent. With her on
the brief were Karl A. Racine, Attorney General, Todd S.
Kim, Solicitor General, and Sonya L. Lebsack, Assistant At-
torney General.*

   *Briefs of amici curiae urging affrmance were fled for the State of
Wisconsin et al. by Brad D. Schimel, Attorney General of Wisconsin,
Misha Tseytlin, Solicitor General, and Ryan J. Walsh, Chief Deputy Solici-
tor General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as
follows: Steve Marshall of Alabama, Mark Brnovich of Arizona, Leslie
Rutledge of Arkansas, Cynthia Coffman of Colorado, Douglas S. Chin of
Hawaii, Lawrence G. Wasden of Idaho, Curtis T. Hill, Jr., of Indiana,
Derek Schmidt of Kansas, Jeff Landry of Louisiana, Bill Schuette of Michi-
gan, Timothy C. Fox of Montana, Douglas J. Peterson of Nebraska, Adam
Paul Laxalt of Nevada, Michael DeWine of Ohio, Mike Hunter of Okla-
homa, Josh Shapiro of Pennsylvania, Peter F. Kilmartin of Rhode Island,
Alan Wilson of South Carolina, Herbert H. Slatery III of Tennessee, Ken
Paxton of Texas, Sean D. Reyes of Utah, Patrick Morrisey of West Vir-
ginia, and Peter K. Michael of Wyoming; and for the National Conference
74              ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                         Opinion of the Court

   Justice Ginsburg delivered the opinion of the Court.
   The Supplemental Jurisdiction statute, 28 U. S. C. § 1367,
enables federal district courts to entertain claims not other-
wise within their adjudicatory authority when those claims
“are so related to claims . . . within [federal-court compe-
tence] that they form part of the same case or controversy.”
§ 1367(a). Included within this supplemental jurisdiction
are state claims brought along with federal claims arising
from the same episode. When district courts dismiss all
claims independently qualifying for the exercise of federal
jurisdiction, they ordinarily dismiss as well all related state
claims. See § 1367(c)(3). A district court may also dismiss
the related state claims if there is a good reason to decline
jurisdiction. See § 1367(c)(1), (2), and (4). This case con-
cerns the time within which state claims so dismissed may
be refled in state court.
   Section 1367(d), addressing that issue, provides:
     “The period of limitations for any [state] claim [joined
     with a claim within federal-court competence] shall be
     tolled while the claim is pending [in federal court] and
     for a period of 30 days after it is dismissed unless State
     law provides for a longer tolling period.”
The question presented: Does the word “tolled,” as used in
§ 1367(d), mean the state limitations period is suspended dur-
ing the pendency of the federal suit; or does “tolled” mean
that, although the state limitations period continues to run,
a plaintiff is accorded a grace period of 30 days to refle in
state court post dismissal of the federal case? Petitioner
urges the frst, or stop-the-clock, reading. Respondent
urges, and the District of Columbia Court of Appeals
adopted, the second, or grace-period, reading.
   In the case before us, plaintiff-petitioner Stephanie C.
Artis refled her state-law claims in state court 59 days after
of State Legislatures et al. by Lisa Soronen, Katharine M. Mapes, Wil-
liam S. Huang, and Jeffrey M. Bayne.
                        Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                       75

                            Opinion of the Court

dismissal of her federal suit.1 Reading § 1367(d) as a grace-
period prescription, her complaint would be time barred.
Reading § 1367(d) as stopping the limitations clock during
the pendency of the federal-court suit, her complaint would
be timely. We hold that § 1367(d)'s instruction to “toll” a
state limitations period means to hold it in abeyance, i. e., to
stop the clock. Because the D. C. Court of Appeals held that
§ 1367(d) did not stop the D. C. Code's limitations clock, but
merely provided a 30-day grace period for refling in D. C.
Superior Court, we reverse the D. C. Court of Appeals'
judgment.
                               I
                                     A
   Section 1367, which Congress added to Title 28 as part of
the Judicial Improvements Act of 1990, 104 Stat. 5089, codi-
fes the court-developed pendent and ancillary jurisdiction
doctrines under the label “supplemental jurisdiction.” See
Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Services, Inc., 545 U. S.
546, 552–558 (2005) (describing the development of pendent
and ancillary jurisdiction doctrines and subsequent enact-
ment of § 1367); id., at 579–584 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting)
(same). The House Report accompanying the Act explains
that Congress sought to clarify the scope of federal courts'
authority to hear claims within their supplemental jurisdic-
tion, appreciating that “[s]upplemental jurisdiction has en-
abled federal courts and litigants to . . . deal economically—in
single rather than multiple litigation—with related matters.”
H. R. Rep. No. 101–734, p. 28 (1990) (H. R. Rep.). Section
1367(a) provides, in relevant part, that a district court with
  1
    The nonfederal claims Artis asserted arose under the D. C. Code and
common law; on dismissal of her federal-court suit, she refled those claims
in D. C. Superior Court. For the purpose at hand, District of Columbia
law and courts are treated as state law and courts. See 28 U. S. C.
§ 1367(e) (“As used in this section, the term `State' includes the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or posses-
sion of the United States.”).
76            ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                      Opinion of the Court

original jurisdiction over a claim “shall have supplemental
jurisdiction over all other claims . . . form[ing] part of the
same case or controversy.”
   “[N]ot every claim within the same `case or controversy'
as the claim within the federal courts' original jurisdic-
tion will be decided by the federal court.” Jinks v. Rich-
land County, 538 U. S. 456, 459 (2003). Section 1367(c)
states:
        “The district courts may decline to exercise supple-
     mental jurisdiction over a claim under subsection (a) if—
        “(1) the claim raises a novel or complex issue of
     State law,
        “(2) the claim substantially predominates over the
     claim or claims over which the district court has origi-
     nal jurisdiction,
        “(3) the district court has dismissed all claims over
     which it has original jurisdiction, or
        “(4) in exceptional circumstances, there are other
     compelling reasons for declining jurisdiction.”

   If a district court declines to exercise jurisdiction over a
claim asserted under § 1367(a) and the plaintiff wishes to con-
tinue pursuing it, she must refle the claim in state court. If
the state court would hold the claim time barred, however,
then, absent a curative provision, the district court's dis-
missal of the state-law claim without prejudice would be tan-
tamount to a dismissal with prejudice. See, e. g., Carnegie-
Mellon Univ. v. Cohill, 484 U. S. 343, 352 (1988) (under the
doctrine of pendent jurisdiction, if the statute of limitations
on state-law claims expires before the federal court “relin-
quish[es] jurisdiction[,] . . . a dismissal will foreclose the
plaintiff from litigating his claims”). To prevent that result,
§ 1367(d) supplies “a tolling rule that must be applied by
state courts.” Jinks, 538 U. S., at 459. Section 1367(d)
provides:
                   Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)              77

                      Opinion of the Court

    “The period of limitations for any claim asserted under
    subsection (a), and for any other claim in the same action
    that is voluntarily dismissed at the same time as or after
    the dismissal of the claim under subsection (a), shall be
    tolled while the claim is pending and for a period of 30
    days after it is dismissed unless State law provides for
    a longer tolling period.”

This case requires us to determine how § 1367(d)'s tolling
rule operates.
                            B
   Petitioner Artis worked as a health inspector for respond-
ent, the District of Columbia (District). In November 2010,
Artis was told she would lose her job. Thirteen months
later, Artis sued the District in the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia, alleging that she had suf-
fered employment discrimination in violation of Title VII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat. 253, as amended, 42
U. S. C. § 2000e et seq. She also asserted three allied claims
under D. C. law: retaliation in violation of the District of
Columbia Whistleblower Act, D. C. Code § 1–615.54 (2001);
termination in violation of the District of Columbia False
Claims Act, § 2–381.04; and wrongful termination against
public policy, a common-law claim. Artis alleged that she
had been subjected to gender discrimination by her supervi-
sor, and thereafter encountered retaliation for reporting the
supervisor's unlawful activities. See Artis v. District of Co-
lumbia, 51 F. Supp. 3d 135, 137 (2014).
   On June 27, 2014, the District Court granted the District's
motion for summary judgment on the Title VII claim. Hav-
ing dismissed Artis' sole federal claim, the District Court,
pursuant to § 1367(c)(3), declined to exercise supplemental ju-
risdiction over her remaining state-law claims. “Artis will
not be prejudiced,” the court noted, “because 28 U. S. C.
§ 1367(d) provides for a tolling of the statute of limitations
78               ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                          Opinion of the Court

during the period the case was here and for at least 30 days
thereafter.” Id., at 142.
   Fifty-nine days after the dismissal of her federal action,
Artis refled her state-law claims in the D. C. Superior Court,
the appropriate local court. The Superior Court granted
the District's motion to dismiss, holding that Artis' claims
were time barred, because they were fled 29 days too late.
See App. to Pet. for Cert. 14a. When Artis frst asserted
her state-law claims in the District Court, nearly two years
remained on the applicable three-year statute of limitations.2
But two and a half years passed before the federal court
relinquished jurisdiction. Unless § 1367(d) paused the limi-
tations clock during that time, Artis would have had only 30
days to refle. The Superior Court rejected Artis' stop-the-
clock reading of § 1367(d), reasoning that Artis could have
protected her state-law claims by “pursuing [them] in a state
court while the federal court proceeding [was] pending.”
Ibid. In tension with that explanation, the court noted that
duplicative flings in federal and state court are “generally
disfavored . . . as `wasteful' and . . . `against [the interests of]
judicial effciency.' ” Id., at 14a, n. 1 (quoting Stevens v. Arco
Management of Wash. D. C., Inc., 751 A. 2d 995, 1002 (D. C.
2000); alteration in original).
   The D. C. Court of Appeals affrmed. That court began
by observing that two “competing approaches [to § 1367(d)]
have evolved nationally”: the stop-the-clock reading and the

  2
    The D. C. False Claims Act and the tort of wrongful termination each
have a three-year statute of limitations that started to run on the day
Artis lost her job in November 2010. See D. C. Code § 2–381.04(c) (2001)
(D. C. False Claims Act); Stephenson v. American Dental Assn., 789 A. 2d
1248, 1249, 1252 (D. C. 2002) (tort of wrongful termination governed by
the District's catchall three-year limitations period and claim accrues on
the date when plaintiff has unequivocal notice of termination). Artis'
whistleblower claim had a one-year limitations period, which began to ac-
crue when Artis “frst bec[a]m[e] aware” that she had been terminated for
reporting her supervisor's misconduct. D. C. Code § 1–615.54(a)(2). The
parties dispute the date the whistleblower claim accrued. See Brief for
Petitioner 10, n. 2; Brief for Respondent 8, n. 2.
                        Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                      79

                           Opinion of the Court

grace-period reading. 135 A. 3d 334, 337 (2016).3 Without
further comment on § 1367(d)'s text, the D. C. Court of Ap-
peals turned to the legislative history. Section 1367(d)'s
purpose, the court noted, was “to prevent the loss of claims
to statutes of limitations where state law might fail to toll
the running of the period of limitations while a supplemental
claim was pending in federal court.” Id., at 338 (quoting
H. R. Rep., at 30; internal quotation marks omitted). Fol-
lowing the lead of the California Supreme Court, the D. C.
Court of Appeals determined that Congress had intended
to implement a 1969 recommendation by the American Law
Institute (ALI) to allow refling in state court “within 30
days after dismissal.” 135 A. 3d, at 338 (quoting Los
Angeles v. County of Kern, 59 Cal. 4th 618, 629, 328 P. 3d 56,
63 (2014)).
   The D. C. Court of Appeals also concluded that the grace-
period approach “better accommodates federalism con-
cerns,” by trenching signifcantly less on state statutes of
limitations than the stop-the-clock approach. 135 A. 3d, at
338–339. Construing § 1367(d) as affording only a 30-day
grace period, the court commented, was “consistent with [its]
presumption favoring narrow interpretations of federal pre-
emption of state law.” Id., at 339.
   To resolve the division of opinion among State Supreme
Courts on the proper construction of § 1367(d), see supra, at
79, n. 3, we granted certiorari. 580 U. S. 1159 (2017).

   3
     The high courts of Maryland and Minnesota, along with the Sixth Cir-
cuit, have held that § 1367(d)'s tolling rule pauses the clock on the statute
of limitations until 30 days after the state-law claim is dismissed. See
In re Vertrue Inc. Marketing & Sales Practices Litigation, 719 F. 3d 474,
481 (CA6 2013); Goodman v. Best Buy, Inc., 777 N. W. 2d 755, 759–760
(Minn. 2010); Turner v. Kight, 406 Md. 167, 180–182, 957 A. 2d 984, 992–
993 (2008). In addition to the D. C. Court of Appeals, the high courts of
California and the Northern Mariana Islands have held that § 1367(d) pro-
vides only a 30-day grace period for the refling of otherwise time-barred
claims. See Los Angeles v. County of Kern, 59 Cal. 4th 618, 622, 328
P. 3d 56, 58 (2014); Juan v. Commonwealth, 2001 MP 18, 6 N. Mar. I. 322,
327 (2001).
80                ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                           Opinion of the Court

                                     II
                                     A
   As just indicated, statutes that shelter from time bars
claims earlier commenced in another forum generally employ
one of two means.
   First, the period (or statute) of limitations may be “tolled”
while the claim is pending elsewhere.4 Ordinarily, “tolled,”
in the context of a time prescription like § 1367(d), means
that the limitations period is suspended (stops running)
while the claim is sub judice elsewhere, then starts running
again when the tolling period ends, picking up where it left
off. See Black's Law Dictionary 1488 (6th ed. 1990) (“toll,”
when paired with the grammatical object “statute of limita-
tions,” means “to suspend or stop temporarily”). This dic-

   4
     Among illustrations: 21 U. S. C. § 1604 (allowing suits to proceed
against certain biomaterial providers and providing that “[a]ny applicable
statute of limitations shall toll during the period from the time a claimant
fles a petition with the Secretary under this paragraph until such time as
either (i) the Secretary issues a fnal decision on the petition, or (ii) the
petition is withdrawn,” § 1604(b)(3)(C)); 28 U. S. C. § 1332 (permitting the
removal of “mass actions” to federal court and providing that “[t]he limita-
tions periods on any claims asserted in a mass action that is removed to
Federal court pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed tolled during
the period that the action is pending in Federal court,” § 1332(d)(11)(D));
42 U. S. C. § 233 (providing a remedy against the United States for certain
injuries caused by employees of the Public Health Service, and stating
that “[t]he time limit for fling a claim under this subsection . . . shall be
tolled during the pendency of a[n] [administrative] request for benefts,”
§ 233(p)(3)(A)(ii)). See also Wis. Stat. § 893.15(3) (2011–2012) (“A Wiscon-
sin law limiting the time for commencement of an action on a Wisconsin
cause of action is tolled from the period of commencement of the action in
a non-Wisconsin forum until the time of its fnal disposition in that
forum.”). The dissent maintains that “stopclock examples [from the U. S.
Code] often involve situations where some disability prevents the plaintiff
from proceeding to court.” Post, at 103, n. 7. Plainly, however, the sev-
eral statutes just set out do not ft that description: They do not involve
“disabilities.” Instead, like § 1367(d), they involve claims earlier com-
menced in another forum.
                       Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                     81

                          Opinion of the Court

tionary defnition captures the rule generally applied in fed-
eral courts. See, e. g., Chardon v. Fumero Soto, 462 U. S.
650, 652, n. 1 (1983) (Court's opinion “use[d] the word `tolling'
to mean that, during the relevant period, the statute of limi-
tations ceases to run”).5 Our decisions employ the terms
“ toll” and “suspend” interchangeably. For example, in
American Pipe & Constr. Co. v. Utah, 414 U. S. 538 (1974),
we characterized as a “tolling” prescription a rule “suspend-
[ing] the applicable statute of limitations,” id., at 554; accord-
ingly, we applied the rule to stop the limitations clock, id.,
at 560–561.6 We have similarly comprehended what tolling
means in decisions on equitable tolling. See, e. g., CTS Corp.
v. Waldburger, 573 U. S. 1, 9 (2014) (describing equitable toll-
ing as “a doctrine that pauses the running of, or `tolls,' a
statute of limitations” (some internal quotation marks omit-
ted)); United States v. Ibarra, 502 U. S. 1, 4, n. 2 (1991) (per
curiam) (“Principles of equitable tolling usually dictate that
when a time bar has been suspended and then begins to run
again upon a later event, the time remaining on the clock
is calculated by subtracting from the full limitations period
whatever time ran before the clock was stopped.”).

   5
     As we recognized in Chardon v. Fumero Soto, 462 U. S. 650 (1983),
there may be different ways of “calculating the amount of time available
to fle suit after tolling has ended.” Id., at 652, n. 1 (emphasis added).
In addition to the “common-law” stop-the-clock effect, id., at 655, under
which the plaintiff must fle within the amount of time left in the limita-
tions period, a statute might either provide for the limitations period to
be “renewed,” so that “the plaintiff has the beneft of a new period as long
as the original,” or “establish a fxed period such as six months or one
year during which the plaintiff may fle suit, without regard to the length
of the original limitations period or the amount of time left when tolling
began.” Id., at 652, n. 1. Notably, under each of the “tolling effect[s]”
enumerated in Chardon, ibid., the word “tolled” means that the progres-
sion of the limitations clock is stopped for the duration of “tolling.”
   6
     The dissent's notion that federal tolling periods may be understood as
grace periods, not stop-the-clock periods, see post, at 97–98, is entirely
imaginative.
82               ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                          Opinion of the Court

   In lieu of “tolling” or “suspending” a limitations period by
pausing its progression, a legislature might elect simply to
provide a grace period. When that mode is adopted, the
statute of limitations continues to run while the claim is
pending in another forum. But the risk of a time bar is
averted by according the plaintiff a fxed period in which to
refle. A federal statute of that genre is 28 U. S. C. § 2415.
That provision prescribes a six-year limitations period for
suits seeking money damages from the United States for
breach of contract. § 2415(a). The statute further pro-
vides: “In the event that any action . . . is timely brought and
is thereafter dismissed without prejudice, the action may be
recommenced within one year after such dismissal, regard-
less of whether the action would otherwise then be barred by
this section.” § 2415(e).7 Many States have enacted similar
grace-period provisions. See App. to Brief for National
Conference of State Legislatures et al. as Amici Curiae 1a–
25a. For example, Georgia law provides:
     “When any case has been commenced in either a state
     or federal court within the applicable statute of limita-
     tions and the plaintiff discontinues or dismisses the
     same, it may be recommenced in a court of this state or
     in a federal court either within the original applicable
     period of limitations or within six months after the dis-
     continuance or dismissal, whichever is later . . . .” Ga.
     Code Ann. § 9–2–61(a) (2007).
  Tellingly, the District has not identifed any federal statute
in which a grace-period meaning has been ascribed to the
word “tolled” or any word similarly rooted. Nor has the
dissent, for all its mighty strivings, identifed even one fed-

  7
    Also illustrative, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act prescribes a fve-
year limitations period for certain suits. 15 U. S. C. § 1691e(f). Where a
government agency has brought a timely suit, however, an individual may
bring an action “not later than one year after the commencement of that
proceeding or action.” Ibid.
                        Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                       83

                           Opinion of the Court

eral statute that fts its bill, i. e., a federal statute that says
“tolled” but means something other than “suspended,” or
“paused,” or “stopped.” From what statutory text, then,
does the dissent start? See post, at 95–96.8
   Turning from statutory texts to judicial decisions, only
once did an opinion of this Court employ tolling language to
describe a grace period: Hardin v. Straub, 490 U. S. 536
(1989). In Hardin, we held that, in 42 U. S. C. § 1983 suits,
federal courts should give effect to state statutes sheltering
claims from time bars during periods of a plaintiff's legal
disability. We there characterized a state statute providing
a one-year grace period as “tolling” or “suspend[ing]” the
limitations period “until one year after the disability has
been removed.” 490 U. S., at 537. This atypical use of
“tolling” or “suspending” to mean something other than
stopping the clock on a limitations period is a feather on the
scale against the weight of decisions in which “tolling” a
statute of limitations signals stopping the clock.

                                     B
   In determining the meaning of a statutory provision, “we
look frst to its language, giving the words used their ordi-
nary meaning.” Moskal v. United States, 498 U. S. 103, 108
(1990) (citation and internal quotation marks omitted). Sec-
tion 1367(d) is phrased as a tolling provision. It suspends
the statute of limitations for two adjacent time periods:
while the claim is pending in federal court and for 30 days
postdismissal. Artis urges that the phrase “shall be tolled”
in § 1367(d) has the same meaning it does in the statutes cited

  8
    Reasons of history, context, and policy, the dissent maintains, would
have made it sensible for Congress to have written a grace-period statute.
See post, at 95–96. But “[t]he controlling principle in this case is the basic
and unexceptional rule that courts must give effect to the clear meaning
of statutes as written[,] . . . giving each word its ordinary, contemporary,
common meaning.” Star Athletica, L. L. C. v. Varsity Brands, Inc., 580
U. S. 405, 414 (2017) (internal quotation marks omitted).
84                 ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                             Opinion of the Court

supra, at 80, n. 4. That is, the limitations clock stops the
day the claim is fled in federal court and, 30 days postdis-
missal, restarts from the point at which it had stopped.
   The District reads “tolled” for § 1367(d)'s purposes differ-
ently. To “toll,” the District urges, means to “remove or
take away an effect.” Brief for Respondent 12–13. To
“toll” a limitations period, then, would mean to “remov[e] the
bar that ordinarily would accompany its expiration.” Id.,
at 14.9 “[T]here is nothing special,” the District maintains,
“about tolling limitations periods versus tolling any other
fact, right, or consequence.” Id., at 13. But the District
offers no reason why, in interpreting “tolled” as used in
§ 1367(d), we should home in only on the word itself, ignoring
the information about the verb's ordinary meaning gained
from its grammatical object. Just as when the object of
“tolled” is “bell” or “highway traveler,” the object “period of
limitations” sheds light on what it means to “be tolled.”
   The District's reading, largely embraced by the dissent, is
problematic for other reasons as well. First, it tenders a
strained interpretation of the phrase “period of limitations.”
In the District's view, “period of limitations” means “the ef-
fect of the period of limitations as a time bar.” See id., at
18 (“Section 1367(d) . . . provides that `the period of limita-

  9
     This is indeed a defnition sometimes used in reference to a right. See,
e. g., Ricard v. Williams, 7 Wheat. 59, 120 (1822) (“[A]n adverse possession
. . . toll[s] the right of entry of the heirs, and, consequently, extinguish[es],
by the lapse of time, their right of action for the land.”). See also Black's
Law Dictionary 1488 (6th ed. 1990) (“toll” can mean “bar, defeat, or take
away; thus, to toll the entry means to deny or take away the right of
entry”). The dissent, also relying on this sense of the word “toll,” cites
Chardon as support for the proposition that § 1367(d)'s tolling instruction
is ambiguous. See post, at 94; supra, at 81, n. 5. But, importantly, the
grace-period statutes noted in Chardon, 462 U. S., at 660, n. 13, were pre-
cise about their operation. Chardon provides no support for the notion
that a statute's instruction that a “period of limitations shall be tolled”
plausibly could mean that the limitations clock continues to run but its
effect as a bar is removed during the tolling. See post, at 93.
                    Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)               85

                       Opinion of the Court

tions'—here its effect as a time bar—`shall be [removed or
taken away] while the claim is pending [in federal court] and
for a period of 30 days after it is dismissed.' ” (alterations in
original)). Second, the frst portion of the tolling period, the
duration of the claim's pendency in federal court, becomes
superfuous under the District's construction. The “effect”
of the limitations period as a time bar, on the District's read-
ing, becomes operative only after the case has been dis-
missed. That being so, what need would there be to remove
anything while the claim is pending in federal court?
   Furthermore, the District's reading could yield an absur-
dity: It could permit a plaintiff to refle in state court even
if the limitations period on her claim had expired before she
fled in federal court. To avoid that result, the District's
proposed construction of “tolled” as “removed” could not
mean simply “removed.” Instead, “removed” would require
qualifcation to express “removed, unless the period of limi-
tations expired before the claim was fled in federal court.”
In sum, the District's interpretation maps poorly onto the
language of § 1367(d), while Artis' interpretation is a natu-
ral ft.
                               C
  The D. C. Court of Appeals adopted the District's grace-
period construction primarily because it was convinced that
in drafting § 1367(d), Congress embraced an ALI recommen-
dation. 135 A. 3d, at 338. Two decades before the enact-
ment of § 1367(d), the ALI, in its 1969 Study of the Division
of Jurisdiction Between State and Federal Courts, did rec-
ommend a 30-day grace period for refling certain claims.
The ALI proposed the following statutory language:
    “If any claim in an action timely commenced in a federal
    court is dismissed for lack of jurisdiction over the sub-
    ject matter of the claim, a new action on the same claim
    brought in another court shall not be barred by a statute
    of limitations that would not have barred the original
86                ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                           Opinion of the Court

       action had it been commenced in that court, if such new
       action is brought in a proper court, federal or State,
       within thirty days after dismissal of the original claim
       has become fnal or within such longer period as may be
       available under applicable State law.” ALI, Study of
       the Division of Jurisdiction Between State and Federal
       Courts § 1386(b), p. 65 (1969) (ALI Study).
Congress, however, did not adopt the ALI's grace-period for-
mulation. Instead, it ordered tolling of the state limitations
period “while the claim is pending” in federal court. Al-
though the provision the ALI proposed, like § 1367(d), estab-
lished a 30-day federal foor on the time allowed for refling,
it did not provide for tolling the period of limitations while
a claim is pending.10 True, the House Report contained a
citation to the ALI Study, but only in reference to a different
provision, 28 U. S. C. § 1391 (the general venue statute).
There, Congress noted that its approach was “taken from
the ALI Study.” H. R. Rep., at 23. Had Congress similarly
embraced the ALI's grace-period formulation in § 1367(d),
one might expect the House Report to have said as much.11
  10
     The District emphasizes that the reporter's note accompanying the
ALI's proposed statute stated: “[A]ny governing statute of limitations is
tolled by the commencement of an action in a federal court, and for at
least thirty days following dismissal . . . in any case in which the dismissal
was for lack of jurisdiction.” ALI Study 66. The similarity between this
language and § 1367(d), the District argues, rebuts any argument that Con-
gress did not adopt the ALI's recommendation. We are unpersuaded.
The District offers no explanation why, if Congress wanted to follow the
substance of the ALI's grace-period recommendation, it would neither cite
the ALI Study in the legislative history of § 1367(d), see infra this page,
nor adopt the precise language of either the proposed statute or the re-
porter's note. The ALI Study, moreover, cautions that the reporter's
notes refect “the Reporter's work alone,” not a position taken by the
Institute. ALI Study, p. x.
  11
     The dissent offers a history lesson on the ancient common-law princi-
ple of “journey's account,” see post, at 95–97, and n. 4, but nothing sug-
gests that the 101st Congress had any such ancient law in mind when it
drafted § 1367(d). Cf. post, at 100. More likely, Congress was mindful
                       Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                   87

                          Opinion of the Court

                                   D
   The District asks us to zero in on § 1367(d)'s “express inclu-
sion” of the “period of 30 days after the claim is dismissed”
within the tolling period. Brief for Respondent 20 (internal
quotation marks omitted). Under Artis' stop-the-clock in-
terpretation, the District contends, “the inclusion of 30 days
within the tolling period would be relegated to insignifcance
in the mine-run of cases.” Id., at 21 (citation and internal
quotation marks omitted). In § 1367(d), Congress did pro-
vide for tolling not only while the claim is pending in federal
court, but also for 30 days thereafter. Including the 30 days
within § 1367(d)'s tolling period accounts for cases in which a
federal action is commenced close to the expiration date of
the relevant state statute of limitations. In such a case, the
added days give the plaintiff breathing space to refle in
state court.
   Adding a brief span of days to the tolling period is not
unusual in stop-the-clock statutes. In this respect, § 1367(d)
closely resembles 46 U. S. C. § 53911, which provides, in a
subsection titled “Tolling of limitations period,” that if a
plaintiff submits a claim for war-related vessel damage to the
Secretary of Transportation, “the running of the limitations
period for bringing a civil action is suspended until the
Secretary denies the claim, and for 60 days thereafter.”
§ 53911(d). Numerous other statutes similarly append a
fxed number of days to an initial tolling period. See, e. g.,
22 U. S. C. § 1631k(c) (“Statutes of limitations on assessments
. . . shall be suspended with respect to any vested property
. . . while vested and for six months thereafter . . . .”); 26
U. S. C. § 6213(f)(1) (“In any case under title 11 of the United
States Code, the running of the time prescribed by subsec-
tion (a) for fling a petition in the Tax Court with respect to
any defciency shall be suspended for the period during

that “suspension” during the pendency of other litigation is “the common-
law rule.” Chardon, 462 U. S., at 655.
88                ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                           Opinion of the Court

which the debtor is prohibited by reason of such case from
fling a petition in the Tax Court with respect to such def-
ciency, and for 60 days thereafter.”); § 6503(a)(1) (“The run-
ning of the period of limitations provided in section 6501 or
6502 . . . shall . . . be suspended for the period during which
the Secretary is prohibited from making the assessment . . .
and for 60 days thereafter.”); 50 U. S. C. § 4000(c) (“The run-
ning of a statute of limitations against the collection of
tax deferred under this section . . . shall be suspended for
the period of military service of the servicemember and
for an additional period of 270 days thereafter.”). Thus,
the “30 days” provision casts no large shadow on Artis'
interpretation.
   Section 1367(d)'s proviso, “unless State law provides for a
longer tolling period,” could similarly aid a plaintiff who fled
in federal court just short of the expiration of the state limi-
tations period. She would have the beneft of § 1367(d)'s 30-
days-to-refle prescription, or such longer time as state law
prescribes.12 It may be that, in most cases, the state-law
tolling period will not be longer than § 1367(d)'s. But in
some cases it undoubtedly will. For example, Indiana per-
mits a plaintiff to refle within three years of dismissal. See
Ind. Code § 34–11–8–1 (2017). And Louisiana provides that
after dismissal the limitations period “runs anew.” La. Civ.
Code Ann., Arts. 3462, 3466 (West 2007).

  12
     The dissent, post, at 99–100, conjures up absurdities not presented by
this case, for the District of Columbia has no law of the kind the dissent
describes. All agree that the phrase “unless State law provides for a
longer tolling period” leaves room for a more generous state-law regime.
The dissent posits a comparison between the duration of the federal suit,
plus 30 days, and a state-law grace period. But of course, as the dissent
recognizes, post, at 99, the more natural comparison is between the amount
of time a plaintiff has left to refle, given the beneft of § 1367(d)'s tolling
rule, and the amount of time she would have to refle under the applicable
state law. Should the extraordinary circumstances the dissent envisions
in fact exist in a given case, the comparison the dissent makes would be
far from inevitable.
                         Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                         89

                             Opinion of the Court

                                      III
   Satisfed that Artis' text-based arguments overwhelm the
District's, we turn to the District's contention that the stop-
the-clock interpretation of § 1367(d) raises a signifcant con-
stitutional question: Does the statute exceed Congress' au-
thority under the Necessary and Proper Clause, Art. I, § 8,
cl. 18, because its connection to Congress' enumerated pow-
ers is too attenuated or because it is too great an incursion on
the States' domain? Brief for Respondent 46–49. To avoid
constitutional doubt, the District urges, we should adopt its
reading. “[W]here an alternative interpretation of [a] stat-
ute is fairly possible,” the District reminds, we have con-
strued legislation in a manner that “avoid[s] [serious con-
stitutional] problems” raised by “an otherwise acceptable
construction.” INS v. St. Cyr, 533 U. S. 289, 299–300 (2001)
(internal quotation marks omitted). But even if we re-
garded the District's reading of § 1367(d) as “fairly possible,”
our precedent would undermine the proposition that
§ 1367(d) presents a serious constitutional problem. See
Jinks, 538 U. S., at 461–465.
   In Jinks, we unanimously rejected an argument that
§ 1367(d) impermissibly exceeds Congress' enumerated pow-
ers.13 Section 1367(d), we held, “is necessary and proper for
carrying into execution Congress's power `[t]o constitute Tri-
bunals inferior to the supreme Court,' . . . and to assure
that those tribunals may fairly and effciently exercise `[t]he

  13
     The dissent refers to an “understanding,” post, at 104, by the Court
in Jinks v. Richland County, 538 U. S. 456 (2003), that § 1367(d) accords
only a 30-day “window” for refling in state court. Scattered character-
izations in the Jinks briefng might be seen as conveying that understand-
ing. See post, at 104–105, n. 9. The opinion itself, however, contains
nary a hint of any such understanding. And indeed, one year earlier, we
described § 1367(d) as having the effect of stopping the clock, i. e., “toll[ing]
the state statute of limitations for 30 days in addition to however long the
claim had been pending in federal court.” Raygor v. Regents of Univ. of
Minn., 534 U. S. 533, 542 (2002).
90             ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                       Opinion of the Court

judicial Power of the United States.' ” Id., at 462 (quoting
U. S. Const., Art. I, § 8, cl. 9, and Art. III, § 1).
   In two principal ways, we explained, § 1367(d) is “condu-
cive to the due administration of justice in federal court.”
538 U. S., at 462 (internal quotation marks omitted). First,
“it provides an alternative to the unsatisfactory options that
federal judges faced when they decided whether to retain
jurisdiction over supplemental state-law claims that might
be time barred in state court.” Ibid. Section 1367(d) thus
“unquestionably promotes fair and effcient operation of the
federal courts.” Id., at 463. Second, § 1367(d) “eliminates
a serious impediment to access to the federal courts on the
part of plaintiffs pursuing federal- and state-law claims” aris-
ing from the same episode. Ibid. With tolling available, a
plaintiff disinclined to litigate simultaneously in two forums
is no longer impelled to choose between forgoing either her
federal claims or her state claims.
   Moreover, we were persuaded that § 1367(d) was “plainly
adapted” to Congress' exercise of its enumerated power:
There was no cause to suspect that Congress had enacted
§ 1367(d) as a “ `pretext' for `the accomplishment of objects
not entrusted to [it],' ”; nor was there reason to believe that
the connection between § 1367(d) and Congress' authority
over the federal courts was too attenuated. Id., at 464
(quoting McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 423 (1819)).
   Our decision in Jinks also rejected the argument that
§ 1367(d) was not “proper” because it violates principles of
state sovereignty by prescribing a procedural rule for state
courts' adjudication of purely state-law claims. 538 U. S., at
464–465. “Assuming [without deciding] that a principled di-
chotomy can be drawn, for purposes of determining whether
an Act of Congress is `proper,' between federal laws that
regulate state-court `procedure' and laws that change the
`substance' of state-law rights of action,” we concluded that
the tolling of state limitations periods “falls on the [permissi-
ble] `substantive' side of the line.” Ibid.
                    Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)              91

                       Opinion of the Court

   The District's contention that a stop-the-clock prescription
serves “no federal purpose” that could not be served by a
grace-period prescription is unavailing. Brief for Respond-
ent 49. Both devices are standard, off-the-shelf means of
accounting for the fact that a claim was timely pressed in
another forum. Requiring Congress to choose one over the
other would impose a tighter constraint on Congress' discre-
tion than we have ever countenanced.
   The concern that a stop-the-clock prescription entails a
greater imposition on the States than a grace-period pre-
scription, moreover, may be more theoretical than real.
Consider the alternative suggested by the D. C. Superior
Court. Plaintiffs situated as Artis was could simply fle two
actions and ask the state court to hold the suit fled there in
abeyance pending disposition of the federal suit. See supra,
at 78. Were the dissent's position to prevail, cautious plain-
tiffs would surely take up the D. C. Superior Court's sugges-
tion. How it genuinely advances federalism concerns to
drive plaintiffs to resort to wasteful, ineffcient duplication
to preserve their state-law claims is far from apparent. See,
e. g., Stevens, 751 A. 2d, at 1002 (it “work[s] against judicial
effciency . . . to compel prudent federal litigants who present
state claims to fle duplicative and wasteful protective suits
in state court”).
   We do not gainsay that statutes of limitations are “fun-
damental to a well-ordered judicial system.” Board of
Regents of Univ. of State of N. Y. v. Tomanio, 446 U. S.
478, 487 (1980). We note in this regard, however, that a
stop-the-clock rule is suited to the primary purposes of limi-
tations statutes: “preventing surprises” to defendants
and “barring a plaintiff who has slept on his rights.” Amer-
ican Pipe & Constr. Co., 414 U. S., at 554 (internal quotation
marks omitted). Whenever § 1367(d) applies, the defendant
will have notice of the plaintiff's claims within the state-
prescribed limitations period. Likewise, the plaintiff
will not have slept on her rights. She will have timely as-
92             ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                      Gorsuch, J., dissenting

serted those rights, endeavoring to pursue them in one
litigation.
                       *   *    *
  For the reasons stated, we resist unsettling the usual un-
derstanding of the word “tolled” as it appears in legislative
time prescriptions and court decisions thereon. The judg-
ment of the D. C. Court of Appeals is therefore reversed, and
the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
                                             It is so ordered.

  Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Kennedy, Jus-
tice Thomas, and Justice Alito join, dissenting.
   Chesterton reminds us not to clear away a fence just be-
cause we cannot see its point. Even if a fence doesn't seem
to have a reason, sometimes all that means is we need to look
more carefully for the reason it was built in the frst place.
   The same might be said about the law before us. Section
1367(d) provides that “[t]he period of limitations . . . shall be
tolled while the claim is pending and for a period of 30 days
after it is dismissed unless State law provides for a longer
tolling period.” 28 U. S. C. § 1367(d). Grown from a rich
common law and state statutory tradition, this provision
serves a modest role. If a federal court dismisses a party's
state law claim without ruling on its merits, the law ensures
the party will enjoy whatever time state law allows, or at
least 30 days, to refle the claim in state court.
   Today the Court clears away this traditional rule because
it overlooks the original reasons for it. For the frst time in
the statute's history the Court now reads the law to guaran-
tee parties not 30 days or whatever state law permits but
months or years more to refle their dismissed state law
claims in state court. Rather than reading the statute as
generally deferring to state law judgments about the appro-
priate lifespan of state law claims brought in state courts,
the Court now reads the statute as generally displacing them
                   Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)             93

                     Gorsuch, J., dissenting

in favor of a new federal rule. Indeed, the Court today tells
state courts that they must routinely disregard clearly ex-
pressed state law defning the appropriate length of time
parties should have to sue on state law claims in state tribu-
nals. Under the Court's rule, too, the disregard of state lim-
itations law promises to be not only routine but substantial.
The Court's approach will require state courts to entertain
state law claims that state law deems untimely not only by
weeks or months but by many years, as 24 States, the Na-
tional Conference of State Legislatures, and the Council of
State Governments warn us. And the Court demands all
this without offering any rational account why it is necessary
or proper to the exercise of one of the federal government's
limited and enumerated powers. It may only be a small
statute we are interpreting, but the result the Court reaches
today represents no small intrusion on traditional state func-
tions and no small departure from our foundational princi-
ples of federalism. Respectfully, I dissent.
   Start with the statute's key term. Where, as here, a law
instructs us to “toll” a limitations period, we know it may be
telling us to do one of (at least) two different things. The
dictionary informs that to “toll” means “[t]o take away, bar,
defeat, [or] annul.” See 18 Oxford English Dictionary 204
(2d ed. 1989); Webster's New International Dictionary 2662
(2d ed. 1957) (“[t]o take away; to vacate; to annul”); Oxford
Latin Dictionary 1947 (1982) (“tollere,” the Latin origin,
means to “remove” or “lift”). So when a statute speaks of
tolling a limitations period it can, naturally enough, mean
either that the running of the limitations period is suspended
or that the effect of the limitations period is defeated. The
frst understanding stops the limitations clock running until
a specifed event begins it running again: Call it the stop
clock approach. The second understanding allows the limi-
tations clock to continue to run but defeats the effect of the
clock's expiration for an additional specifed period of time:
Call it the grace period approach.
94             ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                      Gorsuch, J., dissenting

  That both of these understandings of the word “toll” are
indeed possible and in fact historically common this Court
has already explained in Chardon v. Fumero Soto, 462 U. S.
650 (1983):
     “ `Tolling effect' refers to the method of calculating the
     amount of time available to fle suit after tolling has
     ended. The statute of limitations might merely be sus-
     pended; if so, the plaintiff must fle within the amount of
     time left in the limitations period. . . . It is also possible
     to establish a fxed period such as six months or one
     year during which the plaintiff may fle suit, without
     regard to the length of the original limitations period or
     the amount of time left when tolling began.” Id., at
     652, n. 1 (emphasis added).

When it comes to federal law today, Chardon has further
explained, both kinds of tolling can be found. “[S]ome fed-
eral statutes provide for suspension” of the running of the
limitations period, or the stop clock approach, while “other
statutes establish a variety of different tolling effects,” in-
cluding grace periods for refling after dismissal. Id., at 660,
n. 13.
   Neither is it a surprise that Chardon acknowledged tolling
statutes might come in (at least) these two varieties. At
common law, both types of tolling were well and long known,
if often employed in different circumstances to address dif-
ferent problems in equitably tailored ways.
   Take the stop clock approach. While any generalization
is subject to its exceptions, the stop clock approach was often
used at common law to suspend a plaintiff's duty to bring a
timely lawsuit if, and for the period, the plaintiff was pre-
vented from coming to court due to some disability. And
this common law rule made common sense in those circum-
stances. After all, if (say) a defendant's fraud prevented the
plaintiff from discovering his injury, it's easy enough to see
                        Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                       95

                          Gorsuch, J., dissenting

why the limitations clock should stop running until the fraud
is revealed and the disability thus dissipated.1
   By contrast, the grace period approach was commonly
used in cases where, as here, the plaintiff made it to court in
time but arrived in the wrong court and had to refle in the
right one. In this situation, equity didn't necessarily call for
suspending the running of the limitations period for what-
ever arbitrary period of time—weeks or months or years—
the suit happened to sit in court before dismissal. It's not
as if the defendant or uncontrollable circumstances had con-
spired to prevent the plaintiff from proceeding during that
period. Instead, the law commonsensically held that in
these circumstances a grace period would suffce to allow
the plaintiff a brief time to fnd his way to and refle in the
correct court.2
   Indeed, grace periods appear to fnd their roots in a com-
mon law rule known as the “journey's account” that ex-

  1
     See Developments in the Law: Statutes of Limitations, 63 Harv. L.
Rev. 1177, 1220 (1950) (“[C]ircumstances which—despite the existence of
a right to sue—hinder or prevent suit have been recognized by courts and
legislatures as cause for postponing the start of the statutory period until
the occurrence of some additional fact, or for interrupting the running of
limitations while some condition exists”); 13 American and English Ency-
clopaedia of Law 739–745 (1890) (discussing “disabilities which postpone
the running of the statute,” such as infancy, absence of the defendant,
insanity, and imprisonment).
   2
     See, e. g., Woods v. Houghton, 67 Mass. 580, 583 (1854) (grace period
allowed after plaintiff fled in the “wrong county”); Pittsburg, C., C. &
St. L. R. Co. v. Bemis, 64 Ohio St. 26, 27–28, 59 N. E. 745 (1901) (grace
period allowed after suit was dismissed by federal court); Cox v. Strick-
land, 120 Ga. 104, 110, 47 S. E. 912, 915 (1904) (grace period allowed for
refling “in the proper forum”). Indeed, courts have rejected the stop
clock approach in determining the time to refle. See Martin v. Archer,
21 S. C. L. 211, 215 (1837) (“A former suit is not a suspension of the statute
during the time it is pending”). Simply put, when it came to tolling ef-
fects, the “pendency of legal proceedings” was “quite different from disa-
bilities.” 13 American and English Encyclopaedia of Law, at 745–746.
96             ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                      Gorsuch, J., dissenting

pressly sought to account for and afford to a dismissed party
“the number of days which [he] must spend in journeying to
the court” to refle his claim. 37 C. J., Limitations of Actions
§ 526, p. 1082 (1925); see 1 E. Coke, Second Part of the Insti-
tutes of the Laws of England 567 (1797) (“[T]he common law
set downe the certaine time of 15 dayes,” because “a dayes
journey is accounted in law 20 miles,” as “a reasonable time
. . . within which time wheresoever the court of justice sate
in England, the party . . . wheresoever he dwelt in England
. . . might . . . by the said account of dayes journies appeare
in court”); Spencer's Case, 6 Co. Rep. 96, 10a, 77 Eng. Rep.
267 (K. B. 1603) (party has “the beneft of a new writ by
journeys accompts” after frst writ “abated”); Elstob v.
Thorowgood, 1 Raym. Ld. 283, 91 Eng. Rep. 1086, 1087 (K. B.
1697) (party has 30 days to bring an action “by journeys
account” to avoid “the Statute of Limitations”).
   When it comes to the statute before us, the textual and
contextual clues point in the same and unsurprising direc-
tion. Much like the journey's account from which it origi-
nated, section 1367(d)'s “tolling” provision seeks to provide
the plaintiff who fnds her case dismissed because she fled
in the wrong court a reasonable grace period to journey to
the right court to refle. No more and no less.
   Take the textual clues. Section 1367(d) says that “the pe-
riod of limitations . . . shall be tolled while the claim is pend-
ing and for a period of 30 days after it is dismissed unless
State law provides for a longer tolling period.” (Emphasis
added.) Note that the law uses the words “tolled” and “toll-
ing” in the same sentence. Normally, we assume that when
Congress repeats a term in a statute the term's meaning
remains constant throughout. And that assumption is
surely “at its most vigorous” where, as here, Congress re-
peats the same term in the same sentence. Brown v. Gard-
ner, 513 U. S. 115, 118 (1994).
   This traditional rule of construction tells us a great deal.
It does because no one doubts that the state law “tolling
                        Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                       97

                          Gorsuch, J., dissenting

period[s]” referenced in the second half of the sentence were
at the time of section 1367(d)'s enactment—and still are—
grace periods allowing parties a specifed number of days or
months after dismissal to refle in the proper court. See,
e. g., Colo. Rev. Stat. § 13–80–111(1) (1990) (providing that
the plaintiff “may commence a new action upon the same
cause of action within ninety days after the termination of
the original action”).3 In fact, these statutes were often
self-consciously patterned on the journey's account doctrine,
seeking to address much the same problem the common law
faced with much the same solution.4 And the fact that Con-
gress used a variant of the word “toll” in the second half of
the sentence to refer to grace periods strongly suggests it
did so in the frst half of the sentence too. So the frst
phrase “shall be tolled while the claim is pending and for a

   3
     At the time of section 1367(d)'s enactment, it appears at least 31 of 36
States that provided tolling of some kind guaranteed a grace period. See
also App. to Brief for National Conference of State Legislatures et al. as
Amici Curiae 1a–25a (discussing current state statutes).
   4
     The “[p]rinciple of journeys account became defnitely fxed and some-
what enlarged in England by an early statute . . . . This statute, with
varying changes, has been enacted in nearly all of the states of the Union.”
19 American and English Encyclopaedia of Law 262 (2d ed. 1901); Cox,
supra, at 109, 47 S. E., at 915 (explaining that, “in lieu” of the journey's
account, the colonial act of 1767 permitted “a new action within one year”
of dismissal, and then the act of 1847 allowed a new action within six
months of dismissal “notwithstanding the intervening bar of the statute”);
Denton v. Atchison, 76 Kan. 89, 91, 90 P. 764, 765 (1907) (statute adopted
“the common-law rule of `journeys account' ”); English v. T. H. Rogers
Lumber Co., 68 Okla. 238, 240, 173 P. 1046, 1048 (1918) (“Statutes such as
ours are said to have their origin in the common law rule of `journeys
account' ”); Baker v. Cohn, 266 App. Div. 236, 239, 41 N. Y. S. 2d 765, 767
(1943) (“Historically, the extension of one year's time . . . is said to be an
outgrowth of the ancient common law rule of `journey's account' ”); Soren-
sen v. Overland Corp., 142 F. Supp. 354, 362 (Del. 1956) (“The statute of
`journeys' account' is one founded under English law, and enacted in most
jurisdictions today”); Wilt v. Smack, 147 F. Supp. 700, 702 (ED Pa. 1957)
(“Statutes of Journey's Account originated in England and have long ex-
isted, in varying forms, among the states”).
98             ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                      Gorsuch, J., dissenting

period of 30 days” should be understood to extend a grace
period of 30 days after dismissal much as the second phrase
“tolling period” is understood to refer the reader to parallel
state law grace periods affording short periods for refling
after dismissal.
   The alternative reading endorsed by the Court today ex-
tends too little respect to Congress's competency as drafter.
It asks us to assume the legislature was so garbled in its
expression that it switched the meaning of the term “toll”
halfway through a single sentence without telling anyone.
It asks us to conclude that when Congress spoke of the pe-
riod “tolled” in the frst part of the sentence it meant to refer
(unambiguously, no less) to a stop clock approach even
though it used the term “tolling period” to refer to existing
state law grace periods in the second part of the sentence.
The statute's text drops no hint of such a silent switch and
it's a lexicographical leap our traditional rules of statutory
interpretation warn against.
   That, though, represents just the beginning of the textual
troubles with the approach the Court adopts. Consider next
the fact that section 1367(d) tells us to apply its federal toll-
ing rule “unless” state law provides a “longer tolling period.”
In this way, the statute asks us to compare the length of the
state “tolling period” with the length of the federal “tolling
period” set by section 1367(d) and apply the longer one. See
ante, at 88 (courts apply the federal rule if “the state-law
tolling period will not be longer than § 1367(d)'s”). The
equation we're asked to perform is straightforward and sen-
sible if we understand both the state and federal “tolling
periods” discussed in this statute as grace periods. We sim-
ply pick the longer grace period: Is it the federal 30-day pe-
riod or one provided by state law?
   By contrast, the equation is anything but straightforward
or sensible under the Court's approach. The Court tells us
that, under its reading of the statute, the federal “tolling
period” is the “duration of the claim's pendency in federal
                    Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)               99

                      Gorsuch, J., dissenting

court” plus 30 days. See ante, at 85, 88. So the decision
whether to apply the federal or the state tolling period turns
not on the sensible question which would afford the plaintiff
more time to refle but instead on the happenstance of how
long the plaintiff's claim sat in federal court before dismissal.
Under the Court's interpretation, we apply the federal stop
clock rule if, but only if, the time the case happened to linger
in federal court before dismissal (plus 30 days) is longer than
the relevant state grace period. But to state the test is to
see it is a nonsense—one we would not lightly attribute to
any rational drafter, let alone Congress.
   Consider some examples of the absurdities that follow
from the apples-to-oranges comparison the Court's test re-
quires. Say state law provides a 5-year statute of limita-
tions and a 1-year grace period for refling. The plaintiff
fles in federal court one day before the statute of limitations
expires. The litigation in federal court lasts one year.
Under the Court's view, the federal “tolling period” would
be 1 year plus 30 days—the time the claim was pending in
federal court plus 30 days after dismissal. That period is
longer than the state tolling period of one year and so the
federal tolling rule, not the state rule, controls—leaving the
plaintiff only 31 days to refle her claim after dismissal even
though state law would have allowed a full year.
   That may be curious enough, but curiouser it gets. Now
suppose the litigation in federal court lasts only 10 months.
That makes the federal tolling period only 11 months (10
months plus 30 days). Under the Court's view, state law
now provides a longer tolling period (one year) and the liti-
gant gets a full year to refle in state court instead of 31
days. No one has offered a reason why the happenstance of
how long the federal litigation lasted should determine how
much time a litigant has to refle in state court. Yet that is
what the Court's reading of section 1367(d) demands.
   Of course, it's easy enough to imagine the rule the Court
really wants to adopt today: It would like to afford litigants
100              ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                         Gorsuch, J., dissenting

as a matter of federal law the beneft of a stop clock approach
whenever doing so would yield more time to refle than the
State's grace period would permit. But to accomplish so
much we would need a very different statute than the one
we have. We would need to be able to compare the relevant
state law grace “tolling period” not with the federal “tolling
period” as the statute says but with the amount of time left
under the relevant state limitations period on the date the
plaintiff fled her federal suit. The problem is, no one has
even hinted how we might lawfully superimpose all those
italicized words (entirely of our own devise) onto the statu-
tory text.5
   There are still more textual clues that we have lost our
way today. Congress spoke of the federal tolling period as
embracing “30 days after . . . dismissal.” That language
sounds like and fts with a traditional grace period or jour-
ney's account approach. As we've seen, grace periods often
speak about affording parties some short period of time after
dismissal to refle their claims. Meanwhile, this language
proves no small challenge to square with a stop clock ap-
proach. Generally we say a clock is stopped due to the onset
of a particular event like a disability: Something usually
causes the stopping of the clock and when that something
goes away, the clock restarts. Here, the Court says, the
clock stops once a claim is pending in federal court. Yet it
doesn't restart when that something—the claim's pend-
ency—goes away but instead waits another 30 days before
ticking again. All without any apparent reason for the addi-
tional delay.

  5
   The Court suggests that a comparison between state and federal toll-
ing periods may not be “inevitable” and that in “extraordinary circum-
stances” like those discussed above a comparison between the state tolling
period and the time left on the clock before the federal fling might prove
“more natural.” Ante, at 88, n. 12. But even here the Court does not
attempt to explain how the latter comparison might be fairly extracted
from the statutory text—let alone only in “extraordinary circumstances.”
                        Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                     101

                          Gorsuch, J., dissenting

   This case illustrates the oddity. Petitioner fled her suit
in federal court with 23 months remaining on the 3-year stat-
ute of limitations. The case remained in federal district
court for nearly three years before dismissal. Under the
grace period approach the 30-day provision does just as it
appears, providing petitioner with 30 days to journey to and
refle in the correct court. Under the stop clock approach,
though, the statute affords petitioner 23 months plus a ran-
dom 30-days more to refle. Indeed, on the stop clock ap-
proach the only work the 30-day period is even imaginably
left to do comes in cases where the plaintiff fled her federal
suit at the very end of the limitations period. And if that's
the only problem Congress sought to address, it chose a
mighty murky way to do it, for the parties point to not a
single stop clock provision in all of federal law that includes
language anything like this. All while (again) this language
fts hand in glove with every grace period statute known.6
  6
    The Court offers a couple of competing textual arguments but neither
can bear much weight.
   First, the Court suggests that deriving a grace period from the statu-
tory term “period of limitations” requires “strain[ing].” Ante, at 84.
But the fact is both the grace period and stop clock interpretations require
some (and some very similar) inferences. The grace period approach con-
strues the term “period of limitations” as directing us to the “effect of the
period of limitations” that is tolled or taken away. For its part mean-
while, the stop clock approach construes “period of limitations” to refer to
the “running of the period of limitations” that is tolled or taken away.
The question is which inference is more persuasive. And in light of the
dual kinds of tolling the law has long recognized, as well as the textual and
contextual clues before us (some still to be discussed), the better answer
is clear.
   Second, the Court complains that the grace period interpretation ren-
ders “superfuous” the phrase “while the claim is pending.” Ante, at 85.
But the phrase does important work under the grace period approach,
ensuring that the expiration of the limitations period does not take effect
while the claim is pending in federal court. Indeed and somewhat para-
doxically, the Court itself implicitly recognizes that the language does real
work when it suggests (in its next sentence no less) that the grace period
approach could “yield an absurdity” by working to revive a claim that has
102               ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                          Gorsuch, J., dissenting

   Beyond all these textual clues lie important contextual
ones too. When Congress replants the roots of pre-existing
law in the federal code, this Court assumes it brings with it
the surrounding soil, retaining the substance of the tradition
it engages. Respect for Congress, this Court has held,
means assuming it knows and “legislate[s] against a back-
ground of [the] common law . . . principles” found in the feld
where it is working. Samantar v. Yousuf, 560 U. S. 305, 320,
n. 13 (2010); see also Goodyear Atomic Corp. v. Miller, 486
U. S. 174, 184–185 (1988). And, as we've seen, the state law
of tolling Congress expressly referenced and replanted in
section 1367(d) comes heavily encrusted with meaning. In
cases involving dismissal and refling, state statutory law and
the common law from which it grew have long afforded a
grace period to allow the litigant an appropriately tailored
time to fnd his way to the proper court. Meanwhile, a stop
clock approach isn't usually part of this ecosystem for noth-
ing has disabled the litigant from reaching a court in the frst
place and all he must do is journey from the old court to
the new one. We don't assume Congress strips replanted
statutes of their soil, and we should not assume Congress
displaced so much tradition in favor of something compara-
tively foreign.7
already expired before it is brought in federal court. Ibid. There is of
course no absurdity in it, for the term “while the claim is pending” does
the important work of addressing that very concern, preventing the expi-
ration of the statute of limitations from taking effect while the claim is
pending even as the language also and sensibly permits the statute of
limitations to take effect if it expires before the plaintiff fles his claim in
federal court.
  7
    The Court dismisses this “history lesson” on the ground that it doesn't
know if Congress had “the ancient common-law . . . in mind.” Ante, at
86, n. 11. But respect for Congress's competency means we presume it
knows the substance of the state laws it expressly incorporates into its
statutes and the common law against which it operates. See supra this
page. When the Court turns to offer its own competing contextual evi-
dence, it observes that a stop clock approach can be found in many other
places in the U. S. Code. See ante, at 80, and n. 4, 87–88. But it turns
                         Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                      103

                          Gorsuch, J., dissenting

   The Court's reformation of the statute introduces another
problem still—one of signifcantly greater magnitude yet.
In our constitutional structure, the federal government's
powers are supposed to be “few and defned,” while the pow-
ers reserved to the States “remain . . . numerous and indef-
nite.” The Federalist No. 45, p. 328 (B. Wright ed. 1961)
(J. Madison); McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405
(1819). No doubt, the Constitution affords Congress the au-
thority to make laws that are “necessary and proper” to
carry out its defned duties. Art. I, § 8, cl. 18. But it is
diffcult to see how, on the Court's interpretation, section
1367(d) might be said to survive that test—how it might be
said to be necessary and proper to effectuate any recognized
federal power or how it could be called anything other than
an unconstitutional intrusion on the core state power to de-
fne the terms of state law claims litigated in state court
proceedings.8
   Under our precedent, the analysis here begins with Jinks
v. Richland County, 538 U. S. 456 (2003). Without some toll-
ing rule for dismissed state law supplemental claims, the

out the Court's stop clock examples often involve situations where some
disability prevents the plaintiff from proceeding to court. See, e. g., 26
U. S. C. § 6213(f)(1) (limitations period for fling a petition in the Tax Court
“shall be suspended for the period during which the debtor is prohibited . . .
from fling a petition”); § 6503(a)(1) (limitations period on making an as-
sessment shall “be suspended for the period during which the Secretary is
prohibited from making the assessment”). Notably, not one of the Court's
examples purports to address a situation like the one we face: where the
plaintiff has proved able to come to court but merely chose the wrong one.
The Court's own contextual evidence, then, serves to illustrate just how
unusual and out of place a stop clock approach would be here.
  8
    Of course, the case before us arises from litigation in the District of
Columbia where the federal government enjoys plenary power. See
Art. I, § 8, cl. 17. But the federalism concern here cannot be ignored, as
the Court today rightly acknowledges, ante, at 89–92, because the statute
at issue applies nationwide and the vast bulk of its applications come in
the States and implicate state causes of action, state limitations laws, and
state court proceedings.
104               ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                          Gorsuch, J., dissenting

Court in Jinks noted, federal courts would be left with
“three basic choices:” (1) “condition dismissal of the state-law
claim on the defendant's waiver of any statute-of-limitations
defense in state court”; (2) “retain jurisdiction over the
state-law claim even though it would more appropriately be
heard in state court”; or (3) “dismiss the state-law claim but
allow the plaintiff to reopen the federal case if the state court
later held the claim to be time barred.” Id., at 462–463.
All three choices, the Court held, would negatively affect the
“ `administration of justice' in federal court” and thus impair
the exercise of the enumerated “judicial power” of the fed-
eral government in Article III. Id., at 462 (emphasis added).
Accordingly, the Court reasoned, some tolling rule “assur-
[ing] that state-law claims asserted under [the supplemental
jurisdiction statute] will not become time barred while pend-
ing in federal court” is necessary and proper to the execution
of the federal judicial power. Id., at 464.
   The necessary and proper federal interest Jinks recog-
nized is fully discharged by a grace period. Even petitioner
appears to concede this. See Brief for Petitioner 27 (“Of
course, the grace period approach also guarantees a plaintiff
who is unsuccessful in federal court the opportunity to bring
a claim in state court”). Nor could anyone easily argue oth-
erwise. Jinks itself proceeded to uphold the constitutional-
ity of section 1367(d) as necessary and proper on the basis of
an understanding that the statute guaranteed just 30 days
to a disappointed litigant to refle in state court. No one in
Jinks even hinted that a longer period might be necessary
or proper to serve any valid federal interest.9
  9
    See Brief for Petitioner in Jinks v. Richland County, O. T. 2002,
No. 02–258, p. 9 (“The tolling window created lasts only 30 days after
dismissal without prejudice from district court”); id., at 37 (section 1367(d)
“provides a de minimis window in which a plaintiff may refle in state
court if the limitations period expires during the pendency of the federal
district court action”); Brief for Respondent in No. 02–258, p. 31 (describ-
ing section 1367(d) as providing “a thirty-day tolling window”); Brief for
United States in No. 02–258, pp. 16, 22 (describing section 1367(d) as “mini-
mally intrusive on state prerogatives” since it ensures that the “statute of
                       Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)                   105

                         Gorsuch, J., dissenting

   For good reason, it turns out. Trying to imagine how the
Court's novel twist on section 1367(d) might serve a neces-
sary and proper federal interest is a hard business. To dis-
charge the federal interest in preventing state law claims
from “becom[ing] time barred while pending in federal
court” it may be necessary to impose a short grace period.
But how is it necessary to do anything more than that, like
consult the happenstance of how long the federal court took
to dismiss the case and then tack an equivalent number of
months or years onto state law limitations periods? What
federal interest could that even plausibly serve? The Court
does not and cannot attempt an answer because its proffered
solution is simply orthogonal to any federal concern.
   To be sure, the Court suggests that its approach will help
the States. See ante, at 91. But a great many States have
suggested the opposite, complaining to us that the Court's
approach will regularly relegate to the dustbin their own
state limitations policy choices. See Brief for State of Wis-
consin et al. as Amici Curiae 22–27; Brief for National Con-
ference of State Legislatures et al. as Amici Curiae 6–29.
And surely they would seem better positioned than we to
know their own interests. To this, the Court replies that
“[w]ere the dissent's position to prevail, cautious plaintiffs
would surely” fle “two actions [one in federal, the other in
state court] and ask the state court to hold the suit fled
there in abeyance pending disposition of the federal suit,”
causing “plaintiffs to resort to wasteful, ineffcient duplica-
tion.” Ante, at 91. But, of course, this observation does
nothing to tell us whether stop clock tolling is necessary to
serve a federal interest. Nor does it even tell us whether
stop clock tolling is necessary to help the States. A very

limitations on the pendent claim will not expire during the pendency of
the federal-court action”); Pet. for Cert. in No. 02–258, p. 22 (“Section
1367(d) merely saves—for a maximum excess period of 30 days—a preex-
isting lawsuit that must be refled to allow the matter to be heard in a
forum preferable to the State, namely, in its own courts”); see also Brief
for State of Wisconsin et al. as Amici Curiae 8–9.
106            ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                      Gorsuch, J., dissenting

long historical record before us suggests that grace periods
have worked well to obviate the need for simultaneous flings
in state and federal court; the Court offers no account why
its innovation might be needed only now to rescue States
from their own legislative choices about the appropriate life-
span of their state law claims.
   The Court's approach isn't just unnecessary; it isn't proper
either. A law is not “proper for carrying into [e]xecution”
an enumerated power if it “violates the principle of state
sovereignty” reflected in our constitutional tradition.
Printz v. United States, 521 U. S. 898, 923–924 (1997). The
word “proper” was “used during the founding era to describe
the powers of a governmental entity as peculiarly within the
province or jurisdiction of that entity.” Lawson & Granger,
The “Proper” Scope of Federal Power: A Jurisdictional In-
terpretation of the Sweeping Clause, 43 Duke L. J. 267, 297
(1993). Limitations periods for state law claims fall well
within the peculiar province of state sovereign authority.
As Chancellor Kent explained, “ `[t]he period suffcient to
constitute a bar to the litigation of sta[l]e demands, is a ques-
tion of municipal policy and regulation, and one which be-
longs to the discretion of every government, consulting its
own interest and convenience.' ” Sun Oil Co. v. Wortman,
486 U. S. 717, 726 (1988) (quoting 2 J. Kent, Commentaries
on American Law 462–463 (2d ed. 1832)). Described as
“laws for administering justice,” time bars are “one of the
most sacred and important of sovereign rights and duties.”
Hawkins v. Barney's Lessee, 5 Pet. 457, 466 (1831). And
“from a remote antiquity,” they have been the province of
the sovereign “by which it exercises its legislation for all
persons and property within its jurisdiction.” McElmoyle
ex rel. Bailey v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312, 327 (1839). Our States
have long “exercise[d] this right in virtue of their sover-
eignty.” Ibid.
   The decision today gives short shrift to these traditional
interests. Just consider how differently the two approaches
                   Cite as: 583 U. S. 71 (2018)             107

                     Gorsuch, J., dissenting

treat States when it comes to one of their most “important
of sovereign rights.” Under a grace period approach, Con-
gress simply flls a void, for the great bulk of States provide
for grace periods of 30 days or longer; only a few States don't
allow that much or don't speak to the question. See n. 3,
supra. So on the grace period account, Congress provides
a modest backstop consistent with existing state law. By
contrast, under the stop clock interpretation, state law grace
periods are displaced whenever the federal litigation (plus
those odd 30 days) happens to be longer than the state law
grace period. And that, of course, is sure to happen often,
for federal litigation is no quick business and state law grace
periods often are. Any time federal litigation (plus, again,
30 days) lasts longer than the 30- or 60- or 90- or 365-day
grace period found in state law, state law will be forced to
give way, and a federally mandated stop clock approach will
usurp its place.
   The stop clock approach, then, ensures that traditional
state law judgments about the appropriate lifespan of state
law claims will be routinely displaced—and displaced in favor
of nothing more than a fortuity (the time a claim sits in fed-
eral court) that bears no rational relationship to any federal
interest. The Court's approach forces state courts to enter-
tain routinely state law claims that the state legislatures
treat as no claims at all. And it forces state courts to enter-
tain claims that aren't just stale by days or weeks under
state law, but stale by months or even many years too. So,
for example, take a plaintiff who fles suit in federal court
shortly after a 6-year state law limitations period begins
running and the litigation lasts six years before it's fnally
dismissed. Under the Court's approach, federal law will
now promise the plaintiff nearly six years more (plus those
stray 30 days again) to refle his claim in state court. Nei-
ther is this illustration fction; it is drawn from the facts
of Berke v. Buckley Broadcasting Corp., 359 N. J. Super.
587, 591–592, 821 A. 2d 118, 121 (App. Div. 2003). See also
108               ARTIS v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                          Gorsuch, J., dissenting

Krause v. Textron Financial Corp., 2007 WL 8054628, *1–*2
(Fla. Cir. Ct., May 9, 2007); Brief for State of Wisconsin et al.
as Amici Curiae 20–21 (offering many more examples).
Given all this, it's no wonder that 24 States, the National
Conference of State Legislatures, and the Council of State
Governments complain that the result the Court reaches
today fies in the face of federalism.10
   The Court today clears away a fence that once marked a
basic boundary between federal and state power. Maybe it
wasn't the most vital fence and maybe we've just simply for-
gotten why this particular fence was built in the frst place.
But maybe, too, we've forgotten because we've wandered so
far from the idea of a federal government of limited and enu-
merated powers that we've begun to lose sight of what it
looked like in the frst place. If the federal government can
now, without any rational reason, force States to allow state
law causes of action in state courts even though the state
law limitations period expired many years ago, what exactly
can't it do to override the application of state law to state
claims in state court? What boundaries remain then?
   I respectfully dissent.




  10
     The Court's reply—that stop clock tolling is “standard” and “off-the-
shelf ”—is no answer. Ante, at 91. The propriety of a legal tool in one
area does not establish its propriety in all; while stop clock tolling may be
standard and off-the-shelf in other contexts (such as for equitable tolling)
that doesn't mean it is necessary and proper here. Indeed, and as we've
seen, the “standard” and “off-the-shelf ” solution to the problem of dis-
missal and the need to refle is the one adopted at common law and by
state law: a grace period. If we're interested in looking for the right
shelf, that's the one.
