               STATE OF CALIFORNIA
               FAIR POLITICAL PRACTICES COMMISSION
               1102 Q Street • Suite 3050 • Sacramento, CA 95811



To:            Chair Silver, Commissioners Brandt, Ortiz, and Wilson

From:          Galena West, Executive Director
               Dave Bainbridge, General Counsel

Subject:       Regulation Projects Schedule for 2026

Date:          March 9, 2026

                            Introduction

Fair Political Practices Commission (“Commission”) staff proposes the following schedule for
regulatory changes by the Commission in 2026. The general topic for each new regulation
project and the proposed meeting at which staff will present it to the Commission are listed
below. The proposed new projects were presented to the Commission at its January 2026
Commission meeting for discussion and comment. The scope and specific issues addressed in
each regulation project described below may change during the process.

The proposed projects are based on prior direction from the Chair and Commissioners, as well as
recommendations from staff and the public. The schedule may require revision during the year in
the event of circumstances requiring immediate Commission action, changes in Commission
priorities, legislative actions, staffing changes, or other unforeseen circumstances. Additional
regulatory projects may be added upon the Commission's direction or as otherwise needed.

In most instances, a regulation project will be presented to the Commission at a meeting for pre-
notice to allow for Commission and public comment and discussion. After the pre-notice
meeting, staff may revise the regulations based on input provided, and submit it to the Office of
Administrative Law pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act. Typically, two months after
the pre-notice meeting, staff will present the regulations to the Commission for final
consideration and adoption. The Law and Policy Committee, at its discretion, may meet to
review, discuss, take public comment, and make recommendations on any regulatory proposals
before the item is presented to the Commission.

The purpose of the regulation schedule is to provide Commissioners, staff, and the public
advance notice of potential upcoming regulatory changes. Staff encourages interested parties to
provide input early so that staff may consider it during the drafting process. Upon approval by
the Commission, the regulatory calendar will be posted on the Commission’s website and will be
updated as necessary.




                                            1
                               Project Summaries

Pending

Probable cause proceedings – Amend Regulation 18361.41 to make the probable cause process
more efficient and lessen unnecessary delays in conducting probable cause proceedings.

Enforcement penalties – Amend “streamline” Regulations 18360.1 – 18360.3 to clarify
Enforcement’s discretion to offer streamline settlements for violations that do not otherwise
qualify for a reduced penalty, require the Commission to directly approve streamline fines, and
consider existing inclusion and exclusion criteria.

New

AI Disclaimers on advertisements – Adopt a new regulation interpreting the disclaimer
requirement in Section 845142 for certain campaign advertisements generated or substantially
altered using AI. Also, amend Regulation 18401to provide specific guidance on the application
of the Act’s recordkeeping requirement to committee advertisements, including advertisements
subject to the disclaimer requirement in Section 84514.

SEI filing requirements for officials holding multiple positions – Amend existing Regulation
18723.1 to clarify statement of economic interest (SEI) filing requirements for officials holding
multiple positions, specifically officials who hold a position listed in Section 87200, as well as a
position included under Section 87300.

Combined campaign statements and reports– Adopt a regulation pursuant to Section 84205
permitting candidates and committees to file combined campaign statements and reports in
instances where reporting periods overlap and combining those periods will not reduce or delay
disclosure.

Cryptocurrency as a reportable financial interest – Amendment existing regulations to
conform with Commission-sponsored AB 1029, which revised the Act’s statutory definition of
“investment” to include “digital financial assets” such as cryptocurrency.

Economic interest in affiliated non-profit organizations – Adopt a regulation addressing the
question at issue in the In re: Winuk Opinion, No. O-25-001of when an economic interest in one
non-profit organization results in an interest in an affiliated organization for purposes of the
Act’s conflict of interest rules.




         1
            The regulations of the Fair Political Practices Commission are contained in Sections 18104 through 18998
of Title 2 of the California Code of Regulations. All regulatory references are to Title 2, Division 6 of the California
Code of Regulations.
          2
            The Political Reform Act (“Act”) is contained in Government Code Sections 81000 through 91014. All
statutory references are to the Government Code, unless otherwise indicated.

                                                      2
Reporting behested payments as other payments to influence (OPTI) – Amend Regulation
18616 to specify that behested payments disclosable under Section 84224 are required to be
reported by a lobbyist employer making the behested payment as an “other payment to influence
legislative or administrative action” on quarterly lobbying reports.

Cal-Access Replacement System (CARS) updates – Amend numerous regulations to reflect
statutory changes that go into effect when the new Cal-Access filing system “goes live” in late
2026, as well as adopt new regulations and/or amend existing regulations to address items
requiring clarification that have arisen during the development of the new filing system.

COLA – Amend various regulations to reflect biennial cost-of-living adjustments required by
statute.

*For additional information on the new regulation projects, see Regulation Projects for 2026
memo, Agenda Item 9 at the Commission’s January 2026 meeting.

                              Regulation Schedule (Updated 8/21)

Commission       Pre-notice                                 Adoption
Meeting
January
February
March
April
May              AI disclaimers on ads
                 Combined campaign statements and reports
June             Enforcement penalties
                 SEI filing requirements for officials
                 holding multiple positions
August                                                      Enforcement penalties
                                                            AI disclaimers on ads
                                                            Combined campaign statements and
                                                            reports

September        CARS updates                               SEI filing requirements for officials
                                                            holding multiple positions


October

November                                                    CARS updates
                                                            Cryptocurrency as a reportable financial
                                                            interest
                                                            COLA




                                               3
