                                                                   Revised        Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.      90146-E
                                                     Cancelling    Original       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.      64895-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                        Schedule CRTP                                          Sheet 1
                              CHARGE READY TRANSPORT PROGRAM



APPLICABILITY

This Schedule is applicable to Customer Participants, as defined in Special Condition 1.a, who elect
to participate in the Charge Ready Transport Program (CRTP). Customer Participants must
purchase, install, and maintain qualified Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) used to charge
Eligible Vehicles as defined in Special Condition 1.c and 16, and connected to the electric                  (T)
Infrastructure as defined in Special Condition 1.g.

Eligible Customer Participants must own, lease, manage, or be the customer on record for the
Charging Site where the EVSE are installed. Customer Participants, if not the owner of the
Charging Site at which the EVSE are to be installed, must obtain written consent from the property
owner to participate in Schedule CRTP.

To participate in Schedule CRTP and be eligible for Rebate Payment, Customer Participants must
(1) procure at least two electric vehicles or convert at least two fossil-fueled vehicles to electric; (2)
purchase and install qualified EVSE for the Eligible Vehicles in the quantity approved by SCE in
SCE’s sole discretion; and (3) agree to maintain and operate the charging equipment for at least ten
years.

Participation in Schedule CRTP is subject to available funding as approved by the California Public
Utilities Commission (Commission), and SCE’s application screening and prioritization process.

TERRITORY

Within the entire territory served.

RATES

All usage registered on the meter(s) serving the EVSE must be served on an applicable General
Service (GS) Time-of-Use (TOU) rate for the full Term of Service.




                                                 (Continued)

(To be inserted by utility)                      Issued By                    (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      5586-E                           Michael Backstrom                Date Submitted Jul 21, 2025
Decision 22-08-024, 22-11-                     Vice President                 Effective         Sep 23, 2025
            040                                                               Resolution
                                                                   Original       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.   64896-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                        Schedule CRTP                                         Sheet 2
                              CHARGE READY TRANSPORT PROGRAM



 SPECIAL CONDITIONS

1.     Definitions: Except as otherwise defined in SCE’s Rule 1, capitalized terms utilized in the
       context of this Schedule are defined below and applicable to Customers participating in this
       Schedule.

       a.      Customer Participant: The non-residential entity electing to participate on this
               Schedule that owns, leases, manages, or is the customer on record of the Charging
               Site where the EVSE are installed. The Customer Participant must provide SCE with
               the rights of way across public or private property (as applicable) and permits
               satisfactory to SCE, including easements at participating Charging Site without cost to
               or condemnation by SCE. Customer Participants who elect to participate in Schedule
               CRTP must comply with all obligations, terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule.

       b.      Charging Site: The Premises, as defined in SCE’s Rule 1, where the EVSE will be
               installed.

       c.      Eligible Vehicles: Commercial plug-in electric vehicles approved by SCE including
               Class 2-8 trucks, ranging from delivery vehicles and refuse trucks to semi-trucks; non-
               road cargo handling equipment such as forklifts and port equipment; transportation
               refrigeration units for semi-truck trailers; and buses used for transit or schools.

       d.      Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE): The equipment that interconnects the
               electricity grid at a Charging Site to the Eligible Vehicle, whether using alternating
               current (AC) or direct current (DC), but not including the Make-Ready or other charging
               Infrastructure. EVSE is sometimes referred to as charging station. To qualify for the
               Rebate in this Schedule, the equipment must meet certain technical, safety, and
               efficiency standards and be listed by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory
               (NRTL). To qualify to participate in this Schedule, the Charging Station must have (1)
               Level 2 Charging or (2) Direct Current Fast Charging capability as defined below.

       e.      Level 2 (L2) Charging: Charging station capable of charging at 240 volts.

       f.      Direct Current Fast Charging (DCFC): Charging station that rapidly charges a vehicle
               battery by connecting it directly to a higher power, direct current source.




                                                (Continued)

(To be inserted by utility)                     Issued By                     (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      3864-E                            Caroline Choi                   Date Submitted Sep 18, 2018
Decision 18-05-040                         Senior Vice President              Effective         Jan 31, 2019
                                                                              Resolution        E-4967
                                                                   Revised        Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.     66613-E
                                                     Cancelling    Original       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.     64897-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                        Schedule CRTP                                         Sheet 3
                              CHARGE READY TRANSPORT PROGRAM



 SPECIAL CONDITIONS (Continued)

1.     Definitions (Continued)

       g.      Infrastructure: All work and facilities necessary for participation in this Schedule, as
               determined by SCE, in SCE’s sole discretion and in accordance with its applicable
               tariffs and design standards, including utility distribution Infrastructure (e.g., any new
               transformers, services, and meters) and Infrastructure installed on the Customer
               Participant’s side of the meter (e.g., any new panels, stepdown transformers, conduits,
               wires, connectors, and any other hardware installed as part of Schedule CRTP
               deployment). Infrastructure located on the utility and Customer Participant’s side of the
               meter is sometimes referred to as the Make-Ready.

       h.      Make-Ready: See Infrastructure.

       i.      Rebate: Financial reimbursement to eligible Customer Participant, or its designee,
               pursuant to this Schedule to reimburse a portion of the costs associated with the
               purchase of approved EVSE used to charge Eligible Vehicles described in Special              (T)
               Condition 1.c, and/or for reimbursement of a portion of the costs associated with
               Customer Participant installed and owned Infrastructure as described in Special
               Condition 2.b.

       j.      Rebate Payment: The payment made by SCE to Customer Participant, or its designee
               after the qualified Customer Participant procures and installs the EVSE, and/ or when
               applicable, completes the installation of Infrastructure located on the Customer
               Participant’s side of the meter as described in Special Condition 2.b., in accordance
               with this Schedule, as verified by SCE, in SCE’s sole discretion.




                                                 (Continued)

(To be inserted by utility)                       Issued By                   (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      3919-E-B                             R.O. Nichols                 Date Submitted Mar 15, 2019
Decision                                          President                   Effective         Mar 15, 2019
                                                                              Resolution
                                                                    Original       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.   64898-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                        Schedule CRTP                                          Sheet 4
                              CHARGE READY TRANSPORT PROGRAM



 SPECIAL CONDITIONS (Continued)

1.     Definitions (Continued)

       k.      Program Enrollment Application: A form required to be completed and submitted by
               Customer Participant to SCE to determine initial eligibility for program participation.
               The Program Enrollment Application shall include, but is not limited to, a site plan, a
               vehicle acquisition plan and EVSE acquisition plan acceptable to SCE

       l.      Program Participation Agreement: A form required to be signed and submitted by
               Customer Participant to SCE, following SCE’s acceptance of the Program Enrollment
               Application and completion of an initial site and cost evaluation. Customer Participant
               may choose to cancel its participation in Schedule CRTP upon providing notice to SCE
               at any time prior to submission of a signed Program Participation Agreement.

       m.      Funding Reservation: The reservation of funds by SCE to cover the Customer
               Participant’s anticipated Infrastructure costs and eligible Rebates as described in
               Special Condition 2. All Funding Reservations are subject to Schedule CRTP funding
               availability as approved by the Commission.

       n.      Rebate Payment Instruction: Information required from Customer Participant that
               authorizes SCE to issue the Rebate directly to the Customer Participant or a third party
               designated by the Customer Participant in connection with the purchase and
               installation of the EVSE in this Schedule.

       o.      Procurement Period: 45 calendar days after the Program Participation Agreement is
               executed, during which Customer Participant is required to procure the site EVSE.
               Customer Participant may request an extension of the Procurement Period for a limited
               duration by submitting an extension request in writing prior to the expiration of the
               initial 45-calendar-day Procurement Period. SCE may, at its discretion, extend a
               Funding Reservation beyond the 45-calendar-day Procurement Period if, in SCE’s sole
               opinion, a Customer Participant is actively seeking to complete procurement of the
               EVSE.

       p.      Disadvantaged Communities (DAC): Census tracts in SCE’s service territory with a
               top quartile score according to the California Environmental Protection Agency’s
               CalEnviroScreen tool.

       q.      Fortune 1000: An annual list of the 1000 largest companies measured by revenue
               compiled and published by Fortune Magazine.

       r.      Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training Program (EVITP) Certification: Certification
               requirement for electricians installing the Infrastructure on the Customer Participant’s
               side of the meter as described in Special Condition 2.b.


                                                 (Continued)

(To be inserted by utility)                      Issued By                     (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      3864-E                             Caroline Choi                   Date Submitted Sep 18, 2018
Decision 18-05-040                          Senior Vice President              Effective         Jan 31, 2019
                                                                               Resolution        E-4967
                                                                  Revised        Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.      66614-E
                                                     Cancelling   Original       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.      64899-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                        Schedule CRTP                                         Sheet 5
                              CHARGE READY TRANSPORT PROGRAM



 SPECIAL CONDITIONS (Continued)

2.     Available Rebates:

       Rebates are available to eligible Customer Participants who complete a Program Enrollment
       Application, as defined in Special Condition 1.k, and execute a Program Participation
       Agreement, as defined in Special Condition 1.l, subject to SCE’s approval. Upon SCE’s
       approval and subject to funding availability, Funding Reservation, as defined in Schedule 1.m,
       will be made by SCE to cover the following available Rebates:

       a.       EVSE Rebate:

                EVSE Rebates are available to Customer Participants with EVSE (1) supporting
                transit or schools buses or (2) located in a designated DAC if the Customer
                Participant is not on the Fortune 1000 list.

                Customer Participants who install qualified EVSE and meet one of the conditions
                described above are eligible for Rebate Payment, not to exceed 50 percent of the
                base cost of EVSE. The actual Rebate may be reduced to ensure that, when                    (T)
                combined with any other third-party rebates or programs, the total Rebate received by
                the Customer Participant does not exceed the total costs of the EVSE.                       (T)

                Customer Participants procuring and installing proprietary or made-to-order EVSE are
                not eligible for EVSE Rebates in this Schedule.

       b.       Customer Participant Installed and Owned Infrastructure Rebate:

                Customer Participants may choose to design, install, own, operate and maintain the
                Infrastructure located on the Customer Participant’s side of the meter, see Special
                Condition 6. Under this option, Rebate Payment shall be the lesser of: (a) 80 percent
                of Customer Participant’s actual installation cost or (b) 80 percent of SCE’s average
                direct cost for installing the customer-side make-ready infrastructure in the relevant
                sector. Customer Participants receiving the rebate must commit to operate and
                maintain the facilities consistent with the relevant national, state and local electrical
                standards, for a period of not less than 10 years.

3.     Rebate Disbursement: The Rebate Payment is payable after SCE receives the Rebate
       Payment Instruction from the Customer Participant and upon SCE’s verification of the
       completed installation of the EVSE and/or, when applicable, verification of the completed
       Infrastructure work located on the Customer Participant’s side of the meter.




                                                 (Continued)

(To be inserted by utility)                      Issued By                   (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      3919-E-B                            R.O. Nichols                 Date Submitted Mar 15, 2019
Decision                                         President                   Effective         Mar 15, 2019
                                                                             Resolution
                                                                   Revised        Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.       84971-E
                                                      Cancelling   Original       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.       64900-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                        Schedule CRTP                                           Sheet 6
                              CHARGE READY TRANSPORT PROGRAM



SPECIAL CONDITIONS (Continued)

4.     Term of Service: Customer Participants must, at their own expense, procure, own, install, and
       operate EVSE in working order at the originally installed location for the entire 10-year term of
       participation under this Schedule. EVSE must be served on an applicable General Service
       (GS) Time-of-Use (TOU) rate for the full term of service.

5.     Assignment and Assumption: Customer Participant shall not assign the Program Participation
       Agreement under this Schedule without prior written consent of SCE, to be granted or denied
       at SCE’s sole discretion. Any assignment and assumption shall be in a form acceptable to
       SCE. The Customer Participant’s successor in interest must assume all rights and obligations
       under this Schedule.

6.     Infrastructure: SCE, at its sole discretion and in accordance with its applicable tariffs and
       design standards, will locate, design, and install the required Infrastructure, as defined in
       Special Condition 1.g, necessary for participation in Schedule CRTP. SCE may allow
       Customer Participants to use existing service connections where, in SCE’s sole discretion,
       there is sufficient unused capacity.

       Customer Participant may choose to design, purchase, install, own and operate the
       Infrastructure on the Customer Participant’s side of the meter. If this option is chosen,
       Customer Participant must submit its construction plans to the relevant authority having
       jurisdiction (e.g., city, county, fire, Division of State Architect) to secure all necessary reviews
       and approvals. Engineering plans and estimated construction costs must be submitted to
       SCE. Following approval, construction of such Infrastructure must be performed by
       contractors signatory to the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers holding a valid C-
       10 contractor’s license and EVITP certification and adhere to SCE’s installation and applicable
       safety standards.

7.     Metering: Customer Participants must have an Edison SmartConnect® meter, a meter                       (N)
       acceptable under the Plug-In Submetering Protocol (i.e., Decision 22-08-024), or other SCE-            (N)
       approved meter dedicated to registering EVSE load to participate on this Schedule. All EVSE
       load must be separately metered from any other load served at the Premises. Customer
       Participants must agree to provide SCE the usage data from the EVSE for a minimum of five
       years from the date the Customer Participant turns on service for the EVSE installed pursuant
       to this Schedule.




                                                 (Continued)

(To be inserted by utility)                       Issued By                   (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      4913-E                            Michael Backstrom               Date Submitted Dec 5, 2022
Decision 22-08-024                              Vice President                Effective         Jun 29, 2023
                                                                              Resolution        E-5274
                                                                  Revised        Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.     66615-E
                                                    Cancelling    Original       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.     64901-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                        Schedule CRTP                                        Sheet 7
                              CHARGE READY TRANSPORT PROGRAM



SPECIAL CONDITIONS (Continued)

 8.   All Other Applicable Tariffs Apply: All other applicable SCE tariffs apply to service provided
      pursuant to this Schedule, with the following exceptions:

      Rule 15 (Distribution Line Extension) and Rule 16 (Service Line Extension): Sections in Rules
      15 and 16 that address applicant responsibilities or options may not be applicable to Customer
      Participants while participating in Schedule CRTP. This may include, but is not limited to,
      allowances, contributions or advances, payments, refunds, and design and installation options.
      This exception does not apply to certain responsibilities found in Rule 16, such as, but not
      limited to, Section A.10, providing rights of way or easements; Section A.11, providing access
      to the location; and Section D.1, providing a clear route for the Service Extension.

9.    EVSE Warranty: SCE does not represent any expressed, implied or prospective warranty,
      including any warranty of merchantability or fitness for any particular use or application, of any
      EVSE.

 10. Noncompliance: If the Customer Participant fails to comply with any of the terms and/or
     conditions of this Schedule and/or associated agreement, SCE may terminate the Customer
     Participant’s participation in Schedule CRTP after sending Customer Participant a notice of
     default that remains uncured for five (5) business days from receipt, except for safety or
     security violations, in which case, SCE may terminate the agreement immediately and take all
     actions, including, but not limited to, disconnecting the EVSE, if necessary, in SCE’s sole
     discretion, to cure such safety or security violation(s).

 11. Termination Costs: Prior to the end of the 10-year Term of Service under Special Condition 4 of
     this Schedule, if Customer Participant with an executed Program Participation Agreement (1)
     elects to terminate its participation in this program or (2) if the Customer Participant’s
     participation is terminated by SCE due to Noncompliance under Special Condition 10, the
     Customer Participant shall pay all costs incurred by SCE in connection with deploying the
     Infrastructure and EVSE at the participating Charging Site on a prorated basis (over the 10-
     year Term of Service), including the Rebate Payment(s) (if already paid), within 60 days from
     the termination date.

 12. Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Networks with EVSE Installation for On-Road EVs: Customer              (T)
     Participants must contract with a qualified EV charging network provider to obtain usage data.
     Customer Participants must pay any costs or fees resulting from such services, which
     Customer Participants must maintain for five years following the date the Customer Participant
     begins service on this Schedule. For the same five-year period, Customer Participants and
     their selected EV charging network providers must consent to providing SCE with access to
     information in connection with end-user transactions, including, but not limited to, EVSE usage.
     SCE may collect or receive this data directly from the Customer Participants or their contracted
     EV charging network provider.




(To be inserted by utility)                      Issued By                   (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      3919-E-B                            R.O. Nichols                 Date Submitted Mar 15, 2019
Decision                                         President                   Effective         Mar 15, 2019
                                                                             Resolution
                                                               Original       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.    90147-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                      Schedule CRTP                                       Sheet 8          (N)
                            CHARGE READY TRANSPORT PROGRAM



SPECIAL CONDITIONS (Continued)

16. Temporary Deviation: SCE may authorize Schedule CRTP customers to temporarily install
    non-ISO 15118 compliant chargers that are not on SCE’s APL to serve Tesla Semi-Trucks on
    the express condition that the customer agrees in its CRTP Agreement to replace the chargers
    with ISO 15118 compliant models within three months after the ISO 15118 compliant charger is
    added to the APL or 24 months from the effective date of SCE Advice 5586-E, whichever is
    sooner (the “Temporary Deviation end date”). If the customer fails to timely replace the charger
    with an ISO 15118 charger that is on SCE’s APL by that date, SCE shall cause the customer to
    immediately disconnect the charger and the customer shall be subject to termination and claw
    back procedures set forth in this Schedule and the customer’s CRTP Agreement, without
    limitation to any remedies available to SCE under the law. No further deviations shall be
    authorized on or after the Temporary Deviation end date.




(To be inserted by utility)                   Issued By                   (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      5586-E                        Michael Backstrom               Date Submitted Jul 21, 2025
Decision 22-08-024, 22-11-                  Vice President                Effective         Sep 23, 2025
            040                                                           Resolution
