                                                                                          Revised               Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.                  91838-E
                                                                         Cancelling       Revised               Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.                  91249-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                                    Schedule Wi-Fi-1                                                                  Sheet 1
                                                WIRELESS FIDELITY RATE
                                               SCE-OWNED STREETLIGHTS


    APPLICABILITY

    Applicable to cities, counties, and qualified commercial providers of Wireless Wi-Fi Internet Service.
    The provisions of this Schedule and its associated agreement(s) allow cities, counties, and qualified
    commercial providers of Wireless Wi-Fi Internet Service to attach Wi-Fi transmitting equipment
    (devices) to SCE-owned streetlight facilities (Streetlights) and to power such devices with un-
    metered, single-phase electric service so that these entities can provide Wi-Fi Internet service in the
    communities they serve.

    The total load per attachment shall not exceed 35 Watts. In addition, in no case will the cumulative
    limit of 35 watts be exceeded for every two adjacent poles on the same (looped) circuit where Wi-Fi
    devices are installed.

    Effective with the date the Customer becomes ineligible for service on streetlight circuits under this
    Schedule, the account will be closed and the Customer’s associated service point (Timed Auxiliary
    Power Device Adaptor), Wi-Fi device, and any and all equipment and accessories, including but not
    limited to signage, mountings, etc., shall be removed by the Customer.

    TERRITORY

    Within the entire territory served.

    RATES
                                                                                   Delivery Service                                           Generation9
                                                 Trans 1   Distrbtn2    NSGC 3   NDC 4    PPPC 5 WFC 6      DWRA 11   PUCRF 7   Total8       UG**   DWREC 10

    Fixed Energy Charge - $/Device/M onth         0.31     2.60 (R)      0.11    0.00    0.03 (R)   0.15     0.00      0.03     3.23 (R)    2.58 (I)   0.00

    Fixed Recovery Charge - $/Device/M onth                                                                                     0.27 (I)

    Customer Charge - $/M onth                             5.36 (R)                                                             5.36 (R)

    Inventory/M aintenance Charge -                         3.36 (I)                                                            3.36 (I)
    $/Device/M onth

    Initialization of Service Charge -                      12.15 (I)                                                           12.15 (I)
    One time charge/service account


*  The ongoing Competition Transition Charge (CTC) of $0.00011 per kWh per device is recovered in the UG component of Generation.
1  Trans = Transmission and the Transmission Owners Tariff Charge Adjustments (TOTCA) which are FERC approved. The TOTCA represents the
   Transmission Revenue Balancing Account Adjustment (TRBAA) of $(0.00222) per device, Reliability Services Balancing Account Adjustment
   (RSBAA) of $0.00008 per device, and Transmission Access Charge Balancing Account Adjustment (TACBAA) of $0.00161 per device.
2 Distrbtn = Distribution
3 NSGC = New System Generation Charge
4 NDC = Nuclear Decommissioning Charge
5 PPPC = Public Purpose Programs Charge (includes Diablo Canyon Power Plant Charge and California Alternate Rates for Energy Charge where
   applicable.)
6 WFC = Wildfire Fund Non-Bypassable Charge. The Wildfire Fund Non-Bypassable Charge supports the California Wildfire Fund and is not
   applicable to exempt Customers pursuant to D.19-10-056.
7 PUCRF = The PUC Reimbursement Fee is described in Schedule RF-E.
8 Total = Total Delivery Service rates that are applicable to both Bundled Service, Direct Access (DA) and Community Choice Aggregation Service
   (CCA Service) Customers, except DA and CCA Service Customers are not subject to the DWRBC rate component of this Schedule but instead
   pay the DWRBC as provided by Schedule DA-CRS or Schedule CCA-CRS.
9 Generation = The Generation rates are applicable only to Bundled Service Customers. See Special Condition below for PCIA recovery.
10 DWREC = Department of Water Resources (DWR) Energy Credit – For more information on the DWR Energy Credit, see the Billing Calculation
   Special Condition of this Schedule.
11 DWRA = A refund from the California Department of Water Resources (DWR) relating to the purchase of power during the 2000-2001 energy
   crisis.

                                                                   (Continued)

(To be inserted by utility)                                    Issued By                                   (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      5897-E                                         Michael Backstrom                               Date Submitted Sep 29, 2026
Decision 26-04-033                                         Sr. Vice President                              Effective         Oct 1, 2026
                                                                                                           Resolution
                                                                   Original       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.      43036-E*
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                           Schedule Wi-Fi-1                                     Sheet 2
                                       WIRELESS FIDELITY RATE
                                      SCE-OWNED STREETLIGHTS


 SPECIAL CONDITIONS
 1.     Definitions:
        a.       Wi-Fi: For purposes of this Schedule, the term Wi-Fi refers to any radio-based
                 system providing high-speed or broadband Internet service.
        b.       Qualified Commercial Provider:       For purposes of this Schedule, a Qualified
                 Commercial Provider is a communication provider that meets the terms and
                 conditions of this Schedule and as defined in any applicable fully executed Wi-Fi
                 agreement with SCE. SCE will qualify all commercial providers of Wireless Wi-Fi
                 Internet Service prior to any deployment of any Wi-Fi radio equipment
 2.     Wattage Limitations: The consumption of electricity for the Wi-Fi devices and related
        equipment shall not exceed thirty-five (35) watts on any one streetlight or the cumulative limit
        of 35 watts for every two adjacent streetlights. Rules 15 and 16 and Rule 2, with regards to
        minimum customer voltage, do not apply to Schedule Wi-Fi-1.
 3.     Priority Service: Safe and reliable electric service to SCE’s other customers, including those
        served through its streetlight circuits, has priority over service to all Wi-Fi providers (City or
        commercial) under this schedule. Cooperation with Wi-Fi service providers on best utilization
        of unlicensed frequency channels is a condition of the tariff. Use of pole attachment space for
        SCE’s equipment serving other customers has preference over use by Wi-Fi devices.
 4.     Agreement: An Agreement For Unmetered Electric Service to Wi-Fi Devices Attached to
        Southern California Edison (SCE)-Owned Streetlight Facilities, Form 14-764, and an
        applicable license agreement and/or joint pole or pole use agreement are required as a
        condition of service under this Schedule. License agreements and/or joint pole or pole use
        agreements are governed under the provisions of CPUC General Order 69-C. It shall also be
        the sole responsibility and obligation of customer to secure any rights or permission that may
        be necessary for the placement and use of customer’s equipment on or over private property
        or the public right of way.
 5.     Credit Requirements: Prior to taking service under this Schedule, SCE shall require customer
        to establish its creditworthiness through evaluations, deposits, or other security, as
        determined by SCE, to cover Customer’s payment liabilities under the terms and conditions of
        Schedule Wi-Fi-1 and all applicable agreements.
 6.     Service Point: A SCE approved Timed Auxiliary Power Device Adaptor (TAP) shall be
        installed on each streetlight where a Wi-Fi device attachment is made. The TAP device shall
        be used in order to connect the Wi-Fi device to streetlight service, and not to limit the hours of
        operation for such connection. The customer will be responsible to own, install, maintain,
        make the power connection to, and remove the TAP at its own expense. The customer’s TAP
        device shall not interfere with the operation of the streetlight. SCE will remove, at the
        customer’s expense, any TAP device that interferes with the operation of the streetlight.
7.      Attachment: The Wi-Fi device(s) shall be attached to SCE-owned streetlights, as approved by
        SCE. Each Wi-Fi device may be attached to existing SCE-owned streetlights excluding
        nostalgic and decorative poles, as determined by the customer of record, and series
        streetlight circuits. Device installation shall not be performed under this Schedule where
        location, mounting height, and/or other considerations are not acceptable to SCE. Unless
        approved by SCE, all Wi-Fi devices must be marked for identification and visible to SCE. Any
        Wi-Fi device attachment configuration, which would violate General Order 95, is prohibited
        under this Schedule. The installation and removal of such device(s) will be performed by the
        customer at its expense, or if necessary by SCE, at the customer’s expense.




                                                  (Continued)

(To be inserted by utility)                        Issued By                  (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice       2127-E-A                            Akbar Jazayeri               Date Submitted      Sep 24, 2007
Decision                                         Vice President               Effective           Sep 24, 2007
                                                                              Resolution          E-4107, E-4120
                                                                  Original       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.      43037-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                         Schedule Wi-Fi-1                                     Sheet 3
                                     WIRELESS FIDELITY RATE
                                    SCE-OWNED STREETLIGHTS


 SPECIAL CONDITIONS: (Continued)

 8.    Interference Reduction Scheme: The attachment of Wi-Fi devices and related equipment will
       be limited to equipment, which has been confirmed by SCE as not impacting SCE’s radio
       network or the power quality to its streetlights, and all Wi-Fi devices will have SCE-approved
       interference-reduction schemes incorporated within each unit, as determined by SCE.

 9.    Determination of Monthly usage: The customer must provide SCE information from which
       SCE can determine the level of kWh usage to be consumed and/or level of service to be
       provided, such as the manufacturers’ equipment specifications, data sheets, etc., and the
       number of devices to be installed. In addition, the customer must submit, on a monthly basis,
       in a format acceptable to SCE, information verifying the number and location of all equipment
       at each service location, which shall include installations and removals. SCE retains the right
       to perform on-site inspections to verify the energy consumption location and inventory of the
       device(s).

 10.   Modification of Facilities: No modifications can be made to the Wi-Fi devices unless approved
       by SCE. Where the customer requests a modification of SCE owned streetlights, and such
       modifications are acceptable to SCE, SCE will perform the requested modifications at the
       customer’s expense.

 11.   Maintenance: SCE shall exercise reasonable care and diligence in maintaining its facilities.
       Upon installation of the Wi-Fi device(s), where SCE experiences, or expects to experience,
       maintenance costs exceeding its normal maintenance expense, SCE may require the
       customer to pay the excess maintenance expense.

 12.   Testing: Prior to taking service under this schedule, SCE reserves the right to require testing
       of the customer’s equipment, either by SCE or by an independent third party satisfactory to
       both SCE and the customer, with the costs for such testing to be borne by the customer.
       Customer shall be financially responsible for any damage to SCE facilities that result from a
       failure to provide accurate equipment information.

 13.   Discontinuance and Restoration of Service: Discontinuance and restoration of service to the
       customer shall be completed in accordance with Rule 11.

 14.   Liability of SCE: SCE shall not, by taking action pursuant to its tariffs, be liable for any loss,
       damage, or injury, established or alleged, which may result, or be claimed to result, there
       from.

 15.   Initialization of Service Charge: A one-time charge per device, as shown in the RATES
       section of this schedule, will be applied to each service account provided service under this
       Schedule to recover the costs of administration. License agreements and/or joint pole or pole
       use agreements shall not include additional charges for Initialization of Service.

16.    Inventory/Maintenance Charge: A monthly per device charge, as shown in the RATES
       section of this schedule, will be applied to each service account provided service under this
       Schedule to recover the costs of inspection, inventory and equipment confirmation. License
       agreements and/or joint pole or pole use agreements shall not include additional charges for
       Inventory/Maintenance.

                                                 (Continued)

(To be inserted by utility)                      Issued By                   (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      2127-E-A                           Akbar Jazayeri                Date Submitted Sep 24, 2007
Decision                                       Vice President                Effective         Sep 24, 2007
                                                                             Resolution        E-4107, E-4120
                                                                   Revised       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.       72986-E
                                                     Cancelling    Revised       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.       49471-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                          Schedule Wi-Fi-1                                     Sheet 4
                                      WIRELESS FIDELITY RATE
                                     SCE-OWNED STREETLIGHTS


 Special Conditions: (Continued)

 17.   Billing Calculation:   A customer’s bill is calculated according to the rates and conditions
       above.

       Except for the Energy Charge and fixed charges, the charges listed in the RATES section are
       calculated by multiplying the Total Delivery Service rates and the Generation rates, when
       applicable, by the billing determinants (e.g., per kilowatt [kW], kilowatthour [kWh], kilovar [kVa]
       etc.).

       As of January 1, 2012, all generation supplied to Bundled Service Customers is provided by
       SCE. The DWR Energy Credit provided to Bundled Service Customers is determined by
       multiplying the DWR Energy Credit rate component by the customer’s total kWhs.

       a.     Bundled Service Customers receive Delivery Service and Generation service from SCE.
              The customer’s bill is the sum of the charges for Delivery Service and Generation
              service determined, as described in this Special Condition, and subject to applicable
              discounts or adjustments provided under SCE’s tariff schedules.

       b.     Direct Access Customers receive Delivery Service from SCE and purchase energy from
              an Energy Service Provider. The customer’s bill is the sum of the charges for Delivery
              Service determined as described in this Special Condition except that the DWRBC rate
              component is subtracted from the Total Delivery Service rates before the billing
              determinants are multiplied by such resulting Total rates; plus the applicable charges as
              shown in Schedule DA-CRS and subject to applicable discounts or adjustments
              provided under SCE’s tariff schedules.

       c.     CCA Service Customers receive Delivery Service from SCE and purchase energy from
              their Community Choice Aggregator (CCA). SCE will present the bill for both Delivery
              and Generation Services to the CCA Service Customer. The customer’s bill is the sum
              of the charges for Delivery Service as displayed in this Rate Schedule and Generation
              charges determined by the CCA plus the applicable charges as shown in Schedule
              CCA-CRS, and subject to applicable discounts or adjustments provided under SCE’s
              tariff schedules.

  18. PCIA Recovery in Bundled Generation Rates: Bundled Service Customer Generation                         (N)
      charges include an amount to recover the above-market portion of SCE’s generation portfolio.            |
      ‘Above market’ refers to the difference between what the utility pays for electric generation           |
      and current market prices for the sale of those resources. This above-market portion is                 |
      referred to as the Power Charge Indifference Adjustment (PCIA) amount and is shown on                   |
      Bundled Service Customers’ bills under the description of the Generation charge.                       (N)




                                                 (Continued)

(To be inserted by utility)                      Issued By                   (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      4682-E                           Michael Backstrom               Date Submitted Dec 30, 2021
Decision 20-03-019                             Vice President                Effective         Dec 30, 2021
                                                                             Resolution        E-5131
                                                                Original      Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.     74124-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                        Schedule Wi-Fi-1                                   Sheet 5
                                    WIRELESS FIDELITY RATE
                                   SCE-OWNED STREETLIGHTS



 SPECIAL CONDITIONS

 19.   Fixed Recovery Charge. SCE has been permitted to issue bonds that enable it to recover
       more quickly certain costs related to preventing and mitigating catastrophic wildfires, while
       reducing the total cost to its customers. The Fixed Recovery Charge (FRC) has been
       approved by the CPUC to repay those bonds. The right to recover the FRC has been
       transferred to a separate entity (called the Special Purpose Entity) that issued the bonds and
       recovery does not belong to SCE. SCE is collecting the FRC on behalf of the Special Purpose
       Entity.




(To be inserted by utility)                    Issued By                   (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      4796-E                         Michael Backstrom               Date Submitted May 16, 2022
Decision                                     Vice President                Effective         Jun 1, 2022
                                                                           Resolution
