SOURCE: https://ecode360.com/43801531
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via web.run; raw response retained in CA-HB/web_capture_2026-09-30.json

§ 17.10.050 Nuisance Designated.
It is hereby declared a public nuisance, or an act in the nature of a public nuisance, for any person or party to cause, permit, abet or otherwise allow any premises in this City to be used in such a manner that any one or more of the activities or conditions described in the following subsections are found to occur thereon.

A.
Any condition or activity which is a "nuisance" or a "public nuisance" as defined in Sections 3479 and 3480 of the Civil Code of the State of California or which is specifically declared to constitute a nuisance or public nuisance by any statute of the State of California or by any ordinance of the City of Huntington Beach.

B.
The violation of any provisions of the following California Codes which have been adopted, as amended, by the City of Huntington Beach:

1.

California Building Code;

2.

California Electrical Code;

3.

California Fire Code;

4.

California Residential Code;

5.

California Plumbing Code;

6.

California Mechanical Code;

7.

Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings;

8.

Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Code.

C.
The violation of any provision of the Huntington Beach Municipal Code, or the Huntington Beach Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance Code, or any code adopted by reference.

D.

The operation or maintenance of any business, trade or profession in violation of Title 5 of this Code, or lack of a proper certificate of occupancy.

E.

The frequent gathering, or coming and going, of people who have an intent to purchase or use controlled substances on or at any premises in this City.

F.
Participation in a criminal street gang as proscribed by California Penal Code Section 186.22 .

G.

The making or continuing, or causing to be made or continued, of any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood or which causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person of normal sensitiveness residing in the area.

H.
The occurrence of criminal activity at any premises which threatens the life, health, safety or welfare of the residents of the premises, neighbors or the public.

I.

Buildings which are abandoned, boarded up, partially destroyed or left unreasonably in a state of partial construction.

J.
Land, the topography or configuration of which, whether in a man-made state or as a result of grading operations, excavation or fill, causes erosion, subsidence, or surface water drainage problems of such magnitude as to be injurious to the public health, safety and welfare or to adjacent properties.

K.

The failure to secure and maintain from public access all doorways, windows and other openings into vacant structures.

L.

Overgrown vegetation on developed property which:

1.
Harbors rats, vermin, and other disease carriers; or

2.

Causes detriment to neighboring properties or property values; or

3.

Causes a hazardous condition to pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic.

M.

Dead, decayed, diseased or hazardous trees, weeds and other vegetation on developed property which:

1.

Constitutes an unsightly appearance; or

2.

Creates danger to public safety and welfare; or

3.

Is detrimental to nearby property or property values.

N.
Abandoned, broken, neglected machinery or equipment which poses a potential hazard to the general public.

O.

Unprotected or hazardous excavations, swimming pools, and ponds.

P.

Broken or discarded furniture, household equipment and appliances on the premises which causes damage or is a detriment to neighboring properties.

Q.
Packing boxes, lumber, dirt and other trash or debris outside commercial and industrial buildings which is visible from public streets and causes detriment to neighboring properties.

R.

Accumulation of dirt, litter or debris in doorways, adjoining sidewalks, parking lots and landscaped areas.

S.

Deteriorated parking lots which have pot holes, cracks and ridges.

T.

Fences in a state of disrepair or in a dilapidated condition.

U.
Premises including, but not limited to, building exteriors which are maintained in such condition as to become so defective, unsightly or in such condition of deterioration or disrepair that the same causes diminution of the property values of surrounding property or is materially detrimental to proximal properties and improvements.
This includes, but is not limited to, the keeping and disposing of or the scattering over the property or premises of any of the following: (1) lumber, junk, trash or debris; (2) abandoned or discarded or unused objects or equipment such as automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers; (3) stagnant water or excavation(s); (4) any device, decoration, design, fence, structure, clothesline or vegetation which is unsightly by reason of its condition or inappropriate location; or (5) permitting or allowing any graffiti to remain on any building, wall, fence or structure.
V.

The use of any premises for the purpose of illegal gambling, lewdness, assignation, or prostitution as proscribed by State law or this Code.

W.

The maintenance, use, rental or lease of any premises, or subunit thereof, including single-family dwellings, where persons are allowed to congregate, gather or loiter in such a manner as to disturb the peace of other persons lawfully on the property itself or lawfully in the vicinity of the property.

X.
The use of any premises for the purpose of unlawfully selling, serving, storing, keeping, manufacturing or giving away any controlled substance, precursor, or analog as those terms are defined by state law.

Y.

Noise disturbances in violation of Chapter 8.40 of this Code.

Z.

Maintenance of properties or premises in such a manner as to cause substantial diminution of the enjoyment, use, or property values of adjacent properties.

AA.
The maintenance of any sidewalk or driveway located on private property which is debilitated, broken, damaged, or raised to such a degree as to be unsightly if it can be viewed from public property, or to be injurious to property or injurious to persons using said driveway or sidewalk.

BB.
The maintenance of property where buildings or structures have been left boarded up for a period in excess of 10 days without a valid demolition or building permit on file with the Huntington Beach Community Development Department or abate said boarded up condition.

CC.
The maintenance of buildings or structures used or intended to be used for dwelling purposes, storage or similar uses, because of dilapidation, decay, damage, or faulty construction or arrangement, or otherwise, is unsanitary or unfit for human habitation or use is in a condition that is likely to cause injury or be detrimental to the health, safety, or general welfare of those living in the area or within.

DD.
The maintenance of any building or portion thereof, including any dwelling unit, guestroom or suite of rooms, or the premises on which the same is located, in which there exists any of the following listed conditions to an extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants thereof shall be deemed and hereby is declared to be a substandard building as defined in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code of the State of California.
(3386-3/98, 3398-7/98, 3997-11/13)
