SOURCE: https://ecode360.com/43801531
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via web.run; raw response retained in CA-HB/web_capture_2026-09-30.json

§ 17.10.051 Graffiti.

A.
Upon personal observation or the receipt of a complaint of graffiti or other inscribed material that is located on public or private property within the City so as to be capable of being viewed by a person utilizing any public right-of-way, the Director of Public Works or his or her representative may deliver or cause to be delivered a letter to the private or public property owner advising said owner that he or she is maintaining a public nuisance.
The Director of Public Works or his or her representative is authorized to provide for the removal of such graffiti or other inscribed material at the City's expense upon the following conditions:
1.

Where a structure or personal property is owned by a public entity other than the City, the removal of the graffiti or other inscribed material may be authorized only after securing the written consent of the public entity having jurisdiction over the structure or personal property and such entity executes a release and waiver approved as to form by the City Attorney.

2.
Where a structure or personal property is privately owned, the removal of the graffiti or other inscribed material may be authorized only after securing the written consent of the owner and the owner executes a release and waiver approved as to form by the City Attorney.

3.
In removing the graffiti or other inscribed material, the painting or repair of an area more extensive than where the graffiti or inscribed material is located shall not be authorized, unless the owner agrees to pay for the costs of repainting or repairing a more extensive area.

B.

If the public or private property owner's consent cannot be obtained, said owner shall have the duty to remove the graffiti or inscribed material at his or her expense, pursuant to the following provisions:

1.
The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the affected premises requiring that the graffiti or other inscribed material located on the property be painted over, repaired, or removed within 72 hours.

2.
The written notice may be served upon the property owner either by posting such on the affected premises or by certified mail. If written notice is made by certified mail, then service shall be complete at the time of deposit in the U. S. Postal Service.

(3739-7/06)
