SOURCE: https://web.archive.org/web/20251029033944/https://www.apartments.com/meridian-at-midtown-san-jose-ca/ezyhf1m/ (Wayback Machine snapshot of apartments.com listing, captured 2025-10-29; live page blocks automated access)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30
TITLE: Meridian At Midtown Rentals - San Jose, CA | Apartments.com

PROPERTY INFORMATION: Property Information • Built in 2014 • 224 Units/4 Stories • Furnished Lease Length 3-12 Months Services • Package Service • Wi-Fi at Pool and Clubhouse • Controlled Access • Maintenance on site • Property Manager on Site • Concierge • Courtesy Patrol • 24 Hour Availability • Furnished Units Availab

FEES SECTION: None

FULL TEXT:
 Meridian At Midtown Rentals - San Jose, CA | Apartments.com Your browser is out of date. Please update your browser for a faster and better website experience. Update Your Browser Now Map Map Menu Sign Up / Sign In Menu Customer Tools My Saved Searches My Favorites Notification Settings Mobile Apps Apartments For Rent Homes For Rent Condos For Rent Townhomes for Rent Meridian At Midtown CoStar Verified  ® 1432 W San Carlos St , San Jose , CA 95126 – Buena Vista (2) Contact 408-513-3042 Meridian At Midtown Call for Rent Call for Rent 408-513-3042 Email me listings and apartment related info. Contact Property Submitting Request Thank You Thank you! Your email has been sent. View Property Website Meridian At Midtown | 408-513-3042 Contact Property Gallery Single View 0 Images Call for Rent View Property Website No Unit Information Available for this Listing Prices and availability subject to change without notice. Additional Apartment Expenses Recurring Expenses $55 Cat Rent $55 Dog Rent One Time Expenses $33 Application Fee $500 Cat Deposit $500 Dog Deposit About Meridian At Midtown Welcome to urban living in San Jose's Midtown district located on the edge of everything modern, urban and authentic. Meridian at Midtown boasts an industrial chic interior with rustic finishes, clean lines and modern accents that hint at the cosmopolitan sophistication. Bursts of bright color and geometric patterns breathe life into the contemporary design, while nature makes itself at home with environmentally friendly elements at every turn. Deluxe community and residence amenities in a great location make this Meridian at Midtown the perfect place to call home. Apartment Amenities Unique Features • 24/7 Fitness Center • Bike Kitchen • Chase Bank • Coffee Bar and Lounge • Coffee Lounge • Entertainment Kitchen • Gated Parking Garage • Grilling Stations • Linear Park • Near Public Transporation • Nearby Starbucks, Chase Bank & Subway • Outdoor Grilling Stations • Outdoor Lounge • Private Dining Room • Refreshing Pool • Retail Onsite • Self Service Bike Kitchen • Starbucks • Subway • Virtual Fitness Pet Policy Pets Negotiable Dogs and Cats Allowed: We welcome 2 pets per apartment home. There is a $500 pet deposit for each pet. Pet rent is $55/month per pet. Maximum allowed weight is 80 lbs. Breed restrictions apply. Please contact leasing office for complete pet policy details. • $500 Deposit • $55 Monthly Pet Rent • 80 lb Weight Limit • 2 Pet Limit • Pet Interview Required Parking Covered 1 space. Garage 1 space; Assigned Parking. Property Information • Built in 2014 • 224 Units/4 Stories • Furnished Lease Length 3-12 Months Services • Package Service • Wi-Fi at Pool and Clubhouse • Controlled Access • Maintenance on site • Property Manager on Site • Concierge • Courtesy Patrol • 24 Hour Availability • Furnished Units Available • Recycling • Renters Insurance Program • Online Services • Planned Social Activities • Pet Care Interior • Elevator • Business Center • Clubhouse • Lounge • Storage Space • Coffee Bar • Conference Room • Library • Corporate Suites Outdoor Space • Gated • Sundeck • Courtyard Fitness & Recreation • Fitness Center • Fitness Programs • Cardio Machines • Free Weights • Weight Machines • Pool Features • High Speed Internet Access • Washer/Dryer • Air Conditioning • Heating • Cable Ready • Tub/Shower • Intercom • Sprinkler System • Wheelchair Accessible (Rooms) Kitchen • Dishwasher • Disposal • Ice Maker • Granite Countertops • Stainless Steel Appliances • Pantry • Eat-in Kitchen • Microwave • Oven • Range • Refrigerator • Freezer Living Space • Hardwood Floors • Carpet • Dining Room • Den • Views • Walk-In Closets • Linen Closet • Double Pane Windows • Window Coverings Outdoor Space • Balcony • Patio • Barbecue/Grill Office Hours At Meridian At Midtown Today's Hours: 9 AM to 6 PM Contact Monday - Sunday 9 AM to 6 PM Amenities & Expenses Package Service Wi-Fi at Pool and Clubhouse Controlled Access Maintenance on site Property Manager on Site Concierge Courtesy Patrol 24 Hour Availability Furnished Units Available Recycling Renters Insurance Program Online Services Planned Social Activities Pet Care Elevator Business Center Clubhouse Lounge Storage Space Coffee Bar Conference Room Library Corporate Suites Gated Sundeck Courtyard Fitness Center Fitness Programs Cardio Machines Free Weights Weight Machines Pool 24/7 Fitness Center Bike Kitchen Chase Bank Coffee Bar and Lounge Office Hours Monday 9 AM to 6 PM Tuesday 9 AM to 6 PM Wednesday 9 AM to 6 PM Thursday 9 AM to 6 PM Friday 9 AM to 6 PM Saturday 9 AM to 6 PM Sunday 9 AM to 6 PM Apartment Reviews at Meridian At Midtown By clicking submit, I agree to the Apartments.com Terms of Service and the Ratings & Reviews Terms of Use . Cancel Submit There are no reviews for this property. Be the first to add a review on this property. Write a Review = 1}"> = 2}"> = 3}"> = 4}"> = 5}"> Delete View More View Less Yes No Thanks for your feedback! Flag Review Property Manager at responded to this review: 1, visible: hasReviews" style="display:none;"> ... ... 1 year ago Meridian at Midtown The apartment itself are very nice but very overpriced like everything in this area. They seemed to be understaffed in a couple of places, maintenance is 2 people, security is also hit or miss, they just hired another firm to supplement the 1 rent a cop they had on duty at night. We have had vehicles stolen and robbed in the secured garage. On the plus side the dog park is a great feature, and the pool area, and common areas are really nice. Location is awesome, and leasing staff is very friendly and helpful. BTW my rent is higher then your max weekly payment, welcome to the silicon valley. 6 months ago Decent but be cautious I have lived at M@M for about 8-9 months and it has been a rollercoaster. There are great things about this place. However, there are a lot of red flags as well. Pros: The maintenance staff and most of the leasing staff are absolutely wonderful. They are helpful, efficient, and very nice (to the extent they can help). I would like to particularly call out Andy in maintenance and Jenny and Monique in the leasing office. They have made my experience here much better than I would have had given everything else that happened (more about that in the cons). Andy went out of his way to help me during his off hours and made sure that a major emergency (repeated) was resolved in a timely manner (we are talking about helping me with a plumbing situation at 2am). Jenny made sure that my leasing agreement and monthly payments were properly adjusted after a lot of back and forth of what I was promised and what I kept getting in my statements. Monique helped me a lot, making sure that I was comfortable with moving to a new apartment (due to the plumbing incidents) and that all the paperwork was communicated to the manager in a timely fashion. So, yes, these three are key in having a good customer experience at this location. The facility itself is very nice and has great amenities. The pool is nice, quant, and clean. They have three fitness centers with some decent workout gear. Overall has a nice hotel feel. The security has gotten better and the place is pretty tightly managed with daily security guards after a few break-in incidents. Given the gentrification of the neighborhood, this is to be expected. Cons: The living conditions of some of these apartments are not optimal. There are plumbing issues to watch out for in the first floor (granted it is due to other tenants in the building dumping wipes and other items down the toilet) that causes flooding into some of the apartments. I recommend that you do not rent any apartments from 140-148 unless they can make changes. Three apartments have already been flooded on that floor. The staff at this place is doing their job. Overall, it is a pretty decent place (and yes I am saying this after being flooded) and the staff takes care of emergencies pretty efficiently. Just make sure you get all the facts of the apartment before signing up. If it weren't for so many incidents I would have given this place 5 stars coz the location, convenience, maintenance staff / leasing reps and price are comparable in this market. Points of Interest Near Meridian At Midtown Schools Restaurants Groceries Coffee Banks Shops Fitness School data provided by GreatSchools Public Transportation Time and Distance from Meridian At Midtown Transit / Subway Walk Distance Race Station (Mountain View - Winchester Line) 14 min 0.6 mi San Jose Diridon Station (Mountain View - Winchester Line) 19 min 1.0 mi Airport Drive Distance San Jose International Airport 10 min 6.2 mi San Francisco International Airport 39 min 38.4 mi Metropolitan Oakland International Airport 45 min 39.4 mi Commuter Rail Drive Distance San Jose Diridon Commuter Rail (Caltrain) 5 min 1.3 mi San Jose Diridon Commuter Rail (Altamont Corridor Express) 5 min 1.3 mi Neighborhood - Buena Vista Buena Vista Buena Vista residents have the best of both worlds, situated one mile west of downtown San Jose and its high-tech business industry and one mile east of Santana Row, San Jose’s exclusive dining and shopping complex. The third largest city in California, and the 10th largest in the United States, San Jose is home to some of the largest tech companies, including Cisco System, eBay and IBM. Learn More about Buena Vista  Meridian At Midtown Gallery No images yet! Report an Issue Share Print Directions Back To Top 408-513-3042 Email me listings and apartment related info. Contact Property Submitting Request Thank You Thank you! Your email has been sent. Error Meridian At Midtown Area Info Meridian At Midtown is located in Santa Clara County in the 95126 ZIP Code. Popular Searches in your Area Beds Studio Apartments in Buena Vista 1 Bedroom Apartments in Buena Vista 2 Bedroom Apartments in Buena Vista 3 Bedroom Apartments in Buena Vista Studio Apartments in 95126 1 Bedroom Apartments in 95126 2 Bedroom Apartments in 95126 3 Bedroom Apartments in 95126 Studio Apartments in San Jose 1 Bedroom Apartments in San Jose 2 Bedroom Apartments in San Jose 3 Bedroom Apartments in San Jose Lifestyle Buena Vista Pet Friendly Apartments Buena Vista Apartments with Washer/Dryer 95126 Pet Friendly Apartments 95126 Apartments with Washer/Dryer San Jose Pet Friendly Apartments San Jose Apartments with Washer/Dryer San Jose Student Housing San Jose Senior Housing Price Buena Vista Apartments Under $1500 Buena Vista Apartments Under $1600 Buena Vista Apartments Under $1700 Buena Vista Apartments Under $1800 95126 Apartments Under $1500 95126 Apartments Under $1600 95126 Apartments Under $1700 95126 Apartments Under $1800 San Jose Apartments Under $900 San Jose Apartments Under $1000 San Jose Apartments Under $1100 San Jose Apartments Under $1200 Property Style Buena Vista Apartments for Rent Buena Vista Houses for Rent Buena Vista Condos for Rent Buena Vista Townhomes for Rent 95126 Apartments for Rent 95126 Houses for Rent 95126 Condos for Rent 95126 Townhomes for Rent San Jose Apartments for Rent San Jose Houses for Rent San Jose Condos for Rent San Jose Townhomes for Rent All Rentals in Buena Vista All Rentals in San Jose All Rentals in 95126 All Rentals in California Nearby Areas with Available Rentals Cities Campbell Apartments Rentals Los Gatos Apartments Rentals Milpitas Apartments Rentals Santa Clara Apartments Rentals Monte Sereno Apartments Rentals Cupertino Apartments Rentals Saratoga Apartments Rentals Sunnyvale Apartments Rentals Morgan Hill Apartments Rentals Los Altos Apartments Rentals Neighborhoods Blossom Valley/S San Jose - San Jose, CA Apartments Rentals Parkview - San Jose, CA Apartments Rentals South San Jose - San Jose, CA Apartments Rentals Santa Teresa - San Jose, CA Apartments Rentals The Woods - San Jose, CA Apartments Rentals Spartan-Keyes - San Jose, CA Apartments Rentals Edenvale - San Jose, CA Apartments Rentals Walnut Blossom - San Jose, CA Apartments Rentals Willow Glen - San Jose, CA Apartments Rentals Rancho Santa Teresa - San Jose, CA Apartments Rentals ZIP Codes 95121 Apartments Rentals 95111 Apartments Rentals 95136 Apartments Rentals 95122 Apartments Rentals 95123 Apartments Rentals 95125 Apartments Rentals 95148 Apartments Rentals 95116 Apartments Rentals 95119 Apartments Rentals 95127 Apartments Rentals View Less View More Who We Are Apartments App Commercial Real Estate Businesses for Sale Land for Sale Equal Housing Terms of Service Sitemap 408-513-3042 © 2016 CoStar Group, Inc. Equal Housing Opportunity 
