SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._abandoned_property_law_section_1310
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/ABP/1310 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Abandoned Property Law Section 1310

Voluntary disposition of miscellaneous property not otherwise subject to this chapter

1.
Any person or entity who holds any intangible personal property, including the proceeds of a sale of tangible property, which is not otherwise subject to the provisions of this chapter or any other law regarding the disposition of unclaimed property belonging to any other person, and which has remained unclaimed for a period of two years by the person or persons appearing to be entitled to receive such property, may request in writing, in such form and manner as the comptroller may by regulation prescribe, that the comptroller consent to receive payment or delivery of such property.

2.
Within thirty days of the receipt of a request pursuant to subdivision one of this section, the comptroller shall send a written determination to the person or entity who filed such request which shall either:

(i)
consent to the request;

(ii)
consent to the request subject to such conditions as he deems necessary and appropriate; or

(iii)
deny the request. Any determination by the comptroller denying consent or placing conditions upon the consent shall specifically state the basis for such determination and such denial or conditional consent shall be reviewable in a proceeding pursuant to article seventy-eight of the civil practice law and rules.

3.
Any property reported and paid or delivered to the comptroller pursuant to this section shall be deemed abandoned property, and any person or entity paying or delivering such property shall be relieved and held harmless from any or all liability for any claim or claims which exist or may exist with respect to such property to the extent provided in section fourteen hundred four of this chapter.

4.
Payment or delivery of property pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by reports in such form as the comptroller may prescribe.

Source:
Section 1310 — Voluntary disposition of miscellaneous property not otherwise subject to this chapter, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/ABP/1310 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
