SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._abandoned_property_law_section_1317
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/ABP/1317 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Abandoned Property Law Section 1317

Unclaimed security deposits held by the title insurance companies

1.
Any amount held or owing by a domestic or foreign title insurer or by an agent or representative of such insurer as a security deposit, relating to the transfer or financing of real property located in this state, made as an inducement to issue a title insurance policy shall be deemed abandoned property if unclaimed as of December thirty-first in any year for three years from the date of deposit, unless there has been written communication from the depositor or other person entitled thereto to the insurer to its agent or representative within said three-year period.

2.
Any such property deemed abandoned as of the preceding December thirty-first shall be paid and delivered to the comptroller within the first ten days of March in each year, together with a report of said property, including a listing of depositors and lienholders, in such form as the comptroller may prescribe.

3.
The title insurer or its agent or representative shall retain records of the names and addresses of the depositors and lienholders, and any records necessary to show proof of entitlement of such deposits.

4.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, the rights of a depositor to payment from a title insurer or its agent or representative pursuant to a security deposit agreement and the obligations of such insurer its agent or representative to fulfill the requirements specified in any such agreement shall in no way be affected, impaired or enlarged by reason of the provisions of this section or by reason of the payment or delivery to the comptroller of abandoned property hereunder. Claim for reimbursement may be filed with the comptroller by any title insurer or its agent or representative who may be required to pay or deliver any abandoned property to the comptroller pursuant to this section.

5.
The comptroller may require proof that the title insurer has made payment on the underlying claim under the terms of the security deposit agreement and is entitled to reimbursement therefor and after audit the comptroller shall pay the same.

6.
The comptroller shall not be liable for any action by the comptroller made in good faith or based upon representations made by a title insurer pursuant to this section.

Source:
Section 1317 — Unclaimed security deposits held by the title insurance companies, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/ABP/1317 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
