SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._abandoned_property_law_section_1402
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/ABP/1402 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Abandoned Property Law Section 1402

Publication of abandoned property by state comptroller

1.
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in section fourteen hundred one of this article, the comptroller shall maintain on his or her website in a readily searchable format, a list of such abandoned property as has been paid or delivered to the comptroller that has a value of over twenty dollars, for a period of twelve months prior to April first, two thousand eleven, and any such abandoned property as has been paid or delivered to the comptroller thereafter that has a value of over twenty dollars, provided that when sixty or more months has passed after such property has been paid or delivered to the comptroller, the comptroller shall not be required to post such property on his or her website if he or she does not deem it reasonable and appropriate to do so.

(b)
The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to abandoned property paid pursuant to section one thousand three hundred of this chapter or section four hundred twenty-four of the vehicle and traffic law.

2.
Such list shall be in such form and classified in such manner as the state comptroller shall determine and shall include:

(a)
the names and last known addresses of all persons appearing from the records in the comptroller’s office, as set forth in the report filed by the holder, to be entitled to receive such abandoned property exceeding twenty dollars in value; and

(b)
such other information as the state comptroller may determine.

3.
Such listing shall include a statement that:

(a)
information about the property and its return to the owner may be available to a person having a legal or beneficial interest in the property, upon request to the comptroller; and

(b)
a public record is maintained in the office of the state comptroller of all abandoned property in accordance with section fourteen hundred one of this article; and that a claim for any such abandoned property should be filed with the state comptroller at his or her office in the city of Albany.

4.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the state comptroller may omit from such list the name and last known address of any person where special circumstances make it desirable that such information be withheld.

Source:
Section 1402 — Publication of abandoned property by state comptroller, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/ABP/1402 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
