SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._abandoned_property_law_section_1422
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/ABP/1422 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Abandoned Property Law Section 1422

Mailing of notice to owners of record

1.
Any holder of unclaimed funds which is not otherwise required to perform owner notification mailings under the provisions of this chapter shall send, not less than ninety days prior to the applicable reporting date for such unclaimed property, a written notice by first-class mail to each person appearing to be the owner of property listed in a report of abandoned property required to be filed under the provisions of this chapter, at the address of the owner as it appears on the books and records of the holder; provided, however, that the foregoing requirements shall not apply where (a) the holder does not have an address for the owner; or

(b)
the holder can demonstrate that the only address that the holder has pertaining to the owner is not the current address of the owner.

2.
Where notice is required by subdivision one of this section, each holder shall, with respect to property listed in such report whose value is in excess of one thousand dollars, send a second written notice to the owner by certified mail, return receipt requested not less than sixty days prior to the applicable reporting date for such unclaimed property, provided that no notice pursuant to this subdivision shall be required where:

(a)
such holder has received a claim from the owner of the property; or

(b)
the original mailing was returned as undeliverable.

3.
The written notice required by this section shall advise the owner that the property to which the owner appears to be entitled will be reported as abandoned property and will be remitted to the state comptroller unless such property is claimed by an entitled party before the required remittance date.

4.
The failure of any holder of abandoned property to comply with the requirements of this section shall not in any way affect the reporting of abandoned property pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.

5.
Costs paid to the postal authorities by holders of unclaimed property to provide such written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, may be deducted from the property as a service charge.

Source:
Section 1422 — Mailing of notice to owners of record, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/ABP/1422 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
