SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._limited_liability_company_law_section_203
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/LLC/203 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Limited Liability Company Law Section 203

Formation

Mentioned in

Forming a Limited Liability Company in New York

NY Dept. of State, September 7, 2023

"The following information has been developed to answer your questions regarding formation of an LLC and to assist in the filing of the Articles of Organization."

Bibliographic info

(a)
One or more persons may act as an organizer or organizers to form a limited liability company by (i) preparing the articles of organization of such limited liability company in accordance with subdivision (e) of this section, (ii) executing such articles of organization in accordance with section two hundred seven of this article and (iii) filing such articles, entitled “Articles of organization of... (name of limited liability company) under section two hundred three of the Limited Liability Company Law,” in accordance with section two hundred nine of this article.

(b)
An organizer may, but need not be, a member of the limited liability company that he or she forms.

(c)
At the time of its formation, a limited liability company must have at least one member.

(d)
A limited liability company is formed at the time of the filing of the initial articles of organization with the department of state or at any later time specified in the articles of organization, not to exceed sixty days from the date of such filing. The filing of the articles of organization shall, in the absence of actual fraud, be conclusive evidence of the formation of the limited liability company as of the time of filing or effective date if later, except in an action or special proceeding brought by the attorney general. A limited liability company formed under this chapter shall be a separate legal entity, the existence of which as a separate legal entity shall continue until the cancellation of the limited liability company’s articles of organization.

(e)
The articles of organization of a limited liability company shall set forth:

(1)
the name of the limited liability company;

(2)
the county within this state in which the office of the limited liability company is to be located or if the limited liability company shall maintain more than one office in this state, the county in which the principal office of the limited liability company is to be located;

(3)
if the limited liability company is to have a specific date of dissolution in addition to the events of dissolution set forth in section seven hundred one of this chapter, the latest date on which the limited liability company is to dissolve;

(4)
a designation of the secretary of state as agent of the limited liability company upon whom process against it may be served and the post office address within or without this state to which the secretary of state shall mail a copy of any process against the limited liability company served upon him or her. The limited liability company may include an email address to which the secretary of state shall email a notice of the fact that process against it has been electronically served upon him or her;

(5)
if the limited liability company is to have a registered agent, its name and address within this state and a statement that the registered agent is to be the agent of the limited liability company upon whom process against it may be served;

(6)
if all or specified members are to be liable in their capacity as members for all or specified debts, obligations or liabilities of the limited liability company as authorized pursuant to section six hundred nine of this chapter, a statement that all or specified members are so liable for such debts, obligations or liabilities in their capacity as members of the limited liability company as authorized pursuant to section six hundred nine of this chapter; and

(7)
any other provisions, not inconsistent with law, that the members elect to include in the articles of organization for the regulation of the internal affairs of the limited liability company, including, but not limited to, (A) the business purpose for which the limited liability company is formed, (B) a statement of whether there are limitations on the authority of members or managers or a class or classes thereof to bind the limited liability company and (C) any provisions that are required or permitted to be included in the operating agreement of the limited liability company pursuant to section four hundred seventeen of this chapter.

Source:
Section 203 — Formation, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/LLC/203 (updated Sep. 4, 2026; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
