Source: http://dir.ca.gov/OPRL/coverage/year2025/2023-008.pdf
Retrieved: 2026-10-02 via Nimble extract; PDF text extracted mechanically with pdftotext -layout.
Cal. Dept. of Industrial Relations, Public Works Case No. 2023-008, Breakwater Exterior Paint Project, coverage determination dated 2025-02-26.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

STATE OF CALIFORNIA                                                  GAVIN NEWSOM, Governor
DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Katrina S. Hagen, Director
Office of the Director
1515 Clay Street, Suite 2208
Oakland, CA 94612
Tel: (510) 286-7087 Fax: (510) 622-3265




February 26, 2025


Jessica Pirrone, Hearing Officer
Office of the Director – Legal Unit
Department of Industrial Relations
355 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1800
Los Angeles, California 90071


Re:    Public Works Case No. 2023-008
       Breakwater Exterior Paint Project
       Catalyst Housing Group / CMFA Finance Agency VII


Dear Ms. Pirrone:

       This constitutes the determination of the Director of Industrial Relations regarding
coverage of the above-referenced project under California’s prevailing wage laws and is
made pursuant to Labor Code section 1773.5 1 and California Code of Regulations, title 8,
section 16001, subdivision (a). Based on my review of the facts of this case and an
analysis of applicable law, it is my determination that the Breakwater Exterior Paint
Project (Paint Project) for Catalyst Housing Group on behalf of the CMFA Finance
Agency VII is a public work subject to prevailing wage requirements.

                                           Facts

       A.      The Breakwater Apartments and CMFA Special Finance Agency VII.

       According to records from the Orange County Clerk-Recorder, on August 19,
2021, the Breakwater Apartment Homes, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,
transferred the property located at 16761 Viewpoint Lane in Huntington Beach, APN 142-
181-05, to CMFA Special Finance Agency VII. That property is known as the Breakwater
Apartments, an apartment complex where the Paint Project was performed.

      CMFA Special Finance Agency VII (Finance Agency VII) was organized in July
2021 as a joint powers agency between the California Municipal Financing Agency
(CMFA) and the City of Huntington Beach (City) under the provisions of the Joint Exercise
of Powers Act (Gov. Code, § 6500 et seq.). The California Municipal Financing Agency
(CMFA) is itself a joint powers agency formed on January 1, 2004. A joint powers agency


       1 Unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the California

Labor Code and all subdivision references are to the subdivisions of section 1720.
Determination Letter to Jessica Pirrone, Hearing Officer
Re: Public Works Case No. 2023-008
Page 2

is “a public entity separate from the parties to the agreement.” (Gov. Code, § 6507.) A
July 20, 2021 City of Huntington Beach staff report noted that over 325 municipalities
have become members of CMFA for the purpose of promoting “economic, cultural and
community development, through the financing of economic development and charitable
activities throughout California.” (Request for City Council Action Narrative regarding
Middle-Income Housing (July 20, 2021) File #: 21- 531 (July 20, 2021 City Staff Report).)

     B.     Staff Reports Describing the Need to Form CMFA Special Finance
Agency VII for Middle Income Housing.

       The aforementioned July 20, 2021 City Staff Report recommended formation of
Finance Agency VII to carry out the City’s “Middle Income Housing Program” to make
affordable housing available to those earning 80 percent and up to 120 percent of area
median income (AMI). The staff report explained that the program operates through a
combination of issuing tax-exempt bonds and forgoing property tax revenue, which is
achieved through the formation of Finance Agency VII:

       As a public agency, the JPA is a tax-exempt entity that is not required to
       pay property taxes. This property tax abatement, coupled with the tax
       exempt financing, provides a significant advantage in terms of cash flow,
       which allows the JPA to compete with market- rate buyers, and enables
       the JPA to make the units available to low and moderate income
       households. The typical split of units is one third at 80% AMI, one third at
       100% AMI, and one third at 120% AMI.

       ...

            The project sponsor acts on behalf of the JPA as the asset
       manager.

       ...

              The JPA issues the tax exempt governmental bonds. As the bond
       issuer, the JPA will oversee the underwriting of the bonds prior to
       issuance and the performance of the project sponsor during the life of the
       bonds.

(July 20, 2021 City Staff Report.)

       The City also noted in the report that Catalyst Housing Group, LLC (Catalyst)
“approached the City with an opportunity to acquire two existing apartment complexes in
Huntington Beach and convert them into "workforce housing" units.” One of them is the
Breakwater Apartments, comprised of a total of 402 market rate units. Catalyst was the
project sponsor, which had been negotiating a sale of the Breakwater Apartments to
Finance Agency VII while approval for the formation of Finance Agency VII was pending
before the City Council.
Determination Letter to Jessica Pirrone, Hearing Officer
Re: Public Works Case No. 2023-008
Page 3

       Separately, a CMFA staff report similarly recommended the formation of Finance
Agency VII because the finance agency, described as “an affiliated single purpose ‘mini-
JPA,’” could issue tax exempt bonds “to acquire a market-rate apartment facility and
convert it to workforce housing with affordability tiers at 80%, 100% and 120%. Rents
would be restricted to 35% of the applicable income tier.” No tenants would supposedly
be evicted, but any tenants above the income limits would have to pay market rents.
“Because ownership is governmental, the property would be exempt from property tax.”
The staff report further promised: “Neither the CMFA nor the municipality [i.e. Huntington
Beach] would be liable for the liabilities of the single purpose JPA.” A different section
described how proceeds from some of the tax-exempt bonds would be spent:

      The proceeds of the Series 2021A Bonds will be applied by the Agency for
      the purpose of (i) paying the acquisition costs of the Project, (ii) financing
      the cost of certain capital improvements through a deposit into the Capital
      Expense Fund, (iii) funding deposits and reserves for the payment of debt
      service and certain other uses as set forth herein; (iv) funding a portion of
      Operating Expenses for the Project into the Operating Account under the
      Property Management Agreement; and (iv) paying the costs and expenses
      incidental to the issuance of the Bonds.

(July 23, 2021 CMFA Breakwater Apartments Staff Report.)

      On July 20, 2021, the City adopted Resolution 2021-44 to approve the joint powers
agreement with CMFA to form Finance Agency VII, to approve Finance Agency VII’s
issuance of governmental purpose revenue bonds “solely to finance or refinance the
acquisition, construction, development and certain related costs” of the Breakwater
Apartments, and to execute a Public Benefit Agreement which gives the City the right to
purchase the Breakwater Apartments beginning 15 years after the bonds are issued.

     C.     Financing for Public Acquisition of the Breakwater Apartments and
Conversion into Middle Income Housing.

        On August 1, 2021, Finance Agency VII and Wilmington Trust, National
Association (Trustee), entered into a Trust Indenture for the issuance of the tax-
exempt bonds, “the net proceeds of which shall be used to (i) finance the
acquisition of the Project, (ii) finance the cost of certain capital improvements
through a deposit into the Capital Expense Fund, (iii) fund deposits and reserves
for the payment of debt service and certain other uses as set forth herein; (iv)
fund a portion of Operating Expenses for the Project into the Operating Account
under the Property Management Agreement; and (v) pay the costs and expenses
incidental to the issuance of the Series 2021 Bonds.” (Trust Indenture, p. 2.) The
bonds are secured by the Property and the leases and rents it collects. (Id. at §
5.01, pp. 21-22.) Specifically, the Trust Indenture identified the bonds to be
issued in the following amounts, for a total of $221,885,000:

      “CMFA Special Finance Agency VII Senior Essential Housing Revenue
      Bonds, Series 2021A-1 (The Breakwater Apartments),” in an aggregate
      principal amount of $138,750,000, a Series of Bonds designated as
Determination Letter to Jessica Pirrone, Hearing Officer
Re: Public Works Case No. 2023-008
Page 4

       “CMFA Special Finance Agency VII Junior Essential Housing Revenue
       Bonds, Series 2021A-2 (The Breakwater Apartments)” in an aggregate
       principal amount of $78,135,000, and a Series of Bonds designated as
       “CMFA Special Finance Agency VII Subordinate Essential Housing
       Revenue Bonds, Series 2021B (The Breakwater Apartments)” in an
       aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000.

(Id. at § 3.01(d), pp. 6-7.)

A portion of the net proceeds of the sale of the bonds is specifically directed to be
deposited into the Capital Expense Fund: “$23,500,000.00 shall be deposited
into the Capital Expense Fund” (id. at § 3.03(a)(vi), p. 10) and the Operating
Reserve Fund: “$662,108.30 shall be deposited into the Operating Reserve
Fund.” (Id. at § 3.03(a)(iii), p. 10.)

      On the same day, August 1, 2021, a number of other agreements to carry out
Finance Agency VII’s main purpose were also executed. Finance Agency VII entered into
a property management agreement with Greystar California, Inc. to manage the
Breakwater Apartments and a property administration agreement with Catalyst to
“monitor, supervise, coordinate, analyze and report to Finance Agency VII.” The
aforementioned Public Benefit Agreement was executed to give the City the right to
purchase the property.

       On August 3, 2021, Jefferies, LLC, an underwriter, executed a Bond Purchase
Agreement to purchase the Series 2021A-1 senior bonds and Series 2021A-2 junior
bonds for price of “$227,397,732.92, representing the principal amount of the Bonds
[$138,750,000 + $78,135,000 = $216,885,000], plus original issue premium of
$13,534,100.25, less an Underwriter’s discount of $3,021,367.33.”2 The closing date for
the delivery of the bonds was set for August 19, 2021.

       On August 19, 2021, Finance Agency VII made a written request to Trustee to
authenticate the tax-exempt bonds pursuant to the provisions of the Trust Indenture. The
written request further instructed that the “$38,512,562.89 received by you shall be
deposited in the funds and accounts pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Indenture.” On the
same day, the underwriter Jefferies, LLC acknowledged the delivery of the bonds.

     D.     Agreement between Master Builders and Owner of Breakwater
Apartments.

      On an unspecified date, SD-CAP Construction Management, LLC issued a
Request for Proposals for the Paint Project with proposals due September 23, 2022. In
Section 2.1, the Request states: “Contractor to supply all prevailing wage labor, materials,
permits if necessary, supplies and equipment necessary to complete the repaint project.”
Further in Section 10.4, the Request also states: “All work is to be paid with a prevailing
wage labor rate.” Master Builder’s proposals dated September 2 and September 13, 2022

       2 The Bond Purchase Agreement noted that the Series 2021B-2 bonds “are being

privately placed with Catalyst Housing Group LLC, a California limited liability company.”
Determination Letter to Jessica Pirrone, Hearing Officer
Re: Public Works Case No. 2023-008
Page 5

contain this statement: “NOTE: This project is bid as prevailing wage. If for whatever
reason project exceeds 24 months, prevailing wage cost may increase which could result
in a change order to our agreement.”

       On October 7, 2022, Master Builders entered into the Paint Project contract with
the “owner” of Breakwater Apartments for $1,031,200. The contract is ambiguous as to
the exact identity of the owner and its agent. On the first page, the contract states that
“CMFA” is the owner and that the owner “shall act through its agent, Catalyst Housing
Group.” But on the signature page, the owner was identified as “CalCHA” 3 and SD-CAP
Construction Management, LLC is the authorized agent signing on behalf of the owner.
The Department construes these discrepancies as typographical errors and that the
owner is actually Finance Agency VII.

       The scope of the work for the contract includes “pressure washing the buildings,
scrapping of stucco in areas that are peeling, and repainting all previously painted
surfaces.” The contractual documents stated: “Contractor to supply all prevailing wage
labor, materials, permits if necessary, supplies and equipment necessary to complete the
repaint.” The contract also provides: “The Contractor to whom the contract is awarded,
and its subcontractors hired for the public works project are required to pay not less than
the specified general prevailing wage rates to all workers employed in the execution of
the contract.” A further warning is included: “Contractor fully understands that failure to
comply with all Labor Law requirements (LC § 1720-1861) may subject it to penalties.” A
document entitled “Prevailing Wage Requirements” details the requirements that Master
Builders was expected to comply with.

      The contract specified that the Paint Project must be completed by May 31, 2023.

      E.     Referral for Coverage Determination.

        On May 30, 2023, the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement (DLSE) issued a
civil wage and penalty assessment against Master Builders, as authorized under section
1741. Master Builders filed a request for review of the assessment under section 1742.
During the section 1742 proceedings, Master Builders disputed coverage of the Paint
Project under the prevailing wage law. Thereafter, the assigned hearing officer referred
the matter for a coverage determination.

                                       Contentions

        Master Builders argues that the work performed was done under contract
“between private persons and/or involved a private residential project, and/or does not fall
within the meaning of ‘public works’ nor was it ‘paid for in whole or in part out of public
funds’ as defined under Labor Code sections 1720, et seq.” More specifically, Master
Builders argues that the real estate developer may have received some public financing
from a quasi-public entity “under a complex financial structure underwritten by private
investment banks” for the acquisition of an apartment complex, but none of that public

      3 CalCHA appears to refer to California Community Housing Agency, yet another

joint powers agency that issues government bonds for affordable housing.
Determination Letter to Jessica Pirrone, Hearing Officer
Re: Public Works Case No. 2023-008
Page 6

financing was provided for construction. And because no public funding paid for actual
construction, the project is not a public work.

       Catalyst Housing Group argues that the contract between the CMFA and Master
Builders required the payment of prevailing wages for all work required under their
contract. The contract also required Master Builders to abide all laws that pertain to
prevailing wage requirements. “As such, there is no need for any determination requiring
the contractual obligations of the General Contractor on the issue of prevailing wages and
the related requirements.”

      DLSE makes essentially the same arguments as Catalyst Housing Group, citing
the contractual provisions requiring compliance with prevailing wage requirements as
evidence that the project is a public work. By executing the contract, Master Builders has,
DLSE argues, “specifically acknowledged” that the project is a public work.

      Master Builders responds by arguing that contractual language alone does not
determine whether a project is a statutory public works under the Labor Code.

                                          Discussion

        All workers employed on public works projects must be paid at least the applicable
prevailing wage rates. (§ 1771.) Section 1720, subdivision (a)(1) (hereafter section
1720(a)(1)) defines “public works” to mean: “Construction, alteration, demolition,
installation, or repair work done under contract and paid for in whole or in part out of
public funds . . . .” “There are three basic elements to a ‘public work’ under section
1720(a)(1): (1) ‘construction, alteration, demolition, installation, or repair work’; (2) that is
done under contract; and (3) is paid for in whole or in part out of public funds.” (Busker v.
Wabtec Corporation (2021) 11 Cal.5th 1147, 1157 (Busker).)

       No party disputes that the Paint Project involved construction work. Master
Builders appears to question whether the “done under contract” element was satisfied but
makes no direct argument as to this point. The Court of Appeal has stated that the “done
under contract” element in section 1720(a)(1) means that the work is not done “by the
public entity's own employees.” (Azusa Land Partners v. Department of Industrial
Relations (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.) This is consistent with one of the objectives of
the prevailing wage law “to compensate nonpublic employees with higher wages for the
absence of job security and employment benefits enjoyed by public employees.” (Lusardi
Construction Co. v. Aubry (1992) 1 Cal.4th 976, 987.) There is no assertion here that any
work on the Paint Project was done by public employees. Thus, the first two elements to
a public work under section 1720(a)(1) are met here.

       The only issue presented is whether the Paint Project is “paid for in whole or in
part out of public funds” within the meaning of section 1720.

       A.     Finance Agency VII is a Public Entity.

        Finance Agency VII is a joint powers authority or joint powers agency formed by a
joint powers agreement between CMFA and the City. (Gov. Code, §§ 6502, 6503.5.). A
Determination Letter to Jessica Pirrone, Hearing Officer
Re: Public Works Case No. 2023-008
Page 7

joint powers authority is formed by two or more public agencies. (Gov. Code, § 6502.) A
joint powers authority is a public agency. (Gov. Code, § 6500.)

        Finance Agency VII is a “public entity separate from the parties to the agreement.”
(Gov. Code, § 6507.) This is made all the more apparent in its authority to issue revenue
bonds to “pay the cost and expenses of acquiring or constructing” a variety of structures,
including low-income housing projects (Gov. Code, § 6546) and “pay the cost of any
public capital improvement, working capital, or liability or other insurance program.” (Gov.
Code, § 6588.) “Cost” is defined broadly. (Gov. Code, § 6585, subd. (e).) Public capital
improvements include low-income housing projects. (Gov. Code, § 6565, subd. (n),
6546.) As the California Supreme Court held, the bond issuing authority “does not derive
from any power of the contracting parties to issue bonds; rather, it derives from state law.
Moreover, a joint powers agency holds this power independently of the contracting
parties. In this regard, the term ‘joint powers agency’ is somewhat misleading because,
when issuing bonds under article 2 of the Act, the agency exercises its own power, not
the joint powers of the contracting parties.” (Rider v. City of San Diego (1998) 18 Cal.4th
1035, 1051 (Rider), italics added.) Under Article 4 of the Joint Exercise of Powers Act,
Finance Agency VII is authorized by state law to take all manners of actions to effectuate
its purpose to pay for public capital improvements. (Gov. Code, § 6588.) “The power to
issue bonds under articles 2 and 4 of the Act is a power a joint powers agency holds
independently.” (Rider, supra, 18 Cal.4th at p. 1053.)

       Master Builder identifies Finance Agency VII as the owner of Breakwater
Apartments. 4 Its argument that a “developer appears to have obtained favorable financing
from a quasi-public entity” and that “there is nothing ‘public’ about the work that was
performed by MBA” is an inaccurate description of the facts, because the owner of
Breakwater Apartments is Finance Agency VII, a public agency.

      B.     The Paint Project was Paid for Out of Finance Agency VII’s Funds.

       Master Builder argues that any public financing going to this project was sourced
from a quasi-public entity “under a complex financial structure underwritten by private
investment banks” for the acquisition of an apartment complex, but none of that public
financing was provided for construction. This is essentially the gravamen of the argument.
In addressing this argument, it must be noted that Master Builder unfortunately did not
have the benefit of the facts of the admittedly complex financing structure employed by
CMFA, Finance Agency VII, the City, Catalyst Housing, and the other interested parties to
the transaction. Master Builder, however, did have many indications that all the parties
considered the project to be a public work subject to prevailing wage requirements.

      As detailed above, there are numerous references to the City forming Finance
Agency VII in order to issue tax-exempt bonds to acquire Breakwater Apartments and to
make necessary improvements. Because Finance Agency VII is a public agency, the
proceeds from the bonds it issued are public funds.


      4 Master Builder accurately points out that its contract for the Paint Project appears

to mistakenly identify CMFA as the owner.
Determination Letter to Jessica Pirrone, Hearing Officer
Re: Public Works Case No. 2023-008
Page 8

       Furthermore, as a joint powers agency, Finance Agency VII’s assets are either
sourced from the public agencies that formed Finance Agency VII (see Gov. Code, §
6502) or they are sourced from the proceeds of the bonds Finance Agency VII used to
acquire the property and pay for capital and operating expenses. In either case, Finance
Agency VII’s funds are public funds. The Finance Authority VII-issued bonds are secured
by the property, and the revenue the property generates from leases and rents pays the
debt service on the bonds. (Gov. Code, § 6588.)

       Master Builder counters that Finance Agency VII’s latest financial statements do
not include any contracts for improvement and repairs and maintenance liabilities are
paid by Breakwater Apartments, not Finance Agency VII itself. Master Builder appears to
recognize that the Paint Project constitutes an improvement or repair and maintenance.
The Paint Project is a capital expense. Not only does it encompass repainting, the Paint
Project is part of an overall restoration of the Breakwater Apartments that includes
replacing and repairing stucco, and replacing doors, door jambs, and thresholds. The
Trust Indenture and other documents indicate that over $23 million was set aside from the
bond proceeds for capital expenses, such as the Paint Project. Capital expenses such as
the Paint Project were funded through the bond proceeds. (Trust Indenture, p. 2.) If the
Paint Project constituted maintenance and repairs, the Trust Indenture indicates that the
bond proceeds also paid for a portion of operating expenses. (Ibid.)

          Moreover, even if the Paint Project were funded by revenue derived from the
operation of the Breakwater Apartments rather than the bond proceeds, the Paint Project
would still ultimately be funded by Finance Agency VII’s funds, which are public funds.
Any revenue generated by Breakwater Apartments may be collected by Greystar
California, Inc. or Catalyst Housing Group, but the revenue is used to pay for operating
and capital costs and to pay debt service. These are all debts and liabilities of Finance
Agency VII, not Catalyst Housing Group, Greystar California, Inc., or any other entity.
(Gov. Code, §§ 6508.1, 6551.) Whether they are revenue from the property or proceeds
from the bonds, the funds used to pay for the Paint Project, or any other debts and
liabilities, all belong to Finance Agency VII and constitute public funds.

       This should not come as a complete surprise to Master Builder. There are
numerous references to public works and prevailing wage requirements in the Paint
Project request for proposals and the contractual documents. Master Builder itself
acknowledged that the Paint Project was subject to prevailing wages when it submitted its
proposals with a clear note: “NOTE: This project is bid as prevailing wage. If for whatever
reason project exceeds 24 months, prevailing wage cost may increase which could result
in a change order to our agreement.” While not all projects requiring prevailing wages are
public works projects, if there were any doubt, Master Builder could have inquired with
any of the many entities involved in the Paint Project. There is no indication Master
Builder ever made such an inquiry.

       In short, the Paint Project meets all of the three elements to a public work in
section 1720(a)(1). (Busker, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 1157.) Prevailing wage requirements
therefore apply.
Determination Letter to Jessica Pirrone, Hearing Officer
Re: Public Works Case No. 2023-008
Page 9

                                        Conclusion

      For the foregoing reasons, the Breakwater Exterior Paint Project (Paint Project) for
Catalyst Housing Group on behalf of the CMFA Finance Agency VII is a public work
subject to prevailing wage requirements.

       I hope this determination satisfactorily answers your inquiry.


Sincerely,




Katrina S. Hagen
Director of Industrial Relations
