Source: https://www.theepochtimes.com/us/huntington-beach-insider-uncovers-citys-workforce-housing-problems-4122704
Retrieved: 2026-10-02 via Nimble extract. Article body copied mechanically (navigation, images and author bios removed).
Secondary report: Drew Van Voorhis & Siyamak Khorrami, "Huntington Beach Insider Uncovers City's Workforce Housing Problems," The Epoch Times, 11/24/2021 (updated 11/25/2021). Statements are attributed to Casey McKeon (developer, former city finance commissioner).
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The "workforce housing" created by the city of Huntington Beach will bring decades-long financial problems and drive costs of rent even higher, according to Casey McKeon, a real estate developer and former finance commissioner of the city.

Huntington Beach's "workforce housing" is a type of government-subsidized housing initiative to artificially lower rent prices on the buildings purchased by the city through its "joint powers authority," or JPA. As a type of agency consisting of one or more city or county governments, JPAs can exercise authority and pull resources together for a joint municipal project.

This summer, the city approved the purchase of Elan and Breakwater, two properties with 649 units combined, for $341 million in tax-free revenue bonds issued by the JPA.

Normally, municipal bonds would need to be put on the ballot for residents to vote on. In this case, the city sold bonds through its JPA, which McKeon describes as a loophole to bypass the otherwise required public agreement, because the JPA, not the city, legally owns the two properties.

As the bonds were tax-exempt, the city will lose around $500,000 a year in property tax because of the JPA's purchase of the two properties, McKeon said while on EpochTV's "California Insider" program.

"Essentially, what they're doing is they're creating government-subsidized housing on the backs of us taxpayers. As of now, we residents will not receive property tax on those two properties for the next 30 years, and we did not even get to vote on it," McKeon said.

[...]

Aside from market concerns regarding the purchase of Elan and Breakwater, which account for around 1 percent of the city's housing, residents have also criticized how fast the city purchased the properties without public input, McKeon said.

[...]

Also, the escrow period was only about 35 days, McKeon said, which wouldn't be enough time for property inspections, research, and other due diligence needed for property purchases of that magnitude.

[...] "But they just slam it through, vote on it, close escrow within 35 days, and here we are stuck for a minimum of 15 years—the earliest we could pay to get out—but most likely 30."
