SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._multiple_dwelling_law_section_15
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/15 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Multiple Dwelling Law Section 15

Multiple dwelling emergency information

1.
In the case of an emergency affecting a multiple dwelling, the owner or agent of such multiple dwelling shall provide emergency service personnel, upon the request of such emergency service personnel, including but not limited to local police and fire departments, with the names and contact information of all affected residents or occupants as listed in the lease of such multiple dwelling as is required to ascertain the safety of such residents or occupants. For the purposes of this section, an emergency shall include but not be limited to fires, gas leaks, building collapses, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and other events where the physical safety of residents must be accounted for by ascertaining their whereabouts.

2.
The owner or agent of such multiple dwelling shall update the list of names and contact information of all affected residents or occupants of such multiple dwelling upon the execution of a new lease, lease renewal or lease amendment, or where such owner is an authority as such term is defined in section three of the public housing law, including all such authorities established after the first day of January, nineteen hundred thirty-nine, upon annual recertification. Specific and informed written consent shall be obtained by the owner or agent of the multiple dwelling from each occupant or resident each time the list is updated and no occupant’s or resident’s name or contact information shall be included in such list without their specific and informed written consent. Written notice shall be provided to the occupant or resident about the contact list and shall include but not be limited to that such list is maintained by the owner and the potential impact of opting-out.

3.
Such list of names and contact information shall only be maintained for the purpose of an emergency evacuation and shall not be disseminated, used or accessed by emergency services personnel or disseminated, used or accessed by the owner or agent of such multiple dwelling for any other purposes.

Source:
Section 15 — Multiple dwelling emergency information, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/15 (updated Feb. 16, 2024; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
