SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._multiple_dwelling_law_section_3
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/3 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Multiple Dwelling Law Section 3

Application to cities, towns and villages

1.
This chapter shall apply to all cities with a population of three hundred twenty-five thousand or more.

2.
The legislative body of any other city, town or village may adopt the provisions of this chapter and make the same applicable to dwellings within the limits of such city, town or village by the passage of a local law or ordinance adopting the same; and upon the passage of such local law or ordinance all of the provisions of articles one, two, three, four, five, ten and eleven and such sections or parts of sections of the other articles of this chapter as such local law or ordinance shall enumerate, shall apply to such city, town or village from the date stated in such law or ordinance.

3.
Except as herein otherwise specified, every multiple dwelling shall be constructed or maintained in conformity with other applicable laws.

4.
a. Any city, town or village may make local laws, ordinances, resolutions or regulations not less restrictive than those provided in this chapter and may provide for their enforcement by legal or equitable actions or proceedings, and prescribe the penalties, sanctions and remedies for violations thereof. In the enforcement and administration of this chapter in a city of three hundred twenty-five thousand or more persons, the penalties, sanctions and remedies enacted by local law may be applied, notwithstanding their inconsistency with this chapter, or the provisions of this chapter.

b.
In a city of three hundred twenty-five thousand or more persons, such local laws may authorize such actions or proceedings against the owner, lessee of a whole multiple dwelling, agent or other person having control of such dwelling, and any responsible party, or against the dwelling in rem. Such local laws may further authorize (1) that civil penalties may be enforced against the person liable therefor, and that in addition to the methods of enforcement for judgments established in the civil practice law and rules, a lien may be imposed against the premises and the rents therefrom;

(2)
that such civil penalties may be enforced against the dwelling by the imposition of a lien against the rents therefrom.

c.
Such local laws may also authorize that all liens upon rents, whether authorized by state or local law, may be satisfied without further judicial proceedings by the collection of rents due or to become due.

5.
Whenever a provision of any local law, ordinance, resolution or regulation is more restrictive in a requirement for height, area or use, such local law, ordinance, resolution or regulation shall govern and take precedence over any lesser requirements of this chapter. When, however, the provisions of this chapter impose more restrictive requirements, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.

6.
A local law, ordinance, resolution or regulation shall not prohibit in any class A multiple dwelling erected after April eighteenth, nineteen hundred twenty-nine, in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the use of wood for sleepers, grounds, nailing blocks, underflooring or finish flooring or, within apartments, doors with their assemblies, interior trim and assemblies of exterior windows, interior finish, closet fixtures, kitchen fixtures, shelving, cupboards, cabinets or wardrobes.

7.
Except as provided in subdivisions four and five, a local law, ordinance, rule or regulation shall not modify or dispense with any provision of this chapter.

8.
Wherever the word “city” occurs in this chapter, it shall be construed as though followed by the words “or town or village to which this chapter is applicable.” The words “charter,” “ordinance,” “resolution,” “regulation,” “building code,” “department of health,” “department of water supply,” “fire department,” “department,” “board,” “city engineer,” “corporation counsel,” “city treasury,” or “fire limits,” shall be construed as if followed by the words “or corresponding authority of any city, town or village to which this chapter is applicable and in which the dwelling or location referred to is situated.” 9. Wherever in any statute of the state other than this chapter, or in any local law, ordinance, resolution or regulation, reference is made to the tenement house law in relation to a city to which this chapter is applicable, such reference shall be construed as applying to the provisions of this chapter. If reference be made therein to any section or other part of the tenement house law, such reference shall be construed as applying to the provisions of this chapter relating to the same subject matter as the said section or part. If reference be made therein to a “tenement house,” such reference shall be construed as applying to a class A multiple dwelling.

10.
Wherever the date April eighteenth, nineteen hundred twenty-nine, shall appear in this chapter such date shall be construed as if followed by the words “or the date when this chapter or any of its provisions became or becomes applicable to any city, town or village outside the City of New York.” 11. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the following enumerated articles, sections and subdivisions of sections of this chapter shall not apply to the construction or alteration of multiple dwellings for which an application for a permit is made to the department after December sixth, nineteen hundred sixty-nine in a city having a population of one million or more which adopts or has adopted local laws, ordinances, resolutions or regulations providing protection from fire hazards and making provision for escape from fire in the construction and alteration of multiple dwellings and in other respects as protective as local law seventy-six of the laws of the city of New York for nineteen hundred sixty-eight and covering the same subject matter as the following: subdivisions twenty-five, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, thirty-five-c, thirty-six and thirty-nine of section four, subdivision three of section twenty-eight, sections thirty-six, thirty-seven, fifty, fifty-one, fifty-two, fifty-three, fifty-five, sixty, sixty-one, sixty-seven, subdivisions one, two, four and five of section seventy-five, article four, article five, article five-A, article six and article seven-B; except that after December sixth, nineteen hundred sixty-nine where a multiple dwelling erected prior to December sixth, nineteen hundred sixty-nine is altered, or a building erected prior to December sixth, nineteen hundred sixty-nine is converted to a multiple dwelling pursuant to a permit applied for to the department having jurisdiction, the foregoing articles, sections and subdivisions of sections shall remain applicable where a local law of such city authorizes such alteration or conversion to be made, at the option of the owner, either in accordance with the requirements of the building law and regulations in effect in such city prior to December sixth, nineteen hundred sixty-eight or the requirements of the building law and regulations in effect after such date, and the owner elects to comply with the requirements of the building law and regulations in effect prior to December sixth, nineteen hundred sixty-eight.

Source:
Section 3 — Application to cities, towns and villages, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/3 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
