SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._multiple_dwelling_law_section_328
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/328 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Multiple Dwelling Law Section 328

Central Violations Bureau

1.
In cities having a population of one million or more, the department shall establish a central violations bureau which shall establish and maintain currently an index showing and a file containing, with respect to each building located in the city, the name, address and telephone number of the present owner of the building and whether or not he is a member in good standing of the rent stabilization association or registered pursuant to the emergency tenant protection act of nineteen seventy-four or the rent stabilization law of nineteen hundred sixty-nine where one or more dwelling units therein are subject to the rent stabilization law, each notice and order of the building department, the fire department, the health department, the water supply, gas and electricity department and of every other municipal department or agency having jurisdiction over such building alleging the occupation of such building in violation of law or the existence of a nuisance therein and of each notice, order, rule or certificate showing the clearance, correction or abatement of such violation or nuisance.

2.
It shall be the duty of the department and of every other municipal department and agency having jurisdiction over buildings located in the city of New York to file with the central violations bureau established by this section a true copy of each notice and order of such department or agency alleging the occupation of a building in violation of law or the existence of a nuisance therein and of each notice, order, rule or certificate showing the clearance, correction or abatement of such violation or nuisance within seventy-two hours from the date of issuance of such notice, order, rule or certificate.

3.
In any action or proceeding before the housing part of the New York city civil court either (a) the visually displayed or (b) the printed computerized violation files of the department responsible for maintaining such files and all other computerized data as shall be relevant to the enforcement of state and local laws for the establishment and maintenance of housing standards, including but not limited to the name, address and telephone number of the present owner of the building and whether or not he is a member in good standing of the rent stabilization association or registered pursuant to the emergency tenant protection act of nineteen seventy-four or the rent stabilization law of nineteen hundred sixty-nine where one or more dwelling units therein are subject to the rent stabilization law, shall be prima facie evidence of any matter stated therein and the courts shall take judicial notice thereof as if same were certified as true under the seal and signature of the commissioner of that department.

Source:
Section 328 — Central Violations Bureau, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/328 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
