SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._multiple_dwelling_law_section_50-c
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/50-C (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Multiple Dwelling Law Section 50-C

Rights of tenants to operate and maintain a lobby attendant service

1.
Tenants of every class A multiple dwelling containing eight or more apartments shall be entitled to maintain and operate a lobby attendant service for such multiple dwelling at any time or times when an attendant hired or furnished by the owner thereof shall not be on duty. Such lobby attendants so maintained by such tenants shall be engaged solely for security purposes and shall perform no acts or duties other than those which shall be directly related to the safety and security of occupants and visitors to such building while in and about the public portions thereof and no owner shall unreasonably hinder, interfere with, obstruct or prohibit the maintenance and operation of such service, provided that each attendant so engaged by tenants shall at all times when on duty be stationed at and remain in the entrance halls or public lobbies of the building adjacent to the main entrance thereto, and provided further that no owner of such building shall be in any manner liable or responsible for any injury to any such attendant or for any damage or injury arising out of or resulting from any act or omission of any such attendant or for the payment of any wages or other compensation to such attendants. The lobby attendants furnished, operated or maintained by tenants pursuant to this section may consist of or include tenants or other occupants of the multiple dwelling and may include either volunteer or paid personnel or a combination thereof.

2.
Any agent, owner or other person who shall unreasonably interfere, hinder, obstruct or prohibit the installation, maintenance and operation of any such lobby attendant or shall unreasonably hinder or interfere with the performance of the duties of such lobby attendant engaged pursuant to this section, shall be guilty of a violation with a maximum fine not to exceed fifty dollars.

Source:
Section 50-C — Rights of tenants to operate and maintain a lobby attendant service, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/50-C (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
