SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._multiple_dwelling_law_section_56
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/56 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Multiple Dwelling Law Section 56

Frame buildings and extensions

1.
Except as provided in section one hundred ninety-three and subdivision seven of this section, no frame multiple dwelling shall be erected and no frame dwelling not used as a multiple dwelling on April eighteenth, nineteen hundred twenty-nine, shall be altered or converted to such use or occupancy.

2.
No existing frame multiple dwelling shall be increased in height nor shall it be altered to permit a greater occupancy on any story than provided for on April eighteenth, nineteen hundred twenty-nine; except that, if the walls of such a frame dwelling are faced with brick veneer or with another material or combination of materials having a fire resistive rating of at least one hour, and the entrance story thereof is occupied by not more than one family, such entrance story may be altered so that it may be occupied by not more than two families.

3.
No frame building of any kind whatsoever shall be placed or built upon the same lot with any multiple dwelling.

4.
No multiple dwelling shall be placed or built upon the same lot with any frame building.

5.
No frame multiple dwelling, no wooden structure of any kind or class on the same lot with any frame dwelling or with any multiple dwelling, and no other building on the same lot with any frame dwelling, shall be altered or converted so as to be enlarged, extended or increased in height or bulk or in the number of rooms, apartments or dwelling units therein; except that:

a.
An extension seventy square feet or less in ground area the side walls of which are of frame and brick filled or of masonry construction may be added to any existing frame multiple dwelling if used solely for bathrooms or waterclosets; and

b.
An extension constructed with fireproof walls may be made to a frame building if the first story of such extension is used solely for business not prohibited by any local law or ordinance, or if such extension contains not more than one living room on any story. No yard or court shall be diminished by such extension so that its area or least dimension is less than required by this chapter for a yard or court of a multiple dwelling erected after April eighteenth, nineteen hundred twenty-nine.

6.
None of the provisions of this section shall apply to dwellings erected under the provisions of article five-a of this chapter.

7.
In any city the department may approve for any such dwelling three stories or less in height, the alteration and conversion of that portion of said dwelling used as a store or other non-residential use to no more than one additional dwelling unit; provided, however, that:

(a)
such space has been vacant for at least one year, and

(b)
such space has a minimum of three hundred square feet of floor area, and

(c)
the conversion must be for a class “A” use, and

(d)
said unit shall contain a cooking space and a complete bathroom, and

(e)
all walls and ceilings of the new dwelling unit shall be fire-retarded with one hour rated fire-retarding materials, and

(f)
the height and bulk of the dwelling shall not be increased, and

(g)
the dwelling will be in full compliance with this chapter and other related and local ordinances, except that the owner of said dwelling shall be entitled to consideration for variances permitted in subdivision one and subparagraph five of paragraph a of subdivision two of section three hundred ten of this chapter for multiple dwellings and buildings existing prior to November first, nineteen hundred forty-nine.

Source:
Section 56 — Frame buildings and extensions, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/56 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
