SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._multiple_dwelling_law_section_59
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/59 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Multiple Dwelling Law Section 59

Bakeries and fat boiling

1.
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain a bakery or a place of business where fat is boiled in any non-fireproof multiple dwelling or upon the lot on which such dwelling is situated, unless the ceiling, side walls and all exposed iron or wooden beams, girders and columns within the said bakery or business place where fat is boiled, are covered with fireproof materials.

2.
There shall be no door, window, dumbwaiter shaft or other opening between such a bakery or business place where fat is boiled and any other part of the dwelling, except that:

a.
There may be access to the public parts of the dwelling from any bakery maintained therein if the product of such bakery is consumed exclusively within such dwelling.

b.
In a fireproof hotel where a retail bakery is maintained therein, there may be access to the public parts of the hotel, provided the door openings leading thereto from such bakery and the door assemblies are fireproof with the doors self-closing, and provided the public parts of such bakery premises are protected by one or more sprinkler heads.

c.
In bakeries in which no fat is boiled and on the premises of which there is no apparatus for fat boiling, a dumbwaiter communicating between the place where the baking is done and a bakery store above may be maintained if entirely enclosed in a brick shaft with walls eight inches or more in thickness, without any openings whatever except one door opening into the bakeshop and one into the bakery store. Every such opening shall be provided with a fireproof door and assembly so arranged that when one door is open, the other is entirely closed.

3.
Every part of a bakery, its plumbing, and the yards and open spaces adjoining shall be kept in good repair, in sanitary condition and free from rodents and vermin.

Source:
Section 59 — Bakeries and fat boiling, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/MDW/59 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
