SOURCE: https://nyassembly.gov/leg/?default_fld=&leg_video=&bn=A08281&term=2019&Summary=Y&Actions=Y&Text=Y (A8281 = S6458, Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act of 2019), retrieved 2026-09-28 by curl; HTML stripped; bill line numbers and page headers removed mechanically; underscoring of new matter is lost, [brackets] mark deleted matter.
ACTIONS (tail): d by s6458 S06458  AMEND=  STEWART-COUSINS 06/11/2019REFERRED TO RULES 06/14/2019ORDERED TO THIRD READING CAL.1407 06/14/2019PASSED SENATE 06/14/2019DELIVERED TO ASSEMBLY 06/14/2019referred to ways and means 06/14/2019substituted for a8281 06/14/2019ordered to third reading rules cal.275 06/14/2019passed assembly 06/14/2019returned to senate 06/14/2019DELIVERED TO GOVERNOR 06/14/2019SIGNED CHAP.36

PART M

Section 1. Short title. This act shall be known and may  be  cited  as
the "statewide housing security and tenant protection act of 2019".
§ 2. Section 223-b of the real property law, as amended by chapter 584
of the laws of 1991, subdivision 5-a as added by chapter 466 of the laws
of 2005, is amended to read as follows:
§  223-b.  Retaliation  by  landlord against tenant. 1. No landlord of
premises or units to which this section  is  applicable  shall  serve  a
notice  to  quit  upon any tenant or commence any action to recover real
property or summary proceeding to recover possession of real property in
retaliation for:
a. A good faith complaint, by or in behalf of the tenant, to the land-
lord, the landlord's agent or a governmental authority of the landlord's
alleged violation of any health or  safety  law,  regulation,  code,  or
ordinance,  the warranty of habitability under section two hundred thir-
ty-five-b of this article, the duty to repair  under  sections  seventy-
eight,  seventy-nine, and eighty of the multiple dwelling law or section
one hundred seventy-four of the multiple residence law, or  any  law  or
regulation  which  has  as its objective the regulation of premises used
for dwelling purposes or which pertains to the offense of  rent  gouging
in the third, second or first degree; or
b.  Actions  taken  in  good  faith, by or in behalf of the tenant, to
secure or enforce any rights under the lease or  rental  agreement,  the
warranty of habitability under section two hundred thirty-five-b of this
[chapter]  article,  the  duty  to  repair under sections seventy-eight,
seventy-nine, and eighty of the multiple dwelling  law  or  section  one
hundred  seventy-four  of the multiple residence law, or under any other
law of the state of New York, or of its governmental subdivisions, or of
the United States which has as its objective the regulation of  premises
used  for  dwelling  purposes  or  which pertains to the offense of rent
gouging in the third, second or first degree; or
c. The tenant's participation in the activities of a  tenant's  organ-
ization.
2.  No  landlord  [or]  of  premises or units to which this section is
applicable or such landlord's agent shall substantially alter the  terms
of the tenancy in retaliation for any actions set forth in paragraphs a,
b,  and  c  of  subdivision  one of this section. Substantial alteration
shall include, but is not limited to, the refusal to continue a  tenancy
of  the tenant [or], upon expiration of the tenant's lease, to renew the
lease or offer a new lease, or offering a new lease with an unreasonable
rent increase; provided, however, that a landlord shall not be  required
under  this  section  to offer a new lease or a lease renewal for a term
greater  than  one  year  [and after such extension of a tenancy for one
year shall not be required to further extend or continue such tenancy].
3. A landlord shall be subject to a civil action for  damages,  attor-
ney's  fees and costs and other appropriate relief, including injunctive
and other equitable remedies, as may be determined by a court of  compe-
tent  jurisdiction  in  any  case in which the landlord has violated the
provisions of this section.
4. In any action to recover real property  or  summary  proceeding  to
recover  possession  of real property, judgment shall be entered for the
tenant if the court finds that the landlord is acting in retaliation for
any action set forth in paragraphs a, b, and c  of  subdivision  one  of
this  section  [and  further finds that the landlord would not otherwise
have commenced such action or proceeding]. Retaliation shall be asserted
as an affirmative defense in such action or proceeding. The tenant shall
not be relieved of the obligation to pay any rent for which he is other-
wise liable.
5. In an action or proceeding instituted against a tenant of  premises
or  a unit to which this section is applicable, a rebuttable presumption
that the landlord is acting in  retaliation  shall  be  created  if  the
tenant  establishes that the landlord served a notice to quit, or insti-
tuted an action or proceeding to recover  possession,  or  attempted  to
substantially  alter  the  terms of the tenancy, within [six months] one
year after:
a. A good faith complaint was made, by or in behalf of the tenant,  to
the  landlord,  the  landlord's agent or a governmental authority of the
landlord's violation of any health or safety law, regulation,  code,  or
ordinance,  the warranty of habitability under section two hundred thir-
ty-five-b of this article, the duty to repair  under  sections  seventy-
eight,  seventy-nine, and eighty of the multiple dwelling law or section
one hundred seventy-four of the multiple residence law, or  any  law  or
regulation  which  has  as its objective the regulation of premises used
for dwelling purposes or which pertains to the offense of  rent  gouging
in the third, second or first degree; or
b.  The  tenant  in good faith [commenced an action or proceeding in a
court or administrative body of competent jurisdiction] took  action  to
secure  or  enforce  against the landlord or his agents any rights under
the lease or  rental  agreement,  the  warranty  of  habitability  under
section two hundred thirty-five-b of this [chapter] article, the duty to
repair  under  sections  seventy-eight,  seventy-nine, and eighty of the
multiple dwelling law or section one hundred seventy-four of the  multi-
ple  residence  law, or under any other law of the state of New York, or
of its governmental subdivisions, or of the United States which  has  as
its  objective  the regulation of premises used for dwelling purposes or
which pertains to the offense of rent gouging in the  third,  second  or
first degree.
c.  Judgment  under  subdivision  three  or  four  of this section was
entered for the tenant in a previous action between the parties;  or  an
inspection  was made, an order was entered, or other action was taken as
a result of a complaint or act described in paragraph a  or  b  of  this
subdivision.
[But  the presumption shall not apply in an action or proceeding based
on the violation by the tenant of the terms and conditions of the  lease
or rental agreement, including nonpayment of the agreed-upon rent.]
The  effect  of  the  presumption  shall be to require the landlord to
[provide a credible explanation of] establish a  non-retaliatory  motive
for  his  acts[.    Such  an  explanation  shall overcome and remove the
presumption unless the tenant disproves it] by a  preponderance  of  the
evidence.
5-a.  Any  lease  provision  which  seeks  to assess a fee, penalty or
dollar charge, in addition to the stated rent, against a tenant  because
such  tenant  files  a  bona fide complaint with the landlord, the land-
lord's agent or a building code officer regarding the condition of  such
tenant's  leased premises shall be null and void as being against public
policy. A landlord  or agent of the landlord who seeks to enforce such a
fee, penalty or charge shall be liable to  the  tenant  for  triple  the
amount of such fee, penalty or charge.
6.  This section shall apply to all rental residential premises except
owner-occupied  dwellings  with  less  than  four  units.  However,  its
provisions  shall  not be given effect in any case in which it is estab-
lished that the condition from which the complaint or action  arose  was
caused  by the tenant, a member of the tenant's household, or a guest of
the tenant. Nor shall it apply in a case where a tenancy was  terminated
pursuant  to the terms of a lease as a result of a bona fide transfer of
ownership.
§ 3. The real property law is amended by adding a new section 226-c to
read as follows:
§ 226-c. Notice of rent increase or non-renewal of residential  tenan-
cy.  1.  Whenever a landlord intends to offer to renew the tenancy of an
occupant in a residential dwelling unit with a rent increase equal to or
greater than five percent above the current rent, or the  landlord  does
not  intend  to  renew  the  tenancy, the landlord shall provide written
notice as required in subdivision two of this section. If  the  landlord
fails  to  provide  timely  notice,  the occupant's lawful tenancy shall
continue under the existing terms of the tenancy from the date on  which
the  landlord  gave  actual  written  notice until the notice period has
expired, notwithstanding any provision  of  a  lease  or  other  tenancy
agreement to the contrary.
2.  (a) If the tenant has occupied the unit for less than one year and
does not have a lease term of at least  one  year,  the  landlord  shall
provide at least thirty days' notice.
(b)  If  the  tenant  has occupied the unit for more than one year but
less than two years, or has a lease term of at least one year  but  less
than two years, the landlord shall provide at least sixty days' notice.
(c) If the tenant has occupied the unit for more than two years or has
a  lease term of at least two years, the landlord shall provide at least
ninety days' notice.
§ 4. The real property law is amended by adding a new section 227-e to
read as follows:
§ 227-e. Landlord duty to mitigate damages. In  any  lease  or  rental
agreement,  excluding any real estate purchase contract defined in para-
graphs (a), (c) and (d) of subdivision  four  of  section  four  hundred
sixty-one  of  this  chapter,  covering  premises  occupied for dwelling
purposes, if a tenant vacates a premises in violation of  the  terms  of
the  lease, the landlord shall, in good faith and according to the land-
lord's resources and abilities, take reasonable and customary actions to
rent the premises at fair market value or at the rate agreed  to  during
the  term of the tenancy, whichever is lower.  If the landlord rents the
premises at fair market value or at the rate agreed to during  the  term
of  the tenancy, the new tenant's lease shall, once in effect, terminate
the previous tenant's lease and mitigate damages  otherwise  recoverable
against  the previous tenant because of such tenant's vacating the prem-
ises. The burden of proof shall be  on  the  party  seeking  to  recover
damages.  Any  provision  in  a  lease that exempts a landlord's duty to
mitigate damages under this section shall be void as contrary to  public
policy.
§ 5. The real property law is amended by adding a new section 227-f to
read as follows:
§  227-f. Denial on the basis of involvement in prior disputes prohib-
ited. 1. No landlord of a residential premises shall refuse to  rent  or
offer  a  lease  to  a  potential tenant on the basis that the potential
tenant was involved in a  past  or  pending  landlord-tenant  action  or
summary  proceeding under article seven of the real property actions and
proceedings law.  There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a  person
is  in  violation  of  this section if it is established that the person
requested information from a  tenant  screening  bureau  relating  to  a
potential  tenant  or  otherwise  inspected  court records relating to a
potential tenant and the person subsequently refuses to rent or offer  a
lease to the potential tenant.
2. Whenever the attorney general shall believe from evidence satisfac-
tory  to him or her that any person, firm, corporation or association or
agent or employee thereof has violated subdivision one of this  section,
he or she may bring an action or special proceeding in the supreme court
for  a  judgment  enjoining  the continuance of such violation and for a
civil penalty of not less than five hundred dollars, but not  more  than
one thousand dollars for each violation.
§ 6. Section 232-a of the real property law, as amended by chapter 312
of the laws of 1962, is amended to read as follows:
§  232-a. Notice to terminate monthly tenancy or tenancy from month to
month in the city of New York. No monthly tenant, or tenant  from  month
to  month, shall hereafter be removed from any lands or buildings in the
city of New York on the grounds of holding over [his] the tenant's  term
unless [at least thirty days before the expiration of the term] pursuant
to  the notice period required by subdivision two of section two hundred
twenty-six-c of this article, the landlord or [his] the landlord's agent
serve upon the tenant, in the same manner in which a notice of  petition
in  summary  proceedings is now allowed to be served by law, a notice in
writing to the effect that the landlord elects to terminate the  tenancy
and  that  unless  the  tenant removes from such premises on the day [on
which his term expires] designated in  the  notice,  the  landlord  will
commence  summary  proceedings  under  the statute to remove such tenant
therefrom.
§ 7. Section 232-b of the real property law, as added by  chapter  813
of the laws of 1942, is amended to read as follows:
§  232-b.  Notification  to  terminate monthly tenancy or tenancy from
month to month outside the city of New York. A monthly tenancy or tenan-
cy from month to month of any lands or buildings located outside of  the
city  of New York may be terminated by the [landlord or the] tenant upon
[his] the tenant's notifying the [other] landlord  at  least  one  month
before  the  expiration  of  the  term of [his] the tenant's election to
terminate; provided, however, that no notification shall be necessary to
terminate a tenancy for a definite term.
§ 8. Section 234 of the real property law, as amended by  chapter  297
of the laws of 1969, is amended to read as follows:
§ 234. [Tenants' right] Right to recover attorneys' fees in actions or
summary  proceedings  arising  out  of  leases  of residential property.
Whenever a lease of residential  property  shall  provide  that  in  any
action  or  summary  proceeding the landlord may recover attorneys' fees
and/or expenses incurred as the result of the failure of the  tenant  to
perform  any  covenant  or  agreement  contained  in such lease, or that
amounts paid by the landlord therefor shall be paid  by  the  tenant  as
additional  rent, there shall be implied in such lease a covenant by the
landlord to pay to the tenant  the  reasonable  attorneys'  fees  and/or
expenses  incurred  by  the  tenant  as the result of the failure of the
landlord to perform  any  covenant  or  agreement  on  its  part  to  be
performed  under the lease or in the successful defense of any action or
summary proceeding commenced by the landlord against the tenant  arising
out  of  the  lease, and an agreement that such fees and expenses may be
recovered as provided by law in an action commenced against the landlord
or by way of counterclaim in any action or summary proceeding  commenced
by  the  landlord  against the tenant. A landlord may not recover attor-
neys' fees upon a default judgment. Any waiver of this section shall  be
void as against public policy.
§  9.    Section 235-e of the real property law, as amended by chapter
848 of the laws of 1986, is amended to read as follows:
§ 235-e. Duty [of landlord] to provide a written receipt. (a) Upon the
receipt of the payment of rent for residential premises in the  form  of
cash,  or  any  instrument other than the personal check of the [tenant]
lessee, it shall be the duty of the [landlord] lessor, or any  agent  of
the  lessor  authorized  to  receive rent, to provide the [payor] lessee
with a written receipt containing the following:
1. The date;
2. The amount;
3. The identity of the premises and period for which paid; and
4. The signature and title of the person receiving the rent.
(b) [Where a tenant] A lessee may request, in writing, [requests] that
a [landlord] lessor provide a receipt for rent paid by personal  check[,
it  shall  be  the  duty of]. If such request is made, the [landlord to]
lessor, or any agent of the lessor authorized  to  receive  rent,  shall
provide the [payor] lessee with the receipt described in subdivision (a)
of  this  section  [for each such request made in writing]. Such request
shall, unless otherwise specified by the lessee, remain  in  effect  for
the  duration  of  such  lessee's tenancy.   The lessor shall maintain a
record of all cash receipts for rent for at least three years.
(c) If a payment of rent is personally transmitted to a lessor, or  an
agent  of  a  lessor  authorized  to  receive rent, the receipt for such
payment shall be issued immediately to a lessee. If a payment of rent is
transmitted indirectly to a lessor, or an agent of a  lessor  authorized
to  receive  rent,  a  lessee  shall  be  provided with a receipt within
fifteen days of such lessor or agent's receipt of a rent payment.
(d) If a lessor, or an agent of a lessor authorized to  receive  rent,
fails to receive payment for rent within five days of the date specified
in  a  lease  agreement,  such lessor or agent shall send the lessee, by
certified mail, a written notice stating the  failure  to  receive  such
rent  payment.  The  failure  of  a  lessor,  or any agent of the lessor
authorized to receive rent, to provide a lessee with a written notice of
the non-payment of rent may be used as an affirmative  defense  by  such
lessee in an eviction proceeding based on the non-payment of rent.
§  10.  The real property law is amended by adding a new section 238-a
to read as follows:
§ 238-a. Limitation on fees. In relation  to  a  residential  dwelling
unit:
1. (a) Except in instances where statutes or regulations provide for a
payment,  fee  or charge, no landlord, lessor, sub-lessor or grantor may
demand any payment, fee, or charge for the processing, review or accept-
ance of an application, or demand  any  other  payment,  fee  or  charge
before  or at the beginning of the tenancy, except background checks and
credit checks as provided by paragraph (b) of this subdivision, provided
that this subdivision shall  not  apply  to  entrance  fees  charged  by
continuing  care  retirement  communities  licensed  pursuant to article
forty-six or forty-six-A of  the  public  health  law,  assisted  living
providers  licensed pursuant to article forty-six-B of the public health
law, adult care facilities licensed pursuant to  article  seven  of  the
social  services law, senior residential communities that have submitted
an offering plan to the attorney general, or not-for-profit  independent
retirement  communities  that  offer personal emergency response, house-
keeping, transportation and meals to their residents.
(b) A landlord, lessor, sub-lessor or grantor may charge a fee or fees
to reimburse costs associated with conducting  a  background  check  and
credit  check, provided the cumulative fee or fees for such checks is no
more than the actual cost of the background check and   credit check  or
twenty  dollars, whichever is less, and the landlord, lessor, sub-lessor
or grantor shall waive the fee or fees if the potential tenant  provides
a  copy  of a background check or credit check conducted within the past
thirty days. The landlord, lessor, sub-lessor or grantor may not collect
the fee or fees unless  the  landlord,  lessor,  sub-lessor  or  grantor
provides  the  potential  tenant  with a copy of the background check or
credit check and the receipt or invoice from the entity  conducting  the
background check or credit check.
2.  No landlord, lessor, sub-lessor or grantor may demand any payment,
fee, or charge for the late payment of rent unless the payment  of  rent
has  not  been  made  within  five days of the date it was due, and such
payment, fee, or charge shall not exceed fifty dollars or  five  percent
of the monthly rent, whichever is less.
3.  Any  provision  of  a  lease  or  contract waiving or limiting the
provisions of this section shall be void as against public policy.
§ 11. The real property actions and  proceedings  law  is  amended  by
adding a new section 702 to read as follows:
§  702.  Rent in a residential dwelling. In a proceeding relating to a
residential dwelling or housing accommodation,  the  term  "rent"  shall
mean  the  monthly or weekly amount charged in consideration for the use
and occupation of a dwelling pursuant to a written or oral rental agree-
ment.  No fees, charges or penalties other than rent may be sought in  a
summary   proceeding  pursuant  to  this  article,  notwithstanding  any
language to the contrary in any lease or rental agreement.
§ 12. The opening paragraph and subdivision 2 of section  711  of  the
real  property  actions  and  proceedings  law, the opening paragraph as
amended by chapter 739 of the laws of 1982 and subdivision 2 as added by
chapter 312 of the laws of 1962, are amended to read as follows:
A tenant shall include an occupant of one or more rooms in  a  rooming
house  or a resident, not including a transient occupant, of one or more
rooms in a hotel who has been in possession for thirty consecutive  days
or  longer[;  he]. No tenant or lawful occupant of a dwelling or housing
accommodation shall [not] be removed from possession except in a special
proceeding.  A special proceeding may be maintained under  this  article
upon the following grounds:
2.  The  tenant  has defaulted in the payment of rent, pursuant to the
agreement under which the premises are held, and a written demand of the
rent has been made[, or] with at least [three] fourteen days' notice [in
writing] requiring, in the alternative, the payment of the rent, or  the
possession  of  the  premises, has been served upon him as prescribed in
section  [735.  The  landlord  may  waive his right to proceed upon this
ground only by an express consent in writing to  permit  the  tenant  to
continue  in  possession,  which  consent shall be revocable at will, in
which event the landlord shall be deemed to have  waived  his  right  to
summary  dispossess for nonpayment of rent accruing during the time said
consent remains unrevoked] seven hundred thirty-five  of  this  article.
Any  person  succeeding  to  the landlord's interest in the premises may
proceed under this subdivision for rent due his predecessor in  interest
if  he  has  a right thereto. Where a tenant dies during the term of the
lease and rent due has not been paid and [no  representative  or  person
has  taken  possession  of the premises and no administrator or executor
has been appointed, the proceeding may be commenced after  three  months
from  the date of death of the tenant by joining the surviving spouse or
if there is none, then one of the surviving issue or if there  is  none,
then  any one of the distributees] the apartment is occupied by a person
with a claim to possession, a proceeding may  be  commenced  naming  the
occupants of the apartment seeking a possessory judgment only as against
the  estate.  Entry of such a judgment shall be without prejudice to the
possessory claims of the occupants, and any warrant issued shall not  be
effective as against the occupants.
§  13. Section 731 of the real property actions and proceedings law is
amended by adding a new subdivision 4 to read as follows:
4. In an action premised on a tenant  defaulting  in  the  payment  of
rent,  payment to the landlord of the full amount of rent due, when such
payment is made at any time prior to the hearing on the petition,  shall
be  accepted  by  the landlord and renders moot the grounds on which the
special proceeding was commenced.
§ 14. Subdivisions 1, 2, and 3 of section 732  of  the  real  property
actions  and  proceedings  law,  as  added by chapter 910 of the laws of
1965, are amended to read as follows:
1. The notice of petition shall be returnable before  the  clerk,  and
shall be made returnable within [five] ten days after its service.
2.  If the respondent answers, the clerk shall fix a date for trial or
hearing not less than three nor more than eight days  after  joinder  of
issue,  and shall immediately notify by mail the parties or their attor-
neys of such date. If the determination be for the petitioner, the issu-
ance of a warrant shall not be stayed for more than five days from  such
determination,  except  as provided in section seven hundred fifty-three
of this article.
3. If the respondent fails to answer within [five] ten days  from  the
date  of service, as shown by the affidavit or certificate of service of
the notice of petition and petition, the judge shall render judgment  in
favor  of  the petitioner and may stay the issuance of the warrant for a
period of not to exceed ten days from the date  of  service,  except  as
provided in section seven hundred fifty-three of this article.
§  15.  Subdivision  1 of section 733 of the real property actions and
proceedings law, as amended by chapter 910  of  the  laws  of  1965,  is
amended to read as follows:
1.  Except  as  provided  in section [732] seven hundred thirty-two of
this article, relating to a proceeding  for  non-payment  of  rent,  the
notice  of petition and petition shall be served at least [five] ten and
not more than [twelve] seventeen days before the time at which the peti-
tion is noticed to be heard.
§ 16. Section 743 of the real property actions and proceedings law, as
amended by chapter 644 of the laws  of  2003,  is  amended  to  read  as
follows:
§ 743. Answer. Except as provided in section [732] seven hundred thir-
ty-two  of  this  article,  relating  to a proceeding for non-payment of
rent, at the time when the petition is to be heard  the  respondent,  or
any  person  in  possession  or claiming possession of the premises, may
answer, orally or in writing. If the answer is oral the substance there-
of shall be recorded by the clerk or,  if  a  particular  court  has  no
clerk,  by  the presiding judge or justice of such court, and maintained
in the case record. [If the notice of petition was served at least eight
days before the time at which it was noticed  to  be  heard  and  it  so
demands,  the  answer  shall be made at least three days before the time
the petition is noticed to be heard and, if  in  writing,  it  shall  be
served  within  such  time; whereupon any reply shall be served at least
one day before such time.] The answer may contain any legal or equitable
defense, or counterclaim. The court may render affirmative judgment  for
the amount found due on the counterclaim.
§ 17. Subdivisions 1 and 2 of section 745 of the real property actions
and  proceedings  law,  as  amended  by chapter 403 of the laws of 1983,
subdivision 2 as amended by chapter 116 of the laws  of  1997,  subpara-
graph  (i)  of  paragraph  (b)  as amended by chapter 601 of the laws of
2007, are amended to read as follows:
1. Where triable issues of fact are raised, they shall be tried by the
court unless, at the time the petition is noticed to be heard,  a  party
demands  a  trial  by jury, in which case trial shall be by jury. At the
time when issue is joined the court, [in its discretion] at the  request
of  either  party  [and  upon  proof to its satisfaction by affidavit or
orally that an adjournment is  necessary  to  enable  the  applicant  to
procure  his  necessary  witnesses, or by consent of all the parties who
appear, may] shall adjourn the trial of the issue, [but] not [more] less
than [ten] fourteen days, except by consent of all  parties.  A  party's
second  or  subsequent  request  for adjournment shall be granted in the
court's sole discretion.
2. In the city of New York:
(a) In a summary proceeding upon the second of two adjournments grant-
ed solely at the request of the respondent,  or,  upon  the  [thirtieth]
sixtieth day after the first appearance of the parties in court less any
days  that  the  proceeding  has  been adjourned upon the request of the
petitioner, counting only days attributable to adjournment requests made
solely at the request of the respondent  and  not  counting  an  initial
adjournment  requested  by a respondent unrepresented by counsel for the
purpose of securing counsel, whichever occurs sooner, the court  [shall]
may,  upon  consideration  of  the equities, direct that the respondent,
upon [an application] a motion on notice made by the petitioner, deposit
with the court [within five days] sums of  rent  or  use  and  occupancy
[accrued  from  the  date the petition and notice of petition are served
upon the respondent, and all sums as they become due for  rent  and  use
and  occupancy]  that shall accrue subsequent to the date of the court's
order, which may be established without the use  of  expert  testimony[,
unless].  The  court shall not order deposit or payment of use and occu-
pancy where the respondent can establish[, at an immediate hearing],  to
the  satisfaction  of  the court that respondent has properly interposed
one of the following defenses or established the following grounds:
(i) the petitioner is not a proper party to the proceeding pursuant to
section seven hundred twenty-one of this article; or
(ii) (A) actual eviction, or  (B)  actual  partial  eviction,  or  (C)
constructive eviction; and respondent has quit the premises; or
(iii)  a  defense pursuant to section one hundred forty-three-b of the
social services law; or
(iv)  a defense based upon the existence of hazardous  or  immediately
hazardous  violations  of  the  housing  maintenance code in the subject
apartment or common areas; or
(v) a colorable defense of rent overcharge; or
(vi) a defense that the unit is in violation of the building's certif-
icate of occupancy or is otherwise illegal under the  multiple  dwelling
law or the New York city housing maintenance code; or
(vii) the court lacks personal jurisdiction over the respondent.
[When  the  rental unit that is the subject of the petition is located
in a building containing twelve or fewer units, the court shall  inquire
of  the  respondent  as to whether there is any undisputed amount of the
rent or use and occupancy due to the  petitioner.  Any  such  undisputed
amount shall be paid directly to the petitioner, and any disputed amount
shall  be  deposited  to the court by the respondent as provided in this
subdivision.]
Two adjournments shall not  include  an  adjournment  requested  by  a
respondent  unrepresented by counsel for the purpose of securing counsel
made on a return date of the proceeding. Such rent or use and  occupancy
sums  shall  be  deposited  with  the clerk of the court or paid to such
other person or entity, including the petitioner or an agent  designated
by  the  division  of  housing and community renewal, as the court shall
direct or shall be expended for such  emergency  repairs  as  the  court
shall approve.
(b)  In  establishing  the  monthly  amount to be deposited, the court
shall not exceed the amount of the regulated rent for the unit under any
state, local or federal regulatory scheme, or the amount of the tenant's
rent share under a state, local  or  federal  subsidy  program,  or  the
amount of the tenant's share under an expired subsidy, unless the tenant
has  entered  into  an  enforceable  new agreement to pay the full lease
rent.
(c) (i) The court shall not require  the  respondent  to  deposit  the
portion of rent or use and occupancy, if any, which is payable by direct
government  housing  subsidy,  any  currently  effective  senior citizen
increase exemption authorized pursuant to sections four  hundred  sixty-
seven-b  and  four  hundred  sixty-seven-c of the real property tax law,
direct payment of rent or a two-party check issued by a social  services
district or the office of temporary and disability assistance, or rental
assistance that is payable pursuant to court orders issued in litigation
commenced  in nineteen hundred eighty-seven in a proceeding in which the
amount of shelter allowance is at issue on behalf of recipients of fami-
ly assistance. In the event the respondent or other adult member of  the
respondent's  household  receives  public  assistance  pursuant to title
three or title ten of article five  of  the  social  services  law,  the
respondent  shall, when directed by the court to deposit rent and use or
occupancy, only be required to deposit with the court the amount of  the
shelter  allowance  portion of the public assistance grant issued by the
office of temporary and  disability  assistance  or  a  social  services
district. In the event the respondent receives a fixed income, including
but not limited to, social security income, supplemental security income
pursuant  to  title sixteen of the federal social security act and title
six of article five of the social services law, or pension  income,  the
respondent shall [only] not be required to deposit [one-third] more than
thirty  percent  of  the  monthly [supplemental security income payment]
payments.
(ii)  Any sum required to be deposited with the court pursuant to this
subdivision shall be offset by payment, if any, made by  the  respondent
pursuant  to  section two hundred thirty-five-a of the real property law
or section three hundred two-c of the multiple dwelling law.
[(c) (i) If the respondent shall  fail  to  comply  with  the  court's
directions  with respect to direct payment to the petitioner or making a
deposit as directed by the court of the full amount of the rent  or  use
and occupancy required to be deposited, the court upon an application by
the petitioner shall dismiss without prejudice the defenses and counter-
claims  interposed  by  the respondent and grant judgment for petitioner
unless respondent has interposed the defense of payment and  shows  that
the  amount  required  to  be  deposited has previously been paid to the
petitioner.
(ii)] (d) (i) In the  event  that  the  respondent  [makes  a  deposit
required  by  this  subdivision  but] fails to deposit with the court or
pay, as the case may be, upon the due date, all rent or use and occupan-
cy which may become due [up to the time of the entry of judgment] subse-
quent to the issuance of the court's deposit order, the  court  upon  an
application  of  the  petitioner [shall] may order an immediate trial of
the issues raised in the respondent's answer. An "immediate trial" shall
mean that no further adjournments of the proceeding [without  petitioner
consent] upon respondent's sole request shall be granted, the case shall
be  assigned  by the administrative judge to a trial ready part and such
trial shall commence as soon as practicable  and  continue  day  to  day
until  completed.  [There shall be no stay granted of such trial without
an order to respondent to pay rent or use and occupancy due pursuant  to
this subdivision and rent or use and occupancy as it becomes due.
(iii)]  (ii)  The  court  [shall not] may extend any time provided for
such deposit under this subdivision [without the consent  of  the  peti-
tioner] for good cause shown.
[(iv)]  (iii)  Upon  the entry of the final judgment in the proceeding
such deposits shall be credited against any judgment amount awarded and,
without further order of the court, be paid in accordance with the judg-
ment.
[(v) The provisions of this paragraph requiring the deposit of rent or
use and occupancy as it becomes due shall not be waived by the court.
(d)] (e) The court may dismiss any summary proceeding  without  preju-
dice  and  with  costs to the respondent by reason of excessive adjourn-
ments requested by the petitioner.
[(e) The provisions of this subdivision shall not be construed  as  to
deprive  a  respondent  of a trial of any defenses or counterclaims in a
separate action if such defenses or counterclaims are dismissed  without
prejudice.]
(f) Under no circumstances shall the respondent's failure or inability
to  pay  use and occupancy as ordered by the court constitute a basis to
dismiss any of the respondent's defenses or counterclaims, with or with-
out prejudice to their assertion in another forum.
§ 18. Section 747-a of the real property actions and  proceedings  law
is REPEALED.
§ 19. Section 749 of the real property actions and proceedings law, as
added  by  chapter  312 of the laws of 1962, subdivision 2 as amended by
chapter 205 of the laws of 2018 and subdivision 3 as amended by  chapter
192 of the laws of 1975, is amended to read as follows:
§ 749. Warrant. 1. Upon rendering a final judgment for petitioner, the
court  shall issue a warrant directed to the sheriff of the county or to
any constable or marshal of the city in which the property, or a portion
thereof, is situated, or, if it is not situated in a city, to any const-
able  of  any  town  in the county, describing the property, stating the
earliest date upon which execution may occur pursuant to  the  order  of
the  court,  and  commanding  the  officer  to remove all persons[, and,
except where the case is within section 715, to put the petitioner  into
full  possession]  named  in  the proceeding, provided upon a showing of
good cause, the court may issue a stay of re-letting  or  renovation  of
the premises for a reasonable period of time.
2. (a) The officer to whom the warrant is directed and delivered shall
give  at least [seventy-two hours] fourteen days' notice, [excluding any
period which occurs on a Saturday, Sunday or a public holiday,] in writ-
ing and in the manner prescribed in this article for the  service  of  a
notice  of  petition,  to the person or persons to be evicted or dispos-
sessed and shall execute the warrant on a business day between the hours
of sunrise and sunset.
(b) Such officer shall check such  property  for  the  presence  of  a
companion  animal  prior  to  executing such warrant and coordinate with
such person or persons to be evicted or dispossessed to provide for  the
safe  and  proper  care  of  such  companion  animal or animals. If such
persons to be evicted or dispossessed cannot be found  after  reasonable
efforts  are  made to coordinate with such persons, or if such person is
found and declines to take possession of such animal  or  animals,  such
officer  shall  promptly  coordinate  with  the duly incorporated humane
society, duly incorporated society for  the  prevention  of  cruelty  to
animals  or  pound maintained by or under contract or agreement with the
municipality in which the animal was found for the safe removal of  such
companion  animal or animals. Such officer shall make reasonable efforts
to provide notice to the person or persons to be evicted  regarding  the
location  of  such  companion  animal  or  animals.  Disposition of such
companion animal or animals shall be in accordance with  the  provisions
of  sections one hundred seventeen and three hundred seventy-four of the
agriculture and markets law, and all other laws, rules  and  regulations
that govern the humane treatment of animals. "Companion animal," as used
in  this  paragraph, shall have the same meaning as provided in subdivi-
sion five of section three hundred fifty of the agriculture and  markets
law.
3.  [The  issuing of a warrant for the removal of a tenant cancels the
agreement under which the person removed held the premises,  and  annuls
the  relation  of  landlord  and  tenant, but nothing] Nothing contained
herein shall deprive the court of the  power  to  stay  or  vacate  such
warrant  for  good  cause  shown  prior  to the execution thereof, or to
restore the tenant to possession subsequent to execution of the warrant.
In a judgment for non-payment of rent, the court shall vacate a  warrant
upon  tender  or deposit with the court of the full rent due at any time
prior to its execution,  unless  the  petitioner  establishes  that  the
tenant  withheld  the  rent  due in bad faith. Petitioner may recover by
action any sum of money which was payable at the time when  the  special
proceeding was commenced and the reasonable value of the use and occupa-
tion  to  the  time  when the warrant was issued, for any period of time
with respect to which the agreement does  not  make  any  provision  for
payment of rent.
§  20.  Subdivision  4 of section 751 of the real property actions and
proceedings law is REPEALED.
§ 21. Section 753 of the real property actions and proceedings law, as
added by chapter 312 of  the  laws  of  1962,  the  section  heading  as
amended, subdivision 4 as added and subdivision 5 as renumbered by chap-
ter  870 of the laws of 1982 and subdivision 1 as amended by chapter 305
of the laws of 1963, is amended to read as follows:
§  753. Stay [where tenant holds over] in premises occupied for dwell-
ing purposes [in city of New York]. 1. In a proceeding  to  recover  the
possession  of  premises [in the city of New York] occupied for dwelling
purposes, other than a room or rooms in  an  hotel,  lodging  house,  or
rooming  house,  [upon  the ground that the occupant is holding over and
continuing in possession of the premises after  the  expiration  of  his
term  and  without the permission of the landlord, or, in a case where a
new lessee is entitled to possession, without the permission of the  new
lessee,]  the  court, on application of the occupant, may stay the issu-
ance of a warrant and also stay any execution to collect  the  costs  of
the  proceeding  for a period of not more than [six months] one year, if
it appears that the premises are used for dwelling  purposes;  that  the
application  is made in good faith; that the applicant cannot within the
neighborhood secure suitable premises similar to those occupied by [him]
the applicant and that  [he]  the  applicant  made  due  and  reasonable
efforts  to secure such other premises, or that by reason of other facts
it would occasion extreme hardship to [him or his] the applicant or  the
applicant's  family if the stay were not granted. In determining whether
refusal to grant a stay would occasion extreme hardship, the court shall
consider serious ill health,  significant  exacerbation  of  an  ongoing
condition,  a child's enrollment in a local school, and any other exten-
uating life circumstances affecting the ability of the applicant or  the
applicant's  family to relocate and maintain quality of life.  The court
shall consider any substantial hardship the stay may impose on the land-
lord in determining whether to grant the stay or in setting  the  length
or other terms of the stay.  In an application brought outside a city of
one  million or more, the term "neighborhood" shall be construed to mean
(i) the same town, village or city where the applicant now  resides,  or
(ii) if the applicant has school aged children residing with him or her,
"neighborhood" shall mean the school district where such children attend
or are eligible to attend.
2.  Such  stay  shall  be granted and continue effective only upon the
condition that the person against whom the  judgment  is  entered  shall
make a deposit in court of the entire amount, or such installments ther-
eof from time to time as the court may direct, for the occupation of the
premises  for  the  period  of  the stay, at the rate for which [he] the
applicant was liable as rent for the  month  immediately  prior  to  the
expiration of [his] the applicant's term or [tenency] tenancy, plus such
additional  amount, if any, as the court may determine to be the differ-
ence between such rent and the reasonable rent or value of the  use  and
occupation  of  the  premises; such deposit [shall] may also include all
rent unpaid by the occupant prior to the period of the stay. The  amount
of  such  deposit  shall be determined by the court upon the application
for the stay and such determination shall be  final  and  conclusive  in
respect  to  the amount of such deposit, and the amount thereof shall be
paid into court, in such manner and in such installments, if any, as the
court may direct. A separate account shall be kept of the amount to  the
credit of each proceeding, and all such payments shall be deposited in a
bank  or trust company and shall be subject to the check of the clerk of
the court, if there be one, or otherwise of the court. The clerk of  the
court,  if  there be one, and otherwise the court shall pay to the land-
lord or [his] the landlord's duly authorized agent, the amount  of  such
deposit in accordance with the terms of the stay or the further order of
the court.
3.  The  provisions  of  this  section shall not apply to a proceeding
[where the petitioner shows to the satisfaction of  the  court  that  he
desires  in good faith to recover the premises for the purpose of demol-
ishing same with the intention of constructing a new building, plans for
which new building shall have been duly filed and approved by the proper
authority; nor shall it apply to a  proceeding]  to  recover  possession
upon the ground that an occupant is holding over and is objectionable if
the  landlord  shall establish by competent evidence to the satisfaction
of the court that such occupant is objectionable.
4. In the event that such proceeding is based upon a  claim  that  the
tenant  or lessee has breached a provision of the lease, the court shall
grant a [ten] thirty day stay of issuance of the warrant,  during  which
time the respondent may correct such breach.
5.  Any  provision  of  a lease or other agreement whereby a lessee or
tenant waives any provision of this  section  shall  be  deemed  against
public policy and void.
§ 22. Section 756 of the real property actions and proceedings law, as
added by chapter 913 of the laws of 1965, is amended to read as follows:
§  756.  Stay of summary proceedings or actions for rent under certain
conditions.  In the event that utilities are discontinued in any part of
a [multiple] dwelling because of the failure of the  landlord  or  other
person  having  control of said [multiple] dwelling to pay for utilities
for which he may have contracted, any proceeding to dispossess a  tenant
from  said building or an action against any tenant of said building for
rent shall be stayed until such time as the landlord  or  person  having
control of said [multiple] dwelling pays the amount owing for said util-
ities  and  until  such  time  as  the utilities are restored to working
order.
§ 23. The real property actions and  proceedings  law  is  amended  by
adding a new section 757 to read as follows:
§  757.  Eviction  as  the  result of foreclosure. In the event that a
lessee is removed from real property pursuant to this article,  and  the
leased  real property was the subject of a foreclosure proceeding pursu-
ant to this chapter or the subject of a tax foreclosure proceeding,  the
court  records relating to any such lessee shall be sealed and be deemed
confidential. No disclosure or use of such information relating  to  any
such  lessee  shall be authorized, and the use of such information shall
be prohibited.
§ 24. The real property actions and  proceedings  law  is  amended  by
adding a new section 768 to read as follows:
§  768.  Unlawful eviction. 1. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person
to evict or attempt to evict an occupant of  a  dwelling  unit  who  has
lawfully occupied the dwelling unit for thirty consecutive days or long-
er  or who has entered into a lease with respect to such dwelling except
to the extent permitted by law pursuant to  a  warrant  of  eviction  or
other  order  of  a  court  of  competent jurisdiction or a governmental
vacate order by:
(i) using or threatening the use of force to induce  the  occupant  to
vacate the dwelling unit; or
(ii)  engaging  in  a  course  of  conduct which interferes with or is
intended to interfere with or disturb  the  comfort,  repose,  peace  or
quiet  of such occupant in the use or occupancy of the dwelling unit, to
induce the occupant to vacate  the  dwelling  unit  including,  but  not
limited to, the interruption or discontinuance of essential services; or
(iii)  engaging  or  threatening  to engage in any other conduct which
prevents or is intended to prevent such occupant from the  lawful  occu-
pancy  of  such  dwelling  unit  or to induce the occupant to vacate the
dwelling unit including, but not limited  to,  removing  the  occupant's
possessions from the dwelling unit, removing the door at the entrance to
the dwelling unit; removing, plugging or otherwise rendering the lock on
such  entrance  door  inoperable,  or changing the lock on such entrance
door without supplying the occupant with a key.
(b) It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dwelling unit  to  fail  to
take  all  reasonable  and  necessary  action to restore to occupancy an
occupant of a dwelling unit who either vacates, has been removed from or
is otherwise prevented from occupying a dwelling unit as the  result  of
any  of the acts or omissions prescribed in paragraph (a) of this subdi-
vision and to provide to such  occupant  a  dwelling  unit  within  such
dwelling  suitable for occupancy, after being requested to do so by such
occupant or the representative of such occupant, if  such  owner  either
committed  such unlawful acts or omissions or knew or had reason to know
of such unlawful acts  or  omissions,  or  if  such  acts  or  omissions
occurred within seven days prior to such request.
2.  Criminal  and  civil  penalties.  (a) Any person who intentionally
violates or assists in the violation of any of the  provisions  of  this
section  shall  be  guilty of a class A misdemeanor. Each such violation
shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(b) Such person shall also be subject to a civil penalty of  not  less
than one thousand nor more than ten thousand dollars for each violation.
Each  such  violation  shall  be a separate and distinct offense. In the
case of a failure to take all reasonable and necessary action to restore
an occupant pursuant  to  paragraph  (b)  of  subdivision  one  of  this
section,  such person shall be subject to an additional civil penalty of
not more than one hundred dollars per day from the date on which  resto-
ration  to  occupancy  is  requested until the date on which restoration
occurs, provided, however, that such period shall not exceed six months.
§ 25. The section heading and subdivision 1 of section  7-108  of  the
general  obligations  law,  as added by chapter 917 of the laws of 1984,
are amended and a new subdivision 1-a is added to read as follows:
[Liability of a grantee or assignee for  deposits]  Deposits  made  by
tenants [upon conveyance] of non-rent stabilized dwelling units. 1. This
section shall apply to all dwelling units [with written leases] in resi-
dential  premises  [containing  six  or  more  dwelling units and to all
dwelling units subject to the city rent and rehabilitation  law  or  the
emergency  housing  rent  control  law],  unless  such  dwelling unit is
specifically referred to in section 7-107 of this [chapter] title.
1-a. Except in dwelling units subject to the city rent  and  rehabili-
tation  law  or  the emergency housing rent control law, continuing care
retirement communities licensed pursuant to article forty-six or  forty-
six-A  of  the  public  health  law,  assisted living providers licensed
pursuant to article forty-six-B of the public   health law,  adult  care
facilities  licensed  pursuant  to  article seven of the social services
law, senior residential communities that have submitted an offering plan
to the attorney general, or not-for-profit independent retirement commu-
nities that offer personal emergency response, housekeeping, transporta-
tion and meals to their residents:
(a) No deposit or advance shall exceed the amount of one month's  rent
under such contract.
(b) The entire amount of the deposit or advance shall be refundable to
the  tenant  upon  the  tenant's  vacating of the premises except for an
amount lawfully retained for the reasonable and itemized  costs  due  to
non-payment  of rent, damage caused by the tenant beyond normal wear and
tear,  non-payment  of  utility charges payable directly to the landlord
under the terms of the lease or tenancy, and moving and storage  of  the
tenant's  belongings.  The  landlord  may  not  retain any amount of the
deposit for costs relating to ordinary wear and  tear  of  occupancy  or
damage caused by a prior tenant.
(c)  After initial lease signing but before the tenant begins occupan-
cy, the landlord shall offer the tenant the opportunity to  inspect  the
premises  with  the  landlord  or  the landlord's agent to determine the
condition of the property. If the tenant requests such  inspection,  the
parties shall execute a written agreement before the tenant begins occu-
pancy of the unit attesting to the condition of the property and specif-
ically  noting any existing defects or damages. Upon the tenant's vacat-
ing of the premises, the landlord may  not  retain  any  amount  of  the
deposit or advance due to any condition, defect, or damage noted in such
agreement.  The  agreement shall be admissible as evidence of the condi-
tion of the premises at the beginning of occupancy only  in  proceedings
related to the return or amount of the security deposit.
(d)  Within  a  reasonable  time  after notification of either party's
intention to terminate the tenancy, unless  the  tenant  terminates  the
tenancy  with less than two weeks' notice, the landlord shall notify the
tenant in writing of the tenant's right to request an inspection  before
vacating  the  premises  and  of the tenant's right to be present at the
inspection. If the tenant requests such an  inspection,  the  inspection
shall  be  made  no  earlier  than  two weeks and no later than one week
before the end of the tenancy.  The  landlord  shall  provide  at  least
forty-eight hours written notice of the date and time of the inspection.
After  the  inspection,  the  landlord  shall provide the tenant with an
itemized statement specifying repairs or cleaning that are  proposed  to
be  the  basis  of  any deductions from the tenant's deposit. The tenant
shall have the opportunity to cure any such condition before the end  of
the  tenancy.    Any statement produced pursuant to this paragraph shall
only be admissible in proceedings related to the return or amount of the
security deposit.
(e) Within fourteen days after the tenant has  vacated  the  premises,
the  landlord  shall provide the tenant with an itemized statement indi-
cating the basis for the amount of the deposit  retained,  if  any,  and
shall  return  any  remaining portion of the deposit to the tenant. If a
landlord fails to provide the tenant  with  the  statement  and  deposit
within fourteen days, the landlord shall forfeit any right to retain any
portion of the deposit.
(f)  In any action or proceeding disputing the amount of any amount of
the deposit retained, the landlord shall bear the burden of proof as  to
the reasonableness of the amount retained.
(g)  Any  person who violates the provisions of this subdivision shall
be liable for actual damages, provided a person found to have  willfully
violated  this subdivision shall be liable for punitive damages of up to
twice the amount of the deposit or advance.
§ 26. Subdivision 1 of section 212 of the judiciary law is amended  by
adding a new paragraph (x) to read as follows:
(x)  Not  permit  the  unified court system to sell any data regarding
judicial proceedings related to residential tenancy, rent or eviction to
any third party. Such prohibition includes  data  collected,  stored  or
utilized  by any third-party vendors who have contracts with the unified
court system.
§  27.  1.  (a)  There  is hereby created a temporary commission to be
known as the "New York state temporary commission  on  housing  security
and tenant protection," which shall be charged with studying the impacts
of  the  statewide housing security and tenant protection act of 2019 on
tenants, landlords, and the court system, and recommending the implemen-
tation of legislation, regulations and rules to further  improve  tenant
protections in New York.
(b)  The commission shall consist of ten members: (i) the commissioner
of housing and community renewal shall  serve  ex  officio;  (ii)  three
members  shall  be  appointed  by  the governor, one of whom shall be an
attorney with significant housing court experience employed  by  a  not-
for-profit legal services firm, one of whom shall be a landlord, and one
of  whom shall be a retired judge or justice of the unified court system
with significant experience in housing court; (iii) two members shall be
appointed by the temporary president of  the  senate;  (iv)  one  member
shall be appointed by the minority leader of the senate; (v) two members
shall  be  appointed by the speaker of the assembly; and (vi) one member
shall be appointed by the minority leader of the assembly.  The  commis-
sioner  of housing and community renewal shall serve as the chair of the
commission. Vacancies in the commission shall  be  filled  in  the  same
manner as the members whose vacancy is being filled was appointed.
(c)  The  members  of the commission shall receive no compensation for
their services as members, but shall be allowed their actual and  neces-
sary  expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. No member of
the commission shall be  disqualified  from  holding  any  other  public
office  or  employment,  nor  shall he or she forfeit any such office or
employment by reason of his or her appointment pursuant to this section,
notwithstanding the provisions of any general,  special  or  local  law,
regulation, ordinance or city charter.
2. To the maximum extent feasible, the commission shall be entitled to
request  and receive and shall utilize and be provided with such facili-
ties, resources and data of any  department,  division,  board,  bureau,
committee,  agency  or  public  authority  of the state or any political
subdivision thereof as it may reasonably request to properly  carry  out
its powers and duties pursuant to this act.
3.  On  or  before December 31, 2022, the commission shall transmit to
the governor, the legislature, and the chief administrator of the courts
a report containing its findings and recommendations.  The  commissioner
of  housing  and community renewal shall post the report on its website.
Upon the making of its report, the commission shall be deemed dissolved.
§ 28. Severability. If any provision of this act, or  any  application
of  any  provision  of  this  act, is held to be invalid, that shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of any other provision of this act,
or of any other application of any provision of this act, which  can  be
given effect without that provision or application; and to that end, the
provisions and applications of this act are severable.
§  29.  This  act  shall  take  effect  immediately and shall apply to
actions and proceedings commenced  on  or  after  such  effective  date;
provided,  however, that sections three, six and seven shall take effect
on the one hundred twentieth day after this act shall have become a law;
provided, further, that section  twenty-five  of  this  act  shall  take
effect  on  the thirtieth day after this act shall have become a law and
shall apply to any lease or rental agreement or renewal of  a  lease  or
rental  agreement  entered  into  on  or after such date; and, provided,
further, section five of this act shall take effect on the thirtieth day
after this act shall have become a law.

