SOURCE: https://hcr.ny.gov/new-york-city-rent-and-eviction-regulations-amendments
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-28 via web_extract; cache file copied mechanically. PARTIAL: the extraction service caps output at ~50,000 characters, so only the first part of DHCR's full text of the NYC Rent and Eviction Regulations amendments (adopted eff. 2023-11-08) is here. hcr.ny.gov blocks curl and the browser (Cloudflare). [brackets] = deleted matter; underlining of new matter lost. PDF line-number lines (a line holding only a number) were removed mechanically.

NEW YORK CITY RENT AND EVICTION REGULATIONS AMENDMENTS 

 

9 NYCRR § 2200.1 is amended to read as follows: 

These regulations are adopted and promulgated [by the] pursuant to the powers granted to the 

Division of Housing and Community Renewal and pursuant to the City Rent and Rehabilitation 

Law (title Y of chapter 51 of the Administrative Code of the City of New York, formerly being 

chapter 41 and renumbered by chapter 100 of the Laws of 1963, as amended) and the Local 

Emergency Housing Rent Control Act (chapter 21 of the Laws of 1962) and the Omnibus Housing 

Act (chapter 403 of the Laws of 1983). As used in these regulations, the term Rent Law shall mean 

the Rent and Rehabilitation Law of the City of New York. 

 

9 NYCRR § 2200.2(f)(15)(i) is amended as follows: 

(i) Individual housing accommodations having unfurnished maximum rents of $250 or more per 

month as of April 1, 1965, or furnished maximum rents of $300 or more per month as of April 1, 

1965, which are or [become] became vacant after January 29, 1968 by voluntary surrender of 

possession or in the manner provided by Part 2204 of this Title; or 

 

9 NYCRR 2200.2(f)(18) is amended as follows: 

Housing accommodations not occupied by the tenant, not including subtenants or occupants, as 

[his] their primary residence as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. For the purposes 

of determining primary residency, a tenant who is a victim of domestic violence, as defined in 

section four hundred fifty-nine-a of the social services law, who has left the unit because of such 

violence, and who asserts an intent to return to the housing accommodation shall be deemed to 

be occupying the unit as his or her primary residence.  In addition, a tenant who has left the 
housing accommodation and is paying a nominal rent pursuant to Part 2202.17 (13)(iii) of this 

Title shall be deemed to be occupying the unit as his or her primary residence. 

 

9 NYCRR 2200.2(f)(19) is amended as follows:  

(19) (i) Effective June 14, 2019, high rent vacancy deregulation is no longer applicable.  Any 

apartment that was lawfully deregulated pursuant to the City Rent and Rehabilitation Law 

section 26-403(e)(2)(k) shall remain deregulated, notwithstanding that such section was  repealed 

pursuant to Chapters 36 and 39 of the Laws of 2019. 

[Housing accommodations which: 

(i) became vacant on or after July 7, 1993 but before April 1, 1994 where, at any time between 

July 7, 1993 and October 1, 1993, inclusive, the maximum rent was $2,000 or more per month; 

or 

(ii) became vacant on or after April 1, 1994 but before April 1, 1997, with a maximum rent of 

$2,000 or more per month; or 

(iii) became vacant on or after April 1, 1997 but before June 19, 1997, where the maximum rent 

at the time the tenant vacated was $2,000 or more per month; or 

(iv) became or become vacant on or after June 19, 1997 but before June 24, 2011, with a 

maximum rent of $2,000 or more per month; 

(v) became or become vacant on or after June 24, 2011, with a maximum rent of $2,500 or more 

per month; 
(vi) exemption pursuant to this paragraph shall apply regardless of whether the next tenant in 

occupancy or any subsequent tenant in occupancy is charged or pays less than the applicable 

amount qualifying for deregulation as provided in this paragraph; 

(vii) exemption pursuant to this paragraph shall not apply to housing accommodations which 

became or become subject to the Rent Law and this Subchapter solely by virtue of the receipt of 

tax benefits pursuant to section 489 of the Real Property Tax Law; 

(viii) exemption pursuant to this paragraph shall not apply to or become effective with respect to 

housing accommodations for which the administrator determines or finds that the landlord or any 

person acting on his or her behalf, with intent to cause the tenant to vacate, engaged in any 

course of conduct (including, but not limited to, interruption or discontinuance of required 

services) which interfered with or disturbed or was intended to interfere with or disturb the 

comfort, repose, peace or quiet of the tenant in his or her use or occupancy of the housing 

accommodations. In connection with such course of conduct, any other general enforcement 

provision of the Rent Law and this Subchapter shall also apply; 

(ix) during the period of effectiveness of an order issued pursuant to section 2202.16 of this Title 

for failure to maintain required services, which lowers the maximum rent below the applicable 

amount qualifying for deregulation as provided in this paragraph, during the time period 

specified in this paragraph, a vacancy shall not qualify the housing accommodation for 

exemption under this paragraph; and 

(x) housing accommodations which become exempt from this Subchapter pursuant to this 

paragraph shall not become subject to the provisions of the Rent Stabilization Code upon being 

re-rented.] 
9 NYCRR 2200.2(f)(20) is amended as follows: 

(i) Effective June 14, 2019, high rent high income deregulation is no longer applicable.  Any 

apartment that was lawfully deregulated pursuant to the City Rent and Rehabilitation Law 

sections 26-403(e)(2)(j) and 26-403.1 shall remain deregulated, notwithstanding that such 

sections were repealed pursuant to Chapters 36 and 39 of the Laws of 2019.  For the purposes of 

this subdivision, lawful deregulation shall be defined as the issuance of an order by the DHCR 

pursuant to the City Rent and Rehabilitation Law Sections 26-403(e)(2)(j) and 26-403.1, and the 

expiration of any time period contained in such order establishing the date of deregulation which 

expired prior to June 14, 2019. 

(ii) Effective June 14, 2019, no further high rent high income deregulation proceedings pursuant 

to this Title may be commenced, and all pending applications shall be dismissed as not subject to 

deregulation.  For the purposes of this paragraph, an application shall not be considered pending 

if the subject housing accommodation was lawfully deregulated pursuant to such application 

prior to June 14, 2019, and such lawful deregulation is subject to review as of June 14, 2019 in a 

Court of competent jurisdiction, before the commissioner pursuant to a petition for 

administrative review, or before the rent administrator subsequent to a remand for further 

consideration by either the commissioner or a court.   

[Upon the issuance of an order by the city rent agency, pursuant to the procedures set forth in 

Part 2211 of this Title, including orders resulting from default, housing accommodations which: 

(i) have a maximum rent of $2,000 or more per month as of October 1, 1993 or as of any date on 

or after April 1, 1994, and which are occupied by persons who had a total annual income in 

excess of $250,000 per annum for each of the two preceding calendar years, where the first of 
such two preceding calendar years is 1992 through 1995 inclusive, and in excess of $175,000, 

where the first of such two preceding calendar years is 1996 through 2009 inclusive, with total 

annual income being defined in and subject to the limitations and process set forth in Part 2211 

of this Title; 

(ii) have a maximum rent of $2,500 or more per month as of July 1, 2011 and which are 

occupied by persons who had a total annual income in excess of $200,000 per annum for each of 

the two preceding calendar years, where the first of such two preceding calendar years is 2010 or 

later, with total annual income being defined in and subject to the limitations and process set 

forth in Part 2211 of this Title; 

(iii) exemption pursuant to this paragraph shall not apply to housing accommodations which 

became or become subject to the Rent Law and this Subchapter solely by virtue of the receipt of 

tax benefits pursuant to section 489 of the Real Property Tax Law; and 

(iv) in determining whether the maximum rent for a housing accommodation is the applicable 

amount qualifying for deregulation, the standards set forth in paragraph (19) of this subdivision 

shall be applicable; to be eligible for exemption under this paragraph, the maximum rent must 

continuously be the applicable amount qualifying for deregulation as provided in paragraph (19) 

of this subdivision, from the landlord's service of the income certification form provided for in 

section 2211.2 of this Title upon the tenant to the issuance of an order deregulating the housing 

accommodation.] 

9 NYCRR 2200.2 (i), (k), and (o) are amended as follows: 

(i) Maximum rent. 

The maximum lawful rent for use of housing accommodations. Maximum rents may be 

formulated in terms of rents and other charges and allowances[.], authorized by law. 
(k) Rent. 

Consideration, charge, fee or other thing of value, including any bonus, benefit or gratuity 

demanded or received for or in connection with the use or occupancy of housing 

accommodations or the transfer of a lease [of] for such housing accommodations. Rent shall not 

include authorized surcharges, fees, charges or penalties. 

(o) Tenant. 

A tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee or any other person entitled to the possession or to the use 

or occupancy of any housing accommodation or is entitled to occupy the housing 

accommodation as a tenant pursuant to any other provision of this Title.    

9 NYCRR 2200.3 is amended to add new subdivisions (k) and (l) to read as follows: 

(k) Common Ownership.  For the purposes of Section 2202.4 of this Part, Common Ownership 

shall be defined as any identity of interest or relationship based on family ties or financial 

interest between the owner/managing agent of a property and any other entity with which the 

owner/managing agent conducts business. 

(l) DHCR.  The New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, an executive 

agency component of New York State Homes and Community Renewal. 

 

9 NYCRR § 2200.14 non-enumerated paragraph is numbered subdivision (a) and amended 
as follows and new subdivisions (b), (c), (d) and (e) are added as follows: 

 

(a) No payment of rent need be made unless the landlord tenders a receipt [for the amount to 

be paid when so requested by the tenant]. The landlord shall issue to every tenant [either a 

rent bill or] a rent receipt at the time of each rental payment in the form of cash, or any 

instrument other than the personal check of the tenant. The written receipt shall contain the 
date; the amount; the identity of the premises and period for which paid; and the signature and 

title of the person receiving the rent.  

[The rest of the section is repealed]  

(b) A tenant may request, in writing, that a landlord provide a receipt for rent paid by personal 

check. If such request is made, the landlord shall provide the tenant with the receipt described 

in section a of this subdivision. Such request shall, unless otherwise specified by the tenant, 

remain in effect for the duration of the tenancy.   

(c) The landlord shall maintain a record of all cash receipts for rent for at least three years 

unless a longer period is required by other provisions of this Title. 

(d) If a payment of rent is personally transmitted to a landlord, the receipt for such payment 

shall be issued immediately to a tenant.  If a payment of rent is transmitted indirectly to a 

landlord, a tenant shall be provided with a receipt within fifteen days of the landlord’s receipt 

of a rent payment. 

(e) If a landlord fails to receive payment for rent within five days of the date specified in a 

lease agreement, such landlord shall send the tenant, by certified mail, a written notice stating 

the failure to receive such rent payment.  The failure of the landlord, to provide a tenant with 

a written notice of the non-payment of rent may be used as an affirmative defense by such 

tenant in an eviction proceeding based on the non-payment of rent. 

 

9 NYCRR § 2202.1 is amended and new subdivisions (a) and (b) are added as follows: 

 

Maximum rents may be increased or decreased only by order of the administrator [.], or as 

otherwise provided by law. 
(a) Where a maximum rent established pursuant to this chapter on or after January first, two-

thousand twenty, is  higher  than the previously existing maximum rent, the landlord may not 

collect an increase from a tenant in occupancy in any one year period of more than the lesser of 

either seven and one-half percentum or an average of the previous five years of one-year rent 

adjustments on rent stabilized apartments as established by the rent guidelines board, pursuant to 

Rent Stabilization Law Section 26-510(b) . If the period for which the rent is established exceeds 

one year, regardless of how the collection thereof is averaged over such period, the rent the 

landlord shall be entitled to receive during the first twelve months shall not be increased by more 

than the lesser of either seven and one-half percentum or an average of the previous five years of 

one-year rent adjustments on rent stabilized apartments as established by the rent guidelines 

board, pursuant to Rent Stabilization Law Section 26-510(b), over the previous rent. Any 

additional annual rents shall not exceed the lesser of either seven and one-half percentum or an 

average of the previous five years of one-year rent adjustments on rent stabilized apartments as 

established by the rent guidelines board, pursuant to Rent Stabilization Law Section 26-510(b), 

of the rent paid during the previous year.  

(b) No annual rent increase authorized pursuant to this act shall exceed the average of the 

previous five annual rental adjustments authorized by a rent guidelines board for a rent stabilized 

unit pursuant to Rent Stabilization Law Section 26-510(b). 

 

9 NYCRR § 2202.2 is amended as follows: 

No order increasing or decreasing a maximum rent previously established pursuant to these 

regulations shall be collectible until the first day of the first month beginning sixty (60) days 

from the date of mailing of notice of approval to the tenant [effective prior to the date on which 

the order is issued,] except as hereinafter provided.  
(The rest of this section remains the same.)  

9 NYCRR 2202.4 (a) and (c) are repealed and replaced as follows:  

(a)    Individual Apartment Improvements. 

(1)    Increase in space, new equipment, new furniture or furnishings; and other adjustments. 

(2)   An owner is entitled to a temporary rent increase where there has been a reasonable 

and verifiable modification, other than an increase for which an adjustment may be claimed 

pursuant to  subdivision (b) of this section, of dwelling space, installation of new equipment 

or improvements, or new furniture or furnishings, provided in or to the tenant’s housing 

accommodation, where the tenant has agreed to such modification or increase and the 

owner has obtained written informed tenant consent to such rent increase.  In the case of 

vacant housing accommodations, tenant consent shall not be required. 

(i) For all work that commenced on or after June 14, 2019, notification of all modifications 

must be submitted to DHCR for verification.  As a part of such verification, an owner shall: 

(a) Provide a copy of the written informed tenant consent on an approved DHCR form, 

when tenant consent is required.   

(b) Provide the DHCR with an itemized list of work performed, including a description 

and/or explanation of the reason or purpose for such work.  

(c) Provide the DHCR with photographs of the subject apartment where the work will be 

completed taken prior to such modification or increase as well as photographs taken after, 

and showing, the work has been completed. Such photographs must be kept as part of the 
owner’s permanent records such that the owner must at any future time produce such 

photographs upon request by an agency with appropriate jurisdiction. 

(d) Use a licensed contractor to complete such work. The costs for an individual apartment 

improvement paid to a person or organization contracted to do the improvement or 

installation work sharing a common ownership with the owner or managing agent of the 

subject building or apartment will be disallowed. 

(e) Resolve, within the dwelling space, all outstanding hazardous and immediately 

hazardous violations. In no event shall an owner be permitted to begin collection of any 

rent increase pursuant to this subdivision while there are any hazardous or immediately 

hazardous violations of the Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code (Uniform Code), 

New York City Fire Code, or New York City Building and Housing Maintenance Codes 

pending against the affected housing accommodation.   

(ii) For work commenced on or after June 14, 2019, the recoverable costs incurred by the 

owner pursuant to this subdivision shall be limited to a total aggregate cost of fifteen 

thousand dollars ($15,000) that may be expended on no more than three (3) separate 

individual apartment improvements in any fifteen (15) year period.   

(iii) An owner who is entitled to a rent increase pursuant to this subdivision shall not be 

entitled to a further rent increase based upon the installation of similar equipment, or new 

furniture or furnishings within the useful life of such new equipment, or new furniture or 

furnishings. 

(iv) Any increases to the maximum rent pursuant to this subdivision shall be temporary 

and shall be removed from maximum rent thirty (30) years from the date the increase 
became effective inclusive of any increases granted by the applicable Rent Guidelines 

Board that had been calculated based upon such rent increase. 

(v) For individual apartment improvements pursuant to this subdivision, the DHCR shall 

maintain an itemized list of work performed and a description or explanation of the reason 

or purpose of such work, inclusive of photographic evidence documenting the condition 

prior to and after the completion of the performed work.  Such documentation and any 

other supporting documentation shall be submitted to the DHCR by the owner within 

ninety (90) days of the completion of the work, retained in a centralized electronic retention 

system and made available in cases pertaining to the adjustment of maximum rents.  

(vi) Where an owner seeks a temporary individual apartment improvement rent increase 

pursuant to this subdivision while the unit is occupied, the DHCR shall provide a form for 

use by the owner, to obtain written informed consent from the tenant that shall include the 

estimated total cost of the improvement and the estimated monthly rent increase.  Such 

form shall be completed and submitted to the DHCR by the owner within 90 days of the 

completion of the work and preserved in a centralized electronic retention system.  Nothing 

herein shall relieve an owner, lessor, or agent thereof of his or her duty to retain proper 

documentation of all improvements performed or any rent increases resulting from said 

improvements. 

(vii) For rent increases pursuant to this subdivision that took effect prior to June 14, 2019, 

the increase in the monthly maximum rent for the affected housing accommodations when 

authorized pursuant to this subdivision shall for buildings and complexes containing 35 or 

fewer housing accommodations be 1/40th of the total cost, including installation but 

excluding finance charges; and for buildings and complexes containing more than 35 
housing accommodations be 1/60th of the total cost, including installation but excluding 

finance charges. 

(viii) For temporary rent increases pursuant to this subdivision effective as of or after June 

14, 2019, the temporary increase in the monthly maximum rent for the affected housing 

accommodations when authorized pursuant to this subdivision shall for buildings and 

complexes containing 35 or fewer housing accommodations be 1/168th of the total cost, 

including the cost of installation but excluding finance charges; and for buildings and 

complexes containing more than 35 housing accommodations be 1/180th of the total cost, 

including the cost of installation but excluding finance charges. 

(c) Temporary major capital improvement rent adjustments. 

(1) An owner of a building or building complex that contains more than thirty-five (35) percent 

rent regulated units may file an application to temporarily increase the maximum rents of the 

building or building complex on forms prescribed by the DHCR which includes an itemized list 

of work performed and a description or explanation of the reason or purpose of such work, on one 

or more of the following grounds:    

(i) There has been a major capital improvement, including an installation, which must meet all of 

the following criteria:    

(a) it is deemed depreciable under the Internal Revenue Code, other than for ordinary repairs;    

(b) it is essential for the preservation, energy efficiency, functionality or infrastructure of the entire 

building, including heating, windows, plumbing and roofing, but shall not be for operational costs 

or unnecessary cosmetic improvements;    
(c) it is an improvement to the building or to the building complex which inures directly or 

indirectly to the benefit of all tenants, and which includes the same work performed in all similar 

components of the building or building complex, unless the owner can satisfactorily demonstrate 

to the DHCR that certain of such similar components did not require improvement; and    

(d) the item being replaced meets the requirements set forth on the following useful life schedule, 

except with DHCR approval of a waiver, as set forth in clause (e) of this subparagraph.  

  

Useful Life Schedule for Major Capital Improvements Replacement Item or Equipment Years - 

Estimated Life 

  

1)    Boilers and Burners   

(a)    Cast Iron Boiler .............................................      35   

(b)    Package Boiler ...............................................      25   

(c)    Steel Boiler .................................................      25   

(d)    Burners ......................................................      20   

2)    Windows   

(a)    Aluminum .....................................................      20   

(b)    Wood .........................................................      25   

(c)    Steel ........................................................      25   
(d)    Storm ........................................................      20   

(e)    Vinyl ........................................................      15   

3)    Roofs   

(a)    2-Ply (asphalt)     .............................................      10   

(b)    3-4 Ply (asphalt)    ...........................................      15   

(c)    5-Ply (asphalt)    .............................................      20   

(d)    Shingle      .....................................................      20   

(e)    Single-Ply Rubber      ...........................................      20   

(f)    Single-Ply Modified Bitumen      .................................      10   

(g)    Quarry Tile      .................................................      20      

     4) Pointing ..................................................... 15 

     5) Rewiring ..................................................... 25 

     6) Intercom System .............................................. 15 

     7) Mailboxes .................................................... 25 

     8) Plumbing/Repiping 

(a)    Galvanized Steel      ............................................      25   

(b)    TP Copper      ...................................................      30   

(c)    Brass cold water      ............................................      15   
(d)    Fixtures      ....................................................      25   

     9) Elevators   

(a)    Major Upgrade......................................  25   

 (b)   Controllers and Selector  ........................    25 

   10) Doors   ...........................................................   

(a)    Apartment Entrance      ..........................................      25   

(b)    Lobby/Vestibule      .............................................      15        

    11) Water Tanks 

(a)    Metal      .......................................................      25   

(b)    Wood      ........................................................      20   

    12) Waste Compactors      ............................................      10   

    13) Air Conditioners   

(a)    Individual Units/Sleeves      ....................................      10   

(b)    Central System      ..............................................      15   

(c)    Branch Circuitry Fixtures      ...................................      15   

    14) Siding 

(a)    Aluminum Siding      .............................................      25   

(b)    Vinyl Siding      ................................................      15   
    15) Catwalk      .....................................................      25   

    16) Chimney   

(a)    Steel      .......................................................      25   

(b)    Brick      .......................................................      25   

    17) Courtyards/Walkways/Driveways                                         

 (a)     Cement     .............................................      15   

  (b)    Asphalt      .....................................................      10   

    18) Fire Escapes      ................................................      25   

    19) Fuel Oil Tanks   

(a)    In Vaults      ...................................................      25   

(b)    Underground      .................................................      20   

    20) Water Heating Units   

(a)    Hot Water/Central Heating      ...................................      20   

(b)    Hot Water Heater (Domestic)      ................................      10   

    21) Parapets brick      .......................................................      25   

    22) Resurfacing Exterior Walls      ..................................      25   

    23) Solar Heating System      ........................................      25   

                24) Structural Steel      ............................................      25   
    25) Television Security      .........................................      10   

  For major capital improvements not listed above, the owner must submit evidence with the 

application that the useful life of the item or equipment being replaced has expired.    

(e) 

(1) An owner who wishes to request a waiver of the useful life requirement set forth in clause (d) 

of this subparagraph must apply to the DHCR for such waiver prior to the commencement of the 

work for which he or she will be seeking a temporary major capital improvement rental increase. 

Notwithstanding this requirement, where the waiver requested is for an item being replaced 

because of an emergency, which causes the building or any part thereof to be dangerous to human 

life and safety or detrimental to health, an owner may apply to the DHCR for such waiver at the 

time he or she submits the temporary major capital improvement rent increase application.    

(2) If the waiver is denied, the owner will not be eligible for a temporary major capital 

improvement increase. However, if the waiver is granted, the useful life requirement will not be a 

factor in the determination of eligibility for the temporary major capital improvement rent increase. 

Approval of the waiver does not assure that the application will be granted, as all other 

requirements set forth in this subdivision must be met.    

(3) An owner may apply for, and the DHCR may grant, a waiver of the useful life requirements 

set forth in the Useful Life Schedule, if the owner satisfactorily demonstrates the existence of one 

or more of the following circumstances:    

(i) The item or equipment cannot be repaired and must be replaced during its useful life because 

of a fire, vandalism or other emergency, or "act of God" resulting in an emergency;    
(ii) The item or equipment needs to be replaced because such item or equipment is beyond repair, 

or spare parts are no longer available, or required repairs would cost more than seventy-five (75) 

percent of the cost of the total replacement of the item or equipment. Certification by a duly 

licensed engineer or architect, where there is no common ownership or other financial interest with 

the owner, shall be considered substantial proof of such condition(s). The owner may also be 

required to submit proof that the item or equipment was properly maintained. Such proof may 

include receipts for repairs and parts or maintenance logs;    

(iii) 

(A) An appropriate New York State or local governmental agency has determined that the item or 

equipment needs to be replaced as part of a government housing program;    

(B) If a governmental lender or insurer, for the purposes of qualifying for a New York State or 

local government long-term loan or insured loan, requires the remaining useful life of the building 

or building complex, as well as the component parts of such building or building complex, to be 

as great as or greater than the term of the loan agreement.    

(iv) The replacement of an item or equipment which has proven inadequate, through no fault of 

the owner, is necessary, provided that there has been no major capital improvement rent increase 

for that item or equipment being replaced.    

(4) In the event that the DHCR determines that an installation qualifies for a waiver of the useful 

life requirements, the DHCR may, subject to all other requirements of this section, and the 

limitations of the reasonable cost schedule provisions in paragraph (2) of this subdivision:    
(i) Where no previous increase was granted within the useful life of the item or equipment being 

replaced, approve one-hundred (100) percent of the actual, reasonable, and verifiable cost of the 

item or equipment, including installation;    

(ii) Where it is determined that an item is eligible to be replaced during its useful life, grant a 

temporary increase based on the actual, reasonable, and verifiable cost of the item or equipment, 

including installation, less both (a) the amount reimbursed from other sources, such as insurance 

proceeds or any other form of commercial guarantee, and (b) the amount of any increase previously 

granted for the same item or equipment either as a major capital improvement, or pursuant to other 

governmental programs, if such item or equipment has not exhausted at least seventy-five (75) 

percent of its useful life at the time of the installation;    

(iii) Where it is determined that an item is eligible to be replaced even though it has not exhausted 

seventy-five (75) percent of its useful life and that it was installed as part of a substantial 

rehabilitation or the new construction of a building for which the owner set initial building-wide 

rents, the DHCR may reduce the increase granted for a major capital improvement by a proportion 

of the remaining useful life of such item or equipment. 

(iv) Where it is determined that an item is eligible to be replaced even though it has not exhausted 

one-hundred (100) percent of its useful life, but has exhausted more than seventy-five (75) percent 

of its useful life, the DHCR may reduce the increase granted for a major capital improvement by 

a proportion of the remaining useful life of such item or equipment. 

 (f) In no event shall a temporary major capital improvement increase be granted for work done in 

individual apartments that is otherwise not an improvement to an entire building. 
(ii) There has been other necessary work performed in connection with, and directly related to a 

major capital improvement, which may be included in the computation of an increase in the 

maximum rent only if such other necessary work was completed within a reasonable time after the 

completion of the major capital improvement to which it relates. Such other necessary work must:    

(a) improve, restore or preserve the quality of the structure and the grounds;    

(b) have been completed subsequent to, or contemporaneously with, the completion of the work 

for the major capital improvement; and  

(c)  not be for primarily cosmetic improvements or for operational costs.   

(iii) With approval by the DHCR, there has been an increase in services or improvement, other 

than repairs, on a building-wide basis, which the owner can demonstrate are necessary in order to 

comply with a specific requirement of law.    

(iv) With approval by the DHCR, there have been other improvements made or services provided 

to the building or building complex, other than those specified in subparagraphs (i)-(iii) of this 

paragraph, with the express consent of the tenants in occupancy of at least seventy-five (75) percent 

of the rent regulated housing accommodations.    

(2) Major Capital Improvement Schedules 

(i) The reasonable costs that may be recovered for qualified major capital improvements may not 

exceed the recoverable costs, as determined by DHCR. In making such determination, DHCR 

shall, unless for good cause shown or otherwise specified, refer to such reasonable costs as 

specified in the Reasonable Cost Schedule found in the Reasonable Cost Schedule that is in effect 

at the time that the contract for work for the major capital improvement was executed. 
(ii)The Reasonable Cost Schedule shall provide the recoverable cost of major capital 

improvements that fall within the following main three categories:  

1.  Major Systems;       

i. The maximum recoverable costs shall be presented for the following classes of work: (a) 

Plumbing; (b) Gas Re-pipe; (c) Wiring; (d) Windows; (e) Boiler/Burner; (f) Hot Water Heater; (g) 

Elevator Replacement; and (h) Elevator Modernization.  

  

2.  Façade, Parapet, Roof;   

i. The maximum recoverable costs shall be presented for the following classes of work: (a) Façade; 

(b) Parapet; and (c) Roof. 

3.  Other Systems.  

i. The maximum recoverable costs shall be presented for the following classes of work: (a) 

Chimney; (b) Doors; (c) Security System; and (d) Intercom; and may include such other systems 

as DHCR may determine.  

(iii) Each class of major capital improvement may list more detailed types of capital improvement 

work.  Each class of major capital improvement described in the Schedule may be inclusive of 

additional costs that can be associated with the type of improvements listed within such class.  

(iv) The costs of each type of major capital improvement work will be listed as per unit, per unit 

of measurement or per piece of equipment, as is appropriate given the nature of the improvement. 
(v) The maximum recoverable costs for each type of major capital improvement specified in the 

initial Reasonable Cost Schedule shall be based on a survey of such construction costs undertaken 

for such installation.   

 
(a) The maximum recoverable costs listed in the Reasonable Cost Schedule shall be 

 
initially published and made available for public review and comment in conjunction with 

 
the promulgation process required for adoption of this regulation.  

(vi) Periodic Review of Reasonable Cost Schedule: 

Every year after adoption of this regulation, DHCR shall assess and review the categories of major 

capital improvements, the classes of work within categories eligible for major capital 

improvements and the maximum recoverable costs listed for the types of major capital 

improvement costs identified in the Reasonable Cost Schedule.   

(vii) Procedure: 

 
(a) When applying for a temporary major capital improvement rent increase, owners are 

 
required to submit an itemized list of work performed with a description or explanation of 

 
the reason or purpose of such work. 

 
 
(1) Costs may be granted for related expenses that are not specified in the actual  

 
 
schedule, if they are found to be: 

 
 
 
(i) within or below the maximum costs for the class of work,  

 
 
 
(ii) are necessary for the claimed improvement, and  

 
 
 
(iii) eligible for reimbursement as a major capital improvement.  
(2) Costs will not be granted for expenses which are ineligible for major capital  

 
 
improvement rent increases.   

 
 
(3) Only the actual and verifiable amounts expended by owners for qualifying  

 
 
major capital improvement costs will be the basis for any temporary major capital 

 
 
improvement rent increase.  Qualifying owners will, therefore, be awarded a  

 
 
temporary major capital improvement rent increase on the lesser of either: (i) the  

 
 
actual amount expended, or (ii) the maximum reasonable cost from the schedule,  

 
 
and such other additional items that are eligible as a major capital improvement but 

 
 
are not listed as part of the Reasonable Cost Schedule. 

 
(b) The schedule provides a maximum of costs that can be granted for eligible major capital 

 
improvements.  All costs granted for a temporary major capital improvement rent increase 

 
must be actual, reasonable, verifiable, and meet all other regulatory requirements. 

(viii) Waiver of Application of Reasonable Cost Schedule 

 
(a) Owners may apply for a waiver of application of the Reasonable Cost Schedule.  The 

 
waiver request will be denied, unless the owner satisfies the waiver requirements provided 

 
herein, and the Division finds the waiver of the application of the schedule to be reasonable 

 
and warranted under the circumstances set forth in such application.  

 
(b) If an owner’s application for a waiver of the reasonable cost schedule is denied, the 

 
owner’s maximum recoupment shall be limited to that required by the applicable 

 
Reasonable Cost Schedule.  

 
(c) Notwithstanding any waiver of the reasonable cost schedule, not all costs claimed for a 

 
temporary major capital improvement rent increase may be awarded, as the costs of items 
claimed may be disallowed, in whole or in part, pursuant to all other requirements set forth 

 
in this section that must be met and fully supported. 

 
(d) Pursuant to the requirements specified below, such application must be fully supported 

 
and demonstrate that the claimed costs underlying the temporary MCI rent increase are:  

 
 
(1)  not identified in the Reasonable Cost Schedule, or  

(2) necessarily and appropriately priced higher than those costs listed in the 

Reasonable Cost Schedule due to the unique nature of the installation and the 

circumstances surrounding such installation, and such costs are accurate, 

reasonable, necessary, verifiable, and eligible for a rent increase under these 

circumstances, or  

(3) that use of the Reasonable Cost Schedule will cause an undue hardship and the 

use of alternative procedures are appropriate to the interests of the owner, the 

tenants, and the public, and the costs of such improvement are  accurate, reasonable, 

necessary, verifiable, and eligible for a rent increase under the circumstances.   

 
(e) Owners must request a waiver of the use of the Reasonable Cost Schedule in writing 

 
and accompany the application with the information and documentation as specified in 

 
subparagraph (x) of this paragraph. 

(ix) Requirements for Waiver under Specific Circumstances 

 
(a) At the time of the initial application for a temporary major capital improvement rent 

increase, an owner must apply for a waiver of application of the Reasonable Cost Schedule.  
Such application shall include all necessary requirements set forth in subparagraph (viii) 

of this paragraph and must also meet the following requirements: 

 
 
(1) Non-Landmarked Buildings (Buildings not designated by the Landmark  

 
 
Commission): 

 
 
 
(i) A licensed engineer or architect must certify that: 

 
(A) the major capital improvement costs for which an owner seeks 

a temporary major capital improvement rent increase are accurate 

and reasonable under the circumstances; and 

 
 
 
 
(B) there is no common ownership or other financial interest  

 
 
 
 
between the contractor installing the replacement or upgrade and the 

 
 
 
 
ownership entity of the owner; and 

 
 
 
 
(c) a bid process was conducted and supervised by a licensed  

 
 
 
 
architect or engineer. 

(2) Landmarked Buildings (Buildings designated by the Landmark Commission): 

The costs beyond those permitted by the reasonable cost schedule that were the result of any law, 

regulation, rule, or requirement under which the premises have been designated a landmark 

building. 

(3) Capital Improvement Work Performed While Also Under Another Governmental Agency’s 

Supervision: 

DHCR may also accept the cost of contract where:  
(i) the building is subject to both (a) the Rent Stabilization Law, and (b) another housing program, 

and  

(ii) the contract is approved by or awarded under the supervision of a state, city or local housing 

entity in conjunction with that affordable housing program, and 

(iii) such supervision includes a process by which such supervising agency reviews the costs to 

assure they are reasonable. 

(4) Emergency Capital Improvements: 

DHCR may also accept the cost of contract where capital improvements were performed to remedy 

an emergency condition and for which the owner paid more than the reasonable costs due to such 

emergency. The costs must be actual, reasonable, necessary, verifiable, and eligible for a rent 

increase under the circumstances. 

(5) Interim Rules: 

(i) An owner may apply for a waiver of application of the Reasonable Cost Schedule if, prior to 

the effective date of this subparagraph (ix), it has either: 

(A) entered a contract for the performance of major capital improvement work within two years 

immediately preceding January 27, 2021, the final adoption date of Emergency Regulation HCR 

26-20-00012, or  

(B) submitted to DHCR an application for a temporary major capital improvement rent increase.  

(ii) The recoverable costs will be determined according to the applicable Reasonable Cost 

Schedule and these provisions, but the owner need not submit evidence of compliance with the 

bidding requirements set forth in clause (b) of subparagraph (x); owner may instead submit for 
review alternative means of establishing the reasonableness of the major capital improvement costs 

sought to be recovered.  

(iii) For pending major capital improvement applications, an owner was required to make this 

waiver application within 60 days of June 16, 2020, unless in the context of processing the major 

capital improvement application the owner was directed by DHCR to submit an application for 

waiver.  

(x) Waiver Procedure: 

As part of the written Waiver application for non-emergency capital improvements, owners must 

submit the following:  

(a) A certification by a licensed architect or engineer stating that: 

(1) The purchases and contracts, whose costs owner seeks to recover have been awarded on the 

basis of analysis and bidding to the fullest extent possible, but with no less than three bidders 

having been solicited to perform the work unless the owner can demonstrate that the work is so 

highly specialized that such bids cannot be extended;  

(2) List of items for which owner solicited bids were necessary; 

(3) The costs claimed by owner for the major capital improvement work are accurate and 

reasonable, provided that the architect or engineer’s basis for such conclusion is fully and credibly 

supported; 

(4) All changes to the original agreed upon scope of work were necessary to the underlying major 

capital improvement and reasonably priced; 
(5) The owner selected the lowest responsible bidder or the bidder best suited to perform the major 

capital improvement work, provided that the architect or engineer’s basis for such conclusion is 

credibly supported; and 

(6) Such other and additional proof as DHCR may require to ascertain the need for the waiver and 

the certification of such reasonable, necessary, verifiable, and eligible costs. 

(b) Certification by owner that it has complied with bid process requirements including submission 

of: 

(1) Tabulation of all bids received; and 

(2) Copies of all bids received; and 

(3) A certification by each bidder disclosing whether the owner or any board member, general 

partner, officer or employee of owner, and/or principal or employee of any managing agent 

retained by owner, has a direct or indirect interest in the bidder or in the compensation to be 

received by the bidder pursuant to the proposed contract. Failure to accurately and fully complete 

this certification may result in the rejection of the bid for purposes of determining owner’s 

application for waiver of the use of the Reasonable Cost Schedule, as well as rejection and a 

dismissal of the major capital improvement application; and 

(4) Detailed description of the items for which owner initially solicited bids. 

(c) A certification by the owner’s architect or engineer certifying the necessity, appropriateness, 

and reasonableness of the costs of all changes to the original agreed upon scope of work that were 

performed in connection with the major capital improvement, along with a description of the 

changes in the scope, price, or time of completion of the work related to each change order. 
(xi) For Emergency Capital Improvement MCI Applications: 

The owner must submit a statement from an independent engineer or architect describing the 

emergency, why the costs were greater than those in the schedule, that the costs were reasonable 

for the situation, and why the owner could not obtain three bids in a timely manner due to the 

exigent circumstances. 

(xii) Notice: 

As part of the MCI application process, any request by an owner for a waiver of application of the 

Reasonable Cost Schedule shall be made available to the tenants of the subject building(s) with an 

opportunity to comment on and contest the waiver. 

(xiii) Operational Bulletin 

The initial Operational Bulletin 2020-1 including all amendments, shall be issued pursuant to this 

paragraph.  The Operational Bulletin 2020-1 and all amended versions shall be available in 

hardcopy form at 92-31 Union Hall Street, Jamaica, Queens, New York, and will be available on 

DHCR's website at www.hcr.ny.gov. 

 (3) Improvements or installations for which the DHCR may grant applications for temporary rent 

increases based upon major capital improvements pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision are 

described on the following Schedule. Other improvements or installations that are not included 

may also qualify, where all requirements of Section 2202.4 (c) of this Title have been met.    

SCHEDULE OF MAJOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS 
1. AIR CONDITIONER - new central system; or individual units set in sleeves in the exterior wall 

of every housing accommodation; or, air conditioning circuits and outlets in each living room 

and/or bedroom (SEE REWIRING).    

2. ALUMINUM SIDING - installed in a uniform manner on all exposed sides of the building (SEE 

RESURFACING).   

3. BOILER AND/OR BURNER - new unit(s) including electrical work and additional components 

needed for the installation.    

4. BOILER ROOM - new room where none existed before; or enlargement of existing one to 

accommodate new boiler.   

5. CATWALK – complete replacement.  

6. CHIMNEY - complete replacement, or new one where none existed before, including additional 

components needed for the installation.   

7. COURTYARD, DRIVEWAYS AND WALKWAYS - resurfacing of entire original area within 

the property lines of the premises.   

8. DOORS - new lobby front entrance and/or vestibule doors; or entrance to every housing 

accommodation, or fireproof doors for public hallways, basement, boiler room and roof bulkhead.   

9. ELEVATOR UPGRADING - including new controllers and selectors; or new electronic 

dispatch overlay system; or new elevator where none existed before, including additional 

components needed for the installation.    

10. FIRE ESCAPES – complete new replacement including new landings.    
11. GAS HEATING UNITS - new individual units with connecting pipes to every housing 

accommodation.   

12. HOT WATER HEATER - new unit for central heating system.   

13. INTERCOM SYSTEM - new replacement; or one where none existed before, with automatic 

door locks and pushbutton speakerboxes and/or telephone communication, including security 

locks on all entrances to the building.   

14. MAILBOXES - new replacements and relocation from outer vestibule to an area behind locked 

doors to increase security.   

15. PARAPET - complete replacement.   

16. POINTING AND WATERPROOFING - as necessary on exposed sides of the building.    

17. REPIPING - new hot and/or cold water risers, returns, and branches to fixtures in every housing 

accommodation, including shower bodies, and/or new hot and/or new cold water overhead mains, 

with all necessary valves in basement.    



..._This content has been truncated to stay below 50000 characters_...