SOURCE: https://hcr.ny.gov/system/files/documents/2022/12/fact-sheet-44-12-2022.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-28 via web_extract (hcr.ny.gov blocks curl from this host). AGENCY GUIDANCE (DHCR), not law. Content saved mechanically as returned.

FS-44 (12/2022)
A PUBLICATION OF THE DIVISION OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL OFFICE OF RENT ADMINISTRATION

3 PAGES

# 44
FACT SHEET

Fees

AT A GLANCE
This Fact Sheet 
describes when owners 
can charge fees in 
addition to stabilized 
rents, and what tenants 
can do if they feel they’re 
being charged unfairly.

DEFINITIONS
Division of Housing and 
Community Renewal (DHCR): 
DHCR is the New York State agency 
that invests in communities, 
preserves and protects affordable 
housing and enforces the state’s 
rent control and rent stabilization 
laws.

Rent stabilization: Rules that 
provide protections to tenants 
besides limitations on the amount 
of rent. Tenants are entitled to 
receive required services, to have 
their leases renewed, and may 
not be evicted except on grounds 
allowed by law. Leases may be 
renewed for a term of one or two 
years, at the tenant’s choice.

SUMMARY AND HIGHLIGHTS
Owners may charge tenants some lawful fees in addition to rent. However, 
fees of any kind don’t become part of the legal rent or preferential rent, 
and owners can’t add them in when calculating lease renewal increases.

Lawful Fees
(see full text 
for complete 
list)

• Late fees specified in the initial vacancy lease. They 

can be charged by a specific date and can’t be more 
than $50 or 5% of the monthly rent (whichever is 
lower). 
• Legal fees can only be collected from a tenant if 

ordered by a judge in court. 
• Fees for smoke alarms, carbon monoxide detectors 

and natural gas detectors. These vary by municipality. 
• Fees for air conditioners and tenant-installed washing 

machines, dryers, and dishwashers.

Unlawful Fees 
(see full text 
for complete 
list)

• Fees for background checks on tenants already in 

occupancy. 
• Fees charged to a tenant for a background check on a 

prospective roommate or additional family member.


FS-44 (12/2022)
A PUBLICATION OF THE DIVISION OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL OFFICE OF RENT ADMINISTRATION

FACT SHEET #44: FEES
PAGE 2 OF 3

FACT SHEET #44: IN DETAIL

There are certain fees that owners may charge tenants separate and apart from the rent for the 
apartment. However, fees of any kind do not become part of the legal rent or preferential rent and cannot 
be added to it for the purpose of calculating lease renewal increases.

Lawful Fees: 

Late fees where a clause in the initial vacancy 
lease allows for them to be charged by a 
certain specific date and such late fees 
are the lesser of $50 or 5% of the monthly 
rent currently being charged and collected. 
Preferential rents, which may also be referred 
to as “on-time rent,” that are conditioned on 
prompt payment of rent or terminate upon 
late payment of rent are not allowed. 

Legal fees can only be collected from a tenant 
if ordered by a judge in court. 

Reasonable fees for a background check 
when applying to be a tenant which cannot 
exceed $20 per tenant subject to the 
background check.

Fees for window guards ($10 per guard) are 
detailed in DHCR Fact Sheet #25. 

Fees for smoke alarms, carbon monoxide 
detectors and natural gas detectors are 
established by the local municipality. 

Actual fees/charges incurred for insufficient 
funds for a tenant’s rent check that did not 
clear (bounced checks), if this was provided 
for in the initial lease. 

Fees imposed by a government agency 
that has oversight authority pursuant to a 
regulatory agreement. 

Fees for Air Conditioners and Tenant-installed 
Washing Machines, Dryers and Dishwashers 
are detailed in DHCR’s Operational Bulletin 
84-4, Fact Sheet #27, and DHCR Operational 
Bulletin 2005-1.

Fees for Sub-Metering or other utility services. 
Fees for Sub-Metering are detailed in DHCR 
Operational Bulletin 2014-1.

Unlawful Fees: 

Fees for background checks on rent stabilized 
tenants in occupancy. 

Fees cannot be charged to the tenant for a 
background check on a prospective roommate 
or additional family member.

Pet security deposits or fees for a service 
animal are in violation of the Fair Housing Act.

Effective November 21, 2022, fees (surcharges) 
for tenant-installed air conditioning units if the 
tenant pays for the electric utility service.

Fees for owner installed air conditioner 
brackets are prohibited. 

Fees including but not limited to damage 
fees, repair fees of any kind including those 
incurred for removal of municipal violations, 
painting fees, cleaning fees and other 
fees not established by or in excess of the 
amount allowed by the rent regulations or 
other municipal regulations are prohibited. 
Please note that the inappropriateness 
of imposing these fees through the lease 
may not necessarily prevent an owner from 
independently seeking other relief in court for 
objectionable conduct or damages. 

The $20 fee that must be paid by owners to 
the municipality for each stabilized apartment 
cannot be passed along as a fee to the tenant.


FS-44 (12/2022)
A PUBLICATION OF THE DIVISION OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL OFFICE OF RENT ADMINISTRATION

FACT SHEET #44: FEES
PAGE 3 OF 3

To visit a Borough Rent Office, by appointment only, please contact:

QUEENS
92-31 Union Hall Street 
6th Floor 
Jamaica, NY 11433
718-482-4041

BROOKLYN
55 Hanson Place 
6th Floor
Brooklyn, NY 11217
718-722-4778

UPPER MANHATTAN 
163 W. 125th Street 
5th Floor
New York, NY 10027
212-961-8930

LOWER MANHATTAN
25 Beaver Street 
New York, NY 10004
212-480-6238

BRONX
1 Fordham Plaza  
4th Floor
Bronx, NY 10458
718-430-0880

WESTCHESTER
75 South Broadway
3rd Floor
White Plains, NY 10601
914-948-4434

  Rent Connect: 


rent.hcr.ny.gov

  Ask a question: 

portal.hcr.ny.gov/app/
ask

  For translation help:


hcr.ny.gov/language-
accessibility

  Our website: 


hcr.ny.gov/rent

Filing complaints with DHCR

Tenants who have been billed for fees and/or 
surcharges that they may believe are unlawful 
or untimely have the right to file a complaint of 
rent overcharge on DHCR form RA-89 and/or 
pursue remedies in court. In processing these 
complaints, DHCR may request proof of purchase 
and/or installation, copies of leases, rent ledgers, 
other relevant evidence and may also conduct 
inspections. When DHCR identifies a pattern 
of multiple complaints filed by tenants in one 
building, or in a series of buildings that have 
common ownership, it may refer the cases in a 
consolidated manner for administrative and/or 
enforcement proceedings.


