SOURCE: https://hcr.ny.gov/system/files/documents/2024/01/fact-sheet-01-01-2024_0.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-28 via web_extract (hcr.ny.gov blocks curl from this host). AGENCY GUIDANCE (DHCR), not law. Content saved mechanically as returned.

A PUBLICATION OF THE DIVISION OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL OFFICE OF RENT ADMINISTRATION                                      FS-01 (01/2024)

3 PAGES

# 1
FACT SHEET

Rent Stabilization and Rent Control

Introduction

A number of communities in New York State 
have rent regulation programs known as rent 
control and rent stabilization. Two aspects of 
rent regulation are to protect tenants in privately-
owned buildings from illegal rent increases and 
to allow owners to maintain their buildings while 
realizing a reasonable profit. 

Rent control is the older of the two systems of rent 
regulation. It dates back to the housing shortage 
immediately following World War II and generally 
applies to buildings constructed before 1947. Rent 
stabilization generally covers buildings built after 
1947 and before 1974, and apartments removed 
from rent control. It also covers buildings that 
receive J-51, 421-a and 421-g tax benefits. These 
tax benefit programs have their own specific rules 
as to which apartments are covered. Outside New 
York City, rent stabilization is also known as ETPA, 
short for the Emergency Tenant Protection Act, 
and is applicable in select counties and localities 
(see Fact Sheet #8). As embodied in the rent 
regulations, rent stabilization can also apply to 
housing accommodations for which rentals are 
fixed by DHCR and other government agencies 
and public benefit corporations.

With the enactment of the Housing Stability 
and Tenant Protection Act (HSTPA) on June 14, 
2019, any locality in New York State can enact 
rent stabilization if “a declaration of emergency” 
regarding available apartments is made in the 
subject locality pursuant to the Emergency Tenant 
Protection Act (ETPA) of 1974. “A declaration of 
emergency” can be made if the vacancy rate for 

the housing accommodations or a class of housing 
accommodations within such municipality is less 
than five percent.

It is the responsibility of the locality to secure and 
obtain a survey of the housing accommodations to 
determine the existence of an emergency. 

Prior to June 14, 2019, the rent laws provided for 
the deregulation of apartments based on rents 
exceeding a certain threshold or based on the 
occupants’ income and rents exceeding certain 
thresholds. Pursuant to HSTPA, these forms of 
deregulation were repealed as of June 14, 2019.

RENT STABILIZATION

Rent stabilization provides protections to tenants 
besides limitations on the amount of rent 
increases. Tenants are entitled to receive required 
services, to have their leases renewed, and may 
not be evicted except on grounds allowed by 
law. Leases may be renewed for a term of one 
or two years, at the tenant’s choice. Tenants can 
file relevant complaints on a variety of forms 
created by the Division of Housing and Community 
Renewal (DHCR). DHCR is required to serve the 
complaint on the owner, gather evidence and then 
issue a written order which is subject to appeal.

If a tenant’s rights are violated, DHCR can 
reduce rents and levy civil penalties against the 
owner. Rents may be reduced if services are not 
maintained. In cases of overcharge, DHCR may 
assess penalties of interest or treble damages 
payable to the tenant. 


A PUBLICATION OF THE DIVISION OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL OFFICE OF RENT ADMINISTRATION                                      FS-01 (01/2024)

FACT SHEET #1: RENT STABILIZATION AND RENT CONTROL
PAGE 2 OF 3

Rent Increases 

The various Rent Guidelines Boards each set rates 
for rent increases in rent stabilized apartments in 
their respective municipalities (see Fact Sheets 
#8 and #26). These guideline rates are set once 
a year and are effective for vacancy and renewal 
leases beginning on or after October 1st of each 
year. Effective June 14, 2019, there is no statutory 
vacancy rate and no rent guidelines board vacancy 
rate. Additional details are provided in Fact Sheets 
#5 and #26.

Both in New York City and the ETPA covered 
communities, rents can be increased during the 
lease period in any one of three ways, so long as 
the lease provides for the collection of an increase 
during the lease term: 

1. with the written consent of the tenant in 

occupancy, if the owner increases services 
or equipment, or makes improvements to 
an apartment; 


2. with DHCR approval, if the owner installs a 

building-wide major capital improvement; or 


3. in cases of hardship with DHCR approval. 

Rent Overcharges 

For rent stabilized apartments, owners may be 
ordered to refund excess rent collected based 
upon a finding of a rent overcharge. A finding by 
DHCR of a willful rent overcharge by the owner 
may result in the assessment of treble (triple) 
damages payable to the tenant. With the passing 
of the HSTPA, the collectibility of overcharges 
has been increased from four to six years and the 
general period of rent history review (subject to 
exceptions) has been increased from four years 
to six years. Pre-HSTPA filed complaints will be 
reviewed in accordance with the laws in effect 
at the time of the filing, which limited the rental 
review to four years.

Rent Reductions for Decreases in Services 


Rents may be reduced if the owner fails to provide 
required services, or fails to make necessary 
repairs for an individual apartment or on a 
building-wide basis. Examples of such conditions 
are lack of heat/ hot water, unsanitary common 
areas (halls, lobby), and broken door locks. If a 
tenant receives a rent reduction from DHCR, the 
owner cannot collect any rent increases until 
services are restored and DHCR restores the rent. 

Harassment 

The law prohibits harassment of rent regulated 
tenants. Owners found guilty of intentional actions 
to force a tenant to vacate an apartment can be 
denied lawful rent increases and may be subject 
to both civil and criminal penalties. Owners found 
guilty of tenant harassment are subject to fines.

Rent Registration 

Within 90 days after an apartment first becomes 
subject to rent stabilization, an owner is 
required to file an initial registration. After the 
initial registration, owners must file an annual 
registration statement giving the April 1st rent for 
each unit and provide tenants with a copy of their 
respective apartment’s registration form.

RENT CONTROL

Rent control limits the rent an owner may charge 
for an apartment and restricts the right of any 
owner to evict tenants. Tenants are also entitled 
to receive essential services. Owners are not 
required to offer renewal leases, as tenants are 
considered “statutory” tenants. Tenants may file 
relevant complaints on a variety of forms created 
by DHCR. DHCR is required to serve the complaint 
on the owner, gather evidence and then can issue 
a written order which is subject to appeal. 

If a tenant’s rights are violated, DHCR can 
reduce rents and levy civil penalties against the 
owner. Rents may be reduced if services are not 
maintained. In cases of overcharge, DHCR may 


A PUBLICATION OF THE DIVISION OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL OFFICE OF RENT ADMINISTRATION                                      FS-01 (01/2024)

FACT SHEET #1: RENT STABILIZATION AND RENT CONTROL
PAGE 3 OF 3

To visit a Borough Rent Office, by appointment only, please contact:

QUEENS
92-31 Union Hall Street 
6th Floor 
Jamaica, NY 11433
718-482-4041

BROOKLYN
55 Hanson Place 
6th Floor
Brooklyn, NY 11217
718-722-4778

UPPER MANHATTAN 
163 W. 125th Street 
5th Floor
New York, NY 10027
212-961-8930

LOWER MANHATTAN
25 Beaver Street 
New York, NY 10004
212-480-6238

BRONX
1 Fordham Plaza  
4th Floor
Bronx, NY 10458
718-430-0880

WESTCHESTER
75 South Broadway
3rd Floor
White Plains, NY 10601
914-948-4434

  Rent Connect:  

rent.hcr.ny.gov

  Ask a question: 

portal.hcr.ny.gov/app/
ask

  For translation help: 

hcr.ny.gov/language-
accessibility

  Our website:  

hcr.ny.gov/rent

SOURCES:

New York City Rent Stabilization Code
Tenant Protection Regulations
New York City Rent and Eviction Regulations
New York State Rent and Eviction Regulations

establish the lawful collectible rent.

Rent Increases 

In New York City, rent control operates under the 
Maximum Base Rent (MBR) system. A maximum 
base rent is established for each apartment and 
adjusted every two years to reflect changes in 
operating costs. Owners, who certify that they are 
providing essential services and have removed 
violations, are entitled to raise rents the lesser of 
either the average of the five most recent Rent 
Guidelines Board annual rent increases for one-
year renewal leases or 7.5 percent each year 
until they reach the MBR. Tenants may challenge 
the proposed increase on the grounds that 
the building has violations or that the owner’s 
expenses do not warrant an increase. 

Outside New York City, the New York State 
Division of Housing and Community Renewal 
(DHCR) determines maximum allowable rates of 
rent increases under rent control subject to the 
limitations of the annual rent guideline board 
increases. Owners may apply for these increases 
periodically.

Rents can also be increased in any one of three 
ways, both inside and outside of New York City: 

1. with the written informed consent of 

the tenant in occupancy, if the owner 
increases services or equipment, or makes 

improvements to an apartment; 


2. with DHCR approval, if the owner installs a 

building-wide major capital improvement; or 


3. in cases of hardship with DHCR approval.

Rent Overcharges 

For rent controlled apartments, complaints 
submitted by tenants will result in an order by 
DHCR that establishes the Maximum Collectible 
Rent and directs that any overcharge be refunded 
for a period of no greater than two years before 
the filing of the complaint. If the refund is not 
made, the tenant can proceed to court to calculate 
the overcharge and enforce the order. 

Rent Reductions for Decreases in Services 

Please refer to the section above under Rent 
Stabilization. 

Harassment 

Please refer to the section above under Rent 
Stabilization. 

Rent Registration 

Apartments subject to Rent Control are not 
required to be registered annually with DHCR.


