SOURCE: https://hcr.ny.gov/system/files/documents/2025/11/fact-sheet-09-11-2025.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-28 via web_extract (hcr.ny.gov blocks curl from this host). AGENCY GUIDANCE (DHCR Fact Sheet #9, FS-09 (11/2025)), not law. Content saved mechanically as returned.

2 PAGES

# 9
FACT SHEET

A PUBLICATION OF THE DIVISION OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL OFFICE OF RENT ADMINISTRATION                                      FS-09 (11/2025) 

Renting an Apartment - Security Deposits and Other Charges

A security deposit is money that a tenant, their 
guarantor or other third-party deposits with the 
owner of the apartment for the repair of any 
damages to the apartment for which the tenant is 
responsible. 

The Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act 
(HSTPA) of 2019 limits the amount of a security 
deposit for any apartment to one month’s rent.  It 
is unlawful for the owner to ask for an additional 
amount of money from the tenant, guarantor or 
third party. If two months’ security deposit was 
collected from a tenant by the owner when the 
apartment first came under rent stabilization, and 
the same tenant is still occupying the apartment, 
the owner must refund to the tenant any additional 
security deposit which exceeds one month’s rent. 
The next rent stabilized tenant cannot be required 
to deposit more than one month’s rent as security 
deposit. The tenant can file a “Tenant’s Complaint 
of Rent and/or Other Specific Overcharges in a 
Rent Stabilized Apartment” (DHCR Form RA-89) if 
the owner demands the tenant, a guarantor, or any 
third party on behalf of the tenant pay more than 
one month’s security.

A building owner or property manager is 
prohibited by law from requesting or otherwise 
requiring payment of a deposit or additional 
charge to reserve an apartment unit. Such room 
reservation charges or deposits, whether paid for 
or demanded from the tenant, a guarantor, or other 
third party, are unlawful. Such demands, charges, 
and requirements are often referred to as “key 
money.” 

Effective June 11, 2025, the Fairness in Apartment 
Rental Expenses (FARE) Act prohibits brokers who 
represent landlords from charging broker fees to 
tenants. This includes brokers who publish listings 
with the landlord’s permission. Landlords or their 
agents must disclose other fees that the tenant 
must pay in their listings and rental agreements. 
The NYC Department of Consumer and Worker 
Protection (DCWP) will enforce this law. Any 
person who violates this act would be subject 
to a civil penalty or civil action. DHCR retains its 
jurisdiction as well, over rent stabilized apartments.

DHCR may determine that a rent overcharge 
was collected if it is found that a building owner, 
property manager, and their agents or employees 
collected a broker’s fee for the rental of a unit 
they own or manage. A company and a real 
estate broker or salesperson are also prohibited 
from collecting a broker’s fee for the rental of an 
apartment unit that is owned or managed by a 
building owner or property manager with whom 
the company, broker, or salesperson is affiliated. 

When a lease is renewed at a higher rental 
amount, or the rent is increased during the term of 
the lease, the owner can collect additional money 
from the tenant to bring the security deposit up 
to the new monthly rent. Even though a tenant 
may be exempt from paying a lease increase 
because of his or her Senior Citizen Rent Increase 
Exemption (SCRIE) or Disability Rent Increase 
Exemption (DRIE), the tenant must still pay the 
increased security. 


A PUBLICATION OF THE DIVISION OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY RENEWAL OFFICE OF RENT ADMINISTRATION                                      FS-09 (11/2025) 

FACT SHEET #9: RENTING AN APARTMENT - SECURITY DEPOSITS AND OTHER CHARGES
PAGE 2 OF 2

To visit a Borough Rent Office, by appointment only, please contact:

QUEENS
92-31 Union Hall Street 
6th Floor 
Jamaica, NY 11433
718-482-4041

BROOKLYN
55 Hanson Place 
6th Floor
Brooklyn, NY 11217
718-722-4778

UPPER MANHATTAN 
163 W. 125th Street 
5th Floor
New York, NY 10027
212-961-8930

LOWER MANHATTAN
25 Beaver Street 
New York, NY 10004
212-480-6238

BRONX
1 Fordham Plaza  
4th Floor
Bronx, NY 10458
718-430-0880

WESTCHESTER
75 South Broadway
3rd Floor
White Plains, NY 10601
914-948-4434

  Rent Connect:  

rent.hcr.ny.gov

  Ask a question: 

portal.hcr.ny.gov/app/
ask

  For translation help: 

hcr.ny.gov/language-
accessibility

  Our website:  

hcr.ny.gov/rent

SOURCES

New York City Rent Stabilization Code
Tenant Protection Regulations
New York City Rent and Eviction Regulations
New York State Rent and Eviction Regulations
Housing Stability and Tenant Protection Act of 2019

The security deposit must be kept by the owner 
in an interest-bearing account in a New York State 
bank. The owner must notify the tenant of the 
name and address of the bank and pay the tenant 
the full annual interest, less 1% of the security 
deposit per year for the owner’s administrative 
costs. The tenant can choose whether the interest 
is to be subtracted from the rent, held in trust until 
the end of the tenancy, or paid in a lump sum at 
the end of each year.

Effective November 15, 2025, changes to Section 
7-107 of the General Obligations Law governing 
security deposits extend certain protections to 
rent stabilized tenants. In summary, owners must 
return the tenant’s full security deposit within 14 
days after they move out. Owners may keep only 
the amount legally allowed for unpaid rent, utilities, 
damages beyond normal wear and tear, and 
moving and storage of the tenant’s belongings. 
Owners who withhold any part of the security 
deposit must provide the tenant with an itemized 
list of damages and the cost of repairs. Tenants are 
given the right to an inspection of the apartment 
upon timely notification of the owner or tenant’s 
intent to end the tenancy. After the inspection, the 
owner shall provide the tenant with an itemized 
statement of repairs that would be deducted from 
the security deposit, and the tenant shall have an 
opportunity to cure any such conditions before 

the end of the tenancy. In addition, before the 
commencement of the tenancy and the signing of 
a lease, the tenant can request an inspection to 
identify any issues that could lead to deductions 
from the security deposit. 

If the tenant disagrees with the owner over the 
return of the security deposit or payment of 
interest, the tenant may begin a proceeding in 
small claims court or contact the Consumer Frauds 
and Protection Bureau of the New York State 
Attorney General’s Office.


