SOURCE: https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCadmin/0-0-0-112672
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-28 from American Legal Publishing official bulk XML (http://files.amlegal.com/pdffiles/NewYorkCity/Admin/XML.zip; 'Current through Local Law 2026/110' for Admin Code, 'rules effective June 19, 2026' for RCNY), text extracted mechanically from XML file 0-0-0-201924.xml

§ 26-512 Stabilization provisions.

a. No owner of property subject to this law shall charge or collect any rent in excess of the initial legal regulated rent or adjusted initial legal regulated rent until the end of any lease or other rental agreement in effect on the local effective date until such time as a different legal regulated rent shall be authorized pursuant to guidelines adopted by a rent guidelines board.

b. The initial regulated rent for housing accommodations subject to this law on the local effective date of the emergency tenant protection act of nineteen seventy-four or which become subject to this law thereafter, pursuant to such act, shall be:

(1) For housing accommodations which were regulated pursuant to this law or the city rent and rehabilitation law prior to July first, nineteen hundred seventy-one, and which became vacant on or after such date and prior to the local effective date of the emergency tenant protection act of nineteen seventy-four, the rent reserved in the last effective lease or other rental agreement; provided that such initial rent may be adjusted on application of the tenant pursuant to subdivision b of section 26-513 of this chapter.

(2) For housing accommodations which were regulated pursuant to the city rent and rehabilitation law on the local effective date of the emergency tenant protection act of nineteen seventy-four, and thereafter become vacant, the rent agreed to by the landlord and the tenant and reserved in a lease or provided for in a rental agreement; provided that such initial rent may be adjusted on application of the tenant pursuant to subdivision b of section 26-513 of this chapter.

(3) For housing accommodations other than those described in paragraphs one and two of this subdivision, the rent reserved in the last effective lease or other rental agreement.

(4) For any plot or parcel of land which had been regulated pursuant to the city rent and rehabilitation law prior to July first, nineteen hundred seventy-one and which,

(i) became vacant on or after July first, nineteen hundred seventy-one and prior to July first, nineteen hundred seventy-four, the rent reserved in a lease or other rental agreement in effect on June thirtieth, nineteen hundred seventy-four plus increases authorized by the rent guidelines board under this law for leases or other rental agreements commencing thereafter; provided that such initial rent may be adjusted on application of the tenant pursuant to subdivision b of section 26-513 of this chapter or,

(ii) became vacant on or after July first, nineteen hundred seventy-four, the rent agreed to by the landlord and the tenant and reserved in a lease or other rental agreement plus increases authorized by the rent guidelines board under this law for leases or other rental agreements commencing thereafter; provided that such initial rent may be adjusted on application of the tenant pursuant to subdivision b of section 26-513 of this chapter.

(iii) Where the commissioner has determined that the rent charged is in excess of the lawful rents as stated in subparagraph (i) or (ii) hereof, plus lawful increases thereafter, he or she shall provide for a cash refund or a credit, to be applied against future rent, in the amount of any rent overcharge collected by an owner and any penalties, costs, attorneys' fees and interest from the date of the overcharge at the rate of interest payable on a judgment pursuant to section five thousand four of the civil practice law and rules for which the owner is assessed.

c. With respect to accommodations for which the initial legal regulated rent is governed by paragraph two of subdivision b hereof, no increase of such initial legal regulated rent pursuant to annual guidelines adopted by the rent guidelines board shall become effective until the expiration of the first lease or rental agreement taking effect after the local effective date of the emergency tenant protection act of nineteen seventy-four, but in no event before one year after the commencement of such rental agreement.

d. With respect to accommodations, other than those referred to in subdivision c, for which a lease is entered into after the local effective date of the emergency tenant protection act of nineteen seventy-four, but before the effective date of the first guidelines applicable to such accommodations, the lease may provide for an adjustment of rent pursuant to such guidelines to be effective on the first day of the month next succeeding the effective date of such guidelines.

e. Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of this law, on and after July first, nineteen hundred eighty-four, the legal regulated rent authorized for a housing accommodation subject to the provisions of this law shall be the rent registered pursuant to section 26-517 of this chapter subject to any modification imposed pursuant to this law.

f. No owner of a housing accommodation subject to the provisions of this law shall impose any surcharge for the installation and use of a tenant-installed air conditioner unit where the tenant pays for electric utility service. [ALP S-079]

g. An owner, lessor or agent thereof shall be prohibited from assessing a lessee any fee, surcharge or other charges for legal services in connection with the operation or rental of a residential unit unless the owner, lessor or agent has the legal authority to do so pursuant to a court order. Legal services include, but are not limited to, court fees, legal representation, attorney fees, notary public charges, and administrative fees incurred by the owner, lessor or agent in connection with management of the building, including actions and proceedings in a court of law. Any agreement or assessment to the contrary shall be void as contrary to public policy. [ALP S-068]

(Am. 2019 N.Y. Laws Ch. 36 Pt. B § 3, 6/14/2019, eff. 6/14/2019; Am. 2021 N.Y. Laws Ch. 695, 12/21/2021, eff. 12/21/2021; Am. 2022 N.Y. Laws Ch. 619, 11/21/2022, eff. 11/21/2022) [ALP S-079]
