SOURCE: New York Codes, Rules and Regulations, 9 NYCRR Part 2206, as published on govt.westlaw.com/nycrr (the online NYCRR the NYS Department of State provides through Thomson Reuters; the site calls itself the 'Unofficial New York Codes, Rules and Regulations' and each section states the date of the most recent official NYCRR supplement it reflects).
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-28 by curl, one request per section; HTML stripped mechanically; each section below keeps its own URL and 'Current through' line.
CURRENCY WARNING: every section in this Part reads 'Current through September 15, 2021'. DHCR amendments adopted after that date (NYS Register 2023-11-08, eff. 2023-11-08) are NOT in this text; see NYC_NYSREG_2023-11-08_* and NYC_DHCR_*_2023_amendment_text_PARTIAL.txt.

=== s 2206.1 Criminal penalties. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f887e05cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.1 Criminal penalties.

Any person who willfully violates any provision of section Y51-10.0 of the Rent Law shall be guilty of and punishable for a crime as specified in section 1(10) of the State Enabling Act, namely, such person shall be subject to a fine of not more than $5,000, or to imprisonment for not more than two years in the case of a violation of subdivision c of section Y51-10.0 of the Rent Law, and for not more than one year in all other cases, or to both such fine and imprisonment. The administrator may certify such facts, which in his opinion constitute such violation, to the district attorney having jurisdiction thereof.

9 CRR-NY 2206.1
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2206.2 Injunctions. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f887e08cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.2 Injunctions.

The administrator may, whenever in his judgment any person has engaged in or is about to engage in acts or practices which constitute or will constitute a violation of any provision of section Y51-10.0 of the Rent Law, apply to the Supreme Court for an order (a) enjoining such acts or practices, (b) enforcing compliance with such provision of said section or with an order issued by the administrator, or (c) directing the landlord to correct such violation of such provision; and upon sufficient showing, the Supreme Court may issue a temporary or permanent injunction, restraining order or other order, all of which shall be granted without bond. Jurisdiction shall not be deemed lacking in the Supreme Court because a defense is based upon order of an inferior court.

9 CRR-NY 2206.2
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2206.3 Civil penalties. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f887e0bcd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.3 Civil penalties.

The administrator may, whenever any person has engaged in acts or practices which constitute a violation of any provision of section 26-412 of the Rent Law or Part 2205 of this Title, or where more than six months have elapsed since the landlord's failure to use a certificate of eviction for the purpose for which it was issued, and either the administrator has not waived such failure to use such certificate for the designated purpose or the tenant has not commenced civil action against the landlord as provided in section 2206.7 of this Part, impose civil penalty by order after a hearing by reason of such violation and bring an action to recover same in any court of competent jurisdiction. Such penalty, in the case of a violation of subdivision d of section 26-412 of the Rent Law or section 2206.5 of this Part, shall be in the amount of not less than $2,000 nor more than $10,000 for each such offense or for a violation consisting of conduct directed at the tenants of more than one housing accommodation; and in the case of any other violation of such provisions of the Rent Law or this Subchapter, in the amount of $1,000 for the first offense and $2,000 for each subsequent offense. Such order shall be deemed a final determination for the purposes of judicial review as provided in section 26-411 of the Rent Law and section 2208.12 of this Title. Such action shall be brought on behalf of the city, and any amount recovered shall be paid into the city treasury. Such right of action may be released, compromised or adjusted by the administrator at any time subsequent to the issuance of such administrative order.

9 CRR-NY 2206.3
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2206.4 Civil action by administrator. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f88a502cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.4 Civil action by administrator.

The administrator may, whenever in his judgment any person has engaged in acts or practices which constitute a violation of any provision of section Y51-10.0 of the Rent Law, commence an action to recover damages, as provided for in section 2206.8 of this Part, in the event that (a) the tenant has not previously commenced such an action as therein provided, and (b) more than six months have elapsed since the occurrence of the violation or issuance of the order. An action instituted by the administrator shall constitute a bar to an action by the person aggrieved. The administrator shall pay over one half of the sum recovered in such action to the person aggrieved and one half to the city treasury, exclusive of costs and disbursements.

9 CRR-NY 2206.4
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2206.5 Finding of harassment. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f88a505cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.5 Finding of harassment.

(a) The administrator may, subject to the provisions of subdivision (c) of this section, make a finding of harassment whenever he determines the existence of a violation of section 2205.1(b) of this Title (section Y51-10.0d of the Rent Law), in which event the administrator may:

(1) dismiss any pending application for a certificate of eviction, and grant any subsequent application for such certificate only upon such terms and conditions as he deems necessary to prevent the circumvention or evasion of provisions of this Title;

(2) determine that such housing accommodations or any replacement or subdivision thereof (whether or not by demolition, alteration or substantial rehabilitation) shall constitute housing accommodations subject to control under these regulations, notwithstanding any definition of that term to the contrary; and

(3) refuse to credit any adjustments increasing rent mandated by Part 2202 of this Title (section Y51-5.0 of the Rent Law), and dismiss any application for an adjustment pursuant to said section for such time and under such terms and conditions as the Division of Housing and Community Renewal deems necessary to prevent circumvention or evasion of the Rent Law and these regulations.

(b) After a landlord has evidenced an intent to cause a building, or individual housing accommodation therein, to become or to remain vacant, or has certified his intention to alter or demolish a structure pursuant to section 2203.10 of this Title, a failure to secure vacant housing accommodations in said premises, or public portions of said premises, or a decrease, discontinuance, interruption or interference with or of any of the following services at said premises, shall constitute presumptive evidence of intent and conduct in violation of section 2205.1(b) of this Title:

(1) garbage collection;

(2) elevator service;

(3) heat during that part of the year when same is required by law;

(4) hot or cold water;

(5) superintendent;

(6) front or entrance door security systems, including but not exclusive of lock and buzzer; and

(7) gas, electricity and other utility services to either public or private areas.

(c) Where the administrator makes a finding of harassment with respect to housing accommodations in which the affected tenant or tenants have not vacated, the landlord may, no sooner than one year after such harassment order is issued, apply for an order terminating such finding by submitting affirmative proof that the proscribed course of conduct has not been engaged in since the issuance of such order. In the event the tenant or tenants of housing accommodations affected by such order vacate at any time after the commencement of the harassment proceeding, the landlord may, no sooner than two years after the issuance of such order, apply for an order terminating the finding of harassment by submitting affirmative proof of the voluntary surrender of the vacated housing accommodation by the tenants in occupancy when the harassment order was issued and the discontinuance of the proscribed course of conduct from the date of such order.

(d) No proceeding to determine whether housing accommodations have become vacant as a result of harassment may be commenced later than 30 days after the entire structure shall have been vacated, unless the landlord failed to certify his intent to alter or demolish the premises as provided in section 2203.10 of this Title, or has used the housing accommodation or the site for purposes other than those specified in a certificate of eviction as provided in section 2205.1(e) of this Title. No proceeding shall be maintained for acts performed in good faith and in a reasonable manner for the purposes of operating, maintaining or repairing any building or part thereof. A finding of harassment shall be attached to and noted upon the registration of the housing accommodations affected by such findings, and a copy thereof shall be filed and docketed in the manner of a notice of mechanic's lien affecting the property. The provisions of this subdivision shall bind all persons or parties who succeed to the landlord's interest in said housing accommodations.

(e) The administrator may make a finding of harassment whenever he determines the existence of conditions which bar decontrol otherwise permitted pursuant to provisions of section 2200.2(f)(17) of this Title. A decrease, discontinuance, interruption or interference with any essential service, resulting in an order decreasing the maximum legal rent for a housing accommodation pursuant to section 2202.16 or 2202.17 of this Title, shall constitute presumptive evidence of intent and conduct constituting harassment. Housing accommodations affected by an order decreasing the maximum legal rent, pursuant to section 2202.16 or 2202.17 of this Title, shall not be decontrolled pursuant to section 2200.2(f)(17) unless the landlord obtains an order either restoring the rent previously reduced pursuant to section 2202.4(a) or terminating the presumptive finding of harassment as provided for in subdivision (c) of this section without regard to the time limitation therein contained.

9 CRR-NY 2206.5
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2206.6 Revocation of orders. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f88a508cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.6 Revocation of orders.

(a) The administrator may revoke any order or determination based upon any statement or entry false in any material respect in any document or report submitted in any proceeding before the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, or required to be kept or filed under the Rent Law or these regulations or any requirements thereunder.

(b) Where after the State Rent Commission or the administrator has granted a certificate of eviction and a tenant voluntarily removes from a housing accommodation, or has been removed therefrom by action or proceeding to evict from or recover possession of a housing accommodation, and the landlord or any successor landlord of the premises does not use the housing accommodation for the purpose specified in such certificate of eviction, the vacated accommodation or any replacement or subdivision thereof shall, unless the administrator approves such different purpose, be deemed a housing accommodation subject to control, notwithstanding any definition of that term in these regulations to the contrary. Such approval shall be granted whenever the administrator finds that the failure or omission to use the housing accommodation for the purpose specified in such certificate was not inconsistent with the purposes of the Rent Law and these regulations, and would not be likely to result in the circumvention or evasion thereof.

9 CRR-NY 2206.6
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2206.7 Civil action by tenant where landlord fails to use certificate of eviction for purposes specified therein. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f88a50bcd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.7 Civil action by tenant where landlord fails to use certificate of eviction for purposes specified therein.

Where after the administrator has granted a certificate of eviction authorizing the landlord to pursue his remedies pursuant to law to acquire possession, and a tenant voluntarily removes from a housing accommodation or has been removed therefrom by action or proceeding to evict from or recover possession of a housing accommodation upon the ground that the landlord seeks in good faith to recover possession:

(a) for his immediate and personal use, or for the immediate and personal use by a member or members of his immediate family, and such landlord or members of his immediate family shall fail to occupy such accommodation within 30 days after the tenant vacates;

(b) for the immediate purpose of withdrawing such housing accommodation from the rental market, and such landlord shall lease or sell the housing accommodation or the space previously occupied thereby, or permit use thereof in a manner other than contemplated in such eviction certificate within a period of one year after such removal of the tenant;

(c) for the immediate purpose of altering or remodeling such housing accommodation, and the landlord (who required possession for the purpose of effecting such alteration or remodeling) shall fail to start the work of alteration or remodeling of such housing accommodation within 90 days after the removal of the last tenant whose removal is necessary to enable the landlord to effect such alteration or remodeling of such accommodation or, if after having commenced such work, shall fail or neglect to prosecute the work with reasonable diligence;

(d) for the immediate purpose of demolishing such housing accommodations and constructing a new building in accordance with approved plans, or reasonable amendment thereof, and the landlord has failed to complete the demolition within six months after the removal of the last tenant or, having demolished the premises, has failed or neglected to proceed with the new construction within 90 days after the completion of such demolition or, having commenced such construction work, has failed or neglected to prosecute such work with reasonable diligence; or

(e) for some purpose other than those specified above for which the removal of the tenant was sought and the landlord has failed to use the vacated premises for such purposes; such landlord shall, unless for good cause shown, be liable to the tenant for three times the damages sustained on account of such removal, plus reasonable attorney's fees and costs as determined by the court, provided the tenant commences such action within three years from the expiration of the applicable time period as set forth in this section. The damages sustained by the tenant under this section shall be the difference between the rent paid for the housing accommodation from which the tenant was evicted and the rental value of a comparable housing accommodation on the open market. In addition to any other damage, the cost of removal of the tenant's property shall be a lawful measure of damages. The remedy herein provided for shall be in addition to those provided for in any other section of these regulations. Such acts and omissions on the part of a landlord after issuance of a certificate of eviction are hereby declared to be inconsistent with the purposes for which such certificate of eviction was issued.

9 CRR-NY 2206.7
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2206.8 Civil action by tenant. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f88a50ecd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.8 Civil action by tenant.

(a) A tenant may bring an action against his landlord, in any court of competent jurisdiction, for a violation of subdivision a of section Y51-10.0 of the Rent Law:

(1) within two years from the date of occurrence of an overcharge,defined to mean the amount by which the consideration paid by a tenant to a landlord exceeds the applicable maximum rent;

(2) within one year after the landlord fails to pay a refund as ordered by the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, such time to be calculated from 33 days after the date of the issuance of the order or when the order becomes final, whichever is later; or

(3) in the case of an act proscribed by subdivision e of section Y51-10.0 of the Rent Law, within two years after knowledge of such statement or omission and consequent violation has been made known to the tenant or to the Division of Housing and Community Renewal.

(b) The landlord shall be liable for reasonable attorney's fees and costs, as determined by the court, plus whichever of the following sums is the greater:

(1) such amount, not more than three times the amount of the overcharge or overcharges upon which the action is based, as the court in its discretion may determine; or

(2) an amount not less than $25; provided, however, that such amount shall be the amount of the overcharge or overcharges, or $25, whichever is greater; if the defendant proves that the violation of the regulation or order in question was neither willful nor the result of failure to take practicable precautions against the occurrence of the violation.

9 CRR-NY 2206.8
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2206.9 Civil action by tenant for unlawful eviction or for surrender of possession as result of harassment. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f88a511cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.9 Civil action by tenant for unlawful eviction or for surrender of possession as result of harassment.

(a) A tenant or occupant who is unlawfully removed by a landlord from any housing accommodation may, within two years from the date of the occurrence, bring a civil action against the landlord by reason of such unlawful removal. In such action, the landlord shall be liable to the tenant for three times the damages sustained on account of such removal, plus reasonable attorney's fees and costs as determined by the court. The damages sustained by the tenant under this subdivision shall be the difference between the rent paid for the housing accommodation from which the tenant was evicted and the rental value of a comparable housing accommodation on the open market. In addition to any other damage, the cost of removal of the tenant's property shall be a lawful measure of damages.

(b) Any tenant who has vacated his housing accommodations, because the landlord or any person acting on his behalf, with intent to cause the tenant to vacate, engaged in any course of conduct (including but not limited to interruption or discontinuance of essential services) which interfered with or disturbed, or was intended to interfere with or disturb, the comfort, repose, peace or quiet of the tenant in his use and occupancy of the housing accommodations, may, within 90 days after vacating, apply to the administrator for a determination that the housing accommodations were vacated as a result of such conduct and, within one year after determination of such fact by the administrator as provided in section 2206.5(e) of this Part, institute a civil action against the landlord by reason of such conduct. In such action the landlord shall be liable to the tenant for three times the damages sustained on account of such conduct, plus reasonable attorney's fees and costs as determined by the court. The damages sustained by the tenant under this subdivision shall be the difference between the rent paid for the housing accommodation from which the tenant was evicted and the rental value of a comparable housing accommodation on the open market. In addition to any other damages, the cost of removal of the tenant's property shall be a lawful measure of damages.

9 CRR-NY 2206.9
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2206.10 Miscellaneous provisions. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f88a514cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.10 Miscellaneous provisions.

(a) Any court shall advance on the docket or otherwise expedite the disposition of any action or proceeding brought before it under subdivision 10 of section 1 of the State Enabling Act.

(b) Except as otherwise provided therein, the provisions of sections 2206.2 through 2206.9 of this Part are cumulative. The enforcement of one provision herein shall not constitute a bar to the enforcement by action, proceeding or by making a finding or determination pursuant to other provisions of these regulations.

(c) The administrator may direct that a refund payment to the tenant, for rent collected in violation of subdivision a of section Y51-10.0 of the Rent Law, include interest from the date of each excessive payment of rent. Where the administrator has revoked an order or determination premised on a false statement or entry, he may withhold issuance of an order granting increase in maximum rent for such housing accommodations until the landlord has complied with the refund directive, if any, provided for in such order of revocation.

(d) No person (including but not limited to any officer or employee of the Division of Housing and Community Renewal) shall be held liable for damages or penalties in any court, on any grounds for or in respect of anything done or omitted to be done in good faith pursuant to any provision of the State Rent Act or the Rent Law, or any regulation, order or requirement thereunder, notwithstanding that subsequently such provision, regulation, order or requirement may be modified, rescinded, or determined to be invalid. In any action or proceeding wherein a party relies for ground of relief or defense or raises issue or brings into question the construction or validity of any provision of the Rent Law, or any regulation, order or requirement thereunder, the court having jurisdiction of such action or proceeding may at any stage certify such fact to the Division of Housing and Community Renewal. The administrator may intervene in any such action or proceeding.

9 CRR-NY 2206.10
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2206.11 Inspection and records. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f88a517cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2206.11 Inspection and records.

(a) Any person who rents or offers for rent or acts as a broker or agent for the rental of any housing accommodations shall, as the administrator may from time to time require, furnish information under oath or affirmation or otherwise, permit inspection and copying of records and other documents, and permit inspection of any such housing accommodations.

(b) Any person who rents or offers for rent, or acts as a broker or agent for the rental of any housing accommodations, shall, as the administrator may from time to time require, make and keep records and other documents and make reports.

9 CRR-NY 2206.11
Current through September 15, 2021
