SOURCE: https://hcr.ny.gov/new-york-city-rent-and-eviction-regulations-amendments (DHCR, full text of the New York City Rent and Eviction Regulations amendments, 9 NYCRR Parts 2200-2211, adopted eff. 2023-11-08, NYS Register HCR-35-22-00004-A, 'Final rule as compared with last published rule: No changes')
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-28 from the Internet Archive capture https://web.archive.org/web/20240821131948id_/https://hcr.ny.gov/new-york-city-rent-and-eviction-regulations-amendments (the URL serves a PDF; hcr.ny.gov itself blocks automated access). Text extracted mechanically with pdftotext -layout; page-number lines and blank lines dropped. [brackets] = deleted matter; underlining of new matter is lost in text extraction. This file supersedes NYC_DHCR_RER_2023_amendment_text_PARTIAL.txt as the complete copy.

NEW YORK CITY RENT AND EVICTION REGULATIONS AMENDMENTS
9 NYCRR § 2200.1 is amended to read as follows:
These regulations are adopted and promulgated [by the] pursuant to the powers granted to the
Division of Housing and Community Renewal and pursuant to the City Rent and Rehabilitation
Law (title Y of chapter 51 of the Administrative Code of the City of New York, formerly being
chapter 41 and renumbered by chapter 100 of the Laws of 1963, as amended) and the Local
Emergency Housing Rent Control Act (chapter 21 of the Laws of 1962) and the Omnibus Housing
Act (chapter 403 of the Laws of 1983). As used in these regulations, the term Rent Law shall mean
the Rent and Rehabilitation Law of the City of New York.
9 NYCRR § 2200.2(f)(15)(i) is amended as follows:
(i) Individual housing accommodations having unfurnished maximum rents of $250 or more per
month as of April 1, 1965, or furnished maximum rents of $300 or more per month as of April 1,
1965, which are or [become] became vacant after January 29, 1968 by voluntary surrender of
possession or in the manner provided by Part 2204 of this Title; or
9 NYCRR 2200.2(f)(18) is amended as follows:
Housing accommodations not occupied by the tenant, not including subtenants or occupants, as
[his] their primary residence as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. For the purposes
of determining primary residency, a tenant who is a victim of domestic violence, as defined in
section four hundred fifty-nine-a of the social services law, who has left the unit because of such
violence, and who asserts an intent to return to the housing accommodation shall be deemed to
be occupying the unit as his or her primary residence. In addition, a tenant who has left the
housing accommodation and is paying a nominal rent pursuant to Part 2202.17 (13)(iii) of this
Title shall be deemed to be occupying the unit as his or her primary residence.
9 NYCRR 2200.2(f)(19) is amended as follows:
(19) (i) Effective June 14, 2019, high rent vacancy deregulation is no longer applicable. Any
apartment that was lawfully deregulated pursuant to the City Rent and Rehabilitation Law
section 26-403(e)(2)(k) shall remain deregulated, notwithstanding that such section was repealed
pursuant to Chapters 36 and 39 of the Laws of 2019.
[Housing accommodations which:
(i) became vacant on or after July 7, 1993 but before April 1, 1994 where, at any time between
July 7, 1993 and October 1, 1993, inclusive, the maximum rent was $2,000 or more per month;
or
(ii) became vacant on or after April 1, 1994 but before April 1, 1997, with a maximum rent of
$2,000 or more per month; or
(iii) became vacant on or after April 1, 1997 but before June 19, 1997, where the maximum rent
at the time the tenant vacated was $2,000 or more per month; or
(iv) became or become vacant on or after June 19, 1997 but before June 24, 2011, with a
maximum rent of $2,000 or more per month;
(v) became or become vacant on or after June 24, 2011, with a maximum rent of $2,500 or more
per month;
(vi) exemption pursuant to this paragraph shall apply regardless of whether the next tenant in
occupancy or any subsequent tenant in occupancy is charged or pays less than the applicable
amount qualifying for deregulation as provided in this paragraph;
(vii) exemption pursuant to this paragraph shall not apply to housing accommodations which
became or become subject to the Rent Law and this Subchapter solely by virtue of the receipt of
tax benefits pursuant to section 489 of the Real Property Tax Law;
(viii) exemption pursuant to this paragraph shall not apply to or become effective with respect to
housing accommodations for which the administrator determines or finds that the landlord or any
person acting on his or her behalf, with intent to cause the tenant to vacate, engaged in any
course of conduct (including, but not limited to, interruption or discontinuance of required
services) which interfered with or disturbed or was intended to interfere with or disturb the
comfort, repose, peace or quiet of the tenant in his or her use or occupancy of the housing
accommodations. In connection with such course of conduct, any other general enforcement
provision of the Rent Law and this Subchapter shall also apply;
(ix) during the period of effectiveness of an order issued pursuant to section 2202.16 of this Title
for failure to maintain required services, which lowers the maximum rent below the applicable
amount qualifying for deregulation as provided in this paragraph, during the time period
specified in this paragraph, a vacancy shall not qualify the housing accommodation for
exemption under this paragraph; and
(x) housing accommodations which become exempt from this Subchapter pursuant to this
paragraph shall not become subject to the provisions of the Rent Stabilization Code upon being
re-rented.]
9 NYCRR 2200.2(f)(20) is amended as follows:
(i) Effective June 14, 2019, high rent high income deregulation is no longer applicable. Any
apartment that was lawfully deregulated pursuant to the City Rent and Rehabilitation Law
sections 26-403(e)(2)(j) and 26-403.1 shall remain deregulated, notwithstanding that such
sections were repealed pursuant to Chapters 36 and 39 of the Laws of 2019. For the purposes of
this subdivision, lawful deregulation shall be defined as the issuance of an order by the DHCR
pursuant to the City Rent and Rehabilitation Law Sections 26-403(e)(2)(j) and 26-403.1, and the
expiration of any time period contained in such order establishing the date of deregulation which
expired prior to June 14, 2019.
(ii) Effective June 14, 2019, no further high rent high income deregulation proceedings pursuant
to this Title may be commenced, and all pending applications shall be dismissed as not subject to
deregulation. For the purposes of this paragraph, an application shall not be considered pending
if the subject housing accommodation was lawfully deregulated pursuant to such application
prior to June 14, 2019, and such lawful deregulation is subject to review as of June 14, 2019 in a
Court of competent jurisdiction, before the commissioner pursuant to a petition for
administrative review, or before the rent administrator subsequent to a remand for further
consideration by either the commissioner or a court.
[Upon the issuance of an order by the city rent agency, pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Part 2211 of this Title, including orders resulting from default, housing accommodations which:
(i) have a maximum rent of $2,000 or more per month as of October 1, 1993 or as of any date on
or after April 1, 1994, and which are occupied by persons who had a total annual income in
excess of $250,000 per annum for each of the two preceding calendar years, where the first of
such two preceding calendar years is 1992 through 1995 inclusive, and in excess of $175,000,
where the first of such two preceding calendar years is 1996 through 2009 inclusive, with total
annual income being defined in and subject to the limitations and process set forth in Part 2211
of this Title;
(ii) have a maximum rent of $2,500 or more per month as of July 1, 2011 and which are
occupied by persons who had a total annual income in excess of $200,000 per annum for each of
the two preceding calendar years, where the first of such two preceding calendar years is 2010 or
later, with total annual income being defined in and subject to the limitations and process set
forth in Part 2211 of this Title;
(iii) exemption pursuant to this paragraph shall not apply to housing accommodations which
became or become subject to the Rent Law and this Subchapter solely by virtue of the receipt of
tax benefits pursuant to section 489 of the Real Property Tax Law; and
(iv) in determining whether the maximum rent for a housing accommodation is the applicable
amount qualifying for deregulation, the standards set forth in paragraph (19) of this subdivision
shall be applicable; to be eligible for exemption under this paragraph, the maximum rent must
continuously be the applicable amount qualifying for deregulation as provided in paragraph (19)
of this subdivision, from the landlord's service of the income certification form provided for in
section 2211.2 of this Title upon the tenant to the issuance of an order deregulating the housing
accommodation.]
9 NYCRR 2200.2 (i), (k), and (o) are amended as follows:
(i) Maximum rent.
The maximum lawful rent for use of housing accommodations. Maximum rents may be
formulated in terms of rents and other charges and allowances[.], authorized by law.
(k) Rent.
Consideration, charge, fee or other thing of value, including any bonus, benefit or gratuity
demanded or received for or in connection with the use or occupancy of housing
accommodations or the transfer of a lease [of] for such housing accommodations. Rent shall not
include authorized surcharges, fees, charges or penalties.
(o) Tenant.
A tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee or any other person entitled to the possession or to the use
or occupancy of any housing accommodation or is entitled to occupy the housing
accommodation as a tenant pursuant to any other provision of this Title.
9 NYCRR 2200.3 is amended to add new subdivisions (k) and (l) to read as follows:
(k) Common Ownership. For the purposes of Section 2202.4 of this Part, Common Ownership
shall be defined as any identity of interest or relationship based on family ties or financial
interest between the owner/managing agent of a property and any other entity with which the
owner/managing agent conducts business.
(l) DHCR. The New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, an executive
agency component of New York State Homes and Community Renewal.
9 NYCRR § 2200.14 non-enumerated paragraph is numbered subdivision (a) and amended
as follows and new subdivisions (b), (c), (d) and (e) are added as follows:
(a) No payment of rent need be made unless the landlord tenders a receipt [for the amount to
be paid when so requested by the tenant]. The landlord shall issue to every tenant [either a
rent bill or] a rent receipt at the time of each rental payment in the form of cash, or any
instrument other than the personal check of the tenant. The written receipt shall contain the
date; the amount; the identity of the premises and period for which paid; and the signature and
title of the person receiving the rent.
[The rest of the section is repealed]
(b) A tenant may request, in writing, that a landlord provide a receipt for rent paid by personal
check. If such request is made, the landlord shall provide the tenant with the receipt described
in section a of this subdivision. Such request shall, unless otherwise specified by the tenant,
remain in effect for the duration of the tenancy.
(c) The landlord shall maintain a record of all cash receipts for rent for at least three years
unless a longer period is required by other provisions of this Title.
(d) If a payment of rent is personally transmitted to a landlord, the receipt for such payment
shall be issued immediately to a tenant. If a payment of rent is transmitted indirectly to a
landlord, a tenant shall be provided with a receipt within fifteen days of the landlord’s receipt
of a rent payment.
(e) If a landlord fails to receive payment for rent within five days of the date specified in a
lease agreement, such landlord shall send the tenant, by certified mail, a written notice stating
the failure to receive such rent payment. The failure of the landlord, to provide a tenant with
a written notice of the non-payment of rent may be used as an affirmative defense by such
tenant in an eviction proceeding based on the non-payment of rent.
9 NYCRR § 2202.1 is amended and new subdivisions (a) and (b) are added as follows:
Maximum rents may be increased or decreased only by order of the administrator [.], or as
otherwise provided by law.
(a) Where a maximum rent established pursuant to this chapter on or after January first, two-
thousand twenty, is higher than the previously existing maximum rent, the landlord may not
collect an increase from a tenant in occupancy in any one year period of more than the lesser of
either seven and one-half percentum or an average of the previous five years of one-year rent
adjustments on rent stabilized apartments as established by the rent guidelines board, pursuant to
Rent Stabilization Law Section 26-510(b) . If the period for which the rent is established exceeds
one year, regardless of how the collection thereof is averaged over such period, the rent the
landlord shall be entitled to receive during the first twelve months shall not be increased by more
than the lesser of either seven and one-half percentum or an average of the previous five years of
one-year rent adjustments on rent stabilized apartments as established by the rent guidelines
board, pursuant to Rent Stabilization Law Section 26-510(b), over the previous rent. Any
additional annual rents shall not exceed the lesser of either seven and one-half percentum or an
average of the previous five years of one-year rent adjustments on rent stabilized apartments as
established by the rent guidelines board, pursuant to Rent Stabilization Law Section 26-510(b),
of the rent paid during the previous year.
(b) No annual rent increase authorized pursuant to this act shall exceed the average of the
previous five annual rental adjustments authorized by a rent guidelines board for a rent stabilized
unit pursuant to Rent Stabilization Law Section 26-510(b).
9 NYCRR § 2202.2 is amended as follows:
No order increasing or decreasing a maximum rent previously established pursuant to these
regulations shall be collectible until the first day of the first month beginning sixty (60) days
from the date of mailing of notice of approval to the tenant [effective prior to the date on which
the order is issued,] except as hereinafter provided.
(The rest of this section remains the same.)
9 NYCRR 2202.4 (a) and (c) are repealed and replaced as follows:
(a)   Individual Apartment Improvements.
(1) Increase in space, new equipment, new furniture or furnishings; and other adjustments.
(2) An owner is entitled to a temporary rent increase where there has been a reasonable
and verifiable modification, other than an increase for which an adjustment may be claimed
pursuant to subdivision (b) of this section, of dwelling space, installation of new equipment
or improvements, or new furniture or furnishings, provided in or to the tenant’s housing
accommodation, where the tenant has agreed to such modification or increase and the
owner has obtained written informed tenant consent to such rent increase. In the case of
vacant housing accommodations, tenant consent shall not be required.
(i) For all work that commenced on or after June 14, 2019, notification of all modifications
must be submitted to DHCR for verification. As a part of such verification, an owner shall:
(a) Provide a copy of the written informed tenant consent on an approved DHCR form,
when tenant consent is required.
(b) Provide the DHCR with an itemized list of work performed, including a description
and/or explanation of the reason or purpose for such work.
(c) Provide the DHCR with photographs of the subject apartment where the work will be
completed taken prior to such modification or increase as well as photographs taken after,
and showing, the work has been completed. Such photographs must be kept as part of the
owner’s permanent records such that the owner must at any future time produce such
photographs upon request by an agency with appropriate jurisdiction.
(d) Use a licensed contractor to complete such work. The costs for an individual apartment
improvement paid to a person or organization contracted to do the improvement or
installation work sharing a common ownership with the owner or managing agent of the
subject building or apartment will be disallowed.
(e) Resolve, within the dwelling space, all outstanding hazardous and immediately
hazardous violations. In no event shall an owner be permitted to begin collection of any
rent increase pursuant to this subdivision while there are any hazardous or immediately
hazardous violations of the Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code (Uniform Code),
New York City Fire Code, or New York City Building and Housing Maintenance Codes
pending against the affected housing accommodation.
(ii) For work commenced on or after June 14, 2019, the recoverable costs incurred by the
owner pursuant to this subdivision shall be limited to a total aggregate cost of fifteen
thousand dollars ($15,000) that may be expended on no more than three (3) separate
individual apartment improvements in any fifteen (15) year period.
(iii) An owner who is entitled to a rent increase pursuant to this subdivision shall not be
entitled to a further rent increase based upon the installation of similar equipment, or new
furniture or furnishings within the useful life of such new equipment, or new furniture or
furnishings.
(iv) Any increases to the maximum rent pursuant to this subdivision shall be temporary
and shall be removed from maximum rent thirty (30) years from the date the increase
became effective inclusive of any increases granted by the applicable Rent Guidelines
Board that had been calculated based upon such rent increase.
(v) For individual apartment improvements pursuant to this subdivision, the DHCR shall
maintain an itemized list of work performed and a description or explanation of the reason
or purpose of such work, inclusive of photographic evidence documenting the condition
prior to and after the completion of the performed work. Such documentation and any
other supporting documentation shall be submitted to the DHCR by the owner within
ninety (90) days of the completion of the work, retained in a centralized electronic retention
system and made available in cases pertaining to the adjustment of maximum rents.
(vi) Where an owner seeks a temporary individual apartment improvement rent increase
pursuant to this subdivision while the unit is occupied, the DHCR shall provide a form for
use by the owner, to obtain written informed consent from the tenant that shall include the
estimated total cost of the improvement and the estimated monthly rent increase. Such
form shall be completed and submitted to the DHCR by the owner within 90 days of the
completion of the work and preserved in a centralized electronic retention system. Nothing
herein shall relieve an owner, lessor, or agent thereof of his or her duty to retain proper
documentation of all improvements performed or any rent increases resulting from said
improvements.
(vii) For rent increases pursuant to this subdivision that took effect prior to June 14, 2019,
the increase in the monthly maximum rent for the affected housing accommodations when
authorized pursuant to this subdivision shall for buildings and complexes containing 35 or
fewer housing accommodations be 1/40th of the total cost, including installation but
excluding finance charges; and for buildings and complexes containing more than 35
housing accommodations be 1/60th of the total cost, including installation but excluding
finance charges.
(viii) For temporary rent increases pursuant to this subdivision effective as of or after June
14, 2019, the temporary increase in the monthly maximum rent for the affected housing
accommodations when authorized pursuant to this subdivision shall for buildings and
complexes containing 35 or fewer housing accommodations be 1/168th of the total cost,
including the cost of installation but excluding finance charges; and for buildings and
complexes containing more than 35 housing accommodations be 1/180th of the total cost,
including the cost of installation but excluding finance charges.
(c) Temporary major capital improvement rent adjustments.
(1) An owner of a building or building complex that contains more than thirty-five (35) percent
rent regulated units may file an application to temporarily increase the maximum rents of the
building or building complex on forms prescribed by the DHCR which includes an itemized list
of work performed and a description or explanation of the reason or purpose of such work, on one
or more of the following grounds:
(i) There has been a major capital improvement, including an installation, which must meet all of
the following criteria:
(a) it is deemed depreciable under the Internal Revenue Code, other than for ordinary repairs;
(b) it is essential for the preservation, energy efficiency, functionality or infrastructure of the entire
building, including heating, windows, plumbing and roofing, but shall not be for operational costs
or unnecessary cosmetic improvements;
(c) it is an improvement to the building or to the building complex which inures directly or
indirectly to the benefit of all tenants, and which includes the same work performed in all similar
components of the building or building complex, unless the owner can satisfactorily demonstrate
to the DHCR that certain of such similar components did not require improvement; and
(d) the item being replaced meets the requirements set forth on the following useful life schedule,
except with DHCR approval of a waiver, as set forth in clause (e) of this subparagraph.
Useful Life Schedule for Major Capital Improvements Replacement Item or Equipment Years -
Estimated Life
1) Boilers and Burners
(a) Cast Iron Boiler .............................................          35
(b) Package Boiler ...............................................             25
(c) Steel Boiler .................................................         25
(d) Burners ......................................................        20
2) Windows
(a) Aluminum .....................................................          20
(b) Wood .........................................................        25
(c) Steel ........................................................    25
(d) Storm ........................................................             20
(e) Vinyl ........................................................             15
3) Roofs
(a) 2-Ply (asphalt)              .............................................        10
(b) 3-4 Ply (asphalt) ...........................................                     15
(c) 5-Ply (asphalt) .............................................                     20
(d) Shingle            .....................................................        20
(e) Single-Ply Rubber                   ...........................................        20
(f) Single-Ply Modified Bitumen                          .................................      10
(g) Quarry Tile              .................................................        20
4) Pointing ..................................................... 15
5) Rewiring ..................................................... 25
6) Intercom System .............................................. 15
7) Mailboxes .................................................... 25
8) Plumbing/Repiping
(a) Galvanized Steel                 ............................................          25
(b) TP Copper               ...................................................       30
(c) Brass cold water                 ............................................        15
(d) Fixtures            ....................................................        25
9) Elevators
(a) Major Upgrade...................................... 25
(b) Controllers and Selector ........................                     25
10) Doors ...........................................................
(a) Apartment Entrance                     ..........................................        25
(b) Lobby/Vestibule                   .............................................       15
11) Water Tanks
(a) Metal           .......................................................       25
(b) Wood             ........................................................       20
12) Waste Compactors                    ............................................        10
13) Air Conditioners
(a)     Individual Units/Sleeves                  ....................................         10
(b) Central System                 ..............................................         15
(c) Branch Circuitry Fixtures                       ...................................        15
14) Siding
(a) Aluminum Siding                    .............................................         25
(b) Vinyl Siding               ................................................         15
15) Catwalk             .....................................................        25
16) Chimney
(a) Steel       .......................................................           25
(b) Brick           .......................................................       25
17) Courtyards/Walkways/Driveways
(a)     Cement          .............................................        15
(b) Asphalt             .....................................................         10
18) Fire Escapes               ................................................        25
19) Fuel Oil Tanks
(a)     In Vaults        ...................................................        25
(b) Underground                 .................................................        20
20) Water Heating Units
(a) Hot Water/Central Heating                         ...................................       20
(b) Hot Water Heater (Domestic)                           ................................       10
21) Parapets brick               .......................................................       25
22) Resurfacing Exterior Walls                        ..................................       25
23) Solar Heating System                     ........................................         25
24) Structural Steel                 ............................................        25
25) Television Security     .........................................   10
For major capital improvements not listed above, the owner must submit evidence with the
application that the useful life of the item or equipment being replaced has expired.
(e)
(1) An owner who wishes to request a waiver of the useful life requirement set forth in clause (d)
of this subparagraph must apply to the DHCR for such waiver prior to the commencement of the
work for which he or she will be seeking a temporary major capital improvement rental increase.
Notwithstanding this requirement, where the waiver requested is for an item being replaced
because of an emergency, which causes the building or any part thereof to be dangerous to human
life and safety or detrimental to health, an owner may apply to the DHCR for such waiver at the
time he or she submits the temporary major capital improvement rent increase application.
(2) If the waiver is denied, the owner will not be eligible for a temporary major capital
improvement increase. However, if the waiver is granted, the useful life requirement will not be a
factor in the determination of eligibility for the temporary major capital improvement rent increase.
Approval of the waiver does not assure that the application will be granted, as all other
requirements set forth in this subdivision must be met.
(3) An owner may apply for, and the DHCR may grant, a waiver of the useful life requirements
set forth in the Useful Life Schedule, if the owner satisfactorily demonstrates the existence of one
or more of the following circumstances:
(i) The item or equipment cannot be repaired and must be replaced during its useful life because
of a fire, vandalism or other emergency, or "act of God" resulting in an emergency;
(ii) The item or equipment needs to be replaced because such item or equipment is beyond repair,
or spare parts are no longer available, or required repairs would cost more than seventy-five (75)
percent of the cost of the total replacement of the item or equipment. Certification by a duly
licensed engineer or architect, where there is no common ownership or other financial interest with
the owner, shall be considered substantial proof of such condition(s). The owner may also be
required to submit proof that the item or equipment was properly maintained. Such proof may
include receipts for repairs and parts or maintenance logs;
(iii)
(A) An appropriate New York State or local governmental agency has determined that the item or
equipment needs to be replaced as part of a government housing program;
(B) If a governmental lender or insurer, for the purposes of qualifying for a New York State or
local government long-term loan or insured loan, requires the remaining useful life of the building
or building complex, as well as the component parts of such building or building complex, to be
as great as or greater than the term of the loan agreement.
(iv) The replacement of an item or equipment which has proven inadequate, through no fault of
the owner, is necessary, provided that there has been no major capital improvement rent increase
for that item or equipment being replaced.
(4) In the event that the DHCR determines that an installation qualifies for a waiver of the useful
life requirements, the DHCR may, subject to all other requirements of this section, and the
limitations of the reasonable cost schedule provisions in paragraph (2) of this subdivision:
(i) Where no previous increase was granted within the useful life of the item or equipment being
replaced, approve one-hundred (100) percent of the actual, reasonable, and verifiable cost of the
item or equipment, including installation;
(ii) Where it is determined that an item is eligible to be replaced during its useful life, grant a
temporary increase based on the actual, reasonable, and verifiable cost of the item or equipment,
including installation, less both (a) the amount reimbursed from other sources, such as insurance
proceeds or any other form of commercial guarantee, and (b) the amount of any increase previously
granted for the same item or equipment either as a major capital improvement, or pursuant to other
governmental programs, if such item or equipment has not exhausted at least seventy-five (75)
percent of its useful life at the time of the installation;
(iii) Where it is determined that an item is eligible to be replaced even though it has not exhausted
seventy-five (75) percent of its useful life and that it was installed as part of a substantial
rehabilitation or the new construction of a building for which the owner set initial building-wide
rents, the DHCR may reduce the increase granted for a major capital improvement by a proportion
of the remaining useful life of such item or equipment.
(iv) Where it is determined that an item is eligible to be replaced even though it has not exhausted
one-hundred (100) percent of its useful life, but has exhausted more than seventy-five (75) percent
of its useful life, the DHCR may reduce the increase granted for a major capital improvement by
a proportion of the remaining useful life of such item or equipment.
(f) In no event shall a temporary major capital improvement increase be granted for work done in
individual apartments that is otherwise not an improvement to an entire building.
(ii) There has been other necessary work performed in connection with, and directly related to a
major capital improvement, which may be included in the computation of an increase in the
maximum rent only if such other necessary work was completed within a reasonable time after the
completion of the major capital improvement to which it relates. Such other necessary work must:
(a) improve, restore or preserve the quality of the structure and the grounds;
(b) have been completed subsequent to, or contemporaneously with, the completion of the work
for the major capital improvement; and
(c) not be for primarily cosmetic improvements or for operational costs.
(iii) With approval by the DHCR, there has been an increase in services or improvement, other
than repairs, on a building-wide basis, which the owner can demonstrate are necessary in order to
comply with a specific requirement of law.
(iv) With approval by the DHCR, there have been other improvements made or services provided
to the building or building complex, other than those specified in subparagraphs (i)-(iii) of this
paragraph, with the express consent of the tenants in occupancy of at least seventy-five (75) percent
of the rent regulated housing accommodations.
(2) Major Capital Improvement Schedules
(i) The reasonable costs that may be recovered for qualified major capital improvements may not
exceed the recoverable costs, as determined by DHCR. In making such determination, DHCR
shall, unless for good cause shown or otherwise specified, refer to such reasonable costs as
specified in the Reasonable Cost Schedule found in the Reasonable Cost Schedule that is in effect
at the time that the contract for work for the major capital improvement was executed.
(ii)The Reasonable Cost Schedule shall provide the recoverable cost of major capital
improvements that fall within the following main three categories:
1. Major Systems;
i. The maximum recoverable costs shall be presented for the following classes of work: (a)
Plumbing; (b) Gas Re-pipe; (c) Wiring; (d) Windows; (e) Boiler/Burner; (f) Hot Water Heater; (g)
Elevator Replacement; and (h) Elevator Modernization.
2. Façade, Parapet, Roof;
i. The maximum recoverable costs shall be presented for the following classes of work: (a) Façade;
(b) Parapet; and (c) Roof.
3. Other Systems.
i. The maximum recoverable costs shall be presented for the following classes of work: (a)
Chimney; (b) Doors; (c) Security System; and (d) Intercom; and may include such other systems
as DHCR may determine.
(iii) Each class of major capital improvement may list more detailed types of capital improvement
work. Each class of major capital improvement described in the Schedule may be inclusive of
additional costs that can be associated with the type of improvements listed within such class.
(iv) The costs of each type of major capital improvement work will be listed as per unit, per unit
of measurement or per piece of equipment, as is appropriate given the nature of the improvement.
(v) The maximum recoverable costs for each type of major capital improvement specified in the
initial Reasonable Cost Schedule shall be based on a survey of such construction costs undertaken
for such installation.
(a) The maximum recoverable costs listed in the Reasonable Cost Schedule shall be
initially published and made available for public review and comment in conjunction with
the promulgation process required for adoption of this regulation.
(vi) Periodic Review of Reasonable Cost Schedule:
Every year after adoption of this regulation, DHCR shall assess and review the categories of major
capital improvements, the classes of work within categories eligible for major capital
improvements and the maximum recoverable costs listed for the types of major capital
improvement costs identified in the Reasonable Cost Schedule.
(vii) Procedure:
(a) When applying for a temporary major capital improvement rent increase, owners are
required to submit an itemized list of work performed with a description or explanation of
the reason or purpose of such work.
(1) Costs may be granted for related expenses that are not specified in the actual
schedule, if they are found to be:
(i) within or below the maximum costs for the class of work,
(ii) are necessary for the claimed improvement, and
(iii) eligible for reimbursement as a major capital improvement.
(2) Costs will not be granted for expenses which are ineligible for major capital
improvement rent increases.
(3) Only the actual and verifiable amounts expended by owners for qualifying
major capital improvement costs will be the basis for any temporary major capital
improvement rent increase. Qualifying owners will, therefore, be awarded a
temporary major capital improvement rent increase on the lesser of either: (i) the
actual amount expended, or (ii) the maximum reasonable cost from the schedule,
and such other additional items that are eligible as a major capital improvement but
are not listed as part of the Reasonable Cost Schedule.
(b) The schedule provides a maximum of costs that can be granted for eligible major capital
improvements. All costs granted for a temporary major capital improvement rent increase
must be actual, reasonable, verifiable, and meet all other regulatory requirements.
(viii) Waiver of Application of Reasonable Cost Schedule
(a) Owners may apply for a waiver of application of the Reasonable Cost Schedule. The
waiver request will be denied, unless the owner satisfies the waiver requirements provided
herein, and the Division finds the waiver of the application of the schedule to be reasonable
and warranted under the circumstances set forth in such application.
(b) If an owner’s application for a waiver of the reasonable cost schedule is denied, the
owner’s maximum recoupment shall be limited to that required by the applicable
Reasonable Cost Schedule.
(c) Notwithstanding any waiver of the reasonable cost schedule, not all costs claimed for a
temporary major capital improvement rent increase may be awarded, as the costs of items
claimed may be disallowed, in whole or in part, pursuant to all other requirements set forth
in this section that must be met and fully supported.
(d) Pursuant to the requirements specified below, such application must be fully supported
and demonstrate that the claimed costs underlying the temporary MCI rent increase are:
(1) not identified in the Reasonable Cost Schedule, or
(2) necessarily and appropriately priced higher than those costs listed in the
Reasonable Cost Schedule due to the unique nature of the installation and the
circumstances surrounding such installation, and such costs are accurate,
reasonable, necessary, verifiable, and eligible for a rent increase under these
circumstances, or
(3) that use of the Reasonable Cost Schedule will cause an undue hardship and the
use of alternative procedures are appropriate to the interests of the owner, the
tenants, and the public, and the costs of such improvement are accurate, reasonable,
necessary, verifiable, and eligible for a rent increase under the circumstances.
(e) Owners must request a waiver of the use of the Reasonable Cost Schedule in writing
and accompany the application with the information and documentation as specified in
subparagraph (x) of this paragraph.
(ix) Requirements for Waiver under Specific Circumstances
(a) At the time of the initial application for a temporary major capital improvement rent
increase, an owner must apply for a waiver of application of the Reasonable Cost Schedule.
Such application shall include all necessary requirements set forth in subparagraph (viii)
of this paragraph and must also meet the following requirements:
(1) Non-Landmarked Buildings (Buildings not designated by the Landmark
Commission):
(i) A licensed engineer or architect must certify that:
(A) the major capital improvement costs for which an owner seeks
a temporary major capital improvement rent increase are accurate
and reasonable under the circumstances; and
(B) there is no common ownership or other financial interest
between the contractor installing the replacement or upgrade and the
ownership entity of the owner; and
(c) a bid process was conducted and supervised by a licensed
architect or engineer.
(2) Landmarked Buildings (Buildings designated by the Landmark Commission):
The costs beyond those permitted by the reasonable cost schedule that were the result of any law,
regulation, rule, or requirement under which the premises have been designated a landmark
building.
(3) Capital Improvement Work Performed While Also Under Another Governmental Agency’s
Supervision:
DHCR may also accept the cost of contract where:
(i) the building is subject to both (a) the Rent Stabilization Law, and (b) another housing program,
and
(ii) the contract is approved by or awarded under the supervision of a state, city or local housing
entity in conjunction with that affordable housing program, and
(iii) such supervision includes a process by which such supervising agency reviews the costs to
assure they are reasonable.
(4) Emergency Capital Improvements:
DHCR may also accept the cost of contract where capital improvements were performed to remedy
an emergency condition and for which the owner paid more than the reasonable costs due to such
emergency. The costs must be actual, reasonable, necessary, verifiable, and eligible for a rent
increase under the circumstances.
(5) Interim Rules:
(i) An owner may apply for a waiver of application of the Reasonable Cost Schedule if, prior to
the effective date of this subparagraph (ix), it has either:
(A) entered a contract for the performance of major capital improvement work within two years
immediately preceding January 27, 2021, the final adoption date of Emergency Regulation HCR
26-20-00012, or
(B) submitted to DHCR an application for a temporary major capital improvement rent increase.
(ii) The recoverable costs will be determined according to the applicable Reasonable Cost
Schedule and these provisions, but the owner need not submit evidence of compliance with the
bidding requirements set forth in clause (b) of subparagraph (x); owner may instead submit for
review alternative means of establishing the reasonableness of the major capital improvement costs
sought to be recovered.
(iii) For pending major capital improvement applications, an owner was required to make this
waiver application within 60 days of June 16, 2020, unless in the context of processing the major
capital improvement application the owner was directed by DHCR to submit an application for
waiver.
(x) Waiver Procedure:
As part of the written Waiver application for non-emergency capital improvements, owners must
submit the following:
(a) A certification by a licensed architect or engineer stating that:
(1) The purchases and contracts, whose costs owner seeks to recover have been awarded on the
basis of analysis and bidding to the fullest extent possible, but with no less than three bidders
having been solicited to perform the work unless the owner can demonstrate that the work is so
highly specialized that such bids cannot be extended;
(2) List of items for which owner solicited bids were necessary;
(3) The costs claimed by owner for the major capital improvement work are accurate and
reasonable, provided that the architect or engineer’s basis for such conclusion is fully and credibly
supported;
(4) All changes to the original agreed upon scope of work were necessary to the underlying major
capital improvement and reasonably priced;
(5) The owner selected the lowest responsible bidder or the bidder best suited to perform the major
capital improvement work, provided that the architect or engineer’s basis for such conclusion is
credibly supported; and
(6) Such other and additional proof as DHCR may require to ascertain the need for the waiver and
the certification of such reasonable, necessary, verifiable, and eligible costs.
(b) Certification by owner that it has complied with bid process requirements including submission
of:
(1) Tabulation of all bids received; and
(2) Copies of all bids received; and
(3) A certification by each bidder disclosing whether the owner or any board member, general
partner, officer or employee of owner, and/or principal or employee of any managing agent
retained by owner, has a direct or indirect interest in the bidder or in the compensation to be
received by the bidder pursuant to the proposed contract. Failure to accurately and fully complete
this certification may result in the rejection of the bid for purposes of determining owner’s
application for waiver of the use of the Reasonable Cost Schedule, as well as rejection and a
dismissal of the major capital improvement application; and
(4) Detailed description of the items for which owner initially solicited bids.
(c) A certification by the owner’s architect or engineer certifying the necessity, appropriateness,
and reasonableness of the costs of all changes to the original agreed upon scope of work that were
performed in connection with the major capital improvement, along with a description of the
changes in the scope, price, or time of completion of the work related to each change order.
(xi) For Emergency Capital Improvement MCI Applications:
The owner must submit a statement from an independent engineer or architect describing the
emergency, why the costs were greater than those in the schedule, that the costs were reasonable
for the situation, and why the owner could not obtain three bids in a timely manner due to the
exigent circumstances.
(xii) Notice:
As part of the MCI application process, any request by an owner for a waiver of application of the
Reasonable Cost Schedule shall be made available to the tenants of the subject building(s) with an
opportunity to comment on and contest the waiver.
(xiii) Operational Bulletin
The initial Operational Bulletin 2020-1 including all amendments, shall be issued pursuant to this
paragraph. The Operational Bulletin 2020-1 and all amended versions shall be available in
hardcopy form at 92-31 Union Hall Street, Jamaica, Queens, New York, and will be available on
DHCR's website at www.hcr.ny.gov.
(3) Improvements or installations for which the DHCR may grant applications for temporary rent
increases based upon major capital improvements pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision are
described on the following Schedule. Other improvements or installations that are not included
may also qualify, where all requirements of Section 2202.4 (c) of this Title have been met.
SCHEDULE OF MAJOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
1. AIR CONDITIONER - new central system; or individual units set in sleeves in the exterior wall
of every housing accommodation; or, air conditioning circuits and outlets in each living room
and/or bedroom (SEE REWIRING).
2. ALUMINUM SIDING - installed in a uniform manner on all exposed sides of the building (SEE
RESURFACING).
3. BOILER AND/OR BURNER - new unit(s) including electrical work and additional components
needed for the installation.
4. BOILER ROOM - new room where none existed before; or enlargement of existing one to
accommodate new boiler.
5. CATWALK – complete replacement.
6. CHIMNEY - complete replacement, or new one where none existed before, including additional
components needed for the installation.
7. COURTYARD, DRIVEWAYS AND WALKWAYS - resurfacing of entire original area within
the property lines of the premises.
8. DOORS - new lobby front entrance and/or vestibule doors; or entrance to every housing
accommodation, or fireproof doors for public hallways, basement, boiler room and roof bulkhead.
9. ELEVATOR UPGRADING - including new controllers and selectors; or new electronic
dispatch overlay system; or new elevator where none existed before, including additional
components needed for the installation.
10. FIRE ESCAPES – complete new replacement including new landings.
11. GAS HEATING UNITS - new individual units with connecting pipes to every housing
accommodation.
12. HOT WATER HEATER - new unit for central heating system.
13. INTERCOM SYSTEM - new replacement; or one where none existed before, with automatic
door locks and pushbutton speakerboxes and/or telephone communication, including security
locks on all entrances to the building.
14. MAILBOXES - new replacements and relocation from outer vestibule to an area behind locked
doors to increase security.
15. PARAPET - complete replacement.
16. POINTING AND WATERPROOFING - as necessary on exposed sides of the building.
17. REPIPING - new hot and/or cold water risers, returns, and branches to fixtures in every housing
accommodation, including shower bodies, and/or new hot and/or new cold water overhead mains,
with all necessary valves in basement.
18. RESURFACING OF EXTERIOR WALLS - consisting of brick or masonry facing on entire
area of all exposed sides of the building.
19. REWIRING: - new copper risers and feeders extending from property box in basement to every
housing accommodation; must be of sufficient capacity (220 volts) to accommodate the
installation of air conditioner circuits in living room and/or bedroom.
20. ROOF - complete replacement or roof cap on existing roof installed after thorough scraping
and leveling as necessary.
21. SOLAR HEATING SYSTEM - new central system, including additional components required
for the system.
22. STRUCTURAL STEEL - complete new replacement of all beams including footing and
foundation.
23. TELEVISION SYSTEM - new security monitoring system including additional components
required for the system.
24. WASTE COMPACTOR - new installation(s) serving entire building.
25. WASTE COMPACTOR ROOM - new room where none existed before.
26. WATER SPRINKLER SYSTEM (FOR FIRE CONTROL PURPOSES) - new installation(s).
27. WATER TANK - new installation(s).
28. WINDOWS - new framed windows.
(4) Any temporary increase pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision shall be 1/144 of the total
cost for a building with thirty-five or fewer housing accommodations, or 1/150 of the total cost for
a building with more than thirty-five housing accommodations, for any determination issued by
DHCR after June 14, 2019, and such temporary increase shall be removed from the maximum rent
thirty (30) years from the date the increase became effective inclusive of any increases granted by
the applicable rent guidelines board. For increases pursuant to subparagraphs (1) (iii) and (iv) of
this subdivision, in the discretion of the DHCR, an appropriate charge may be imposed in lieu of
an amortization charge when an amortization charge is insignificant or inappropriate.
(5)
(i) A temporary major capital improvement increase is fixed to the unit and such increase shall be
collectible prospectively on the first day of the first month beginning sixty (60) days from the date
of mailing notice of approval to the tenant. Such notice shall disclose the total monthly increase
in rent and the first month in which the tenant would be required to pay the temporary increase.
An approval for a temporary major capital improvement increase shall not include retroactive
payments.
(ii) The temporary major capital improvement increase is added to the maximum rent as a
temporary increase and will be removed from the maximum rent thirty (30) years from the date
the increase became effective inclusive of any increases granted by the local rent guidelines board.
The DHCR shall issue a notice to the owner and all the tenants sixty (60) days prior to the end of
the temporary major capital improvement increase and shall include the initial approved increase
and the total amount to be removed from the maximum rent inclusive of any increases granted by
the applicable rent guidelines board as referenced by section 2202.1 of this Title.
(iii) Such temporary increases shall not be collectible during the term of a lease then in effect,
unless a specific provision in the tenant's lease authorizes an increase during its term pursuant to
an order issued by the DHCR.
(iv) The collection of such temporary increases shall not exceed two percent in any year from the
effective date of the order granting the increase over the rent set forth in the schedule of gross
rents, with collectability of any dollar excess above said sum to be spread forward in similar
increments and added to the rent as established or set in future years. In no event shall more than
one two-percent increase in the maximum rent pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision be
collected in the same year, provided, however, that upon a vacancy, the owner may temporarily
increase the rent to the full temporary major capital improvement increase amount.
(v) In addition, for any rent increases due to any major capital improvements approved on or after
June 16, 2012 and before June 16, 2019, an owner may not collect more than two percent in any
year from any tenant in occupancy on the date the major capital improvement was approved,
provided the tenant has entered into a renewal lease commencing on or after June 14, 2019, or is
or was entitled to receive a renewal lease on or after such date. In such event, the adjusted limit
on collectability shall take effect on the first anniversary of the date on which the increase became
collectible to occur after such lease renewal.
(vi) An increase pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision shall not be collectible from a tenant
to whom there has been issued a currently valid senior citizen or disability rent increase exemption
pursuant to section 26-509 of the Administrative Code of the City of New York, to the extent such
increase causes the maximum rent of the housing accommodation to exceed one third of the
aggregate disposable income of all members of the household residing in the housing
accommodation.
(6)     The determination of the appropriate adjustment of a maximum rent shall take into
consideration all factors bearing on the equities involved, subject to the general limitation that the
adjustment can be put into effect without dislocation and hardship inconsistent with the purposes
of the RSL, and including as a factor a return of the actual, reasonable, and verifiable cost to the
owner, limited to the reasonable cost schedule in paragraph (2) of this subdivision and exclusive
of interest or other carrying charges, and the increase in the rental value of the housing
accommodations.
(7) DHCR may issue, upon an owner application, an advisory prior opinion pursuant to section
2209.8 of this Title, as to whether the proposed work qualifies for an increase in the maximum
rent.
(8) No increase pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision shall be granted by the DHCR, unless
an application is filed no later than two years after the completion of the installation or
improvement unless the applicant can demonstrate that the application could not be made within
two years due to delay, beyond the applicant's control, in obtaining required governmental
approvals for which the applicant has applied within such two-year period.
(9) An increase for an improvement made pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision shall not
be granted by the DHCR to the extent that, after a plan for the conversion of a building to
cooperative or condominium ownership is declared effective, such improvement is paid for out of
the cash reserve fund of the cooperative corporation or condominium association. However, where
prior to the issuance of an order granting the increase, the funds taken from the reserve fund are
returned to it by the sponsor or holder of unsold shares or units or through a special assessment of
all shareholders or unit owners, the increase may be based upon the actual, reasonable and
verifiable cost of the improvement. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent an owner from applying
for, and the DHCR from granting, an increase for such improvement to the extent that the cost
thereof is otherwise paid for by an owner.
(10) Any temporary major capital improvement increase granted pursuant to paragraph (1) of this
subdivision shall be reduced by an amount equal to (i) any governmental grant received by the
landlord, where such grant compensates the landlord for any improvements required by a city,
state or federal government, an agency or any granting governmental entity to be expended for
improvements and (ii) any insurance payment received by the landlord where such insurance
payment compensates the landlord for any part of the costs of the improvements. Low interest
loans or repayable subsidies shall not be considered grants for the purposes of this paragraph.
(11) Rent adjustments pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision shall be allocated as follows:
The DHCR shall determine the dollar amount of the monthly rent adjustment. Such dollar amount
shall be divided by the total number of rooms in the building. The amount so derived shall then be
added to the rent chargeable to each housing accommodation in accordance with the number of
rooms contained in such housing accommodation.
(12) When determining the adjustment of maximum rents pursuant to paragraph (1) of this
subdivision, where the subject building contains commercial rental space in addition to residential
rental space, and the DHCR determines that such commercial space benefits from the
improvement, DHCR shall allocate the approved costs between the commercial rental space and
the residential rental space based upon the relative square feet of each rental area.
(13) The DHCR shall not grant an owner's application for a rental adjustment pursuant to paragraph
(1) of this subdivision, in whole or in part, if after review by DHCR, it is determined that the owner
is not maintaining all required building wide services, or that there are outstanding hazardous,
immediately hazardous, or other similar violations of any municipal, county, State or Federal law,
including the Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code (Uniform Code), New York City Fire
Code, or New York City Building and Housing Maintenance Codes. Certain tenant caused
violations may be excepted. A tenant’s repeated failure to provide access to remediate a violation
may result in the violation being considered to be tenant caused.
(i) An owner application, pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision, may be rejected if it is
determined that there are one or more unresolved applicable violations. A rejected application may
be refiled within sixty (60) days which shall stay the two-year filing requirement provided in
paragraph (8) of this subdivision and preserve the original filing date. In the absence of good cause
shown, a rejected application that is refiled outside of the sixty (60) day period will not retain the
original filing date.
(ii) A timely refiled application pursuant to paragraph 13(i) of this subdivision, that has not
addressed the outstanding violations placed against the building or has had new violations placed
against the building in the interim period since rejection, will again be denied without leave to
refile within sixty (60) days.
(iii) Prior to the issuance of a determination, the DHCR shall review and determine if one or more
violations have been issued and not corrected to the subject building during the processing of an
owner application pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subdivision. The owner will be allowed sixty
(60) days to correct such violation(s). In the absence of good cause shown, failure to correct the
violation(s) within the allotted time shall result in a denial of the application.
(iv) DHCR shall retain the ability and right where appropriate to all penalties and violations at any
other time during the pendency of such application.
(14) In the case of an improvement constituting a moderate rehabilitation as defined in section 5-
02 of title 28 of the Rules of the City of New York, an owner may elect that the total cost for such
improvement be deemed to be the amount certified by the Office of Tax Incentive Programs of
HPD in the certificate of eligibility and reasonable cost issued by such office with respect to such
improvement. Such election shall be binding on the DHCR and shall waive any claim for a rent
increase by reason of any difference between the total cash paid by the owner and such lesser
certified amount.
(15) Where an application for a temporary major capital improvement rent increase has been filed,
a tenant shall have sixty (60) days from the date of mailing of a notice of a proceeding in which to
answer or reply. The DHCR shall provide any responding tenant with the reasons for the DHCR’s
approval or denial of such application.
(16) Where during the processing of a rent increase application filed pursuant to paragraph (1) of
this subdivision, tenants interpose answers complaining of defective operation of the major capital
improvement, the complaint may be resolved in the following manner:
(i) Where municipal sign-offs (other than building permits) are required for the approval of the
installation, and the tenants' complaints relate to the subject matter of the sign-off, the complaints
may be resolved on the basis of the sign-off, and the tenants referred to the approving governmental
agency for whatever action such agency may deem appropriate.
(ii) Where municipal sign-offs are not required, or where the alleged defective operation of the
major capital improvement does not relate to the subject matter of the sign-off, the complaint may
be resolved by the affidavit of an independent licensed architect or engineer that the condition
complained of was investigated and found not to have existed, or if found to have existed, was
corrected. Such affidavit, which shall be served by the DHCR on the tenants, will raise a rebuttable
presumption that the major capital improvement is properly operative. Tenants may only rebut this
presumption based on persuasive evidence, for example, a counter affidavit by an independent
licensed architect or engineer, or an affirmation by 51 percent of the complaining tenants.
(a) General requirements. There must be no common ownership, or other financial interest,
between such architect or engineer and the owner or tenants. The affidavit shall state that there is
no such relationship or other financial interest. The affidavit must also contain a statement that the
architect or engineer did not engage in the performance of any work, other than the investigation,
relating to the conditions that are the subject of the affidavit. The affidavit submitted must contain
the signature and professional stamp of the architect or engineer. DHCR may conduct follow-up
inspections randomly to ensure that the affidavits accurately indicate the condition of the premises.
Any person or party who submits a false statement shall be subject to all penalties provided by
law.
(iii) At the discretion of the DHCR, the DHCR may inspect the major capital improvement to
determine whether the installation was conducted in a workmanlike manner or the work was
sufficiently comprehensive so as to benefit all tenants.
(17) The DHCR shall annually inspect and audit no less than twenty-five percent of applications
for a temporary major capital improvement increase that have been submitted and approved. Such
process shall include individual inspections and document review to ensure that owners complied
with all obligations and responsibilities under the law for temporary major capital improvement
increases. Inspections shall include in-person confirmation that such improvements have been
completed in such way as described in the application.
9 NYCRR § 2202.13 subdivision (a) is repealed and replaced, subdivision (b) is repealed
and subdivisions (c), (d) and (e) are renumbered (b), (c) and (d) as follows:
(a) As of June 14, 2019, fuel pass-along to tenants under rent control is prohibited.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rule, regulation, charter or administrative code,
tenants of housing accommodations which are subject to rent control under this chapter shall not
be subject to a fuel adjustment or pass-along increase in rent and any such increase to such tenant
shall be null and void.
[(a) Increases or decreases in heating fuel costs, based on findings promulgated by the Division
of Housing and Community Renewal for heating fuel price increases and decreases, inclusive of
sales and excise taxes and standards for consumption thereof for all types of heating fuels, shall
be the bases for rent adjustments; provided, however, no increase shall be authorized unless a
report, certification and notice, upon forms prescribed by the administrator, have been served
upon the tenant, and the report, with prescribed schedules and proof of service, filed with the
Division of Housing and Community Renewal. No increase shall be effective or collectible prior
to January 1, 1980.
(b) Such report shall contain a certified statement by the landlord:
(1) of the amount of heating fuel delivered in the calendar year immediately prior to the filing of
the report;
(2) of the type of fuel used, and the total number of rooms in the building;
(3) that he has been maintaining and will continue to maintain all essential services provided;
(4) that no rent reduction order based upon landlord's failure to provide heat or hot water has
been in effect during the prior 12 months;
(5) listing any funds received with respect to housing accommodations from any governmental
grant program compensating such landlord for fuel price increases during the period for which an
adjustment is obtained pursuant to this section;
(6) that the landlord shall provide such other information as the agency may require; and
(7) in order to qualify for rent increases for any individual housing and accommodations, where
the maximum collectible rent, plus the cumulative rent adjustments pursuant to this section, is
equal to or exceeds the maximum base rent, plus the cumulative amounts calculated as the
annual fuel cost adjustments for such housing accommodations, pursuant to the applicable
provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)-(2), (d)(1)-(2) of this section, a separate certification that, on
information and belief, he will not be earning an amount in excess of the statutory 8½ percent
return, computed in accordance with section Y51-5.0g(1)(a) of the Rent Law, after collection of
the rent increase prescribed under this section for that housing accommodation, with respect to
one or more buildings serviced by a single heating plant.]
[(c)] (b) Renumbered only
[(d)] (c) Renumbered only
[(e)] (d) Renumbered only
9 NYCRR § 2202.16 (e) is amended as follows:
(e) the administrator may order a decrease of the maximum rent based on an approved
conversion from master metering of electricity, with the cost of electricity included in the rent, to
individual metering of electricity, with the tenant paying separately for electricity, and is in
amounts set forth in a Schedule of Rent Reductions for different-sized rent controlled housing
accommodations included in Operational Bulletin [2003-1] 2014-1 governing electrical
conversions issued pursuant to this section and section 2209.8 of this Title by DHCR, 92-31
Union Hall Street, Jamaica, Queens, New York, and available at DHCR's website at
[www.dhcr.state.ny.us] www.nyshcr.org (www.hcr.ny.gov), and determined as follows:
(1) Direct Metering. Where the conversion is to direct metering of electricity, with the tenant
purchasing electricity directly from a utility, such Schedule of Rent Reductions is based on the
median monthly cost of electricity to tenants derived from data from the United States Census
Bureau's "[2002] New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey," as tabulated by the New York
City Rent Guidelines Board, 1 Centre Street, Suite 2210 [51 Chambers Street, Suite 202], New
York, New York, and available on its website at rentguidelinesboard.cityofnewyork.us
[www.housingnyc.com]. The charge for electricity is not part of the maximum rent and is not
subject to this Subchapter. The resolution of any dispute arising from the billing or collection of
such charge is not within the jurisdiction of the city rent agency. A conversion to direct metering
is required to include rewiring the building unless the owner can establish that rewiring is
unnecessary.
(2) Submetering. Where the conversion is to submetering of electricity, with the tenant
purchasing electricity from the owner or a contractor retained by the owner, who purchases
electricity from a utility at the bulk rate, such Schedule of Rent Reductions is based on the
median monthly cost of electricity to tenants derived from data from the United States Census
Bureau's "[2002] New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey," as tabulated by the New York
City Rent Guidelines Board, 1 Centre Street, Suite 2210 [51 Chambers Street, Suite 202], New
York, New York, and available on its website at rentguidelinesboard.cityofnewyork.us
[www.housingnyc.com], adjusted to reflect the bulk rate for electricity plus a reasonable service
fee for the cost of meter reading and billing, based on the maximum estimated fee included in the
Residential Electric Submetering Manual revised October 2001, published by the New York
State Energy Research and Development Authority, 17 Columbia Circle, Albany, New York, and
available on its website at www.nyserda.org, and reflected in Operational Bulletin 2014-1 [2003-
1]. The owner or contractor retained by the owner is not permitted to charge the tenant more than
the bulk rate for electricity plus a reasonable service charge for the cost of meter reading and
billing. The charge for electricity as well as any related service surcharge is not part of the
maximum rent and is not subject to this Subchapter. The resolution of any dispute arising from
the billing or collection of such charge or surcharge is not within the jurisdiction of the city rent
agency. A conversion to submetering does not require rewiring the building provided the owner
submits an affidavit sworn to by a licensed electrician that the existing wiring is safe and of
sufficient capacity for the building.
(3) Recipients of Senior Citizen Rent Increase Exemptions (SCRIE) or Disability Rent Increase
Exemptions (DRIE): For a tenant who on the date of the conversion is receiving a SCRIE or
DRIE authorized by section 26-405(m) of the City Rent and Rehabilitation Law, the rent is not
reduced and the cost of electricity remains included in the rent, although the owner is permitted
to install any equipment in such tenant's housing accommodation as is required for effectuation
of electrical conversion pursuant to this subdivision.
(i) After the conversion, upon the vacancy of the tenant, the owner, without making application
to the city rent agency, is required to reduce the maximum rent for the housing accommodation
in accordance with the Schedule of Rent Reductions set forth in Operational Bulletin 2014-1
[2003-1], and thereafter any subsequent tenant is responsible for the cost of his or her
consumption of electricity, and for the legal rent as reduced, including any applicable major
capital improvement rent increase based upon the cost of work done to effectuate the electrical
conversion.
(ii) After the conversion, if a tenant ceases to receive a SCRIE or DRIE, the owner, without
making application to the city rent agency, may reduce the rent in accordance with the Schedule
of Rent Reductions set forth in Operational Bulletin 2014-1 [2003-1], and thereafter the tenant is
responsible for the cost of his or her consumption of electricity, and for the legal rent as reduced,
including any applicable major capital improvement rent increase based upon the cost of work
done to effectuate the electrical conversion, for as long as the tenant is not receiving a SCRIE or
DRIE. Thereafter, in the event that the tenant resumes receiving a SCRIE or DRIE, the owner,
without making application to the city rent agency, is required to eliminate the rent reduction and
resume responsibility for the tenant's electric bills.
(4) Every three years, upon the publication of a new New York City Housing and Vacancy
Survey, and tabulation of the survey data by the New York City Rent Guidelines Board, DHCR
shall issue a new Operational Bulletin governing electrical conversions setting forth rent
reductions based on the new survey data, and shall move to amend the regulations to incorporate
by reference the new Operational Bulletin, the new New York City Housing and Vacancy
Survey, and Rent guidelines Board tabulation. At such time as New York State Energy Research
and Development Authority issues a new Residential Electric Submetering Manual setting forth
a new maximum estimated submetering service fee, DHCR shall move to amend the regulations
to incorporate that document by reference.
9 NYCRR § 2202.25 is amended as follows:
Where all tenants occupying a housing accommodation on June 19, 1997 have permanently
vacated such housing accommodation, and a primary-resident family member of such vacating
tenant or tenants (first successor) is entitled to and continues to occupy the housing
accommodation subject to the protections of this Subchapter, as provided in section 2204.6 of
this Title, and thereafter permanently vacates, as defined in section 2204.6 of this Title, the
housing accommodation, if such accommodation continues to be subject to the Rent Law and
this Subchapter after such first successor vacates, and a primary-resident family member (second
successor) is entitled to and continues to occupy the housing accommodation subject to the
protections of this Subchapter, as provided in section 2204.6 of this Title, the maximum
collectable rent shall be increased by a sum equal to the allowance then in effect for vacancy
leases for housing accommodations subject to the Rent Stabilization Law of Nineteen Hundred
Sixty-Nine, including the amount allowed by paragraph 5-a of subdivision c of section 26-511 of
such Law. Such increase shall be in addition to any other increases provided for in this
Subchapter, including adjustments pursuant to section 2202.4 of this Part, and shall be applicable
in like manner to the maximum collectible rent that may be charged each second subsequent
succeeding family member.
9 NYCRR § 2202.27 is amended as follows:
Where a landlord acts as a provider of a utility service (including, but not limited to electricity,
gas, cable, or telecommunications), the landlord may collect surcharges which shall not be part
of the maximum rent[,] and shall not be subject to this Subchapter.
As of June 14, 2019, fuel pass-along to tenants under rent control is prohibited. Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, rule, regulation, chapter or administrative code, tenants of housing
accommodations which are subject to rent control under this chapter shall not be subject to a fuel
adjustment or pass-along increase in rent and any such increase to such tenant shall be null and
void.
9 NYCRR § 2203.4 is amended to read as follows:
Where, since the filing of the registration statement for any housing accommodation, there has
been a change in the identity of the landlord, by transfer of title or otherwise, and no notice of
such change has been filed, the successor landlord shall file a notice, on a form provided for that
purpose, [on or before June 1, 1962 or] within 15 days after the change[, whichever is later]. In
addition to any other address, the owner shall provide an actual, physical street address from
which it conducts business and where the owner or an agent is authorized to accept service of
documents, subpoenas or requests. In the absence of such form, DHCR may serve all notices on
the last registered owner or in any proceeding where the owner has appeared whether in a rent
control or rent stabilized administrative proceeding, at such address given in the proceeding.
9 NYCRR § 2204.3 (a) and (c) is amended to read as follows:
(a) Except where the ground for removal or eviction of a tenant is nonpayment of rent, no tenant
shall be removed or evicted from a housing accommodation by court process, and no action or
proceeding shall be commenced for such purpose upon any of the grounds stated in section
2204.2 of this Part, unless and until the landlord shall have given written notice to the tenant and
to the [district rent office] Division of Housing and Community Renewal, Office of Rent
Administration, Gertz Plaza, 92-31 Union Hall Street, Jamaica, New York 11433 as hereinafter
provided.
(c) Within 48 hours after the notice is served upon the tenant, an exact copy thereof, together
with an affidavit of service, shall be filed with the [district rent office.] Division of Housing and
Community Renewal, Office of Rent Administration, Gertz Plaza, 92-31 Union Hall Street,
Jamaica, New York 11433. In computing such 48-hour period, any intervening Saturday, Sunday
or legal holiday shall be excluded.
9 NYCRR § 2204.4 is amended as follows:
(e)
(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2) of this subdivision, whenever
compliance with the relocation requirements of this section is directed by or required
pursuant to these regulations as a condition for the granting of a certificate of eviction, the
landlord shall provide suitable relocation for the tenant at the same or lower rent in a
closely proximate area, or in a new residential building if constructed on the site, in which
case suitable interim housing shall be provided at no additional cost to the tenant; plus in
addition to reasonable moving expenses, payment of a $5,000 stipend, provided the tenant
vacates on or before the vacate date required by the final order.
(i) In the event a comparable housing accommodation is offered by the owner, a tenant
may file an objection with the DHCR challenging the suitability of a housing
accommodation offered by the owner for relocation with 10 days after the owner identifies
the housing accommodation and makes it available for the tenant to inspect and consider
the suitability thereof. Within 30 days thereafter, the DHCR shall inspect the housing
accommodation, on notice to both parties, in order to determine whether the offered
housing accommodation is suitable. Such determination will be made by as promptly as
practicable thereafter. In the event that the DHCR determines that the housing
accommodation is not suitable, the tenant shall be offered another housing
accommodation, and shall have 10 days after it is made available by the owner for the
tenant’s inspection to consider its suitability. In the event that the DHCR determines that
the housing accommodation is suitable, the tenant shall have 15 days thereafter within
which to accept the housing accommodation. A tenant who refuses to accept relocation to
any housing accommodation determined by the DHCR to be suitable shall lose the right to
relocation by the owner, and to receive payment of moving expenses or any stipend.
“Suitable housing accommodations” shall mean housing accommodations which are
similar in size and features to the respective housing accommodations now occupied by
the tenant. Such housing accommodations shall be freshly painted before the tenant takes
occupancy and shall be provided with substantially the same essential services and
equipment the tenants received in their prior housing accommodations. The building
containing such housing accommodations shall be free from violations of law recorded by
the City agency having jurisdiction, which constitute fire hazards or conditions dangerous
or detrimental to life or health, or which affect the maintenance of essential services. The
DHCR will consider housing accommodations proposed for relocation which are not
presently subject to rent regulation, provided the owner submits a contractual agreement
that places the tenant in a substantially similar housing accommodations at no additional
rent for a period of six years, unless the tenant requests a shorter period in writing.
[Where the landlord and tenant are unable to agree as to the suitability of a housing
accommodation offered to a tenant for relocation, the administrator, in determining
whether such offered accommodation is suitable, shall give due consideration to the
following factors:
(a) the physical condition and facilities of the offered housing accommodation and the
adequacy of neighborhood facilities. No accommodation shall be found to be suitable
unless:
(1) it is located in an area reasonably accessible to the tenant's place of employment or
business and generally not less desirable in regard to community and commercial facilities
than the area in which the tenant then resides;
(2) the building containing such accommodation:
(i) is free from violations of law, recorded by a city agency having jurisdiction, which
constitute fire hazards or conditions dangerous or detrimental to life or health or which
affect the maintenance of essential services; and
(ii) has central heat and central hot water;
(3) such accommodation is decent, safe and sanitary and generally not less desirable than
the housing accommodation then occupied by the tenant;
(4) such accommodation contains:
(i) kitchen facilities for the exclusive use of the tenant's family; and
(ii) a fully enclosed bathroom equipped with a washbasin, toilet facilities and a bathtub or
shower; and
(5) such accommodation:
(i) has adequate light and ventilation, with a window in all rooms except where approved
mechanical ventilation is a lawful substitute; and
(ii) contains adequate space for the occupants without overcrowding. ]
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this clause where a tenant to be relocated is
the sole occupant of a rooming house accommodation or a single-room occupancy
accommodation, an accommodation in a licensed rooming house offered to such tenant
may be deemed to be suitable, provided such rooming house accommodation meets the
requirements detailed in this section [of subclauses (1), (2), (3) and (5) of this clause]; and
([b]a) the tenant's ability to pay the rent for the offered accommodation. Where an owner
provides relocation of a tenant to a suitable housing accommodation at a rent in excess of
that for the subject housing accommodation, in addition to the tenant’s reasonable moving
expenses, the owner may be required to pay the tenant a stipend equal to the difference in
rent, at the commencement of the occupancy by the tenant of the new housing
accommodation, between the subject housing accommodation and the housing
accommodation to which the tenant is relocated, multiplied by 72 months, provided the
tenant vacates on or before the vacate date required by the final order.
[No accommodation shall be found to be suitable unless the rent therefor is reasonably
within the financial means of the tenant. In general, a gross annual rental for an offered
accommodation shall be presumed to be reasonably within the tenant's financial means if
such rental does not exceed the tenant's then rental, or 20 percent of the tenant's gross
family income, whichever is higher; provided, however, that:
(1) where the tenant establishes that a gross annual rental below such 20-percent standard
is in excess of his financial means, the administrator may determine that the offered
accommodation is not suitable for the tenant unless, in addition to any stipend payable to
the tenant pursuant to these regulations, the landlord pays to the tenant a sum equal to the
amount by which the gross annual rental for the offered accommodation, over a period of
two years, exceeds 125 percent of the gross annual rental, over a period of two years, for
the tenant's then accommodations; and
(2) the administrator may determine that the offered accommodation is suitable,
notwithstanding that the gross annual rental therefor is in excess of such 20-percent
standard, if the administrator finds, after due consideration of the tenant's circumstances,
that such rental is reasonably within the financial means of the tenant.
(ii) No housing accommodation shall be found to be suitable unless the administrator
determines:
(a) that the building containing such accommodation is not located in an area which is
being formally considered or has been approved as the site of a proposed public
improvement or publicly assisted project, whether public or private, by any city agency
authorized to make reports or recommendations or act with respect to the approval of such
site for such purposes; or
(b) that such building, although located in such an area, will not be required, for the
purpose of constructing or carrying out such improvement or project, to be demolished or
to be altered or improved in such manner as to interfere with occupancy by the tenant. ]
(2) Notwithstanding any provision of paragraph (1) of this subdivision to the contrary,
there shall be no relocation requirement where:
(i) the tenant is a single person under the age of 60 years who is the sole occupant of a
rooming house accommodation or a single-room occupancy accommodation, and such
occupancy has continued for less than six months prior to the date of the filing of the
application for a certificate of eviction;
(ii) the tenant's housing accommodation is occupied by three persons or less and the
maximum monthly rent therefor, as of January 1, 1961, was $200 or more; or
(iii) the tenant's housing accommodation is occupied by four persons or more and the
maximum monthly rent therefor, as of January 1, 1961, was $ 250 or more.
(3) Whenever compliance with the stipend requirements of this section is directed by or
required pursuant to these regulations, the landlord shall pay the applicable stipend
hereinafter provided for in this paragraph to each tenant who moves or rents another
accommodation after the date of the filing of the application, and prior to the withdrawal
or final denial of such application, and such payment shall be made within five days from
the date of the tenant's removal. The payment of such stipend shall be made on the basis of
the following schedule:
(i) For other than rooming house tenants or single room occupants (except as provided in
subparagraphs (iii) and (iv) of this paragraph): in addition to the tenant’s moving expenses,
pay the tenant a stipend which shall be the difference between the tenant’s current rent and
the average rent for vacant non-regulated apartments as set forth in the New York City
Housing Vacancy Survey as of the date of the determination. This difference is to be
multiplied by 72 months. The stipend shall be increased each year by the guideline
adjustment as set forth by the New York City Rent Guidelines Board for a one year lease
beginning the first year after the vacancy report is issued and continuing until a new
vacancy report is issued.
[Number Self-relocated Landlord-relocated
1-3        $ 450            $ 200
4          $ 600            $ 300
5 or more $ 750              $ 400 ]
[(ii) For rooming house tenants or single-room occupants (except as otherwise provided in
subparagraph (v) of this paragraph):
Self relocated          Landlord- relocated
(a) sole occupant under 60 years of age      $100                    $ 50
(b) sole occupant 60 years of age or over $150                       $ 75
(c) family with no children under 16 years
of age                                         $ 150                      $ 75
(d) family with one or more children
under 16 years of age                         $ 450                       $ 200
(iii) For three-person or less family units whose monthly rent as of January 1, 1961 was
from $ 200 to $ 249.99, inclusive, the stipend is $ 300. No stipend is required to be paid
where such rent was $ 250 per month or more.
(iv) For four-person or more family units whose monthly rent as of January 1, 1971 was
from $ 250 to $ 299, inclusive, the stipend is $ 400. No stipend is required to be paid
where such rent was $ 300 per month or more.
(v) Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary, where a tenant under the
age of 60 years is the sole occupant of a rooming house accommodation or of a single-
room occupancy accommodation, and such occupancy has not continued for more than six
months prior to the date of the filing of the application, he shall not be entitled to the
payment of any stipend.
(vi) Tenants who, with or without landlord assistance, move into public housing or
publicly aided housing are deemed to be self-relocated for the purpose of this paragraph. ]
(4) Where a housing accommodation is occupied by more than one tenant, the stipend
required to be paid pursuant to paragraph (3) of this subdivision shall be paid to each
tenant in proportion to the space personally occupied by him and members of his
household.
(5) Where a housing accommodation is sublet, the stipend or stipends required to be paid
pursuant to paragraph (3) of this subdivision shall be allocated between the prime tenant
and the subtenants, on such basis as the administrator shall determine to be appropriate,
with due regard for such factors as space personally occupied by the prime tenant and the
subtenants and the duration of the unexpired term of the subtenants' tenancy.
(6) Wherever a stipend would result in the tenant losing a subsidy or other government
benefit which is income dependent, the tenant may elect to waive the stipend and have the
owner at his or her own expense, relocate the tenant to a suitable housing accommodation
at the same or lower legal regulated rent in a closely proximate area.
(7) In the event that the tenant dies prior to the issuance by the DHCR of a final order
granting the owner’s application, the owner shall not be required to pay such stipend to the
estate of the deceased tenant.
(f) Whenever compliance with stipend requirements of this section is directed by or
pursuant to these regulations, the landlord shall deposit in escrow with his attorney a sum
of money sufficient to pay the prescribed stipend to:
(1) each tenant in the building or structure who is still in occupancy on the 10th day prior
to the expiration of the applicable waiting period; and
(2) each tenant who had previously vacated after the application was filed by the landlord
and who has not already received payment of the stipend.
The escrow deposit shall be conditioned upon the payment of the stipend within five days
from demand for payment after the tenant's removal from the premises. Proof of payment
of the applicable stipends and/or compliance with the requirements of the foregoing
provisions of this subdivision shall be filed no later than five days before the expiration of
the waiting period.
(g) No application for a certificate of eviction shall be granted under sections 2204.7,
2204.8 and 2204.9(a)(2) and (4) of this Part, unless the administrator determines, after a
hearing, that:
(1) there is no reasonable possibility that the landlord can make a net annual return of 8 1/2
percent of the assessed valuation of the subject property without recourse to the eviction
sought; and
(2) neither the landlord nor immediate predecessor in interest has intentionally or willfully
managed the property to impair the landlord's ability to earn such return.
(h) The effectiveness of any certificate of eviction or of any order granting a certificate of
eviction pursuant to sections 2204.7, 2204.8 and 2204.9(a)(2) and (4) of this Part, shall be
suspended, and no tenant may be evicted pursuant to such certificate or order, unless and
until the requirements of subdivision (g) of this section have been complied with and the
commissioner issues an order reinstating the effectiveness of any certificate of eviction or
any order granting a certificate of eviction suspended by chapter 1022 of the Laws of
1974, as amended by chapter 360 of the Laws of 1975. The relief granted in this
subdivision shall take effect notwithstanding the pendency of any judicial proceeding or
appeal.
(i) The provisions of subdivisions (g) and (h) of this section shall not apply to an
application under section 2204.7 or 2204.8 of this Part where the alteration, remodeling or
construction of a new building is to be aided by interest reduction payments under section
236 of the National Housing Act.
(j) The provisions of this section shall apply to all certificates of eviction issued pursuant
to these regulations, unless otherwise specified.
(k) Where the administrator’s order granting the owner’s application is conditioned upon
the owner’s compliance with specified terms and conditions, if such terms and conditions
have not been complied with, or if DHCR determines that the owner has not proceeded in
good faith, the order may be modified or revoked.
(l) Noncompliance by an owner with any term or condition of the administrator’s order
granting the owner’s application may result in DHCR initiating its own enforcement
proceeding. The DHCR shall retain jurisdiction for this purpose until all of the terms and
conditions in the administrator’s order granting the owner’s application have been met and
the project described in the owner’s application has been completed. Subsequent owners
shall be bound by the terms and conditions of DHCR’s order. This clause shall not be
deemed to eliminate any remedy or claim that a tenant of the dwelling unit may otherwise
have against the owner nor eliminate any independent authority that DHCR may be able to
exercise by law or regulation.
(m) An owner’s failure to comply within a reasonable time with any term or condition of
the administrator’s order granting the owner’s application or an owner’s failure to
complete the project described in the owner’s application may be found to be a violation of
the Administrative Code of the City of New York and the City Rent and Evictions
Regulations and subject to any of the penalties and remedies described therein including
but not limited to revocation of the administrator’s order granting the owner’s application
and DHCR’s continued jurisdiction under the Administrative Code of the City of New
York over the building or any subsequent construction. Any remedies and penalties
prescribed by this Code shall apply to and be binding against subsequent owners.
9 NYCRR § 2204.5 (a) and (b) are amended to read as follows:
(a) A certificate shall be issued where the landlord seeks in good faith to recover possession of a
housing accommodation because of immediate and compelling necessity for [his] their own
personal use and occupancy as their primary residence, or for the use and occupancy of [his]
their immediate family as their primary residence; provided, however, that this section shall
permit recovery of only one housing accommodation and shall not apply where a member of the
household lawfully occupying the housing accommodation is 62 years of age or older, has been a
tenant in a housing accommodation in that building for [20] 15 years or more, or has an
impairment which results from anatomical, physiological or psychological conditions, other than
addiction to alcohol, gambling, or any controlled substance, which are demonstrable by
medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques, and which are expected to be
permanent and which prevent the tenant from engaging in any substantial gainful employment;
provided, further that a tenant required to surrender a housing accommodation by virtue of the
operation of subdivision g or h of section 26-408 of the administrative code of the city of New
York shall have a cause of action in any court of competent jurisdiction for damages,
declaratory, and injunctive relief against a landlord or purchaser of the premises who makes a
fraudulent statement regarding a proposed use of the housing accommodation. In any action or
proceeding brought pursuant to this subdivision a prevailing tenant shall be entitled to recovery
of actual damages, and reasonable attorneys’ fees. As used in this subdivision, the term
immediate family includes only a spouse, son, daughter, stepson, stepdaughter, father, mother,
stepfather, stepmother, brother, sister, grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter,
father-in-law, mother-in-law, or daughter-in-law of the landlord.
(b) Where the housing accommodation is located in a structure or premises which contains more
than two housing accommodations, and the housing accommodations or structure or premises are
owned by two or more persons not constituting a cooperative corporation or association
([husband and wife] spouses as owners being considered one owner for this purpose), no
certificate can be issued pursuant to this Part or section 5 of the State Rent Act. [The prohibition
contained in this subdivision shall not apply where the co-owners stand in the relationship of
immediate family as defined in subdivision (a) of this section.]
9 NYCRR § 2204.6 (d) (1) and is amended and new subparagraph (d)(3)(iv) is added as
follows:
(d) (1) Unless otherwise prohibited by occupancy restrictions based upon income limitations
pursuant to federal, state or local law, regulations or other requirements of governmental
agencies, notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (a) of this section, the city rent agency
shall not issue an order granting a certificate of eviction, and any member of the tenant's family,
as defined in paragraph (3) of this subdivision, shall not be evicted under this section where the
tenant has permanently vacated, as defined in paragraph (3) of this subdivision, the housing
accommodation and such family member has resided with the tenant in the housing
accommodation as a primary residence for a period of no less than two years, or where such
person is a "senior citizen" or a "disabled person," as defined in paragraph (3) of this subdivision,
for a period of no less than one year, immediately prior to the permanent vacating of the housing
accommodation by the tenant, or from the inception of the tenancy or commencement of the
relationship, if for less than such periods.
***
(3) For the purposes of this subdivision:
(iv) A tenant shall be considered to have permanently vacated the subject housing accommodation
when the tenant has permanently ceased residing in the housing accommodation. The continued
payment of rent by the tenant or the signing of renewal leases shall not preclude a claim by a family
member as defined in paragraph (3) of this subdivision in seeking tenancy.
9 NYCRR § 2206.7(e) is amended as follows:
(e) for some purpose other than those specified above for which the removal of the tenant was
sought and the landlord has filed to use the vacated premises for such purposes: the tenant
required to surrender a housing accommodation for the reasons set forth in this section shall
have a cause of action in any court of competent jurisdiction for damages, declaratory, and
injunctive relief against the landlord; such landlord shall, unless for good cause shown, be
liable to the tenant for three times the damages sustained on account of such removal, plus
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs as determined by the court, provided the tenant
commences such action within three years from the expiration of the applicable time period as
set forth in this section. The damages sustained by the tenant under this section shall be the
difference between the rent paid for the housing accommodation from which the tenant was
evicted and the rental value of a comparable housing accommodation on the open market. In
addition to any other damage, the cost of removal of the tenant’s property shall be a lawful
measure of damages. The remedy herein provided for shall be in addition to those provided
for in any other section of these regulations. Such acts and omissions on the part of a landlord
after issuance of a certificate of eviction are hereby declared to be inconsistent with the
purposes for which such certificate of eviction was issued.
9 NYCRR § 2208.9 is amended as follows:
Where [a regulation is amended] a provision of this Code is amended or an applicable statute
is enacted or amended during the pendency of a PAR, the determination shall be in
accordance with the [amended regulation] statute or Code as it existed at the time the rent
administrator’s order was issued, unless the relevant law or regulation states otherwise.
9 NYCRR § 2211.2 is repealed.
9 NYCRR § 2211.3 is repealed.
9 NYCRR § 2211.4 is repealed.
9 NYCRR § 2211.5 is repealed.
9 NYCRR § 2211.6 is repealed.
9 NYCRR § 2211.7 is repealed.
9 NYCRR § 2211.8 is repealed and replaced with the following:
§ 2211.8 Jurisdictional authority
(a) Effective June 14, 2019, high rent high income deregulation pursuant to the City Rent and
Rehabilitation Law sections 26-403(e)(2)(j) and 26-403.1, otherwise repealed by Chapters 36 and
39 of the Laws of 2019, is no longer applicable. Any apartment that was lawfully deregulated
pursuant to the City Rent and Rehabilitation Law sections 26-403(e)(2)(j) and 26-403.1 shall
remain deregulated, notwithstanding that such sections were repealed pursuant to Chapters 36 and
39 of the Laws of 2019. For the purposes of this subdivision, lawful deregulation shall be defined
as the issuance of an order by the DHCR pursuant to City Rent and Rehabilitation Law sections
26-403(e)(2)(j) and 26-403.1, which were repealed by Chapters 36 and 39 of the Laws of 2019
and the expiration of any time period contained in such order establishing the date of deregulation
which expired prior to June 14, 2019.
(b) Effective June 14, 2019, no further high rent high income deregulation proceedings pursuant
to this Title may be commenced, and all pending applications shall be dismissed as not subject to
deregulation. For the purposes of this subdivision, an application shall not be considered pending
if the subject housing accommodation was lawfully deregulated pursuant to such application prior
to June 14, 2019, and such lawful deregulation is subject to review as of June 14, 2019 in a Court
of competent jurisdiction, before the commissioner pursuant to a petition for administrative
review, or before the rent administrator subsequent to a remand for further consideration by the
either the commissioner or a court.