SOURCE: New York Codes, Rules and Regulations, 9 NYCRR Part 2523, as published on govt.westlaw.com/nycrr (the online NYCRR the NYS Department of State provides through Thomson Reuters; the site calls itself the 'Unofficial New York Codes, Rules and Regulations' and each section states the date of the most recent official NYCRR supplement it reflects).
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-28 by curl, one request per section; HTML stripped mechanically; each section below keeps its own URL and 'Current through' line.
CURRENCY WARNING: every section in this Part reads 'Current through September 15, 2021'. DHCR amendments adopted after that date (NYS Register 2023-11-08, eff. 2023-11-08) are NOT in this text; see NYC_NYSREG_2023-11-08_* and NYC_DHCR_*_2023_amendment_text_PARTIAL.txt.

=== s 2523.1 Notice of initial legal regulated rent. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f8c007acd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2523.1 Notice of initial legal regulated rent.

Every owner of housing accommodations previously subject to the City Rent Law and thereafter rented to a tenant on or after April 1, 1984, shall within 90 days after the commencement of the first tenancy subject to the RSL, give notice in writing by certified mail to the tenant of each such housing accommodation on a form prescribed by the DHCR for that purpose, reciting the initial legal regulated rent for the housing accommodation and the tenant's right to file an application for adjustment of the initial legal regulated rent within 90 days of the certified mailing to the tenant of the notice pursuant to section 2522.3 of this Title.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, where such application is filed four years or more after the first date the housing accommodation was no longer subject to the City Rent Law, the application shall be dismissed pursuant to section 2522.3(c) of this Title.

9 CRR-NY 2523.1
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2523.4 Failure to maintain services. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f8c2775cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2523.4 Failure to maintain services.

(a)
(1) A tenant may apply to the DHCR for a reduction of the legal regulated rent to the level in effect prior to the most recent guidelines adjustment, subject to the limitations of subdivisions (c)-(h) of this section, and the DHCR shall so reduce the rent for the period for which it is found that the owner has failed to maintain required services. The order reducing the rent shall further bar the owner from applying for or collecting any further increases in rent including such increases pursuant to section 2522.8 of this Title until such services are restored or no longer required pursuant to an order of the DHCR. If the DHCR further finds that the owner has knowingly filed a false certification, it may, in addition to abating the rent, assess the owner with the reasonable costs of the proceeding, including reasonable attorney's fees, and impose a penalty not in excess of $250 for each false certification.

(2) Where an application for a rent adjustment pursuant to section 2522.4(a)(2) of this Title has been granted, and collection of such rent adjustment commenced prior to the issuance of the rent reduction order, the owner will be permitted to continue to collect the rent adjustment regardless of the effective date of the rent reduction order, notwithstanding that such date is prior to the effective date of the order granting the adjustment. In addition, regardless of the effective date thereof, a rent reduction order will not affect the continued collection of a rent adjustment pursuant to section 2522.4(a)(1) of this Title, where collection of such rent adjustment commenced prior to the issuance of the rent reduction order. However, an owner will not be permitted to collect any increment pursuant to section 2522.4(a)(8) of this Title that was otherwise scheduled to go into effect after the effective date of the rent reduction order.

(b) Proceedings pending on the effective date of this code involving tenant complaints of owners' failure to provide hotel services shall be determined in accordance with the RSL and Hotel Industry code in effect immediately prior to such effective date of this code.

(c) Except for complaints pertaining to heat and hot water or other conditions requiring emergency repairs, before filing an application for a reduction of the legal regulated rent pursuant to subdivision (a) of this section, a tenant should notify the owner or the owner's agent in writing of all the service problems listed in such application. A copy of the written notice to the owner or agent with proof of mailing or delivery should be attached to the application. Applications should be filed with the DHCR no earlier than 10 days after such notice is given to the owner or agent. Failure to provide such prior written notice will not be grounds for dismissal of the application. Applications based upon a lack of adequate heat or hot water must be accompanied by a report from the appropriate city agency finding such lack of adequate heat or hot water.

(d)
(1) In the event notice of any inspection is given by the DHCR in a proceeding commenced pursuant to this section, the inspection shall be conducted on notice to both the owner and tenant.

(2) Upon receipt of a copy of the tenant's complaint from the DHCR, an owner shall have 20 days in which to respond if the tenant provided DHCR with the proof of the written notice to the owner. If the tenant did not provide proof of written notice to the owner, an owner shall have 60 days in which to respond. If the tenant’s complaint indicates that the tenant has been forced to vacate the premises, the owner shall have five days to respond. If the complaint pertains to heat and hot water or to a condition which in DHCR’s opinion may require emergency repairs, the owner shall have 20 days to respond. Nothing herein shall preclude DHCR from granting an owner’s request for a reasonable extension of time to respond in order to establish that service problems have been repaired. If during this period of time, an owner has attempted, but been unable to obtain access to the subject housing accommodation to correct the service or equipment deficiency, the owner should set forth such facts in the response. Upon receipt thereof, in order to facilitate the resolution of the complaint, the DHCR may direct an inspector to accompany the owner or the owner's agent to the housing accommodation to determine whether such access is being provided. In order for DHCR to coordinate the inspection, the owner should indicate that access has been denied in the response submitted to the DHCR and should include copies of two letters to the tenant attempting to arrange for access. Each of the letters must have been mailed at least eight days prior to the date proposed for access, and must have been mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested. Exceptions to such requirements for inspection may be permitted under emergency conditions, where special circumstances exist, or pursuant to court order. The service complaint, or objection to a rent restoration application, by a tenant who fails to provide access at the time arranged by the DHCR for the inspection will be denied.

(e) Certain conditions complained of as constituting a decrease in a required service may be de minimis in nature, and therefore do not rise to the level of a failure to maintain a required service for the purposes of this section. Such conditions are those that have only a minimal impact on tenants, do not affect the use and enjoyment of the premises, and may exist despite regular maintenance of services.

The following schedule sets forth conditions that will generally not constitute a failure to maintain a required service. However, this schedule is not intended to be exclusive, and is not determinative in all cases and under all circumstances. Therefore, it does not include all conditions that may be considered de minimis, and there may be circumstances where a condition, although included on the schedule, will nevertheless be found to constitute a decrease in a required service.

Schedule of De Minimis Conditions Building-Wide Conditions

1. Air conditioner—failure to provide in lobby, hallways, stairwells, and other non-enclosed public areas.

2. Building entrance door—removal of canopy over unlocked door leading to vestibule; changes in door-locking devices, where security or access is not otherwise compromised.

3. Carpeting—change in color or quality under certain circumstances; isolated stains on otherwise clean carpets; frayed areas which do not create a tripping hazard.

4. Clotheslines—removal of, whether or not dryers are provided.

5. Cracks—sidewalk cracks which do not create a tripping hazard; hairline cracks in walls and ceilings.

6. Decorative amenities—modification (e.g., fountain replaced with rock garden); removal of some or all for aesthetic reasons.

7. Elevator—failure to post elevator inspection certificates; failure to provide or maintain amenities (e.g., ashtray, fan, recorded music).

8. Floors—failure to wax floors; discrete areas in need of cleaning or dusting, where there is evidence that janitorial services are being regularly provided and most areas are clean (see janitorial services, item 12).

9. Garage—any condition that does not interfere with the use of the garage or an assigned parking space (e.g., peeling paint where there is no water leak).

10. Graffiti—minor graffiti inside the building; any graffiti outside the building where the owner submits an affidavit of on-going maintenance indicating a reasonable time period when the specific condition will be next addressed.

11. Landscaping—modification; failure to maintain a particular aspect of landscaping where the grounds are generally maintained.

12. Janitorial services—failure to clean or dust discrete areas, where there is evidence that janitorial services are being regularly provided because most areas are, in fact, clean.

13. Lighting in public areas—missing light bulbs where the lighting is otherwise adequate.

14. Lobby or hallways—discontinuance of fresh cut flowers; removal of fireplace or fireplace andirons; modification of furniture; removal of some furnishings (determined on a case by case basis); removal of decorative mirrors; reduction in lobby space where reasonable access to tenant areas are maintained; elimination of public area door mat; failure to maintain a lobby directory that is not associated with a building intercom; removal or replacement of window coverings (see decorative amenities, item 6).

15. Mail distribution—elimination of door-to-door or other methods of mail distribution where mailboxes are installed in a manner approved by the U.S. Postal Service.

16. Masonry—minor deterioration; failure to point exterior bricks where there is no interior leak damage.

17. Painting—Change in color in public areas under certain circumstances (e.g., not in violation of the New York City housing maintenance code); replacement of wallpaper or stenciling with paint in the public areas; isolated or minor areas where paint or plaster is peeling, or other similarly minor areas requiring repainting, provided there are no active water leaks; any painting condition in basement or cellar areas not usually meant for or used by tenants; any painting condition that is limited to the top-floor bulkhead area provided there is no active water leak in such area.

18. Recreational facilities—modifications, such as reasonable substitution of equipment, combination of areas, or reduction in the number of items of certain equipment where overall facilities are maintained (see roof, item 19).

19. Roof—discontinuance of recreational use (e.g., sunbathing) unless a lease clause provides for such service, or formal facilities (e.g., solarium) are provided by the owner; lack of repairs where water does not leak into the building or the condition is not dangerous.

20. Sinks—failure to provide or maintain in compactor rooms or laundry rooms.

21. Storage space—removal or reduction of, unless storage space service is provided for in a specific rider to the lease (not a general clause in a standard form residential lease), or unless the owner has provided formal storage boxes or bins to tenants within three years of the filing of a tenant's complaint alleging an elimination or a reduction in storage space service.

22. Superintendent/maintenance staff/management—decrease in the number of staff, other than security, provided there is no decrease in janitorial services; elimination of on-site management office; failure to provide an on-site superintendent, provided there is no decrease in janitorial services.

23. Television—replacement of individual antennas with master antenna; visible cable; television wires; or other technologies.

24. Toilet in public areas—removal of (except in buildings containing class B units).

25. Windows—sealed, vented, basement or crawl space windows, other than in areas used by tenants (e.g., laundry rooms); cracked fire-rated windows; peeling paint or other nonhazardous condition of exterior window frames.

Individual Apartment Conditions

1. Appliances and fixtures—chips on appliances, countertops, fixtures or tile surfaces; color-matching of appliances, fixtures or tiles.

2. Cracks—hairline cracks; minor wall cracks, provided there is no missing plaster, or no active water leak.

3. Doors—lack of alignment, provided condition does not prevent proper locking of entrance door or closing of interior door.

4. Floor—failure to provide refinishing or shellacking.

5. Noise—caused by another tenant.

6. Window furnishings—failure to re-tape or re-cord venetian blinds.

(f) In determining whether a condition is de minimis, the DHCR may consider the passage of time during which a disputed service was not provided and during which no complaint was filed by any tenant alleging failure to maintain such disputed service, as evidencing that such service condition is de minimis, and therefore does not constitute a failure to maintain a required service, provided that:

(1) for purposes of this subdivision, the passage of four years or more shall be considered presumptive evidence that the condition is de minimis, with such four-year period to be measured without reference to any changes in building ownership or the tenancy of the subject housing accommodation;

(2) services required to be provided by laws or regulations other than the RSL and this Code shall not be subject to this subdivision.

(g)
(1) Except as to complaints of inadequate heat and/or hot water, or applications relating to the restoration of rents based upon the restoration of such services, whenever a complaint of building-wide reduction in services, or an owner's application relating to the restoration of rents based upon the restoration of such services is filed, the tenants or owner may submit with the complaint, answer or application, the contemporaneous affidavit of an independent licensed architect or engineer, substantiating the allegations of the complaint, answer, or application. The affidavit shall state that the conditions that are the subject of the complaint, answer or application were investigated by the person signing the affidavit and that the conditions exist (if the affidavit is offered by the tenants) or do not exist (if the affidavit is offered by the owner). The affidavit shall specify what conditions were investigated and what the findings were with respect to each condition. The affidavit shall state when the investigation was conducted, must be submitted within a reasonable time after the completion of the investigation, and when served by DHCR on the opposing party, will raise a rebuttable presumption that the conditions that are the subject of the complaint, answer or application exist (if the affidavit is submitted by the tenants), or do not exist (if the affidavit is submitted by the owner).

(2) The presumption raised by the affidavit may be rebutted only on the basis of persuasive evidence, including a counter affidavit by an independent licensed architect or engineer, or a report of a subsequent inspection conducted, or a subsequent violation imposed by a governmental agency, or an affirmation signed by 51 percent of the complaining tenants. Except for good cause shown, failure to rebut the presumption within 30 days will result in the issuance of an order without any further physical inspection of the premises by DHCR.

(3) There must be no common ownership, or other financial interest, between such architect or engineer, and the owner or tenants, and the affidavit shall state that there is no such relationship or other financial interest. The affidavit must also contain a statement that the architect or engineer did not engage in the performance of any work, other than the investigation, relating to the conditions that are the subject of the affidavit, and must contain the original signature and professional stamp of the architect or engineer, not a copy. DHCR may conduct follow-up inspections randomly to ensure that the affidavits accurately indicate the conditions of the premises. Any person or party who submits a false statement will be subject to all penalties provided by law.

(h) The amount of the reduction in rent ordered by the DHCR pursuant to this section shall be reduced by any credit, abatement or offset in rent which the tenant has received pursuant to section 235-b of the Real Property Law, that relates to one or more conditions covered by such order.

9 CRR-NY 2523.4
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2523.5 Notice for renewal of lease and renewal procedure. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f8c2778cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2523.5 Notice for renewal of lease and renewal procedure.

(a) On a form prescribed or a facsimile of such form approved by the DHCR, dated by the owner, every owner, other than an owner of hotel accommodations, shall notify the tenant named in the expiring lease not more than 150 days and not less than 90 days prior to the end of the tenant's lease term, by mail or personal delivery, of the expiration of the lease term, and offer to renew the lease or rental agreement at the legal regulated rent permitted for such renewal lease and otherwise on the same terms and conditions as the expiring lease. The owner shall give such tenant a period of 60 days from the date of service of such notice to accept the offer and renew such lease. The tenant's acceptance of such offer shall be entered on the designated part of the prescribed form, or facsimile thereof, and returned to the owner by mail or personal delivery. Pursuant to the provisions of section 2522.5(b)(1) of this Title, the owner shall furnish to such tenant a copy of the fully executed renewal lease form bearing the signatures of the owner and tenant within 30 days of the owner's receipt of the renewal lease form signed by the tenant. Upon execution by the owner and delivery to the tenant, such form shall constitute a binding renewal lease. Upon failure of the owner to deliver a copy of the fully executed renewal lease form to the tenant within 30 days from the owner's receipt of such form signed by the tenant, such tenant shall not be deprived of any of his or her rights under the RSL and this Code and the owner shall be barred from commencing any action or proceeding against the tenant based upon nonrenewal of lease, pursuant to section 2524.3(f) of this Title. In the event that such notice is given to the tenant after the expiration of the lease, the provisions of subdivision (c) of this section shall govern.

(b)
(1) Unless otherwise prohibited by occupancy restrictions based upon income limitations pursuant to federal, state or local law, regulations or other requirements of governmental agencies, if an offer is made to the tenant pursuant to the provisions of subdivision (a) of this section and such tenant has permanently vacated the housing accommodation, any member of such tenant's family, as defined in section 2520.6(o) of this Title, who has resided with the tenant in the housing accommodation as a primary residence for a period of no less than two years, or where such person is a “senior citizen,” or a “disabled person” as defined in paragraph (4) of this subdivision, for a period of no less than one year, immediately prior to the permanent vacating of the housing accommodation by the tenant, or from the inception of the tenancy or commencement of the relationship, if for less than such periods, shall be entitled to be named as a tenant on the renewal lease.

(2) The minimum periods of required residency set forth in this subdivision shall not be deemed to be interrupted by any period during which the “family member” temporarily relocates because he or she:
(i) is engaged in active military duty;

(ii) is enrolled as a full-time student;

(iii) is not in residence at the housing accommodation pursuant to a court order not involving any term or provision of the lease, and not involving any grounds specified in the Real Property Actions and Proceedings Law;

(iv) is engaged in employment requiring temporary relocation from the housing accommodation;

(v) is hospitalized for medical treatment; or

(vi) has such other reasonable grounds that shall be determined by the DHCR upon application by the such person.

(3) The 60-day period from the date of service of the notice for renewal of lease for acceptance and renewal provided to the tenant in subdivision (a) of this section, shall also apply to the tenant's “family member.”

(4) For the purposes of this subdivision (b), disabled person is defined as a person who has an impairment which results from anatomical, physiological or psychological conditions, other than addiction to alcohol, gambling, or any controlled substance, which are demonstrable by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques, and which are expected to be permanent and which substantially limit one or more of such person's major life activities.

(c)
(1) Where the owner fails to timely offer a renewal lease or rental agreement in accordance with subdivision (a) of this section, the one- or two-year lease term selected by the tenant shall commence at the tenant's option, either (i) on the date a renewal lease would have commenced had a timely offer been made, or (ii) on the first rent payment date occurring no less than 90 days after the date that the owner does offer the lease to the tenant. In either event, the effective date of the increased rent under the renewal lease shall commence on the first rent payment date occurring no less than 90 days after such offer is made by the owner, and the guidelines rate applicable shall be no greater than the rate in effect on the commencement date of the lease for which a timely offer should have been made.

(2) Where the tenant fails to timely renew an expiring lease or rental agreement offered pursuant to this section, and remains in occupancy after expiration of the lease, such lease or rental agreement may be deemed to be in effect, for the purpose of determining the rent in an overcharge proceeding, where such deeming would be appropriate pursuant to Real Property Law section 232-c. In such event, the expiring lease will be deemed to have been renewed upon the same terms and conditions, at the legal regulated rent, together with any guidelines adjustments that would have been applicable had the offer of a renewal lease been timely accepted. Unless otherwise dictated by Real Property Law section 232-c, the effective date of the rent adjustment under the "deemed" renewal lease shall commence on the first rent payment date occurring no less than 90 days after such offer is made by the owner.

(3) Where there is no deemed lease pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this subdivision, an owner may commence an action or proceeding to recover possession of a housing accommodation in a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to sections 2524.2(c)(1) and 2524.3(f) of this Title, where the tenant, upon the expiration of the existing lease or rental agreement, fails to timely renew such lease in the manner prescribed by this section.

(d) Except as provided in Part 2524 of this Title, the failure to offer a renewal lease pursuant to this section shall not deprive the tenant of any protections or rights provided by the RSL and this Code and the tenant shall continue to have the same rights as if the expiring lease were still in effect.

(e) On a form prescribed or a facsimile of such form approved by the DHCR, a tenant may, at any time, advise the owner, or an owner may request from the tenant at any time, but no more often than once in any 12 months, the names of all persons other than the tenant who are residing in the housing accommodation, and the following information pertaining to such persons:

(1) if the person is a “family member” as defined in subdivision (o) of section 2520.6 of this Title; and

(2) if the person is, or upon the passage of the applicable minimum period of required residency, may become a person entitled to be named as a tenant on a renewal lease pursuant to subdivision (b)(1) of this section, and the date of the commencement of such person's primary residence with the tenant; and

(3) if the person is a “senior citizen” or a “disabled person” as defined in section 2520.6(p) of this Title, and subdivision (b)(4) of this section.
Failure of the tenant to provide such information to the owner, regardless of whether the owner requests the information, shall place upon all such persons not so made known to the owner, who seek to exercise the right to be named as a tenant on a renewal lease as provided for in subdivision (b) of this section, the affirmative obligation to establish such right.

(f) For the purpose of determining whether an owner may charge the rent increases authorized pursuant to subdivision f of section 26-512 of the RSL, every owner who enters into a renewal lease pursuant to subdivision (b) of this section shall notify the DHCR, in a manner prescribed by the DHCR, whether the tenant named on the lease in effect for the housing accommodation at the time such notice is given was so named as the result of the exercise of rights pursuant to subdivision (b) of this section, together with the commencement date of the first renewal lease for the housing accommodation on which such tenant was named. Such notice shall create a rebuttable presumption that the owner is entitled to collect such sum.

9 CRR-NY 2523.5
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2523.6 Notices of appearance by attorney or other authorized representative. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f8c277bcd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2523.6 Notices of appearance by attorney or other authorized representative.

(a) Whenever an attorney or other authorized representative appears for a party who is involved in a proceeding before the DHCR, such person must file a notice of appearance which shall be on a form prescribed by the DHCR, unless the application which instituted the proceeding before the DHCR stated the representation of such person and his or her mailing address in the space allotted for the mailing address of the represented party. An attorney who appears for such party may instead use the letterhead stationery of his or her office as a notice of appearance if the information contained therein substantially conforms to the information required by the form. All subsequent written communications or notices to such party (other than subpoenas) shall be sent to such attorney or other authorized representative at the address designated in such notice of appearance. The service of written communications and notices upon such attorney or other authorized representative shall be deemed full and proper service upon the party or parties so represented. If an authorized representative appears, such notice of appearance must be accompanied by a written authorization, duly verified or affirmed, by the party represented.

(b) Whenever an attorney or other authorized representative shall represent the same party or parties in more than one proceeding before the DHCR, separate notices of appearance and authorizations shall be filed in each proceeding.

(c) Any submission signed by an attorney or other authorized representative must state that such person has personal knowledge of the facts contained in such submission, or if he or she does not have such personal knowledge, the basis for such person's information.

9 CRR-NY 2523.6
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2523.7 Records and recordkeeping. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f8c277ecd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2523.7 Records and recordkeeping.

(a) Except as provided in subdivision (b) of this section, every owner subject to this Code shall keep, preserve, and make available for examination, records from the date immediately prior to the date the housing accommodation became subject to the RSL, showing the individual housing accommodation services and building-wide services provided or required to be provided on the applicable base date.

(b) An owner shall maintain records relating to rents of housing accommodations for four years prior to the date the most recent registration for such accommodation was required to have been filed. An owner shall not be required to produce any rent records in connection with proceedings under sections 2522.3 and 2526.1 of this Title relating to a period that is prior to the base date. Notwithstanding the above, such owner shall continue to maintain such records for all housing accommodations for which a complaint of overcharge or a fair market rent appeal has been filed by a tenant, until a final order of the DHCR is issued.

(c)
(1) In the absence of collusion or any relationship between a prior owner and an owner who purchases upon a judicial sale, or such other sale effected in connection with, or to resolve, in whole or in part, a bankruptcy proceeding, mortgage foreclosure action or other judicial proceeding, such purchaser shall not be required to provide records for the period prior to such sale, except where records sufficient to establish the legal regulated rent are available to such purchaser. This subdivision shall apply to an owner who purchases subsequent to such judicial or other sale.

(2) Court-appointed receivers. A receiver who is appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction to receive rent for the use or occupation of a housing accommodation shall not, in the absence of collusion or any relationship between such receiver and any owner or other receiver, be required to provide records for the period prior to such appointment, except where records sufficient to establish the legal regulated rent are available to such receiver. This subdivision shall not be construed to waive the purchaser's obligation to register pursuant to Part 2528 of this Title.

9 CRR-NY 2523.7
Current through September 15, 2021

=== s 2523.8 Notice of change of ownership or address. ===
URL: https://govt.westlaw.com/nycrr/Document/I4f8c2781cd1711dda432a117e6e0f345?viewType=FullText&originationContext=documenttoc&transitionType=CategoryPageItem&contextData=(sc.Default)
2523.8 Notice of change of ownership or address.

(a) Within 30 days after a change in ownership, the new owner shall notify the DHCR of such change on a form prescribed by the DHCR. Such form shall be signed by the new owner, listing the address of the building or complex, the name, address and telephone number of the new owner, and the date of the transfer of ownership.

(b) Within 30 days after a change in the address of the managing agent, such managing agent, or, if there is no managing agent, the owner of a building or group of buildings or development shall give written notice to the DHCR and to all tenants of the new address.

9 CRR-NY 2523.8
Current through September 15, 2021
