SOURCE: https://www.nyc.gov/assets/hra/downloads/pdf/cityfheps-documents/W-147N-E-fillable.pdf
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-28 by curl; pdftotext -layout. AGENCY INSTRUMENT: HRA/DSS Security Voucher form W-147N (E) 05/07/2025 (terms the landlord accepts in lieu of a cash deposit); not a statute or rule.

                                                                                                W-147N (E) 05/07/2025 (page 1 of 2)



                                                                                     Date:
                                                                           Case Number:
                                                                            Case Name:
                                                                                    Center:


                                                 Security Voucher
This security voucher guarantees that the Human Resources Administration (HRA) will pay up to the equivalent of
one month’s rent if it is verified that the tenant who occupied the apartment failed to pay his/her rent and/or caused
damage to it. The landlord must submit proof of the unpaid rent and/or damage along with the Landlord’s Claim For
Security Voucher Payment (on the back page) within three months after the tenant has vacated the apartment. The
Agency will only make a payment if the claim is submitted within three months after the tenant has vacated the
apartment and a review of the documentation submitted by the landlord confirms that the tenant failed to pay his/her
rent and/or damaged the apartment. This Security Voucher will not be honored until the front and back pages have
been completed, signed, notarized, and returned to HRA.
The Human Resources Administration (HRA) does not issue cash security deposits. Instead, the Agency is issuing
this Security Voucher. Please be advised that refusal to accept this voucher in lieu of a security deposit may
constitute source of income discrimination under the NYC Human Rights Law Sec. 8-107(5)(a)(1)-(2).
This Security Voucher is issued by the New York City Department of Social Services (NYCDSS), having its principal
offices at 150 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10007, to:
             Name of Landlord:
           Landlord's Address:
                             City:                           State:          Zip:
as Landlord of the premises to be rented to the participant/tenant located at: (include proof of ownership):

                       Address:
                                                                                         Apt.
                             City:                           State:          Zip:
regarding the participant/tenant listed below:

             Participant/tenant:

This Security Voucher is being issued pursuant to Social Services Law Sec. 143-c and 18 NYCRR 352.6 and 381.3,
to secure the landlord against non-payment of rent and/or damages as a condition of renting the above-identified
premises ("Premises") to the above-named Cash Assistance participant/tenant ("Participant/Tenant"). A claim for the
payment of this Security Voucher by the landlord must be made after, and within three months of, the
participant/tenant vacating the premises. The claim must be made by the full completion and execution of the Claim
on page two of this form and cannot exceed the amount of the Tenant's monthly rent which is $                   .
Landlord, please acknowledge your acceptance of the Security Voucher in lieu of a cash security deposit by signing
this form below:

Landlord's/Authorized Agent 's Name (print):

Landlord's/Authorized Agent's Signature:                                      Date:
(This voucher is not valid until it has been fully completed and authorized in the "For HRA Use Only" section b
For HRA Use Only:
Supervisor's Name (Print):

Supervisor's Signature:                                                              Date:

                                                     (Turn page)
W-147N (E) 05/07/2025 (page 2 of 2)                                                                 Human Resources Administration
                                                                                                  Family Independence Administration



                                  Landlord's Claim for Security Voucher Payment
I (we), the Landlord(s) of the premises described on page 1 of this form, certify that
                                                                                                  tenant/participant name

has vacated the apartment located at                               Apt.         on or about                    and occupied the
                                                 address                                         date

apartment within three months prior to the date of this certification.
I hereby request that the security voucher be paid to me for the reason specified below

              Tenant/Participant defaulted on payment of rent for                                                (provide court
                judgment, stipulation, landlord breakdown, etc).                         Month/Year

              Tenant/Participant caused the following damages to the apartment. (Describe and also include proof of
              damage[s]: e.g., photographs, estimates, receipts for repairs, etc.)

"I,                                     , hereby swear/affirm, under penalty of perjury, that the information I have given
above is true and complete.
                                         (Signature of Landlord or Office of Corporation)
                                         (Print Name)
Subscribed and sworn to/affirmed before me this                                                               (Date)
                                                                                                          (Signature)
                                                                                                          (Notary Seal)"
Please submit the following items along with this claim form:
     proof of ownership (of the premises); and
     documentation of unpaid rent (e.g., court judgment or stipulation, landlord breakdown, etc.) or documentation
      to verify the damage(s) to the apartment and the cost of repairs (e.g., photographs, estimates, receipts for
      repairs, etc.)

Please send claim to:                 Office of Central Processing
                                      PO Box 02-9121, Brooklyn GPO
                                      Brooklyn, NY 11202-9914
