SOURCE: https://legistar.council.nyc.gov/View.ashx?M=F&ID=9968609&GUID=42A79212-4F7A-46DB-A4F8-48B180580E2E
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by build/apply_register_1.py via curl of the Legistar attachment (Word .docx) + macOS textutil -convert txt; text extracted mechanically

Plain Language Summary
Current Introduction Number:
Int. No. 2312-A

Prime Sponsors:
By Council Members Riley, Powers, Treyger and Rosenthal

Bill Title: 
A Local Law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York, in relation to limiting fees associated with vacating a premises

Bill Summary:
This plain language summary is for informational purposes only and does not substitute for legal counsel. For more information, you should review the full text of the bill, which is available online at legistar.council.nyc.gov.
Where a tenant vacates a residential dwelling unit in violation of the terms of a lease, subject to the mitigation provisions already provided in state law, pursuant to section 227-e of the Real Property Law, this bill would limit the resulting fees recoverable by the landlord to the fair market cost necessary to prepare the residential dwelling unit for rental. The landlord would also be required to provide an itemized list to the tenant demonstrating how such fair market cost was calculated. 

Effective Date:
Effective 180 days after becoming law, but applies only to leases entered into on or after such date.

Legislative Impact:
☐ Agency Rulemaking Required: Is City agency rulemaking required?
☐ Report Required: Is a report due to Council required?
☐ Sunset Date Included: Does the legislation have a sunset date?
☐ Council Appointment Required: Is an appointment by the Council required?
☐ Other Appointment Required: Are other appointments not by the Council required?

Note: In the full bill text online at legistar.council.nyc.gov, language in proposed consolidated laws that is enclosed by [brackets] would be deleted, and language that is underlined would be new. Language in proposed unconsolidated laws, in contrast, will not have brackets or underlining because it would be entirely new. Consolidation means that the law would be placed in the New York City Charter or Administrative Code.

APB/GZ
LS 14520/14635/14875/14884
