SOURCE: https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-24/section-92.209
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by build/apply_register_1.py via the eCFR versioner API (https://www.ecfr.gov/api/versioner/v1/full/2026-09-28/title-24.xml?part=92&section=92.209, up to date as of 2026-09-28); text extracted mechanically

§ 92.209 Tenant-based rental assistance: Eligible costs and requirements.

§ 92.209 Tenant-based rental assistance: Eligible costs and requirements.
(a) Eligible costs. Eligible costs are the rental assistance and security deposit payments made to provide tenant-based rental assistance for a family pursuant to this section. Eligible costs also include utility deposit assistance, but only if this assistance is provided with tenant-based rental assistance or security deposit payment. Administration of tenant-based rental assistance is eligible only under general management oversight and coordination at § 92.207(a), except that the costs of inspecting the housing and determining the income eligibility of the family are eligible as costs of the tenant-based rental assistance.
(b) General requirement. A participating jurisdiction may use HOME funds for tenant-based rental assistance only if the participating jurisdiction makes the certification about inclusion of this type of assistance in its consolidated plan in accordance with 24 CFR 91.225(d)(1), 91.325(d)(1), or 91.425(a)(2)(i), and specifies local market conditions that lead to the choice of this option.
(c) Tenant selection. The participating jurisdiction must select low-income families in accordance with written tenant selection policies and criteria that are based on local housing needs and priorities established in the participating jurisdiction's consolidated plan.
(1) Low-income families. Tenant-based rental assistance may only be provided to very low- and low-income families. The participating jurisdiction must determine that the family is very low- or low-income before the assistance is provided.
(2) Targeted assistance. (i) The participating jurisdiction may establish a preference for individuals with special needs (e.g., homeless persons or elderly persons) or persons with disabilities. The participating jurisdiction may offer, in conjunction with a tenant-based rental assistance program, particular types of nonmandatory services that may be most appropriate for persons with a special need or a particular disability. Generally, tenant-based rental assistance and the related services should be made available to all persons with special needs or disabilities who can benefit from such services. Participation may be limited to persons with a specific disability if necessary to provide as effective housing, aid, benefit, or services as those provided to others in accordance with 24 CFR 8.4(b)(1)(iv).
(ii) The participating jurisdiction may also provide a preference for a specific category of individuals with disabilities (e.g., persons with HIV/AIDS or chronic mental illness) if the specific category is identified in the participating jurisdiction's consolidated plan as having unmet need and the preference is needed to narrow the gap in benefits and services received by such persons.
(iii) Self-sufficiency program. The participating jurisdiction may require the family to participate in a self- sufficiency program as a condition of selection for assistance. The family's failure to continue participation in the self-sufficiency program is not a basis for terminating the assistance; however, renewal of the assistance may be conditioned on participation in the program. Tenants living in a HOME- assisted rental project who receive tenant-based rental assistance as relocation assistance must not be required to participate in a self- sufficiency program as a condition of receiving assistance.
(iv) Homebuyer program. HOME tenant-based rental assistance may assist a tenant who has been identified as a potential low-income homebuyer through a lease-purchase agreement, with monthly rental assistance payments for a period up to 36 months (i.e., 24 months, with a 12-month renewal in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section). The HOME tenant-based rental assistance payment may not be used to accumulate a downpayment or closing costs for the purchase; however, all or a portion of the homebuyer-tenant's monthly contribution toward rent may be set aside for this purpose, in accordance with the lease-purchase agreement. If a participating jurisdiction determines that the tenant has met the lease-purchase criteria and is ready to assume ownership, HOME funds may be provided for homeownership assistance in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(v) Preferences cannot be administered in a manner that limits the opportunities of persons on any basis prohibited by the laws listed under 24 CFR 5.105(a). For example, a participating jurisdiction may not determine that persons given a preference under the program are therefore prohibited from applying for or participating in other programs or forms of assistance. Persons who are eligible for a preference must have the opportunity to participate in all programs of the participating jurisdiction, including programs that are not separate or different.
(3) Existing tenants in projects that will receive HOME assistance. A participating jurisdiction may select low-income families currently residing in housing units that will be rehabilitated or acquired with HOME funds under the participating jurisdiction's HOME program. Participating jurisdictions using HOME funds for tenant-based rental assistance programs may establish local preferences for the provision of this assistance. Families so selected may use the tenant-based rental assistance in the rehabilitated or acquired housing unit or in other qualified housing.
(d) Portability of assistance. A participating jurisdiction may require the family to use the tenant-based assistance within the participating jurisdiction's boundaries or may permit the family to use the assistance outside its boundaries.
(e) Rental assistance contract—(1) Parties to the rental assistance contract. A participating jurisdiction must enter into a rental assistance contract with the owner and the family. A participating jurisdiction may have one agreement with the owner and a separate agreement with the family, or one tri-party agreement with the participating jurisdiction, the owner, and the family.
(2) Term of the rental assistance contract. The term of the rental assistance contract providing assistance with HOME funds may not exceed 24 months, but the rental assistance contract may be amended or renewed, subject to the availability of HOME funds. The term of the rental assistance contract must begin on the first day of the term of the lease or the beginning of the first month in which tenant-based rental assistance is provided.
(3) Amending or renewing a rental assistance contract. (i) A rental assistance contract within its term may only be amended through the consent of all parties. A rental assistance contract may be amended:
(A) Because the lease between the family and owner has been amended or renewed, if the lease term or amount charged under the lease are the only terms of the contract being changed.
(B) To extend its term up to 24 months from the original date of execution.
(C) When a tenant changes units within the same building or development if the parties to the lease, the family size, and the number of bedrooms in the housing remain the same.
(ii) Subject to the availability of HOME funds, a rental assistance contract may be renewed after the expiration of its initial term.
(iii) In all other instances, the participating jurisdiction must enter into a new rental assistance contract with the family and the owner in accordance with this paragraph (e).
(4) Initial and subsequent income determinations. (i) Before the participating jurisdiction enters into an initial or new rental assistance contract with the family, the participating jurisdiction must determine that the family is income eligible in accordance with § 92.203.
(ii) When a rental assistance contract is amended, the participating jurisdiction will not be required to perform a new income examination in accordance with § 92.203.
(iii) Before a rental assistance contract is renewed, the participating jurisdiction must determine that the family is income eligible in accordance with § 92.203.
(iv) If a family is participating in a HOME lease-purchase program and receiving tenant-based rental assistance, then the participating jurisdiction is only required to determine the family's income at the time that the family enters into the lease-purchase agreement and does not need to engage in further income examination during the term of the lease-purchase agreement.
(f) Rent reasonableness. The participating jurisdiction must disapprove a lease if the rent is not reasonable, based on rents that are charged for comparable unassisted rental units.
(g) Tenant protections. The tenant must have a lease that complies with the requirements in § 92.253. Upon termination of the rental assistance contract, the HOME tenant-based rental assistance tenancy addendum shall automatically terminate.
(h) Maximum subsidy. (1) The amount of the monthly assistance that a participating jurisdiction may pay to, or on behalf of, a family may not exceed the difference between a rent standard for the unit size established by the participating jurisdiction and 30 percent of the family's monthly adjusted income.
(2) The participating jurisdiction must establish a minimum tenant contribution to rent, except that the participating jurisdiction may establish conditions in its written policies under which a tenant would be relieved of all or a portion of the minimum contribution due to financial hardship.
(3) The participating jurisdiction's rent standard for a unit size must be based on:
(i) Local market conditions; or
(ii) The Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program payment standard as determined in accordance with 24 CFR 982.503(a) through (c).
(i) Housing standards. The participating jurisdiction must require the housing occupied by a family receiving tenant-based rental assistance under this section to meet the participating jurisdiction's property standards under § 92.251. Initially and annually thereafter, the participating jurisdiction must determine the housing complies with its property standards and is decent, safe, sanitary, and in good repair in accordance with § 92.251(f).
(j) Security deposits. (1) A participating jurisdiction may use HOME funds provided for tenant-based rental assistance to provide loans or grants to very low- and low-income families for security deposits for rental of housing units whether or not the participating jurisdiction provides any other tenant-based rental assistance under this section.
(2) The relevant State or local definition of “security deposit” in the jurisdiction where the unit is located is applicable for the purposes of this part, except that the amount of HOME funds that may be provided for a security deposit may not exceed the equivalent of two month's rent for the unit.
(3) Only the prospective tenant may apply for HOME security deposit assistance, although the participating jurisdiction may pay the funds directly to the tenant or to the landlord.
(4) HOME funds for security deposits may be provided as a grant or as a loan. If they are provided as a loan, the loan repayments are program income to be used in accordance with § 92.503.
(5) Paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), and (i) of this section are applicable when HOME funds are provided for security deposit assistance, except that income determinations pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section and inspections pursuant to paragraph (i) of this section are required only at the time the security deposit assistance is provided.
(6) Surety bonds, security deposit insurance, or instruments similar to surety bonds or security deposit insurance may not be used in lieu of or in addition to a security deposit in units occupied by tenants receiving tenant-based rental assistance.
(k) Program operation. A tenant-based rental assistance program must be operated consistent with the requirements of this section. The participating jurisdiction may operate the program itself or may contract with a PHA or other entity with the capacity to operate a rental assistance program. The tenant-based rental assistance may be provided through a rental assistance contract in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. The participating jurisdiction (or entity operating the program) must approve the lease.
[61 FR 48750, Sept. 16, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 28928, May 28, 1997; 67 FR 61756, Oct. 1, 2002; 78 FR 44668, July 24, 2013; 88 FR 30496, May 11, 2023; 90 FR 868, Jan. 6, 2025]
