SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_349
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 349

Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices unlawful

(a)
 Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices in the conduct of any business, trade or commerce or in the furnishing of any service in this state are hereby declared unlawful. For the purposes of this section:

(1)
 An act or practice is unfair when it causes or is likely to cause substantial injury which is not reasonably avoidable and is not outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or to competition. The term “substantial injury” as used in this subdivision shall have the same meaning as the term “substantial injury” in the federal trade commission act, 15 U.S.C. Section 41 et seq.

(2)
 An act or practice is abusive when:

(i)
 it materially interferes with the ability of a person to understand a term or condition of a product or service; or

(ii)
 it takes unreasonable advantage of: (A) a lack of understanding on the part of a person of the material risks, costs, or conditions of a product or service; (B) the inability of a person to protect such person’s interests in selecting or using a product or service; or (C) the reasonable reliance by a person on a person engaging in the act or practice to act in the relying person’s interests.

(b)
 (1) Whenever the attorney general shall believe from evidence satisfactory to the attorney general that any person, including but not limited to an individual, firm, corporation, company, partnership or association, or agent or employee thereof, has engaged in or is about to engage in any of the acts or practices stated to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive, the attorney general may bring an action or proceeding in the name and on behalf of the people of the state of New York to enjoin such unlawful acts or practices and to obtain restitution of any moneys or property obtained directly or indirectly by any such unlawful acts or practices. In such action or proceeding, preliminary relief may be granted under article sixty-three of the civil practice law and rules.

(2)
 The attorney general may bring such an action or proceeding against any person conducting any business, trade or commerce or furnishing a service in this state, whether or not the person is without the state. The attorney general may also bring such an action or proceeding against any person within the state conducting any business, trade, or commerce or furnishing a service, whether or not the business, trade, commerce, or service is conducted or furnished without the state.

(c)
 Before commencing an action or proceeding pursuant to this section, the attorney general shall be required to give the person against whom such action or proceeding is contemplated notice by certified mail and an opportunity to show in writing within ten calendar days after receipt of notice why an action or proceeding should not be instituted against such person, unless the attorney general shall find, in any case in which the attorney general seeks preliminary relief, that to give such notice and opportunity is not in the public interest.

(d)
 In any action or proceeding brought pursuant to this section it shall be a complete defense that the act or practice is, or if in interstate commerce would be, subject to and complies with the rules and regulations of, and the statutes administered by, the federal trade commission or any official department, division, commission or agency of the United States as such rules, regulations or statutes are interpreted by the federal trade commission or such department, division, commission or agency or the federal courts.

(e)
 Nothing in this section shall apply to any television or radio broadcasting station or to any publisher or printer of a newspaper, magazine or other form of printed advertising, who broadcasts, publishes, or prints the advertisement.

(f)
 In connection with any proposed action or proceeding under this section, the attorney general is authorized to take proof and make a determination of the relevant facts, and to issue subpoenas in accordance with the civil practice law and rules.

(g)
 This section shall apply to all unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices, whether or not subject to any other law of this state, and shall not supersede, amend or repeal any other law of this state under which the attorney general or any other party is authorized to take any action or conduct any inquiry.

(h)
 In addition to the right of action granted to the attorney general pursuant to this section, any person who has been injured by reason of any deceptive act or deceptive practice made unlawful by this section may bring an action in such person’s own name to enjoin such deceptive act or deceptive practice, an action to recover such person’s actual damages or fifty dollars, whichever is greater, or both such actions. The court may, in its discretion, increase the award of damages to an amount not to exceed three times the actual damages up to one thousand dollars, if the court finds the defendant willfully or knowingly violated this section. The court may award reasonable attorney’s fees to a prevailing plaintiff.

(i)
 Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, all monies recovered or obtained under this article by a state agency or state official or employee acting in their official capacity shall be subject to subdivision eleven of State Finance Law § 4 (Payments, transfers and deposits)section four of the state finance law.

Source:
Section 349 — Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices unlawful, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GBS/349 (updated Apr. 3, 2026; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

349
Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices unlawful
349–A
Pricing
349–B
Residential telephone equipment advertising, sale and warranty requirements
349–B–1
Voice over internet protocol 911 disclosure
349–C
Additional civil penalty for consumer frauds against elderly persons
349–D
Energy services company consumers bill of rights
349–E
Counterfeit and non-functional airbags
349–F
Pension poaching prevention
349–G
Restrictions on applications for and use of credit cards and medical financial products
349–H
Observant consumer protection law
350
False advertising unlawful
350–A
False advertising
350–B
Disclosures required in advertisements using the title “doctor”
350–B–1
Disclosures required in advertisements using a senior specific designation
350–C
Notice of proposed action
350–D
Civil penalty
350–E
Construction
350–F
Exceptions
350–F–1
After-the-fact referral fees

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Apr. 3, 2026

§ 349. Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts & practices unlawful's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 349 — Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices unlawful,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GBS/349
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
