SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._multiple_dwelling_law_section_78
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Multiple Dwelling Law Section 78

Repairs

1.
 Every multiple dwelling, including its roof or roofs, and every part thereof and the lot upon which it is situated, shall be kept in good repair. The owner shall be responsible for compliance with the provisions of this section; but the tenant also shall be liable if a violation is caused by his own wilful act, assistance or negligence or that of any member of his family or household or his guest. Any such persons who shall wilfully violate or assist in violating any provision of this section shall also jointly and severally be subject to the civil penalties provided in section three hundred four.

2.
 Whenever, the light, ventilation, or any matter or thing in or about a multiple dwelling or part thereof, or in or about the lot on which it is situated, is in the opinion of the department in a condition or in its effect dangerous to life or health, the department may order or cause any such light, ventilation, matter or thing to be repaired or improved or, as provided in section three hundred nine, take such other action as it may deem necessary to remove such danger to life or health.

Source:
Section 78 — Repairs, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/MDW/78 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

75
Water supply
76
Water-closet and bath accommodations
77
Plumbing and drainage
78
Repairs
79
Heating
80
Cleanliness
81
Receptacles for waste matter
82
Privacy
83
Janitor or housekeeper
84
Construction standards for the control of noise

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 78. Repairs's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 78 — Repairs,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/MDW/78
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
