SOURCE: https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCrules/0-0-0-16585
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 4A from American Legal Publishing official bulk XML (http://files.amlegal.com/pdffiles/NewYorkCity/Rules/XML.zip, downloaded 2026-09-28), text extracted mechanically from XML file 0-0-0-127530.xml

§ 2-193 Records to be Maintained by Debt Collection Agency.

(a) Unless otherwise prohibited by federal, state or local law, a debt collection agency shall maintain a separate file for each debt that the debt collection agency attempts to collect from each consumer, in a manner that is searchable or retrievable by the name, address and ZIP code of the consumer and the creditor who originated the debt the agency is seeking to collect. The debt collection agency shall maintain in each file the following records to document its collection activities with respect to each consumer:

(1) A copy of all communications with the consumer.

(2) A record of each payment received from the consumer that states the date of receipt, the method of payment and the debt to which the payment was applied.

(3) A copy of the debt payment schedule and/or settlement agreement reached with the consumer to pay the debt.

(4) With regard to any debt that the debt collection agency has purchased, a record of the name and address of the entity from which the debt collection agency purchased the debt, the date of the purchase and the amount of the debt at the time of such purchase.

(b) A debt collection agency shall maintain the following records to document its collection activities with respect to all consumers from whom it seeks to collect a debt:

(1) A monthly log of all calls made to consumers, listing the date, time and duration of each call, the number called and the name of the person reached during the call.

(2) Recordings of complete conversations with all consumers or with a randomly selected sample of at least 5% of all calls made or received by the debt collection agency and a copy of contemporaneous notes of all conversations with consumers. The method used for randomly selecting the recorded calls shall be included in the file where the tape recordings are maintained.

(3) A record of all cases filed in court to collect a debt. Such record shall include, for each case filed, the name of the consumer, the identity of the originating creditor, the amount claimed to be due, the civil court index number and the court and county where the case is filed, the date the case was filed, the name of the process server who served process on the consumer, the date, location and method of service of process, the affidavit of service that was filed and the disposition for each case filed. Such record shall be filed in a manner that is searchable or retrievable by the name, address and ZIP code of the consumer and the creditors who originated the debts that the debt collection agency is seeking to collect.

(4) The original copy of each contract with a process server for the service of process, and copies of all documents involving traverse hearings relating to cases filed by or on behalf of the debt collection agency. Such records should be filed in a manner that is searchable by the name of the process server.

(5) A record indicating the language preference of the consumer, except where the debt collector is not aware of such preference despite reasonable attempts to obtain it. [ALP S-050]

(c) A debt collection agency shall maintain the following records relating to its operations and practices:

(1) A copy of all actions, proceedings or investigations by government agencies that resulted in the revocation or suspension of a license, the imposition of fines or restitution, a voluntary settlement, a court order, a criminal guilty plea or a conviction.

(2) A copy of all policies, training manuals and guides for employees or agents that direct, describe, suggest or promote how a collector is to interact with consumers in the course of seeking to collect a debt.

(3) An annual report, in a form made publicly available on the Department's website, identifying, by language, (i) the number of consumer accounts on which an employee collected or attempted to collect a debt owed or due or asserted to be owed or due in a language other than English; and (ii) the number of employees that collected or attempted to collect on such accounts in a language other than English. [ALP S-050]

(d) The records required to be maintained pursuant to this section shall be retained for six years from the date the record was created by the debt collection agency, a document was obtained or received by the debt collection agency, a document was filed in a court action by the debt collection agency, or a training manual or employee guide was superseded, except that recordings of conversations with consumers shall be retained for one year after the date of the last conversation recorded on each completed recording tape.

(Amended City Record 5/28/2020, eff. 6/27/2020) [ALP S-050]
