SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/16-NYCRR-96.1
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl; text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.1 - Definitions | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute

Please help us improve our site!

 ×

 No thank you

 Skip to main content

 Cornell Law
 School
 Search
 Cornell

 Toggle navigation

 Please help
 us improve our site!

 Support Us!

 Search

 About
 LII

 Who We Are

 What We Do

 Who Pays For This

 Contact Us

 Get the
 law

 Constitution

 Supreme Court

 U.S. Code

 CFR

 Federal Rules

 Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure

 Federal Rules of Civil Procedure

 Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure

 Federal Rules of Evidence

 Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure

 U.C.C.

 Law by jurisdiction

 State law

 Uniform laws

 Federal law

 World law

 Lawyer directory

 Legal encyclopedia

 Business law

 Constitutional law

 Criminal law

 Family law

 Employment law

 Money and Finances

 More...

 Help out

 Give

 Sponsor

 Advertise

 Create

 Promote

 Join Lawyer Directory

LII

State Regulations

New York Codes,Rules,and Regulations

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 16 - DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

Chapter II - ELECTRIC UTILITIES

Subchapter A - Service

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 16, ch. II, subch. A, pt. 96 - Residential Electric Submetering

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.1 - Definitions

 N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.1 - Definitions 

 State Regulations 

 Compare

The following definitions apply for purposes of this
 Part:

(a) Assisted living facilities.
 Multi-unit residential premises, identified as assisted living facilities and
 certified by the New York State Department of Health as such, which provide
 congregate residential housing with supportive services, including on-site
 monitoring, and personal care services and/or home care services in a homelike
 setting.

(b) Campground,
 recreational trailer park, marinas, and parking facilities. Facilities for use
 on an intermittent, temporary, or irregular basis by campground, recreational,
 trailer park, marina, or vehicle charging stations where electric service is
 delivered by the utility to the facility owner and redistributed to individual
 campsites, trailers, boats or plug-in electric vehicle charging stations with
 or without submetering.

(c)
 Condominium. Separate ownership of individual units in a multi-unit residential
 premises. Each unit owner holds title to a unit of real property and also owns
 a common tenancy with owners of other units for the common areas of the
 building, which are managed by a homeowners' association, or as established in
 the condominium bylaws.

(d)
 Cooperative apartment. Multi-unit residential premises in which residents own a
 share in the corporation that owns the real estate, which entitles the
 shareholder to occupy a dwelling unit. Each shareholder is granted the right to
 occupy one housing unit through an occupancy agreement, which is similar to a
 lease. A board of directors manages the cooperative.

(e) Direct metering. In multi-unit
 residential premises, the measurement of electricity use in each unit through a
 meter that has been provided by the distribution utility company, wherein each
 individual residential unit is assigned its own meter.

(f) Electric heating. Heat provided to an
 entire living space with electricity primarily by means of non-portable
 electric heating appliances.

(g)
 HEFPA. The Home Energy Fair Practices Act, Public Service Law, sections 30-53
 and all commission regulations adopted to implement such provisions.

(h) Master-metering. The measurement through
 a single meter of the quantity of electricity delivered to a multi-unit
 residential premises by a utility, wherein the owner or manager of such
 building is the utility customer and wherein the electricity may be
 redistributed to the individual residential units in the building either with
 or without submetering.

(i) Rate
 cap. The maximum rate, calculated in each billing period, that may be used to
 compute the charges for electric service to a submetered resident. Unless a
 different rate cap is set pursuant to sections
 96.2(a) and
 96.8(b) and (c)
 of this Part, the rate cap shall be the rates and charges of the distribution
 utility for delivery and commodity in that billing period to similarly
 situated, direct metered residential customers. Where residents are billed for
 time-of-use, the maximum rate for purposes of calculating the rate cap shall be
 the average annual residential rate.

(j) Resident. The occupant of a unit used as
 a home in a multi-unit residential premises.

(k) Senior living facility. Multi-unit
 residential premises in which energy-efficient housing and other services are
 provided, and will be provided in the future, to resident senior citizens, in
 which electric usage does not vary significantly from unit to unit because
 units are uniform in size and in the types of appliances, and which promotes
 economic development.

(l)
 Submeterer. Any multi-unit residential premises owner or utility customer of
 record who purchases electricity for delivery by the utility to the premises
 and facilitates the sale or redistribution of such electricity for use by the
 premises occupants whose units are separately metered and billed based on the
 measurement of electricity use in each occupant's unit. Any entity acting on
 behalf of such owner that arranges for the installation of submeters and the
 billing of submetered usage to individual residents shall be considered the
 agent of the submeterer. The submeterer may engage the services of a
 submetering service provider to install meters, read meters and/or handle
 billing.

(m) Submetering. A system
 of measuring electricity use in a residential unit in a master-metered
 multi-unit residential premises, or campground, trailer park, marina or parking
 facility by means of a submeter installed on the wiring to each residential
 unit, campsite, trailer, boat hookup or plug-in electric vehicle charging
 station.

(n) Time-of-use rates. The
 pricing of electricity based on actual usage during particular time intervals.
 Time-of-use rates may be applicable to blocks of time over a 24-hour
 period.

(o) Time-of-use meter. A
 meter that registers accumulated energy consumption (data) over specific time
 intervals.

(p) Utility customer.
 For purposes of this Part, an electricity consumer whose use of electricity is
 directly metered by the distribution utility and is a customer of record of the
 distribution utility.

Notes

N.Y. Comp.
 Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16
 §
 96.1

State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
 Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release.
 More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare.

 No prior version found.

 State Regulations Toolbox

 Accessibility

 About LII

 Contact us

 Advertise here

 Help

 Terms of use

 Privacy
