SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_5020
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 5020

Satisfaction-piece

(a)
 Generally. When a person entitled to enforce a judgment receives satisfaction or partial satisfaction of the judgment, he shall execute and file with the proper clerk pursuant to subdivision (a) of section 5021, a satisfaction-piece or partial satisfaction-piece acknowledged in the form required to entitle a deed to be recorded, which shall set forth the book and page where the judgment is docketed. A copy of the satisfaction-piece or partial satisfaction-piece filed with the clerk shall be mailed to the judgment debtor by the person entitled to enforce the judgment within ten days after the date of filing.

(b)
 Attorney of record. Within ten years after the entry of a judgment the attorney of record or the attorney named on the docket for the judgment creditor may execute a satisfaction-piece or a partial satisfaction-piece, but if his authority was revoked before it was executed, the judgment may nevertheless be enforced against a person who had actual notice of the revocation before a payment on the judgment was made or a purchase of property bound by it was effected.

(c)
 When a judgment for less than five thousand dollars is fully satisfied, if the person required to execute and file with the proper clerk pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (d) of this section fails or refuses to do so within twenty days after receiving full satisfaction, then the judgment creditor shall be subject to a penalty of one hundred dollars recoverable by the judgment debtor pursuant to § 7202 (Action by person aggrieved)section seventy-two hundred two of this chapter or article eighteen of either the New York City civil court act, uniform district court act or uniform city court act. When a judgment for five thousand dollars or more is fully satisfied, if the person required to execute and file with the proper clerk pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (d) of this section fails or refuses to do so within twenty days after receiving full satisfaction, then the judgment creditor shall be subject to a penalty of five hundred dollars recoverable by the judgment debtor pursuant to § 7202 (Action by person aggrieved)section seventy-two hundred two of this chapter or article eighteen of either the New York city civil court act, uniform district court act or uniform city court act; provided, however, that such penalties shall not be recoverable when a city with a population greater than one million persons is the judgment creditor, unless such judgment creditor shall fail to execute and file a satisfaction-piece with the proper clerk pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (d) of this section within twenty days after having been served by the judgment debtor with a written demand therefor by certified mail, return receipt requested.

(d)
 Where a transcript of the docket of a judgment has been docketed in any other county of the state pursuant to subdivision (a) of section 5018, the person required to execute and file with the proper clerk pursuant to subdivision (a) hereof shall, upon receiving full satisfaction, file a certificate of the clerk of the county in which the judgment was entered, in accordance with subdivision (c) of section 5021, with the clerks of all other counties in which such judgment has been docketed.

Source:
Section 5020 — Satisfaction-piece, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/5020 (updated Feb. 5, 2021; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

5001
Interest to verdict, report or decision
5002
Interest from verdict, report or decision to judgment
5003
Interest upon judgment
5003–A
Prompt payment following settlement
5003–B
Nondisclosure agreements
5004
Rate of interest
5011
Definition and content of judgment
5012
Judgment upon part of cause of action
5013
Effect of judgment dismissing claim
5014
Action upon judgment
5015
Relief from judgment or order
5016
Entry of judgment
5017
Judgment-roll
5018
Docketing of judgment
5019
Validity and correction of judgment or order
5020
Satisfaction-piece
5020–A
Payment of judgment in certain cases
5021
Entry of satisfaction

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Feb. 5, 2021

§ 5020. Satisfaction-piece's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 5020 — Satisfaction-piece,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/5020
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
