SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_208
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 208

Infancy, insanity

(a)
 If a person entitled to commence an action is under a disability because of infancy or insanity at the time the cause of action accrues, and the time otherwise limited for commencing the action is three years or more and expires no later than three years after the disability ceases, or the person under the disability dies, the time within which the action must be commenced shall be extended to three years after the disability ceases or the person under the disability dies, whichever event first occurs; if the time otherwise limited is less than three years, the time shall be extended by the period of disability. The time within which the action must be commenced shall not be extended by this provision beyond ten years after the cause of action accrues, except, in any action other than for medical, dental or podiatric malpractice, where the person was under a disability due to infancy. This section shall not apply to an action to recover a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other officer for an escape.

(b)
 Notwithstanding any provision of law which imposes a period of limitation to the contrary and the provisions of any other law pertaining to the filing of a notice of claim or a notice of intention to file a claim as a condition precedent to commencement of an action or special proceeding, with respect to all civil claims or causes of action brought by any person for physical, psychological or other injury or condition suffered by such person as a result of conduct which would constitute a sexual offense as defined in article one hundred thirty of the penal law committed against such person who was less than eighteen years of age, incest as defined in section 255.27, 255.26 or 255.25 of the penal law committed against such person who was less than eighteen years of age, or the use of such person in a sexual performance as defined in section 263.05 of the penal law, or a predecessor statute that prohibited such conduct at the time of the act, which conduct was committed against such person who was less than eighteen years of age, such action may be commenced, against any party whose intentional or negligent acts or omissions are alleged to have resulted in the commission of said conduct, on or before the plaintiff or infant plaintiff reaches the age of fifty-five years. In any such claim or action, in addition to any other defense and affirmative defense that may be available in accordance with law, rule or the common law, to the extent that the acts alleged in such action are of the type described in subdivision one of section 130.30 of the penal law or subdivision one of section 130.45 of the penal law, the affirmative defenses set forth, respectively, in the closing paragraph of such sections of the penal law shall apply.

Source:
Section 208 — Infancy, insanity, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/208 (updated Feb. 15, 2019; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

201
Application of article
202
Cause of action accruing without the state
203
Method of computing periods of limitation generally
204
Stay of commencement of action
205
Termination of action
205–A
Termination of certain actions related to real property
206
Computing periods of limitation in particular actions
207
Defendant’s absence from state or residence under false name
208
Infancy, insanity
208–A
In custody at time of cause of action
209
War
210
Death of claimant or person liable
211
Actions to be commenced within twenty years
212
Actions to be commenced within ten or fifteen years
213
Actions to be commenced within six years: where not otherwise provided for
213–A
Residential rent overcharge
213–B
Action by a victim of a criminal offense
213–C
Action by victim of conduct constituting certain sexual offenses
213–D
Actions to be commenced within three years
214
Actions to be commenced within three years: for non-payment of money collected on execution
214–A
Action for medical, dental or podiatric malpractice to be commenced within two years and six months
214–B
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to phenoxy herbicides
214–C
Certain actions to be commenced within three years of discovery
214–D
Limitations on certain actions against licensed engineers and architects
214–E
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by the infusion of such blood products which result in the contraction of the human ...
214–F
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to any substance or combination of substances found with...
214–G
Certain child sexual abuse cases
214–H
Certain actions by public water suppliers to recover damages for injury to property
214–I
Certain actions arising out of consumer credit transactions to be commenced within three years
214–I*2
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to toxic burn pits
214–J
Certain sexual offense actions
215
Actions to be commenced within one year: against sheriff, coroner or constable
216
Abbreviation of period to one year after notice
217
Proceeding against body or officer
217–A
Actions to be commenced within one year and ninety days
218
Transitional provisions

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Feb. 15, 2019

§ 208. Infancy, insanity's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 208 — Infancy, insanity,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/208
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
