SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/23-NYCRR-1.4
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl; text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.4 - Substantiation of consumer debts | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute

Please help us improve our site!

 ×

 No thank you

 Skip to main content

 Cornell Law
 School
 Search
 Cornell

 Toggle navigation

 Please help
 us improve our site!

 Support Us!

 Search

 About
 LII

 Who We Are

 What We Do

 Who Pays For This

 Contact Us

 Get the
 law

 Constitution

 Supreme Court

 U.S. Code

 CFR

 Federal Rules

 Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure

 Federal Rules of Civil Procedure

 Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure

 Federal Rules of Evidence

 Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure

 U.C.C.

 Law by jurisdiction

 State law

 Uniform laws

 Federal law

 World law

 Lawyer directory

 Legal encyclopedia

 Business law

 Constitutional law

 Criminal law

 Family law

 Employment law

 Money and Finances

 More...

 Help out

 Give

 Sponsor

 Advertise

 Create

 Promote

 Join Lawyer Directory

LII

State Regulations

New York Codes,Rules,and Regulations

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 23 - FINANCIAL SERVICES

Chapter I - Regulations of the Superintendent of Financial Services

Part 1 - DEBT COLLECTION BY THIRD-PARTY DEBT COLLECTORS AND DEBT BUYERS

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.4 - Substantiation of consumer debts

 N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.4 - Substantiation of consumer debts 

 State Regulations 

 Compare

(a) If a consumer
 disputes, orally or in writing, the validity of a charged-off debt or the right
 of the debt collector to collect on a charged-off debt, the debt collector must
 inform the consumer that the consumer may request substantiation of the debt,
 unless the debt collector has already provided the consumer the information
 required in this section. The debt collector may treat such dispute as a
 request for substantiation, or:
(1) If the
 consumer disputes the debt orally, the debt collector must: 

(i) make reasonable efforts to inform the
 consumer, in the conversation in which the dispute was communicated, how the
 consumer can make a written request for substantiation of the debt in writing;
 and

(ii) within 14 days of the
 consumer disputing the debt, provide the consumer clear and conspicuous written
 instructions on how to request substantiation of the debt; or

(2) If the consumer disputes the
 debt in writing, within 21 days of the debt collector receiving that writing,
 the debt collector must provide the consumer clear and conspicuous written
 instructions on how to request substantiation of the debt.

(b) A debt collector must provide the
 consumer written substantiation of a charged-off debt within 60 days of
 receiving a request for substantiation of the debt and must cease collection of
 the debt until written substantiation has been provided to the consumer. A debt
 collector must substantiate a charged-off debt pursuant to this section only
 once during the period that the debt collector owns or has the right to collect
 the debt.

(c) Substantiation of a
 charged-off debt shall include: 
(1) the
 signed contract or signed application that created the debt or, if no signed
 contract or application exists, a copy of a document provided to the alleged
 debtor while the account was active, demonstrating that the debt was incurred
 by the debtor. For a revolving credit account, the most recent monthly
 statement recording a purchase transaction, payment or balance transfer shall
 be deemed sufficient to satisfy this requirement;

(2) the charge-off account statement, or
 equivalent document, issued by the original creditor to the consumer;

(3) a statement describing the complete chain
 of title from the original creditor to the present creditor, including the date
 of each assignment, sale, and transfer; and

(4) records reflecting the amount and date of
 any prior settlement agreement reached in connection with the debt pursuant to
 section 1.5 of this Part.

(d) If a consumer requests
 substantiation of a charged-off debt pursuant to subdivision (a) of this
 section, the debt collector must retain the following documentation until the
 debt is discharged, sold, or transferred: 
(1)
 evidence of the consumer's request for substantiation; and

(2) all documents the debt collector provided
 in response to the request.

Notes

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23
 §
 1.4

Adopted,
 New
 York State Register December 3, 2014/Volume XXXVI, Issue 48, eff.
 12/3/2014

Amended
 New
 York State Register September 9, 2015/Volume XXXVII, Issue 36,
 eff. 9/9/2015

State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
 Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release.
 More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare.

 No prior version found.

 State Regulations Toolbox

 Accessibility

 About LII

 Contact us

 Advertise here

 Help

 Terms of use

 Privacy
