SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._multiple_dwelling_law_section_51-c
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Multiple Dwelling Law Section 51-C

Rights of tenants to install and maintain locks in certain entrance doors

 Every tenant of a multiple dwelling, except a tenant of a multiple dwelling under the supervision and control of a municipal housing authority, occupied by him, except as a hotel or motel, or college or school dormitory, shall have the right to install and maintain or cause to be installed and maintained in the entrance door of his particular housing unit in such multiple dwelling, a lock, separate and apart from any lock installed and maintained by the owner of such multiple dwelling, not more than three inches in circumference, as an ordinary incident to his tenancy, provided that a duplicate key to such lock shall be supplied to the landlord or his agent upon his request; and every provision of any lease hereafter made or entered into which reserves or provides for the payment by such tenant of any additional rent, bonus, fee or other charge or any other thing of value for the right or privilege of installing and/or maintaining any such lock, shall be deemed to be void as against public policy and wholly unenforceable.

Source:
Section 51-C — Rights of tenants to install and maintain locks in certain entrance doors, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/MDW/51-C (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

50
Entrance halls
50–A
Entrances: doors, locks and intercommunication systems
50–C
Rights of tenants to operate and maintain a lobby attendant service
51
Shafts, elevators and dumbwaiters
51–A
Peepholes
51–B
Mirrors in connection with self-service elevators
51–C
Rights of tenants to install and maintain locks in certain entrance doors
52
Stairs
53
Fire-escapes
54
Cellar entrance
55
Wainscoting
56
Frame buildings and extensions
57
Bells
58
Incombustible materials
59
Bakeries and fat boiling
60
Motor vehicle storage
61
Business uses
62
Parapets, guard railings and wires
63
Sub-curb uses
64
Lighting
65
Boiler rooms
66
Lodging houses
67
Hotels and certain other class A and class B dwellings
68
Smoke detecting devices

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 51-C. Rights of tenants to install & maintain locks in certain entrance doors's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 51-C — Rights of tenants to install and maintain locks in certain entrance doors,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/MDW/51-C
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
