SOURCE: https://assembly.state.ny.us/leg/?default_fld=&leg_video=&Summary=Y&Actions=Y&Memo=Y&Text=Y&term=2025&bn=A02729
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 4A via curl; HTML stripped mechanically by review/ir4a_fetch.py

Bill Search and Legislative Information | New York State Assembly 

 Skip to main content 

New York State Assembly

Speaker Carl E. Heastie

 Assembly Members 

 Legislative Info 

 Public Hearings 

 Speaker's Press 

 Assembly Reports 

 Committees & More 

Bill Search Home

Laws

Legislative Calendar

Public Hearing Schedule

Assembly Calendars

Assembly Committee Agenda

 Bill No.: 

 Summary 

 Actions 

 Committee Votes 

 Floor Votes 

 Memo 

 Text 

 LFIN 

 Chamber Video/Transcript 

A02729 Summary:

BILL NOA02729A

SAME ASSAME AS S10477-A

SPONSORRosenthal

COSPNSRTorres, Simon

MLTSPNSR

Add §238-b, RP L

Relates to requirements when landlords offer tenants the option of rent reporting to a consumer reporting agency to boost such tenant's credit score.
Go to top    
A02729 Actions:

BILL NOA02729A

01/22/2025referred to housing

01/07/2026referred to housing

05/18/2026amend (t) and recommit to housing

05/18/2026print number 2729a

05/20/2026reported referred to codes
Go to top
A02729 Memo:

NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY
MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF LEGISLATION
 submitted in accordance with Assembly Rule III, Sec 1(f)

BILL NUMBER: A2729A

SPONSOR: Rosenthal

TITLE OF BILL:

An act to amend the real property law, in relation to requirements when
landlords offer tenants the option of rent reporting

PURPOSE:

This bill provides tenants an opportunity to build credit through the
reporting of on-time rental payments.

SUMMARY OF SPECIFIC PROVISIONS:

Section one amends the real property law by adding a new section 238-b.
Section two establishes the effective date.

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ORIGINAL AND AMENDED VERSION (IF APPLICABLE):

A print prohibits a landlord from reporting rental payment information
to a consumer reporting agency unless notice of the reporting was
provided for in the lease, requires a tenant is notified when negative
information has been furnished to a consumer reporting agency, and
requires when a landlord offers a tenant the option of having their
positive rental payment information reported to a consumer reporting
agency, the landlord shall first obtain the written authorization of the
tenant.

JUSTIFICATION:

A person's credit score has an outsized impact on their ability to
secure loans for housing, vehicles and other needs, their ability to
obtain credit cards, calculation of insurance rates and other important
financial matters. However, a person's credit score is calculated based
on certain data gathered and reported to credit agencies and does not
include on-time payments of rent, representing a missed opportunity for
tenants who pay their rent on time to establish or improve their credit
score and for landlords who want rent paid in a timely fashion.

Some landlords have chosen to report rental payments to credit agencies,
both to incentivize tenants to pay on time, and to help tenants raise
their credit scores. For tenants with low or no credit, the impact can
be particularly meaningful. In September 2022, Fannie Mae launched a
Positive Rent Payment pilot program, working with landlords nationwide
to facilitate the reporting of rent payments to credit agencies. For
some tenants, reporting on-time rental payments each month resulted in
establishment of credit and in other cases an increase of up to 40
points in their credit score. Such an increase can open up many new
financial opportunities for tenants, allowing them to obtain loans, a
mortgage or other benefits.

As the practice of rent reporting expands, guidelines must be in place
to ensure fairness and transparency. This legislation would require that
any landlords who contemplate offer reporting of positive rental payment
information to credit agencies first obtain a tenant's authorization to
participate in the program and notify them of which agencies the infor-
mation is reported to, any fees associated with participation in the
program and a notice of their right to opt out at any time. Such notice
must be provided to tenants at the signing of a lease, as well as at
each renewal.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY:

New bill.

FISCAL IMPLICATIONS:

None to the State.

EFFECTIVE DATE:
60 days.

Go to top

A02729 Text:

 STATE OF NEW YORK
 ________________________________________________________________________

 2729--A

 2025-2026 Regular Sessions

 IN ASSEMBLY

 January 22, 2025
 ___________

 Introduced by M. of A. ROSENTHAL, TORRES, SIMON -- read once and
 referred to the Committee on Housing -- recommitted to the Committee
 on Housing in accordance with Assembly Rule 3, sec. 2 -- committee
 discharged, bill amended, ordered reprinted as amended and recommitted
 to said committee

 AN ACT to amend the real property law, in relation to requirements when
 landlords offer tenants the option of rent reporting

 The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assem-
 bly, do enact as follows:

 1 Section 1. The real property law is amended by adding a new section
 2 238-b to read as follows:
 3 § 238-b. Rent reporting. 1. For purposes of this section, "nationwide
 4 consumer reporting agency" shall include an agency that meets the defi-
 5 nition in 15 U.S.C. Section 1681a(p) or any other consumer reporting
 6 agency that meets the definition in 15 U.S.C. Section 1681a(f), so long
 7 as the consumer reporting agency resells or otherwise furnishes rental
 8 payment information to a nationwide consumer reporting agency that meets
 9 the definition in U.S.C. Section 1681a(p).
 10 2. (a) A landlord, lessor, sub-lessor or grantor of a residential
 11 property shall be prohibited from reporting a residential tenant's
 12 rental payment information to a nationwide consumer reporting agency
 13 unless notice of the reporting was provided for in the lease or contract
 14 between the landlord, lessor, sub-lessor or grantor and the tenant.
 15 (b) Such notice shall be substantially similar to the following: "We
 16 may report information about your account to credit bureaus. Late
 17 payments, missed payments, or other defaults on your account may be
 18 reflected in your credit report."
 19 (c) A landlord, lessor, sub-lessor or grantor of a residential proper-
 20 ty who furnishes negative information to a nationwide consumer reporting
 21 agency regarding a residential tenant's rental payments shall provide a
 22 notice of such furnishing of negative information, in writing, to the

 EXPLANATION--Matter in italics (underscored) is new; matter in brackets
 [ ] is old law to be omitted.
 LBD05007-05-6

 A. 2729--A 2

 1 tenant. Such notice shall be made no later than thirty days after
 2 furnishing the negative information to the nationwide consumer reporting
 3 agency and shall include a summary of the tenant's rights under the
 4 federal Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. Sect. 1681 et seq.) and
 5 article twenty-five of the general business law, including the right to
 6 access and dispute the contents of a consumer report.
 7 3. (a) Any landlord, lessor, sub-lessor or grantor of a residential
 8 property who offers a residential tenant or tenants obligated on the
 9 lease of each unit the option of having such tenant's positive rental
 10 payment information reported to at least one nationwide consumer report-
 11 ing agency shall first obtain the authorization of such tenant or
 12 tenants. A tenant's election to have positive rental payment information
 13 reported under this subdivision shall be in writing, as described in
 14 paragraph (c) of this subdivision.
 15 (b) Notice of the option for positive rental payment information
 16 reporting shall be made at the time of the lease agreement and at least
 17 once annually thereafter and for any renewal of such lease.
 18 (c) The notice of positive rental payment information reporting shall
 19 include a written election of rent reporting that contains:
 20 (i) a statement that reporting of the tenant's positive rental payment
 21 information is optional;
 22 (ii) identification of each consumer reporting agency to which posi-
 23 tive rental payment information will be reported;
 24 (iii) a statement describing which positive rental payment information
 25 will be reported;
 26 (iv) a statement that each consumer reporting agency permits the
 27 reporting of payments made over the previous twenty-four-month period
 28 and that the tenant may elect such option;
 29 (v) the amount of any fee charged pursuant to paragraph (e) of this
 30 subdivision;
 31 (vi) a statement that the tenant may opt into positive rental payment
 32 information reporting at any time following the initial offer by the
 33 landlord;
 34 (vii) a statement that the tenant may elect to stop positive rental
 35 payment information reporting at any time, but that they will not be
 36 able to resume such reporting for at least six months after their
 37 election to opt out;
 38 (viii) instructions on how to opt out of reporting positive rental
 39 payment information; and
 40 (ix) a signature block that the tenant shall date and sign in order to
 41 accept the notice of positive rental payment information reporting.
 42 (d) It is not necessary that the written election to begin positive
 43 rental payment information reporting be accepted by the tenant at the
 44 time of the offer. A tenant may submit their completed written election
 45 of positive rental payment information reporting at any time after they
 46 receive the offer of such reporting from the landlord. A tenant may
 47 request and shall obtain additional copies of the written election of
 48 positive rental payment information reporting form from the landlord at
 49 any time.
 50 (e) If a tenant elects to have that tenant's positive rental payment
 51 information reported to a consumer reporting agency under paragraph (a)
 52 of this subdivision, the landlord may require that tenant to pay a fee
 53 not to exceed the lesser of the actual cost to the landlord to provide
 54 the service or five dollars per month. The payment or nonpayment of this
 55 fee by the tenant shall not be reported to a consumer reporting agency.

 A. 2729--A 3

 1 (f) If a tenant fails to pay any fee required by the landlord pursuant
 2 to paragraph (e) of this subdivision, all of the following shall apply:
 3 (i) The failure to pay the fee shall not be cause for termination of
 4 the tenancy;
 5 (ii) The landlord shall not deduct the unpaid fee from the tenant's
 6 security deposit; and
 7 (iii) If the fee remains unpaid for thirty days or more, the landlord
 8 may stop reporting the tenant's positive rental payment information and
 9 such tenant shall be unable to elect positive rental payment information
 10 reporting again for a period of six months from the date on which the
 11 fee first became due.
 12 (g) A tenant who elects to have positive rental payment information
 13 reported as described in paragraph (a) of this subdivision may subse-
 14 quently file a written request with their landlord to stop that report-
 15 ing with which the landlord shall comply. A tenant who elects to stop
 16 reporting shall not be allowed to elect positive rental payment informa-
 17 tion reporting again for a period of at least six months from the date
 18 of the tenant's written request to stop reporting.
 19 4. A residential tenant who elects to have positive rental payment
 20 information reported pursuant to subdivision three of this section does
 21 not forfeit any rights under this article. If a residential tenant makes
 22 deductions from rent or otherwise withholds rent as authorized by this
 23 article, the deductions or withholding of rent shall not constitute a
 24 late rental payment eligible for reporting to a nationwide consumer
 25 reporting agency provided the residential tenant invoking the right to
 26 repair and deduct or withhold rent under this article shall notify their
 27 landlord of the deduction or withholding prior to the date rent is due.
 28 This subdivision shall not be construed to relieve a landlord of the
 29 obligation to maintain habitable premises pursuant to section two
 30 hundred thirty-five-b of this article.
 31 § 2. This act shall take effect on the sixtieth day after it shall
 32 have become a law.

Go to top 

 Sitemap 

 Request Information 

 Directions and Maps
