SOURCE: Harvard Caselaw Access Project static files, ny 54 p.450
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5B via curl; JSON text saved mechanically.

CAP URL: https://static.case.law/ny/54/cases/0444-01.json
Ann Cole, Appellant, v. John A. Hughes, Respondent
1873-09
New York Commission of Appeals
54 N.Y. 444

Ann Cole, Appellant, v. John A. Hughes, Respondent.
(Submitted June 17, 1873;
decided September term, 1873.)
The benefit of a covenant will pass with the land to which it is incident, but the burden or liability is confined to the original covenanter," unless a privity of estate between him and the covenantee exists, or is created at the time the covenant is made.
Where an owner of land builds a party wall under an agreement with the adjoining owner that, when the latter shall use it, he will pay the expense of his portion of the /wall, the right to compensation is per- , sonal to the builder, and does' not pass by a grant of his land, nor does the agreement run with the land of the adjoining owner so as to bind his subsequent grantees, and this is so, although the adjoining owner, by the terms of his agreement, assumes to bind his grantees, and although one purchases of him with notice of the agreement. ,
Bwrlock v. Peck (2 Duer, 90) questioned.
Appeal from judgment of the General Term of the Supreme Court in the second judicial district, affirming a judgment of the City Court of Brooklyn in favor of defend ant, entered upon the decision of the court upon trial without a jury.
This action was brought to recover the value of a party wall.
In July, 1861, D. S. Yoorhees and Thomas Dean owned adjoining premises in the city of Brooklyn. Dean being about to erect a brick house upon his lot, an agreement in writing was entered into between the parties, by which it was agreed that the western wall of said building should be a party wall, to be built one-half on each lot, and Yoorhees covenanted that whenever he, his heirs or assigns should use said wall, he or they would pay Dean or assigns the value of the part so used. The building was built, and said agreement was recorded, and was subsequently assigned to plaintiff. Dean sol'd and conveyed his premises to other parties. The Yoorhees lot passed by various mesne conveyances to defendant, who, in 1867, built upon it, using the party wall in question.
Upon these facts the court held the plaintiff not entitled to recover, and directed a dismissal of the complaint.
Judgment was entered accordingly.
D. P. Barnard for the appellant.
The parties are estopped from alleging the erroneous location of the wall as a ground for a refusal to pay for its erection. (Coleman v. Bean,, 14 Abb., 38; Hill v. Hill, 4 Barb., 419 ; Cases, §§ 70, 71; 2 Abb. Dig., 585.) The covenant on the part of Yoorhees runs with the land, and the defendant is bound by it. (Spencer’s Case, 1 Smith L. C., 22 ; 4 Kent’s Com. [6th ed.], note a, 471; Dolph v. White, 2 Kern., 296; Willard’s R. E., 416; Normam, v. Wells, 17 Wend., 136; Allen v. Culver, 3 Den., 284-296; Taylor’s L. & T., chap. 7, § 2, 912-916.) Plaintiff has a right to maintain this action. (Bulock’s Admrs. v. Peck, 2 Duer, 98; .Norman v. Wells, 17 Wend., 149; Curtiss v. White, 1 Clark’s Ch. R, 389; Todd v. Stokes, 10 Barr [Penn.], 155; Gilbert v. Drew, id., 219.)
James L. Campbell for the respondent.
The covenant in respect to the party wall did not necessarily run with the land. (Curtiss v. White, Clark’s Ch. R, 389; Coffin v. Talman, 8 N. Y., 465.) The assignment to Bergen severed the covenant completely, and left Yoorhees liable, personally, in case he used the wall, if built as agreed. (Spencer’s Case, 1 Smith’s L. C., 22 ; Thompson v. Rose, 8 Cow., 266; Norman v. Wells, 17 Wend., 136.)

[majority] Earl, C.
Earl, C.
By the agreement of July 1, 1861, the parties agreed that the wall, then being built, should be and remain a party wall. Yoorhees assented that Dean might erect the wall for their common benefit, and that whenever he, his heirs or assigns should use the same, he or they would pay him, his heirs or assigns for such part of the wall as should thus be used. Subsequently Dean conveyed his lot to one person, and his right to compensation for thé use of the party wall under the agreement to.another, under whom the plaintiff holds.
The first question to be determined is, whether the right to Compensation is in the plaintiff or in the owner of the lot. It is claimed that it passed to the grantee of the lot on the ground that the covenant to pay run with the land. To this I cannot assent. When Dean conveyed -he conveyed all his interest in the lot, and, as appurtenant thereto, in the party wall. For this interest the grantee paid, and he got all he paid for. There can be no reason in equity why he should also receive payment for some portion of the cost of building the party wall. Yoorhees covenanted, in a certain event, to pay this to Dean. It was a chose in action which was due or might be due him. It was in no way attachéd to the Dean lot. The money to be paid was not for anything done upon the Dean lot, but for something which had been done upon the Yoorhees lot, and it no more passed to his grantee than it would if he had built a house upon the Voorhees lot, using the party wall, and Voorhees had agreed to pay him whenever he or his heirs or assigns should use or occupy it. The covenant to pay was in no sense for the benefit of the Dean lot, but solely for the benefit of Dean, and therefore did not pass to the grantee of the lot. It was so held in Pennsylvania in Todd v. Stokes (10 Penn. State B., 155); Gilbert v. Drew (id., 219); Davids v. Harris (9 id., 503). These cases expressly hold that the right to reimbursement, for the use of a party wall, is personal to the first builder, and does not pass by his grant of the lot, house and appurtenances. It is claimed, however, that these cases were based upon a special statute of that State which altered the common-law rule. The statute referred to was passed February 24,1721, and provided that “ the first builder shall be reimbursed for one moiety of the charge of the party wall, or for so much as the next builder shall use, before he breaks into the wall.” This statute imposed upon the second builder the liability to pay in the absence of any agreement to pay, and under this statute the courts held that the right to compensation was a mere chose in action, and did not pass from the first builder by his mere grant of the land. But I do not think this holding was based upon the wording of the statute. That gave the right to compensation, and then the courts held that this right was of such a nature as not to pass by the grant of the land. So here the agreement provides for the same thing that the statute did in those cases, and for precisely the same reason the right to compensation was personal to Dean, a mere chose in action, which did not pass to his grantee of the land. I find no authority in conflict with this conclusion unless it be the case of Burlock v. Peck (2 Duer, 90), and with the reasoning of the learned judge who wrote the opinion in that case, I am not entirely satisfied.
The next important question to be considered is, whether the agreement of Voorhees to compensate Dean run with the Voorhees lot, so as to bind his subsequent grantees. I do. not think it did. At the time Voorhees made the covenant he received no interest in land, and granted none. He simply assented that Dean might build one half of the wall upon his land, and then he agreed in a certain contingency, which might or might not happen, that he would compensate him. He did hot convey to Dean any land upon which the wall was built. They continued tp own the land, as before, in severalty, and, except for the agreement, Yoorhees could have used the party wall at any time without making compensation. (Sherred v. Cisco, 4 Sand. Sup. C. R., 480; Partridge v. Gilbert, 15 N. Y., 601; 2 Washburn on Real Property, 334.) ,
Dean’s right to compensation was in no way charged upon the Yoorhees lot. There was, therefore, no privity of estate between Yoorhees and Dean. There was simply privity of contract between them, and upon that relation alone could Dean enforce the covenant. Upon such a state of facts it is too clear, upon authority, to be doubted that the burden of the covenant did not run with the Yoorhees lot. It is far from being true, as seems to be claimed by the learned counsel for the appellant, that a covenant always runs with the land when it affects and has distinct relation to it.
There is a wide difference between the transfer of the burden of a covenant running with the land, and of the benefit of the covenant, or, in other words, of the liability to fulfill the covenant, and of the right to exact its fulfillment. The benefit will pass with the land to which it is incident, but the burden or liability will be confined to the original covenantor, unless the relation of privity of estate or tenure exists or is created between the covenantor and covenantee at the time when the covenant is made.
The obligation of all contracts is ordinarily limited to those by whom they are made, and if privity of contract be dispensed with, its absence must be supplied by privity of estate. (Hurd v. Curtis, 19 Pick., 459; Harsha v. Reid, 45 N. Y., 415 ; Keppell v. Bailey, 2 Myl. & K, 517; 1 Smith’s Leading Cases, English and American Botes to Spencer’s Case; 2 W ashburn on Eeal Property, 262 and 263). In Hurd v. Curtis, Wilde, J., declared that the rule, that no covenant can run with the land so as to bind the assignee to perform it, unless there was a privity of estate between the covenantor and covenantee, was without exception. Washburh, in his learned work, says “ that when one who makes a covenant with another in' respect to land, neither parts with, nor receives any title or interest in the land, at the same time with and as part of making the covenant, it is at best a mere personal one, which does not bind his assignee; and that such covenants, and such only, run with land as concern the land itself, in whosesoever hands it may be, and become united with, and form a part of the consideration for which the land or some interest in it is parted with between the covenantor and covenantee.” And he illustrates the rule by saying, “ when one of two adjacent owners of land covenanted, with the other that, if he would erect a party wall between their estates, the former would pay the latter for one-half of it. whenever he should use it, it was held to be a personal covenant, and not to run with the land so as to bind the purchaser of the covenantor’s land, who should erect a building against the party wall,” citing Black v. Isham (16 Am. Law: Eeg., 8), decided in the Supreme Court of Indiana, and Weld v. Nichols (17 Pick., 543).
It is clear, therefore, that the plaintiff must fail to recover upon the covenant, unless there is- something in the claim that the defendant is liable; because he purchased with constructive notice by the record of Yoorhee»’ covenant. Even if he purchased with such notice, he did not become liable in an action at law upon, the covenant. In Keppell v. Bailey (supra), Chancellor Brougham says: “ The knowledge by an assignee of an estate that his assignor had assumed to bind others than the law authorizes him to effect by his contracts, had attempted to create a real burden upon property which is inconsistent with the nature of that property, and unknown to the principles of the law, cannot bind such assignee by affecting his conscience.” (See also 1 ' Smith’s Leading Cases, note to Spencer’s Case, 133.)
X am of opinion, therefore, that neither the benefits nor burdens of this covenant run with the land, and that the judgment should be affirmed with costs.
All concur.
Judgment affirmed.

=====

CAP URL: https://static.case.law/ny/54/cases/0450-01.json
Ferdinand Suydam et al., Trustees, etc., Respondents, v. William H. Jackson, Appellant
1873-09
New York Commission of Appeals
54 N.Y. 450

Ferdinand Suydam et al., Trustees, etc., Respondents, v. William H. Jackson, Appellant.
(Argued June 17, 1873;
decided September term, 1873.)
The provisions of the act in reference to the rights and liabilities of lessors and lessees (chap. 845, Laws of 1860), relieving a tenant from the payment of rent of a building which, without fault or negligence upon his part, shall have been destroyed or so injured by the elements or other cause as to be untenantable, have reference to a destruction or injury resulting from some sudden and unexpected action of the elements or other cause, and not to the gradual deterioration and decay produced by the ordinary action of the elements. It does not aifect the common-law rule requiring the tenant to make ordinary repairs.
Appeal from judgment of the General Term of the Court of Common Pleas for the city and county of ISTew York, affirming a judgment in favor of plaintiffs entered on a verdict.
This action was brought to recover a quarter’s rent alleged to be due under a lease of certain premises situate in the city of ISTew York.
On the 30th of March, 1866, the plaintiffs leased to the ' defendant the store known as No. 48 Front street, in the city of ISTew York, for the term of three years from the 1st day of May, 1866, at the yearly rental of $2,600, payable quarterly. The lease contained no covenant to repair on the part' of the landlord, but that the Croton water and gas-pipés were to be kept in - repair by the lessee. The demised premises consisted of a store five stories high, .the main floor being about seventy feet long; in the rear of the first floor there was an extension, about eight or nine feet in width, and extending no higher than the first story; the roof of the extension was of glass; it was occupied as an office. On the 1st day of May, 1868, the defendant left, at the plaintiffs’ office, a notice that the premises were untenantable and unfit for occupancy, and that he surrendered possession of the same. The alleged untenantableness specified was that the roof, etc., had become i£so injured, corroded and worn out by the action of the elements and by age, as to leak ” in such a manner that the same were unfit for occupancy. In support of these allegations, the defendant’s witnesses testified that after the tenants had been in possession nearly a year, the glass roof over the extension, in the rear of the first floor, began to leak in the beginning of 1867, when the snow broke up, about March of that year; that it began to leak a little at first, and afterward, during the ensuing summer and winter it leaked some, and leaked badly when it rained, rendering the office damp and admitting the water. That the glass roof of the extension was dilapidated and was decayed at the joining of the glass and the frame, and the crossing of the extension, where the leakage took place. Neither the defendant nor his sub-tenants repaired the glass roof when it began to leak from said decay, nor made any repairs. No proof was given as to any injury or damage to the premises during the term, except such as arose from natural decay, and no leakage, except that above noticed from the roof, over the extension in the rear.
At the conclusion of his evidence the court directed a verdict for the plaintiff; exceptions were ordered to be heard in the first instance at the General Term.
Samuel Hand for the appellant.
Title to rent is founded on the presumption that the tenant can enjoy the demised premises during the term. (Pothier Cont. de Louage, pt. 3, ch. 1, n. 139; Dig. lib. 19, tit. 2, b. 15, § 2; Novel 14, cap. 1; Grotius, lib. 2, cap. 12, § 18; Civil Code La., Art. 2, 667; Ripley v. Wrightman, 4 McCord, 447 ; Graves v. Berdan, 26 N. Y., 100.) The covenants expressed clearly excluded any implied ones. (Burr v. Stenton, 43 N. Y., 462.)
Edmund Wetmore for the respondents.
The common-law rule is that, upon a lease for years with a covenant to pay rent, the rent is payable at the end of the term, even if the premises are destroyed by unavoidable casualty. ( Walton v. Water-house [note], 2 Saund., 422, marg. page; Hallett v. Wylie, 3 J. R., 44; Belfour v. Weston, 1 T. R.,310; 3 Kent’s Com., 465, marg. page.) Chapter 345, Laws of 1860, was intended to provide for the destruction of the premises by accident or violence, which the tenant could not prevent, and not to relieve him from his neglect to make tenantable repairs. (Bloomer v. Merrill, 1 Daly 485 ; Austin v. Field, 7 Abb. [N. S.], 29; Johnson v. Oppenheim, 12 id., 449; Murray v. Waiter, 42 How., 64; Graves v. Berdan, 26 N. Y., 498,501; Fash v. Kavanagh, 24 How., 347.) In' the absence of an express agreement, the landlord of demised premises is not bound to make repairs. (Cleves v. Willoughby, 7 Hill, 83; Post v. Vetter, 2 E. D. S., 248; Mayer v. Moller, 1 Hilt., 491; Howard v. Doolittle, 3 Duer, 464; Walker v. Gilbert, 2 Robt., 214; Doupe v. Genin, 37 How., 5; O'Brien v. Capwell, 59 Barb., 497.) Without an express covenant to that effect, it is the tenant’s duty to make tenantable repairs; and if he omits to do so, he is liable for permissive waste, (Gibbons on Deil. and Nuis., chap. 2, p. 45, et seq.; Coke on Lit., 53 a; Comyn Dig., tit. “Waste D.,” 2; 4 Kent’s Com., 110, marg. page-.)' There being no proof that the “attempted surrender was accepted, there is no question of waiver in the ease. (Townsend v. Albers, 3 E. D. S., 560; 1 Daly, 485; 6 Wend., 569.) The covenant in the lease to surrender the premises, at the end of the term, in as good condition as reasonable wear will permit, “damages by the elements excepted,” does not alter the obligations of the parties as to repairs. (Warner v. Hitchings, 5 Barb., 666; Wiegall. v. Waters, 6 T. R., 488; 5 Robt., 521.) The covenant for quiet enjoyment does not affect the question at issue. (Howard v. Doolittle, 3 Buer, 464.)

[majority] Earl, C. Reynolds, C.
Earl, C.
The sole defence to this action is based upon the statute (Laws of 1860, chap. 345) which provides “ that the lessees or occupants of any building, which shall, without any fault or neglect on their'part, be destroyed or be so injured by the elements or any other cause as to be untenantable and unfit for occupancy, shall not be-liable or bound to pay rent to the lessors or owners thereof, after such destruction or injury, unless otherwise expressly provided by written agreement or covenant; and the lessees or occupants may thereupon quit and surrender possession of the leasehold premises, and of the land so leased or occupied.”
The roof of the small extension , in the rear of the main building, became gradually out of repair so as to leak badly, and the sole question for us to determine is, whether the demised premises were thus “ injured ” within the meaning of the statute. The leaking was not caused by any sudden, unusual, or fortuitous circumstance, but seems to have been caused' by gradual wear and decay. The courts below held that the case was not within the statute, and that the lessee remained liable for the rent.
To be able properly to understand this statute, it is well to see what the common law was before it was enacted, and to ascertain, if we can, the mischief it was intended to remedy. At common law the lessor was, without express covenant to that effect, under no obligation to repair, and if the demised premises became, during the - term, wholly .untenantable by destruction thereof by fire, flood, tempest or otherwise, the lessee still remained liable for the rent nnlagg exempted from such liability by some express covenant in his lease. ( Walton v. Waterhouse, 3 Saund., 422; Hallett v. Wylie, 3 John., 44; Graves v. Berdan, 26. N. Y., 498; 3 Kent’s Com., 465.) But the lessee was under an implied covenant, from his relation to his landlord, to make what are called “ tenantable repairs.” Comyn, in his work on Landlord and Tenant, at page 188, states the implied covenant or obligation of a lessee growing out of the relation of landlord and tenant to be, “ to treat the premises demised in such, manner that no injury be done to the inheritance, but that the estate may revert to the lessor undeteriorated by the willful or negligent conduct of the lessee. He is bound, therefore, to keep the soil in a 'proper state of cultivation, to preserve the timber and to support and repair the buildings. These duties fall upon him without any express covenant on his part, and a breach of them will, in general, render him liable to be punished for waste.” (To the same effect, see Taylor’s Land. & Ten., 163, and 1 Wash, on Beal Prop., 429.) The lessee was not bound to make substantial, lasting or general repairs,, but only such ordinary repairs as were necessary to prevent waste and decay of the premises. If a window in a dwelling should blow in, the tenant could not permit it to remain out and the storms to beat in and greatly injure'the premises without liability fpr permissive waste; and if a Shingle or board on the roof should blow off or become out of repair, the tenant could not permit the water, in time of rain, to flood- the premises, and thus injure them, without a similar liability.* He being present, a slight effort and expense on his part could save a great loss; and hence the law justly casts the burden upon him. I am not aware that it was ever claimed that it was unjust that he should bear this burden, or that any complaint was ever made of the rule of law which cast it upon him. It cannot, therefore, be presumed that the statute of 1860 was" passed to shift this burden from the lessee to the lessor.
But it was considered a hard rule that the tenant who had from ignorance or inadvertence failed to protect himself by covenants in his lease, should be obliged to pay rent in cases where, from fire, flood or other fortuitous causes, the premises were destroyed or so injured as to be untenantable, and I am of opinion that it was to change this rule and cast the misfortune upon the owner of the demised premises that the law was enacted. The statute provides for two alternatives when the premises are “destroyed” or “injured.” The first alternative, evidently, has reference to a sudden and total destruction by the elements, acting with unusual power, or i by human agency. The latter has reference to a case of injury to the premises, short of a total destruction, occasioned in the same way. If the legislature had intended to provide that the tenant should cease to be liable for rent when the premises from any cause became so damaged or out of repair as to be untenantable, it w„ould have been easy to have expressed the intent in apt and proper language. The terms “ destroyed ” and “ injured ” do not, to my mind, convey the idea of gradual deterioration from the ordinary action of the elements in producing decay, common to all human struc- • tures.
I am, therefore, of the opinion that the courts below did not err in the construction which they gave to this statute, and this conclusion is not without the support of learned judges, (Bloomer v. Merrill, 1 Daly, 485 ; Austin v. Field, v. Abb. [N, S.], 291.)
The judgment must be affirmed, with costs. ■
Reynolds, C.
When the legislature attempts,, by positive enactment, to remedy an evil that has apparently grown up with the common law, it may be fairly assumed that the evil to be cured is fully appreciated, and that by ajff words the remedy is provided for, as it is, and should be, understood by the law-making power. It is very clear to my. mind that the provisions of the statute of 1860 (chap. 345) were intended to relieve a tenant from the payment of rent where the demised property was destroyed by fire, or from some-other kindred cause, resulting from some sudden and unexpected action of the elements. The rule of the common law had become very obstinate, that,' in such calamities,.the tenant must be the sufferer, unless in his lease he had provided against it, which was very seldom done, as the contingency was never at the time thought of by either party. The courts, although feeling constrained to observe the rule, have ' very frequently suggested its injustice, and it is not too much to say that'such suggestions, coupled with the- hardships oftentimes produced, resulted in the remedial statute of 1860. It was intended by this act to relieve the tenant from the damaging effect of extraordinary disasters not anticipated by either party when the demise was made.
The statute of 1860 never was intended to have any effect upon the rule of the common ■ law requiring the tenant to make ordinary repairs. In that rule there never was any hardship, and there was no occasion for special legislation in regard to it. The results of ordinary decay, or as it is sometimes said “ wear and tear,” would ordinarily be visible only ,to a tenant.. The landlord having parted with "his estate for a year or term of years, had no- right to enter upon his property without the permission of his tenant, unless upon some default of the latter he entered .under the authority of law.
In construing a statute which operates to change a principle of the common law, we are to be guided by rules of construction' that have been long approved, and the most prominent of which, on the subject of statutes altering the common law, is that adopted by Chief Justice Teevob in the case of Arthur v. Bohenham in the reign of Queen Anne (11 Modern, 149,161), which, in some form, has been repeated in the most reliable digests, and supported by many prior and subsequent adjudications in the courts. He said that “ the general rule in the exposition of all acts of parliament is that, in all doubtful matters, and where the expression is in general terms, they are to receive such a construction as may be agreeable to the common law in cases of that nature, for statutes are not presumed to make any alteration in the common law, further or otherwise than the statute does expressly declare; therefore, in all general matters tl^e law does not presume the act did intend to make any alteration, for if the parliament had had that design they would have expressed it in the act.” ,(See also Dwarris on Statutes, 564; Potter’s Dwarris on Statutes and Constitutions, 184, 185, 186.) Applying this rule to the present case, it seems to me entirely clear that the statute of 1860 does not change or impair the obligation of a tenant to make ordinary repairs, unless he is relieved from that duty by some provision in his lease.
It was urged on the part of the defendant that he was under no obligation to repair the roof of the building, so as to stop the leakage complained of, because, by reason of some express convenants in the lease relating to specified repairs to be made by the tenant, no further obligation on his part, tending in that direction, could be implied. It is, perhaps, sufficient to say, in answer to this objection, that no such question appears to have been raised on the trial. But I find no express covenants in the lease relating to the subject of repairs, except as to the “ Groton water and gas-pipes and fixtures,” and that the defendant should conform to the corporation ordinances in relation to the closing of hatchways and guards thereof, and keep the guards in repair, and pay all fines imposed for any violation of the ordinance in respect thereto. These are not in any sense ordinary repairs, within the meaning of the common-law rule. They are extraordinary and exceptional, and, unless specially provided for in the lease, the defendant would not have incurred the obligation, and they afford no support to the point taken.
It is finally said that the case ought to have been submitted to the jury, but upon what question the case does not disclose. There was no conflict of evidence or dispute of facts. The dispute arose about the obligation to make, what seems very clearly to have been, a mere ordinary repair, and, as we think the duty was upon the defendant, the judgment must be affirmed, with costs.
All concur.
Judgment affirmed.