SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_5003-a
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 5003-A

Prompt payment following settlement

(a)
 When an action to recover damages has been settled, any settling defendant, except those defendants to whom subdivisions (b) and (c) of this section apply, shall pay all sums due to any settling plaintiff within twenty-one days of tender, by the settling plaintiff to the settling defendant, of a duly executed release and a stipulation discontinuing action executed on behalf of the settling plaintiff.

(b)
 When an action to recover damages has been settled and the settling defendant is a municipality or any subdivision thereof, or any public corporation that is not indemnified by the state, it shall pay all sums due to any settling plaintiff within ninety days of tender, by the settling plaintiff to it, of duly executed release and a stipulation discontinuing action executed on behalf of the settling plaintiff. The provisions of this paragraph shall not inure to the benefit of any insurance carrier for a municipality or any subdivision thereof, or any public corporation that is not indemnified by the state. Any such insurance carrier shall pay all sums due to any settling plaintiff in accordance with the provisions of subdivision (a) of this section.

(c)
 When an action to recover damages has been settled and the settling defendant is the state, an officer or employee of the state entitled to indemnification pursuant to Public Officers Law § 17 (Defense and indemnification of state officers and employees)section seventeen of the public officers law, or a public benefit corporation indemnified by the state, payment of all sums due to any settling plaintiff shall be made within ninety days of the comptroller’s determination that all papers required to effectuate the settlement have been received by him. The provisions of this paragraph shall not inure to the benefit of any insurance carrier for the state, an officer or employee of the state entitled to indemnification pursuant to Public Officers Law § 17 (Defense and indemnification of state officers and employees)section seventeen of the public officers law, or a public benefit corporation indemnified by the state. Any such insurance carrier shall pay all sums due to any settling plaintiff in accordance with the provisions of subdivision (a) of this section.

(d)
 In an action which requires judicial approval of settlement, other than an action to which subdivision (c) of this section applies, the plaintiff shall also tender a copy of the order approving such settlement with the duly executed release and stipulation discontinuing action executed on behalf of the plaintiff.

(e)
 In the event that a settling defendant fails to promptly pay all sums as required by subdivisions (a), (b), and

(c)
 of this section, any unpaid plaintiff may enter judgment, without further notice, against such settling defendant who has not paid. The judgment shall be for the amount set forth in the release, together with costs and lawful disbursements, and interest on the amount set forth in the release from the date that the release and stipulation discontinuing action were tendered.

(f)
 Nothing in this section shall apply to settlements subject to article seventy-four of the insurance law or to future installment payments to be paid pursuant to a structured settlement agreement.

(g)
 The term “tender”, as used herein, shall mean either to personally deliver or to mail, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.

Source:
Section 5003-A — Prompt payment following settlement, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/5003-A (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

5001
Interest to verdict, report or decision
5002
Interest from verdict, report or decision to judgment
5003
Interest upon judgment
5003–A
Prompt payment following settlement
5003–B
Nondisclosure agreements
5004
Rate of interest
5011
Definition and content of judgment
5012
Judgment upon part of cause of action
5013
Effect of judgment dismissing claim
5014
Action upon judgment
5015
Relief from judgment or order
5016
Entry of judgment
5017
Judgment-roll
5018
Docketing of judgment
5019
Validity and correction of judgment or order
5020
Satisfaction-piece
5020–A
Payment of judgment in certain cases
5021
Entry of satisfaction

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 5003-A. Prompt payment following settlement's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 5003-A — Prompt payment following settlement,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/5003-A
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
