SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_actions_&_proceedings_law_section_749
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Real Property Actions & Proceedings Law Section 749

Warrant

1.
 Upon rendering a final judgment for petitioner, the court shall issue a warrant directed to the sheriff of the county or to any constable or marshal of the city in which the property, or a portion thereof, is situated, or, if it is not situated in a city, to any constable of any town in the county, describing the property, stating the earliest date upon which execution may occur pursuant to the order of the court, and commanding the officer to remove all persons named in the proceeding, provided upon a showing of good cause, the court may issue a stay of re-letting or renovation of the premises for a reasonable period of time.

2.
 (a) The officer to whom the warrant is directed and delivered shall give at least fourteen days’ notice, in writing and in the manner prescribed in this article for the service of a notice of petition, to the person or persons to be evicted or dispossessed and shall execute the warrant on a business day between the hours of sunrise and sunset.

(b)
 Such officer shall check such property for the presence of a companion animal prior to executing such warrant and coordinate with such person or persons to be evicted or dispossessed to provide for the safe and proper care of such companion animal or animals. If such persons to be evicted or dispossessed cannot be found after reasonable efforts are made to coordinate with such persons, or if such person is found and declines to take possession of such animal or animals, such officer shall promptly coordinate with the duly incorporated humane society, duly incorporated society for the prevention of cruelty to animals or pound maintained by or under contract or agreement with the municipality in which the animal was found for the safe removal of such companion animal or animals. Such officer shall make reasonable efforts to provide notice to the person or persons to be evicted regarding the location of such companion animal or animals. Disposition of such companion animal or animals shall be in accordance with the provisions of sections one hundred seventeen and three hundred seventy-four of the agriculture and markets law, and all other laws, rules and regulations that govern the humane treatment of animals. “Companion animal,” as used in this paragraph, shall have the same meaning as provided in subdivision five of Agriculture & Markets Law § 350 (Definitions)section three hundred fifty of the agriculture and markets law.

3.
 Nothing contained herein shall deprive the court of the power to stay or vacate such warrant for good cause shown prior to the execution thereof, or to restore the tenant to possession subsequent to execution of the warrant. In a judgment for non-payment of rent, the court shall vacate a warrant upon tender or deposit with the court of the full rent due at any time prior to its execution, unless the petitioner establishes that the tenant withheld the rent due in bad faith. Petitioner may recover by action any sum of money which was payable at the time when the special proceeding was commenced and the reasonable value of the use and occupation to the time when the warrant was issued, for any period of time with respect to which the agreement does not make any provision for payment of rent.

Source:
Section 749 — Warrant, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/RPA/749 (updated Jun. 28, 2019; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

701
Jurisdiction
702
Rent in a residential dwelling
711
Grounds where landlord-tenant relationship exists
713
Grounds where no landlord-tenant relationship exists
713–A
Special proceeding for termination of adult home and residence for adults admission agreements
715
Grounds and procedure where use or occupancy is illegal
715–A
Grounds and procedure for removal of commercial tenants for unlicensed cannabis retail sale
721
Person who may maintain proceeding
731
Commencement
732
Special provisions applicable in non-payment proceeding if the rules so provide
733
Time of service
734
Notice of petition
735
Manner of service
741
Contents of petition
743
Answer
744
Eviction based on domestic violence victim status prohibited
745
Trial
746
Stipulations
747
Judgment
749
Warrant
749–A
New York city marshals
751
Stay upon paying rent or giving undertaking
753
Stay in premises occupied for dwelling purposes
755
Stay of proceeding or action for rent upon failure to make repairs
756
Stay of summary proceedings or actions for rent under certain conditions
756–A
Stay of action or proceeding when a party’s claim to title is in dispute
757
Eviction as the result of foreclosure
761
Redemption by lessee
763
Redemption by creditor of lessee
765
Effect of redemption upon lease
767
Order of redemption
768
Unlawful eviction

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Jun. 28, 2019

§ 749. Warrant's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 749 — Warrant,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/RPA/749
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
