SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/23-NYCRR-1.3
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl; text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.3 - Disclosures for debts in which the statute of limitations may be expired | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute

Please help us improve our site!

 ×

 No thank you

 Skip to main content

 Cornell Law
 School
 Search
 Cornell

 Toggle navigation

 Please help
 us improve our site!

 Support Us!

 Search

 About
 LII

 Who We Are

 What We Do

 Who Pays For This

 Contact Us

 Get the
 law

 Constitution

 Supreme Court

 U.S. Code

 CFR

 Federal Rules

 Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure

 Federal Rules of Civil Procedure

 Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure

 Federal Rules of Evidence

 Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure

 U.C.C.

 Law by jurisdiction

 State law

 Uniform laws

 Federal law

 World law

 Lawyer directory

 Legal encyclopedia

 Business law

 Constitutional law

 Criminal law

 Family law

 Employment law

 Money and Finances

 More...

 Help out

 Give

 Sponsor

 Advertise

 Create

 Promote

 Join Lawyer Directory

LII

State Regulations

New York Codes,Rules,and Regulations

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 23 - FINANCIAL SERVICES

Chapter I - Regulations of the Superintendent of Financial Services

Part 1 - DEBT COLLECTION BY THIRD-PARTY DEBT COLLECTORS AND DEBT BUYERS

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.3 - Disclosures for debts in which the statute of limitations may be expired

 N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23 § 1.3 - Disclosures for debts in which the statute of limitations may be expired 

 State Regulations 

 Compare

(a) A debt
 collector must maintain reasonable procedures for determining the statute of
 limitations applicable to a debt it is collecting and whether such statute of
 limitations has expired.

(b) If a
 debt collector knows or has reason to know that the statute of limitations for
 a debt may be expired, before accepting payment on the debt, the debt collector
 must provide the consumer with clear and conspicuous notice, in the same medium
 (such as via telephone or electronic communication) by which the debt collector
 will accept payment, that: 
(1) the debt
 collector believes that the statute of limitations applicable to the debt may
 be expired;

(2) suing on a debt for
 which the statute of limitations has expired is a violation of the Fair Debt
 Collection Practices Act,
 15 U.S.C. section
 1692
et seq.;

(3) if the consumer is sued on a debt for
 which the statute of limitations has expired, the consumer may be able to stop
 the lawsuit by responding to the court that the statute of limitations has
 expired;

(4) the consumer is not
 required to provide the debt collector with an admission, affirmation, or
 acknowledgment of the debt, a promise to pay the debt, or a waiver of the
 statute of limitations; and

(5) if
 the consumer makes any payment on a debt for which the statute of limitations
 has expired or admits, affirms, acknowledges, or promises to pay such debt, the
 statute of limitations may restart.

(c) The following language satisfies the
 notice requirement contained in section
 1.3(b) of this
 Part: 

"We are required by regulation of the New York State
 Department of Financial Services to notify you of the following information.
 This information is NOT legal advice:

Your creditor or debt collector believes that the legal time
 limit (statute of limitations) for suing you to collect this debt may have
 expired. It is a violation of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act,
 15 U.S.C. §
 1692 et seq., to sue to collect on a debt for
 which the statute of limitations has expired. However, if the creditor sues you
 to collect on this debt, you may be able to prevent the creditor from obtaining
 a judgment against you. To do so, you must tell the court that the statute of
 limitations has expired.

Even if the statute of limitations has expired, you may
 choose to make payments on the debt. However, be aware: if you make a payment
 on the debt, admit to owing the debt, promise to pay the debt, or waive the
 statute of limitations on the debt, the time period in which the debt is
 enforceable in court may start again.

If you would like to learn more about your legal rights and
 options, you can consult an attorney or a legal assistance or legal aid
 organization."

Notes

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 23
 §
 1.3

Adopted,
 New
 York State Register December 3, 2014/Volume XXXVI, Issue 48, eff.
 12/3/2014

State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
 Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release.
 More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare.

 No prior version found.

 State Regulations Toolbox

 Accessibility

 About LII

 Contact us

 Advertise here

 Help

 Terms of use

 Privacy
