SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._judiciary_law_section_495
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Judiciary Law Section 495

Corporations and voluntary associations not to practice law

1.
 No corporation or voluntary association shall (a) practice or appear as an attorney-at-law for any person in any court in this state or before any judicial body, nor (b) make it a business to practice as an attorney-at-law, for any person, in any of said courts, nor (c) hold itself out to the public as being entitled to practice law, or to render legal services or advice, nor (d) furnish attorneys or counsel, nor (e) render legal services of any kind in actions or proceedings of any nature or in any other way or manner, nor (f) assume in any other manner to be entitled to practice law, nor (g) assume, use or advertise the title of lawyer or attorney, attorney-at-law, or equivalent terms in any language in such manner as to convey the impression that it is entitled to practice law or to furnish legal advice, services or counsel, nor (h) advertise that either alone or together with or by or through any person whether or not a duly and regularly admitted attorney-at-law, it has, owns, conducts or maintains a law office or an office for the practice of law, or for furnishing legal advice, services or counsel.

2.
 No corporation or voluntary association shall itself or by or through its officers, agents or employees, solicit any claim or demand, or taken an assignment thereof, for the purpose of representing any person in the pursuit of any civil remedy, nor solicit any claim or demand for the purpose of representing as attorney-at-law, or of furnishing legal advice, services or counsel to, a person sued or about to be sued in any action or proceeding or against whom an action or proceeding has been or is about to be brought, or who may be affected by any action or proceeding which has been or may be instituted in any court or before any judicial body. Nothing herein contained shall affect any assignment heretofore or hereafter taken by any moneyed corporation authorized to do business in the state of New York or its nominee pursuant to a subrogation agreement or a salvage operation. Any corporation or voluntary association violating the provisions of this subdivision or of subdivision one of this section shall be liable to a fine of not more than five thousand dollars and every officer, trustee, director, agent or employee of such corporation or voluntary association who directly or indirectly engages in any of the acts prohibited in this subdivision or in subdivision one of this section or assists such corporation or voluntary association to do such prohibited acts is guilty of a misdemeanor. The fact that such officer, trustee, director, agent or employee shall be a duly and regularly admitted attorney-at-law, shall not be held to permit or allow any such corporation or voluntary association to do the acts so prohibited nor shall such fact be a defense upon the trial of any of the persons mentioned herein for a violation of the provisions of this subdivision or subdivision one of this section.

3.
 No voluntary association or corporation shall ask or receive directly or indirectly, compensation for preparing deeds, mortgages, assignments, discharges, leases, or any other instruments affecting real estate, wills, codicils, or any other instruments affecting disposition of property after death or decedents’ estates, or pleadings of any kind in actions or proceedings of any nature. Any association or corporation violating the provisions of this subdivision is guilty of a misdemeanor unless otherwise provided by § 485-A (Violation of certain sections a class E felony)section four hundred eighty-five-a of this article.

4.
 Subdivisions one and two of this section shall not apply to any corporation or voluntary association lawfully engaged in a business authorized by the provisions of any existing statute.

5.
 This section shall not apply to a corporation or voluntary association lawfully engaged in the examination and insuring of titles to real property, in the preparation of any deeds, mortgages, assignments, discharges, leases or any other instruments affecting real property insofar as such instruments are necessary to the examination and insuring of titles, and necessary or incidental to loans made by any such corporation or association; nor shall it prohibit a corporation or voluntary association from employing an attorney or attorneys in and about its own immediate affairs or in any litigation to which it is or may be a party. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent a corporation or association from furnishing to any person, lawfully engaged in the practice of law, such information or such clerical services in and about his professional work as, except for the provisions of this section, may be lawful, provided that at all times the lawyer receiving such information or such services shall maintain full professional and direct responsibility to his clients for the information and services so received. But no corporation shall be permitted to render any services which cannot lawfully be rendered by a person not admitted to practice law in this state nor to solicit directly or indirectly professional employment for a lawyer.

6.
 This section shall not apply to a corporation organized under article fifteen, or authorized to do business in this state under article fifteen-A, of the business corporation law.

7.
 This section does not apply to organizations which offer prepaid legal services; to non-profit organizations whether incorporated or unincorporated, organized and operating primarily for a purpose other than the provision of legal services and which furnish legal services as an incidental activity in furtherance of their primary purpose; or to organizations which have as their primary purpose the furnishing of legal services to indigent persons.

Source:
Section 495 — Corporations and voluntary associations not to practice law, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/JUD/495 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

460
Examination and admission of attorneys
460–B
Applications for special arrangements
461
Compensation of state board of law examiners
462
Annual account by state board of law examiners
463
Times and places of examinations
464
Certification by state board of successful candidates
465
Fee for examinations and for credential review for admission on motion
466
Attorney’s oath of office
467
Registration of attorneys
468
Official registration of attorneys to be kept by the chief administrator of the courts
468–A
Biennial registration of attorneys
468–B
Clients’ security fund of the state of New York
469
Continuance where attorney is member of legislature
470
Attorneys having offices in this state may reside in adjoining state
471
Attorney who is judge’s partner or clerk prohibited from practicing before him or in his court
472
Attorney who is surrogate’s parent or child prohibited from practicing berfore him
473
Constables, coroners, criers and attendants prohibited from practicing during term of office
474
Compensation of attorney or counsellor
474–A
Contingent fees for attorneys in claims or actions for medical, dental or podiatric malpractice
474–B
Attorney retainer statements
475
Attorney’s lien in action, special or other proceeding
475–A
Notice of lien
476
Action against attorney for lending his name in suits and against person using name
476–A
Action for unlawful practice of the law
476–B
Injunction to restrain defendant from unlawful practice of the law
476–C
Investigation by the attorney-general
477
Settlement of actions for personal injury
478
Practicing or appearing as attorney-at-law without being admitted and registered
479
Soliciting business on behalf of an attorney
480
Entering hospital to negotiate settlement or obtain release or statement
481
Aiding, assisting or abetting the solicitation of persons or the procurement of a retainer for or on behalf of an attorney
482
Employment by attorney of person to aid, assist or abet in the solicitation of business or the procurement through solicitation of a reta...
483
Signs advertising services as attorney at law
484
None but attorneys to practice in the state
485
Violation of certain preceding sections a misdemeanor
485–A
Violation of certain sections a class E felony
486
Practice of law by attorney who has been disbarred, suspended, or convicted of a felony
486–A
Conviction for felony of person who is an attorney and counselor at law
487
Misconduct by attorneys
488
Buying demands on which to bring an action
489
Purchase of claims by corporations or collection agencies
490
Limitation
491
Sharing of compensation by attorneys prohibited
492
Use of attorney’s name by another
493
Attorneys forbidden to defend criminal prosecutions carried on by their partners, or formerly by themselves
494
Attorneys may defend themselves
495
Corporations and voluntary associations not to practice law
496
An organization described in subdivision seven of section four hundred ninety-five of this article shall file with the appellate division...
497
Attorneys fiduciary funds
498
Professional referrals
499
Lawyer assistance committees

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 495. Corps. & voluntary associations not to practice law's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 495 — Corporations and voluntary associations not to practice law,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/JUD/495
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
