SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_205
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 205

Termination of action

(a)
 New action by plaintiff. If an action is timely commenced and is terminated in any other manner than by a voluntary discontinuance, a failure to obtain personal jurisdiction over the defendant, a dismissal of the complaint for neglect to prosecute the action, or a final judgment upon the merits, the plaintiff, or, if the plaintiff dies, and the cause of action survives, his or her executor or administrator, may commence a new action upon the same transaction or occurrence or series of transactions or occurrences within six months after the termination provided that the new action would have been timely commenced at the time of commencement of the prior action and that service upon defendant is effected within such six-month period. Where a dismissal is one for neglect to prosecute the action made pursuant to rule thirty-two hundred sixteen of this chapter or otherwise, the judge shall set forth on the record the specific conduct constituting the neglect, which conduct shall demonstrate a general pattern of delay in proceeding with the litigation.

(b)
 Defense or counterclaim. Where the defendant has served an answer and the action is terminated in any manner, and a new action upon the same transaction or occurrence or series of transactions or occurrences is commenced by the plaintiff or his successor in interest, the assertion of any cause of action or defense by the defendant in the new action shall be timely if it was timely asserted in the prior action.

(c)
 Application. This section also applies to a proceeding brought under the workers’ compensation law but shall not apply to any proceeding governed by § 205-A (Termination of certain actions related to real property)section two hundred five-a of this article.

Source:
Section 205 — Termination of action, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/205 (updated Jan. 6, 2023; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

201
Application of article
202
Cause of action accruing without the state
203
Method of computing periods of limitation generally
204
Stay of commencement of action
205
Termination of action
205–A
Termination of certain actions related to real property
206
Computing periods of limitation in particular actions
207
Defendant’s absence from state or residence under false name
208
Infancy, insanity
208–A
In custody at time of cause of action
209
War
210
Death of claimant or person liable
211
Actions to be commenced within twenty years
212
Actions to be commenced within ten or fifteen years
213
Actions to be commenced within six years: where not otherwise provided for
213–A
Residential rent overcharge
213–B
Action by a victim of a criminal offense
213–C
Action by victim of conduct constituting certain sexual offenses
213–D
Actions to be commenced within three years
214
Actions to be commenced within three years: for non-payment of money collected on execution
214–A
Action for medical, dental or podiatric malpractice to be commenced within two years and six months
214–B
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to phenoxy herbicides
214–C
Certain actions to be commenced within three years of discovery
214–D
Limitations on certain actions against licensed engineers and architects
214–E
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by the infusion of such blood products which result in the contraction of the human ...
214–F
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to any substance or combination of substances found with...
214–G
Certain child sexual abuse cases
214–H
Certain actions by public water suppliers to recover damages for injury to property
214–I
Certain actions arising out of consumer credit transactions to be commenced within three years
214–I*2
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to toxic burn pits
214–J
Certain sexual offense actions
215
Actions to be commenced within one year: against sheriff, coroner or constable
216
Abbreviation of period to one year after notice
217
Proceeding against body or officer
217–A
Actions to be commenced within one year and ninety days
218
Transitional provisions

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Jan. 6, 2023

§ 205. Termination of action's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 205 — Termination of action,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/205
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
