SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_actions_&_proceedings_law_section_768
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Real Property Actions & Proceedings Law Section 768

Unlawful eviction

1.
 (a) It shall be unlawful for any person to evict or attempt to evict an occupant of a dwelling unit who has lawfully occupied the dwelling unit for thirty consecutive days or longer or who has entered into a lease with respect to such dwelling except to the extent permitted by law pursuant to a warrant of eviction or other order of a court of competent jurisdiction or a governmental vacate order by:

(i)
 using or threatening the use of force to induce the occupant to vacate the dwelling unit; or

(ii)
 engaging in a course of conduct which interferes with or is intended to interfere with or disturb the comfort, repose, peace or quiet of such occupant in the use or occupancy of the dwelling unit, to induce the occupant to vacate the dwelling unit including, but not limited to, the interruption or discontinuance of essential services; or

(iii)
 engaging or threatening to engage in any other conduct which prevents or is intended to prevent such occupant from the lawful occupancy of such dwelling unit or to induce the occupant to vacate the dwelling unit including, but not limited to, removing the occupant’s possessions from the dwelling unit, removing the door at the entrance to the dwelling unit; removing, plugging or otherwise rendering the lock on such entrance door inoperable, or changing the lock on such entrance door without supplying the occupant with a key.

(b)
 It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dwelling unit to fail to take all reasonable and necessary action to restore to occupancy an occupant of a dwelling unit who either vacates, has been removed from or is otherwise prevented from occupying a dwelling unit as the result of any of the acts or omissions prescribed in paragraph (a) of this subdivision and to provide to such occupant a dwelling unit within such dwelling suitable for occupancy, after being requested to do so by such occupant or the representative of such occupant, if such owner either committed such unlawful acts or omissions or knew or had reason to know of such unlawful acts or omissions, or if such acts or omissions occurred within seven days prior to such request.

2.
 Criminal and civil penalties.

(a)
 Any person who intentionally violates or assists in the violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor. Each such violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.

(b)
 Such person shall also be subject to a civil penalty of not less than one thousand nor more than ten thousand dollars for each violation. Each such violation shall be a separate and distinct offense. In the case of a failure to take all reasonable and necessary action to restore an occupant pursuant to paragraph (b) of subdivision one of this section, such person shall be subject to an additional civil penalty of not more than one hundred dollars per day from the date on which restoration to occupancy is requested until the date on which restoration occurs, provided, however, that such period shall not exceed six months.

Source:
Section 768 — Unlawful eviction, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/RPA/768 (updated Jun. 28, 2019; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

701
Jurisdiction
702
Rent in a residential dwelling
711
Grounds where landlord-tenant relationship exists
713
Grounds where no landlord-tenant relationship exists
713–A
Special proceeding for termination of adult home and residence for adults admission agreements
715
Grounds and procedure where use or occupancy is illegal
715–A
Grounds and procedure for removal of commercial tenants for unlicensed cannabis retail sale
721
Person who may maintain proceeding
731
Commencement
732
Special provisions applicable in non-payment proceeding if the rules so provide
733
Time of service
734
Notice of petition
735
Manner of service
741
Contents of petition
743
Answer
744
Eviction based on domestic violence victim status prohibited
745
Trial
746
Stipulations
747
Judgment
749
Warrant
749–A
New York city marshals
751
Stay upon paying rent or giving undertaking
753
Stay in premises occupied for dwelling purposes
755
Stay of proceeding or action for rent upon failure to make repairs
756
Stay of summary proceedings or actions for rent under certain conditions
756–A
Stay of action or proceeding when a party’s claim to title is in dispute
757
Eviction as the result of foreclosure
761
Redemption by lessee
763
Redemption by creditor of lessee
765
Effect of redemption upon lease
767
Order of redemption
768
Unlawful eviction

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Jun. 28, 2019

§ 768. Unlawful eviction's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 768 — Unlawful eviction,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/RPA/768
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
