SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_1201
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 1201

Representation of infant, incompetent person, or conservatee

 Unless the court appoints a guardian ad litem, an infant shall appear by the guardian of his property or, if there is no such guardian, by a parent having legal custody, or, if there is no such parent, by another person or agency having legal custody, or, if the infant is married, by an adult spouse residing with the infant, a person judicially declared to be incompetent shall appear by the committee of his property, and a conservatee shall appear by the conservator of his property. A person shall appear by his guardian ad litem if he is an infant and has no guardian of his property, parent, or other person or agency having legal custody, or adult spouse with whom he resides, or if he is an infant, person judicially declared to be incompetent, or a conservatee as defined in section 77.01 of the mental hygiene law and the court so directs because of a conflict of interest or for other cause, or if he is an adult incapable of adequately prosecuting or defending his rights.

Source:
Section 1201 — Representation of infant, incompetent person, or conservatee, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/1201 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

1201
Representation of infant, incompetent person, or conservatee
1202
Appointment of guardian ad litem
1203
Default judgment
1204
Compensation of guardian ad litem
1205
Liability for costs of infant, judicially declared incompetent, or conservatee, or representative
1206
Disposition of proceeds of claim of infant, judicially declared incompetent or conservatee
1207
Settlement of action or claim by infant, judicially declared incompetent or conservatee, by whom motion made
1208
Settlement procedure
1209
Arbitration of controversy involving infant, judicially declared incompetent or conservatee
1210
Guardian of infant
1211
Allowance for infant’s support

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 1201. Representation of infant, incompetent person, or conservatee's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 1201 — Representation of infant, incompetent person, or conservatee,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/1201
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
