SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._real_property_actions_&_proceedings_law_section_741
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Real Property Actions & Proceedings Law Section 741

Contents of petition

 The petition shall be verified by the person authorized by section seven hundred twenty-one to maintain the proceeding; or by a legal representative, attorney or agent of such person pursuant to subdivision (d) of Civil Practice Law & Rules Law § 3020 (Verification)section thirty hundred twenty of the civil practice law and rules. An attorney of such person may verify the petition on information and belief notwithstanding the fact that such person is in the county where the attorney has his office. Every petition shall:

1.
 State the interest of the petitioner in the premises from which removal is sought.

2.
 State the respondent’s interest in the premises and his relationship to petitioner with regard thereto.

3.
 Describe the premises from which removal is sought.

4.
 State the facts upon which the special proceeding is based.

5.
 State the relief sought. The relief may include a judgment for rent due, and for a period of occupancy during which no rent is due, for the fair value of use and occupancy of the premises if the notice of petition contains a notice that a demand for such a judgment has been made. * 5-a. Append or incorporate the notice required pursuant to Real Property Law § 231-C (Good cause eviction law notice)section two hundred thirty-one-c of the real property law, which shall state the following:

(i)
 if the premises are or are not subject to article six-A of the real property law, the “good cause eviction law”, and if the premises are exempt, such petition shall state why the premises are exempt from such law;

(ii)
 if the landlord is not renewing the lease for a unit subject to article six-A of the real property law, the lawful basis for such non-renewal; and

(iii)
 if the landlord is increasing the rent upon an existing lease of a unit subject to article six-A of the real property law above the applicable local rent standard, as defined in subdivision eight of Real Property Law § 211 (Definitions)section two hundred eleven of the real property law, the justification for such increase. * NB Repealed June 15, 2034 * 5-b. If the petitioner claims exemption from the provisions of article six-A of the real property law pursuant to subdivision one of Real Property Law § 214 (Covered housing accommodations)section two hundred fourteen of the real property law, append or incorporate the information required pursuant to subdivision one of Real Property Law § 214 (Covered housing accommodations)section two hundred fourteen of the real property law. * NB Repealed June 15, 2034 6. In the city of Albany, where the premises from which removal is sought is subject to a local law requiring the registration of said premises as a condition of legal rental, allege proof of compliance with such local law.

7.
 In the city of Newburgh, where the premises from which removal is sought is subject to a local law requiring the registration of said premises as a condition of legal rental, allege proof of compliance with such local law.

8.
 In the city of Syracuse, where the premises from which removal is sought is subject to a local law requiring the registration of said premises as a condition of legal rental, allege proof of compliance with such local law.

9.
 In the city of Schenectady, where the premises from which removal is sought is subject to a local law requiring the registration of said premises as a condition of legal rental, allege proof of compliance with such local law.

Source:
Section 741 — Contents of petition, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/RPA/741 (updated Jan. 2, 2026; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

701
Jurisdiction
702
Rent in a residential dwelling
711
Grounds where landlord-tenant relationship exists
713
Grounds where no landlord-tenant relationship exists
713–A
Special proceeding for termination of adult home and residence for adults admission agreements
715
Grounds and procedure where use or occupancy is illegal
715–A
Grounds and procedure for removal of commercial tenants for unlicensed cannabis retail sale
721
Person who may maintain proceeding
731
Commencement
732
Special provisions applicable in non-payment proceeding if the rules so provide
733
Time of service
734
Notice of petition
735
Manner of service
741
Contents of petition
743
Answer
744
Eviction based on domestic violence victim status prohibited
745
Trial
746
Stipulations
747
Judgment
749
Warrant
749–A
New York city marshals
751
Stay upon paying rent or giving undertaking
753
Stay in premises occupied for dwelling purposes
755
Stay of proceeding or action for rent upon failure to make repairs
756
Stay of summary proceedings or actions for rent under certain conditions
756–A
Stay of action or proceeding when a party’s claim to title is in dispute
757
Eviction as the result of foreclosure
761
Redemption by lessee
763
Redemption by creditor of lessee
765
Effect of redemption upon lease
767
Order of redemption
768
Unlawful eviction

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Jan. 2, 2026

§ 741. Contents of petition's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 741 — Contents of petition,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/RPA/741
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
