SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_207
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 207

Defendant’s absence from state or residence under false name

 If, when a cause of action accrues against a person, he is without the state, the time within which the action must be commenced shall be computed from the time he comes into or returns to the state. If, after a cause of action has accrued against a person, that person departs from the state and remains continuously absent therefrom for four months or more, or that person resides within the state under a false name which is unknown to the person entitled to commence the action, the time of his absence or residence within the state under such a false name is not a part of the time within which the action must be commenced. If an action is commenced against a person described above, the time within which service must be made on such person in accordance with subdivisions (a) and (b) of § 306-B (Service of the summons and complaint, summons with notice, or petition with a notice of petition or order to show cause)section three hundred six-b of this chapter shall be computed in accordance with this section. This section does not apply:

1.
 while there is in force a designation, voluntary or involuntary, made pursuant to law, of a person to whom a summons may be delivered within the state with the same effect as if served personally within the state; or

2.
 while a foreign corporation has one or more officers or other persons in the state on whom a summons against such corporation may be served; or

3.
 while jurisdiction over the person of the defendant can be obtained without personal delivery of the summons to the defendant within the state.

Source:
Section 207 — Defendant's absence from state or residence under false name, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/207 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

201
Application of article
202
Cause of action accruing without the state
203
Method of computing periods of limitation generally
204
Stay of commencement of action
205
Termination of action
205–A
Termination of certain actions related to real property
206
Computing periods of limitation in particular actions
207
Defendant’s absence from state or residence under false name
208
Infancy, insanity
208–A
In custody at time of cause of action
209
War
210
Death of claimant or person liable
211
Actions to be commenced within twenty years
212
Actions to be commenced within ten or fifteen years
213
Actions to be commenced within six years: where not otherwise provided for
213–A
Residential rent overcharge
213–B
Action by a victim of a criminal offense
213–C
Action by victim of conduct constituting certain sexual offenses
213–D
Actions to be commenced within three years
214
Actions to be commenced within three years: for non-payment of money collected on execution
214–A
Action for medical, dental or podiatric malpractice to be commenced within two years and six months
214–B
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to phenoxy herbicides
214–C
Certain actions to be commenced within three years of discovery
214–D
Limitations on certain actions against licensed engineers and architects
214–E
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by the infusion of such blood products which result in the contraction of the human ...
214–F
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to any substance or combination of substances found with...
214–G
Certain child sexual abuse cases
214–H
Certain actions by public water suppliers to recover damages for injury to property
214–I
Certain actions arising out of consumer credit transactions to be commenced within three years
214–I*2
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to toxic burn pits
214–J
Certain sexual offense actions
215
Actions to be commenced within one year: against sheriff, coroner or constable
216
Abbreviation of period to one year after notice
217
Proceeding against body or officer
217–A
Actions to be commenced within one year and ninety days
218
Transitional provisions

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 207. Defendant's absence from state or residence under false name's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 207 — Defendant's absence from state or residence under false name,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/207
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
