SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._judiciary_law_section_488
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Judiciary Law Section 488

Buying demands on which to bring an action

 An attorney or counselor shall not:

1.
 Directly or indirectly, buy, take an assignment of or be in any manner interested in buying or taking an assignment of a bond, promissory note, bill of exchange, book debt, or other thing in action, with the intent and for the purpose of bringing an action thereon.

2.
 By himself or herself, or by or in the name of another person, either before or after action brought, promise or give, or procure to be promised or given, a valuable consideration to any person, as an inducement to placing, or in consideration of having placed, in his or her hands, or in the hands of another person, a demand of any kind, for the purpose of bringing an action thereon, or of representing the claimant in the pursuit of any civil remedy for the recovery thereof. But this subdivision does not apply to:

a.
 an agreement between attorneys and counselors, or either, to divide between themselves the compensation to be received;

b.
 a lawyer representing an indigent or pro bono client paying court costs and expenses of litigation on behalf of the client;

c.
 a lawyer advancing court costs and expenses of litigation, the repayment of which may be contingent on the outcome of the matter; or

d.
 a lawyer, in an action in which an attorney’s fee is payable in whole or in part as a percentage of the recovery in the action, paying on the lawyer’s own account court costs and expenses of litigation. In such case, the fee paid to the attorney from the proceeds of the action may include an amount equal to such costs and expenses incurred.

3.
 A lawyer that offers services as described in paragraphs b, c and d of subdivision two of this section shall not, either directly or through any media used to advertise or otherwise publicize the lawyer’s services, promise or advertise his or her ability to advance or pay costs and expenses of litigation in such manner as to state or imply that such ability is unique or extraordinary when such is not the case.

4.
 An attorney or counselor who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.

Source:
Section 488 — Buying demands on which to bring an action, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/JUD/488 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

460
Examination and admission of attorneys
460–B
Applications for special arrangements
461
Compensation of state board of law examiners
462
Annual account by state board of law examiners
463
Times and places of examinations
464
Certification by state board of successful candidates
465
Fee for examinations and for credential review for admission on motion
466
Attorney’s oath of office
467
Registration of attorneys
468
Official registration of attorneys to be kept by the chief administrator of the courts
468–A
Biennial registration of attorneys
468–B
Clients’ security fund of the state of New York
469
Continuance where attorney is member of legislature
470
Attorneys having offices in this state may reside in adjoining state
471
Attorney who is judge’s partner or clerk prohibited from practicing before him or in his court
472
Attorney who is surrogate’s parent or child prohibited from practicing berfore him
473
Constables, coroners, criers and attendants prohibited from practicing during term of office
474
Compensation of attorney or counsellor
474–A
Contingent fees for attorneys in claims or actions for medical, dental or podiatric malpractice
474–B
Attorney retainer statements
475
Attorney’s lien in action, special or other proceeding
475–A
Notice of lien
476
Action against attorney for lending his name in suits and against person using name
476–A
Action for unlawful practice of the law
476–B
Injunction to restrain defendant from unlawful practice of the law
476–C
Investigation by the attorney-general
477
Settlement of actions for personal injury
478
Practicing or appearing as attorney-at-law without being admitted and registered
479
Soliciting business on behalf of an attorney
480
Entering hospital to negotiate settlement or obtain release or statement
481
Aiding, assisting or abetting the solicitation of persons or the procurement of a retainer for or on behalf of an attorney
482
Employment by attorney of person to aid, assist or abet in the solicitation of business or the procurement through solicitation of a reta...
483
Signs advertising services as attorney at law
484
None but attorneys to practice in the state
485
Violation of certain preceding sections a misdemeanor
485–A
Violation of certain sections a class E felony
486
Practice of law by attorney who has been disbarred, suspended, or convicted of a felony
486–A
Conviction for felony of person who is an attorney and counselor at law
487
Misconduct by attorneys
488
Buying demands on which to bring an action
489
Purchase of claims by corporations or collection agencies
490
Limitation
491
Sharing of compensation by attorneys prohibited
492
Use of attorney’s name by another
493
Attorneys forbidden to defend criminal prosecutions carried on by their partners, or formerly by themselves
494
Attorneys may defend themselves
495
Corporations and voluntary associations not to practice law
496
An organization described in subdivision seven of section four hundred ninety-five of this article shall file with the appellate division...
497
Attorneys fiduciary funds
498
Professional referrals
499
Lawyer assistance committees

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 488. Buying demands on which to bring an action's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 488 — Buying demands on which to bring an action,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/JUD/488
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
