SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_604-ff
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 604-FF

Attorney general enforcement

 Whenever there shall be a violation of this article, an application may be made by the attorney general in the name of the people of the state of New York to a court or justice having jurisdiction to issue an injunction, and upon notice to the defendant of not less than fifteen days, to enjoin and restrain the continuance of such violations. If it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court or justice that the defendant has, in fact, violated this article, an injunction may be issued by such court or justice, enjoining or restraining any violation, without requiring proof that any person has, in fact, been injured or damaged thereby. In any such proceeding the court may make allowances to the attorney general as provided in Civil Practice Law & Rules Law § 8303 (Additional allowance in the discretion of the court)section eighty-three hundred three of the civil practice law and rules, and may make direct restitution. In connection with any such proposed application, the attorney general is authorized to take proof and make a determination of the relevant facts and to issue subpoenas in accordance with the civil practice law and rules. Whenever the court shall determine that a violation of this article has occurred, unless the creditor has provided information that would otherwise show the violation was the result of bona fide error, the court may impose a civil penalty for each violation up to five thousand dollars.

Source:
Section 604-FF — Attorney general enforcement, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GBS/604-FF (updated Jun. 19, 2026; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

604–AA
Definitions
604–BB
Notice of coerced debt
604–CC
Coerced debt cause of action and affirmative defense
604–DD
Application to secured debt
604–EE
Right of action against person who causes another to incur coerced debt
604–FF
Attorney general enforcement
604–GG
Scope

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Jun. 19, 2026

§ 604-FF. Attorney general enforcement's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 604-FF — Attorney general enforcement,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GBS/604-FF
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
