SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_5-702
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 5-702

Requirements for use of plain language in consumer transactions

a.
 Every written agreement entered into after November first, nineteen hundred seventy-eight, for the lease of space to be occupied for residential purposes, for the lease of personal property to be used primarily for personal, family or household purposes or to which a consumer is a party and the money, property or service which is the subject of the transaction is primarily for personal, family or household purposes must be:

1.
 Written in a clear and coherent manner using words with common and every day meanings;

2.
 Appropriately divided and captioned by its various sections. Any creditor, seller or lessor who fails to comply with this subdivision shall be liable to a consumer who is a party to a written agreement governed by this subdivision in an amount equal to any actual damages sustained plus a penalty of fifty dollars. The total class action penalty against any such creditor, seller or lessor shall not exceed ten thousand dollars in any class action or series of class actions arising out of the use by a creditor, seller or lessor of an agreement which fails to comply with this subdivision. No action under this subdivision may be brought after both parties to the agreement have fully performed their obligation under such agreement, nor shall any creditor, seller or lessor who attempts in good faith to comply with this subdivision be liable for such penalties. This subdivision shall not apply to a good faith attempt to describe the constant yield or other method of determining the lease charge and depreciation portions of each base rental payment under a lease of personal property. It also shall not apply to agreements involving amounts in excess of two hundred fifty thousand dollars nor prohibit the use of words or phrases or forms of agreement required by state or federal law, rule or regulation or by a governmental instrumentality.

b.
 A violation of the provisions of subdivision a of this section shall not render any such agreement void or voidable nor shall it constitute:

1.
 A defense to any action or proceeding to enforce such agreement; or

2.
 A defense to any action or proceeding for breach of such agreement.

c.
 In addition to the above, whenever the attorney general finds that there has been a violation of this section, he may proceed as provided in subdivision twelve of Executive Law § 63 (General duties)section sixty-three of the executive law.

Source:
Section 5-702 — Requirements for use of plain language in consumer transactions, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-702 (updated Apr. 10, 2020; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

5–701
Agreements required to be in writing
5–702
Requirements for use of plain language in consumer transactions
5–703
Conveyances and contracts concerning real property required to be in writing
5–705
Execution and acknowledgment of assumption of mortgage debt by grantee of mortgaged real property

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Apr. 10, 2020

§ 5-702. Requirements for use of plain language in consumer transactions's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 5-702 — Requirements for use of plain language in consumer transactions,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GOB/5-702
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
