SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._abandoned_property_law_section_1412-a
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Abandoned Property Law Section 1412-A

Retention of books and records

1.
 Except as provided in § 513-A (Retention of books and records)section five hundred thirteen-a of this chapter, every person, co-partnership, unincorporated association or corporation required to file a report of abandoned property pursuant to this chapter, shall retain for a period of five years following the thirty-first day of December of the year for which such report has been filed, all books, records and documents necessary to establish the accuracy and completeness of such report. The books, records and documents to be retained pursuant to this section shall include but not be limited to general and subsidiary ledgers; journal entry records; cash receipts and disbursements journals; cancelled checks; bank reconciliations; trial balances; financial statements and supporting data; claim and confirmation letters; charts of accounts; independent auditor reports; and copies of abandoned property reports. Such books, records and documents so retained shall be made available to the state comptroller upon his request in the performance of his duties under this chapter.

2.
 Every report of abandoned property filed pursuant to this chapter for which supporting books, records and documents are required to be retained for five years as provided in subdivision one above, shall be presumed to be accurate following such five year period unless prior thereto the comptroller has made a certification or commenced a proceeding pursuant to subdivision three of § 1412 (Penalty, interest and special proceedings 1)section fourteen hundred twelve of this chapter.

3.
 Property subject to this chapter which is payable or deliverable to a payee or owner and which has remained unpaid or undelivered because such payee or owner is unknown, cannot be located due to the lack of a valid, present address on the records of the payor or holder, or for other reasons, shall be recorded by year of receipt on a separate account identifying the nature and origin of such property, maintained in the books and records of the payor or holder. Any transfer of such property from such separate account during the applicable periods of inactivity specified in this chapter to precede abandonment, shall be supported by adequate information in the books, records and documents set forth in subdivision one of this section or in section five hundred thirteen-a of this chapter, sufficient to establish the accuracy and propriety of the transfer. Property which remains in such separate accounts at the expiration of any such period of inactivity shall be included in abandoned property reports filed with the state comptroller pursuant to this chapter.

Source:
Section 1412-A — Retention of books and records, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/ABP/1412-A (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

1400
Statutes of limitations not a bar
1401
Comptroller to maintain public record
1402
Publication of abandoned property by state comptroller
1403
Sale of personal property by state comptroller
1404
Assumption of liability by the state
1405
Accrual of interest after payment of abandoned property to the state comptroller
1406
Claims for abandoned property heretofore or hereafter paid to the state
1407
Payment by comptroller
1409
Payment for publication
1410
Designation of newspapers
1411
Waiver of publication
1412
Penalty, interest and special proceedings 1
1412–A
Retention of books and records
1413
Penalty for fraudulent returns
1414
Comptroller to make regulations
1415
Deduction of certain charges
1416
Restriction on agreement to locate and/or retrieve abandoned property
1417
Agreements with other states
1418
Property for New York residents held by other states
1419
Reporting of abandoned property in the aggregate
1420
Property held by agricultural cooperative corporations
1421
Property held by rural electric cooperatives
1422
Mailing of notice to owners of record

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 1412-A. Retention of books & records's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 1412-A — Retention of books and records,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/ABP/1412-A
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
