SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_obligations_law_section_15-301
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

General Obligations Law Section 15-301

When written agreement or other instrument cannot be changed by oral executory agreement, or discharged or terminated by oral executory a...

 § 15-301. When written agreement or other instrument cannot be changed by oral executory agreement, or discharged or terminated by oral executory agreement or oral consent or by oral notice.

1.
 A written agreement or other written instrument which contains a provision to the effect that it cannot be changed orally, cannot be changed by an executory agreement unless such executory agreement is in writing and signed by the party against whom enforcement of the change is sought or by his agent.

2.
 A written agreement or other written instrument which contains a provision to the effect that it cannot be terminated orally, cannot be discharged by an executory agreement unless such executory agreement is in writing and signed by the party against whom enforcement of the discharge is sought, or by his agent, and cannot be terminated by mutual consent unless such termination is effected by an executed accord and satisfaction other than the substitution of one executory contract for another, or is evidenced by a writing signed by the party against whom it is sought to enforce the termination, or by his agent.

3.
 a. A discharge or partial discharge of obligations under a written agreement or other written instrument is a change of the agreement or instrument for the purpose of subdivision one of this section and is not a discharge or termination for the purpose of subdivision two, unless all executory obligations under the agreement or instrument are discharged or terminated.

b.
 A discharge or termination of all executory obligations under a written agreement or other written instrument is a discharge or termination for the purpose of subdivision two even though accrued obligations remaining unperformed at the date of the discharge or termination are not affected by it.

c.
 If a written agreement or other written instrument containing a provision that it cannot be terminated orally also provides for termination or discharge on notice by one or either party, both subdivision two and subdivision four of this section apply whether or not the agreement or other instrument states specifically that the notice must be in writing.

4.
 If a written agreement or other written instrument contains a provision for termination or discharge on written notice by one or either party, the requirement that such notice be in writing cannot be waived except by a writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of the waiver is sought or by his agent.

5.
 If executed by an agent, any agreement, evidence of termination, notice of termination or waiver, required by this section to be in writing, which affects or relates to real property or an interest therein as defined in section 5-101 in any manner stated in subdivisions one or two of section 5-703 of this chapter shall be void unless such agent was thereunto authorized in writing.

6.
 As used in this section the term “agreement” includes promise and undertaking.

Source:
Section 15-301 — When written agreement or other instrument cannot be changed by oral executory agreement, or discharged or terminated by oral executory a..., https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GOB/15-301 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

15–301
When written agreement or other instrument cannot be changed by oral executory agreement, or discharged or terminated by oral executory a...
15–303
Release in writing without consideration or seal
15–304
Forfeiture and cancellation of oil, gas or mineral land leases

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 15-301. When written agreement or other instrument cannot be changed by oral executory agreement, or discharged or terminated by oral executory a...'s source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 15-301 — When written agreement or other instrument cannot be changed by oral executory agreement, or discharged or terminated by oral executory a...,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GOB/15-301
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
