SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_604-ee
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 604-EE

Right of action against person who causes another to incur coerced debt

 A person shall not cause another person to incur a coerced debt.

1.
 A person who causes another person to incur a coerced debt in violation of this section shall be civilly liable to the creditor and/or the debtor in whose name such coerced debt was incurred if such debtor has already paid all or part of such coerced debt, for the amount of such debt, or portion thereof, including for any deficiency after the foreclosure, repossession or surrender and disposition of the subject collateral of a secured debt, determined by the court to be a coerced debt, as well as such creditor’s and/or debtor’s costs and attorneys’ fees reasonably incurred in bringing the action.

2.
 An action under this section shall be commenced within three years of the later of:

(a)
 the creditor’s determination that all or part of such debt is coerced debt; or

(b)
 a court’s determination that all or part of such debt is coerced debt.

Source:
Section 604-EE — Right of action against person who causes another to incur coerced debt, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GBS/604-EE (updated Jun. 19, 2026; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

604–AA
Definitions
604–BB
Notice of coerced debt
604–CC
Coerced debt cause of action and affirmative defense
604–DD
Application to secured debt
604–EE
Right of action against person who causes another to incur coerced debt
604–FF
Attorney general enforcement
604–GG
Scope

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Jun. 19, 2026

§ 604-EE. Right of action against person who causes another to incur coerced debt's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 604-EE — Right of action against person who causes another to incur coerced debt,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GBS/604-EE
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
