SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._general_business_law_section_604
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

General Business Law Section 604

Definitions

 As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

1.
 “Consumer claim” means any obligation of a natural person for the payment of money or its equivalent which is or is alleged to be in default and which arises out of a transaction wherein credit has been offered or extended to a natural person, and the money, property or service which was the subject of the transaction was primarily for personal, family or household purposes. Such term includes an obligation of a natural person who is a co-maker, endorser, guarantor or surety as well as the natural person to whom such credit was originally extended.

2.
 “Debtor” means any natural person who owes or who is asserted to owe a consumer claim.

3.
 “Principal creditor” means any person, firm, corporation or organization to whom a consumer claim is owed, due or asserted to be due or owed, or any assignee for value of such person, firm, corporation or organization. Such term shall include any person, firm or corporation engaged in business, the principal purpose of which is to regularly collect or attempt to collect debts obtained by or assigned to such person, firm or corporation, that are in default when obtained or acquired by such person, firm or corporation.

Source:
Section 604 — Definitions, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GBS/604 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

604
Definitions
604–A
Prohibited practices
604–B
Penalties

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 604. Definitions's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 604 — Definitions,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/GBS/604
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
