SOURCE: https://nyassembly.gov/leg/?default_fld=&leg_video=&bn=A08427&term=2025&Summary=Y&Actions=Y&Memo=Y&Text=Y
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl; text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

Bill Search and Legislative Information | New York State Assembly 

 Skip to main content 

New York State Assembly

Speaker Carl E. Heastie

 Assembly Members 

 Legislative Info 

 Public Hearings 

 Speaker's Press 

 Assembly Reports 

 Committees & More 

Bill Search Home

Laws

Legislative Calendar

Public Hearing Schedule

Assembly Calendars

Assembly Committee Agenda

 - This bill is not active in this session.

 Bill No.: 

 Summary 

 Actions 

 Committee Votes 

 Floor Votes 

 Memo 

 Text 

 LFIN 

 Chamber Video/Transcript 

A08427 Summary:

BILL NOA08427A

SAME ASSAME AS S08416

SPONSORLasher

COSPNSRDinowitz, Seawright, Forrest, Weprin, Schiavoni, Steck, Simon, Shimsky, Valdez, Gallagher, Torres,
 Carroll P, Hevesi, Epstein, Carroll R, Rosenthal, Reyes, Alvarez, Rajkumar, Burroughs, Simone,
 Glick, Solages, Colton, Gonzalez-Rojas, Lunsford, Tapia, Taylor, Cunningham, O'Pharrow, De Los
 Santos, Mitaynes, Clark, Levenberg, Bores, Gibbs, Cruz, Stirpe, Wieder, Paulin, McMahon, Meeks,
 Lee, Shrestha, Wright, Jackson, Bronson, Conrad, Romero, Burdick, Lavine, Jacobson, Anderson, Otis

MLTSPNSR

Add Art 22-A §348, amd Art 22-A Art Head, §349, Gen Bus L

Enacts the "fostering affordability and integrity through reasonable (FAIR) business practices act", to expand the attorney general's ability to protect New Yorkers from unfair, deceptive and abusive business practices.
Go to top 
A08427 Actions:

BILL NOA08427A

05/15/2025referred to consumer affairs and protection

05/27/2025reported referred to codes

06/10/2025amend and recommit to codes

06/10/2025print number 8427a

06/13/2025reference changed to ways and means

06/16/2025reported referred to rules

06/16/2025reported 

06/16/2025rules report cal.832

06/16/2025ordered to third reading rules cal.832

06/16/2025substituted by s8416

 S08416 AMEND= COMRIE

 06/09/2025REFERRED TO RULES

 06/13/2025ORDERED TO THIRD READING CAL.2034

 06/13/2025PASSED SENATE

 06/13/2025DELIVERED TO ASSEMBLY

 06/13/2025referred to codes

 06/16/2025substituted for a8427a

 06/16/2025ordered to third reading rules cal.832

 06/17/2025passed assembly

 06/17/2025returned to senate

 12/08/2025DELIVERED TO GOVERNOR

 12/19/2025SIGNED CHAP.708

 12/19/2025APPROVAL MEMO.83
Go to top
A08427 Memo:

NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY
MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF LEGISLATION
 submitted in accordance with Assembly Rule III, Sec 1(f)

BILL NUMBER: A8427A

SPONSOR: Lasher

TITLE OF BILL:

An act to amend the general business law, in relation to enacting the
"fostering affordability and integrity through reasonable (FAIR) busi-
ness practices act"

PURPOSE:

To permit the Attorney General to bring actions or proceedings to
enjoin, penalize, and seek restitution for abusive and unfair business
practices and abolish "consumer-oriented" limits on the Attorney Gener-
al's enforcement authority; as well as make technical improvements to
Attorney General enforcement.

SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS:

Section 1 provides for the title of the enactment.

Section 2 adopts a new § 348 of the General Business Law (GBL) setting
out the purpose and intent of Article 22-a.

Section 3 amends the article heading of Article 22-a to read "Protection
from Unfair, Deceptive, and Abusive Acts and Practices."

Section 4 amends § 349 of the GBL to outlaw unfair and abusive acts and
practices and provide a definition of "unfair" and "abusive" acts and
practices derived from the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. § 41
et seq. ("unfair") and the Consumer Financial Protection Act, 12 U.S.C.
§ 5531(d) ("abusive") with certain modifications. It continues the
existing law's prohibition on deceptive acts and practices without
modification.

It eliminates, in enforcement actions or proceedings brought by the
Attorney General, the "consumer-oriented" doctrine developed by the
courts to limit the applicability of the statute.

Section 5 provides that each part of the act is severable from each
other part in the event one or more parts are adjudicated invalid.

Section 6 provides an effective date of 60 days following enactment.

JUSTIFICATION:

The "Fostering Affordability and Integrity through Reasonable (FAIR)
business practices act" ("the FAIR Business Practices Act") updates the
Attorney General's powers to enforce New York's consumer protection laws
by adding federal authorities that are presently at risk of falling into
desuetude.

The bill brings the Attorney General's consumer protection authority
into line with now-47 states that outlaw unfair business practices,
updates enforcement mechanisms not touched since 1980, and closes a
court-created loophole inadvertently and inappropriately applied to
Attorney General enforcement actions and proceedings.

It also augments the Attorney General's powers to protect consumers and
businesses in the wake of the federal government's attempted dismantle-
ment the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which protected
New Yorkers from abusive acts perpetrated by businesses.

Although this memo uses the word "businesses" to describe defendants or
potential defendants in FAIR Business Practices Act enforcements and
litigations and "business practices" to describe the acts and practices
of those persons, the acts and practices of non-profit entities are
covered by the Act, and nonprofits are protected to the same extent as
businesses are by any of the Act's protections or defenses.

OUTLAWING ABUSIVE AND UNFAIR ACTS AND PRACTICES.ct.

According to the National Consumer Law Center, 47 states other than New
York already outlaw "unfair" business practices; many have done so since
1967. The FAIR Business Practices Act defines "unfair" practices using
the Federal Trade Commission's definition, updated to cover businesses
and non-profits as well as consumers (15 USC § 45(n)). This definition
is narrower than most states' definitions of "unfair" acts and practices
and is designed to be easy to comply with because it already applies to
everyone under federal law.

The Act applies to harms against businesses or non-profits as well as
consumers, although it keeps the requirement that the benefits proposed
to outweigh such harms must be to consumers or competition. By defining
unfair acts and practices as extending to injury to more than just
"consumers," the FAIR Business Practices Act does not observe the
distinction found in the FTCA between "unfair competition" and "unfair
acts and practices" (cf. Cel-Tech Commc'ns, Inc. v Los Angeles Cellular
Tel. Co., 20 Cal 4th 163, 179-81 (1999)). The omission of "unfair
competition" in the FAIR Business Practices Act should not be interpret-
ed to exclude by negative implication acts and practices that constitute
unfair competition. Nor does the fact that an act was found to be an
unfair method of competition (or, indeed, an unfair act) under some
different statute per se determine whether the act is an unfair act or
practice under the FAIR Business Practices Act. The question is always
whether the act or practice satisfies the Act's particular definition of
"unfair."

The FAIR Business Practices Act defines "abusive" practices in line with
the federal Consumer Financial Protection Act (12 USC § 5531(d)):
Abusive practices are those that materially interfere with someone
else's understanding of a term or condition of a good or service, or
that unreasonably take advantage of someone else's lack of understanding
of relevant risks, inability to protect their own interests, or reason-
able reliance on another person to act in their interests.

The FAIR Business Practices Act expands this definition in two ways.
First its protections apply beyond consumer financial products as this
is a general-purpose statute. Second, it applies to both sides of the
commercial equation, such that those who sell goods or services (includ-
ing employees and contractors) are just as protected as those who buy
them.

The Act provides that the prohibition on unfair or abusive acts and
practices is enforceable only by the Attorney General. No change is

intended to be made to the private right of action, which remains limit-
ed to consumer-oriented deceptive acts and practices.

PRESERVING FEDERAL AND STATE INJURY REQUIREMENTS.ct.

The FAIR Business Practices Act does not disturb existing caselaw
requiring a private plaintiff alleging a deceptive act or practice show
that the "act or practice that caused actual, although not necessarily
pecuniary, harm" (Oswego Laborers, 85 NY2d at 26). The FAIR Business
Practices Act also does not alter existing law providing that an act is
deceptive even in the absence of reliance (see Stutman v Chem. Bank, 95
NY2d 24, 30 (2000)).

The Act continues the current statute's provision that the Attorney
General need not prove either likely or actual injury as a condition for
bringing an enforcement for deception (see, e.g., Goshen v Mut. Life
Ins. Co. of New York, 98 NY2d 314, 324 
2002), consistent with the
Attorney General's vital role in policing the marketplace as a whole and
preventing unfair, abusive, and deceptive practices, ideally before they
claim their first victim. In the same way, the Attorney General need not
show injury, or likely injury, to prove that a particular practice is
abusive.

If the Attorney General seeks to bring an enforcement against an unfair
act or practice, however, the Attorney General must show the act or
practice "causes or is likely to cause substantial injury." The likely
or actual "substantial injury" that the Attorney General must show is
different from the "actual" injury that must be shown to maintain a
private right of action. Each definition-substantial injury for Attorney
General unfairness proceedings, "actual, although not necessarily pecu-
niary, harm" for deceptiveness private rights of action-must be analyzed
separately and in the context of their independently developed caselaw.

In the overwhelming majority of cases, the same injury will suffice for
both, as in the federal context "substantial injury" means injury
"having a real existence" rather than "of ample or considerable size"
(see generally FTC Policy Statement on Unfairness,
https:www.ftc.gov.gov/legal-library/browse/fte.p;olicy. statement
unfairness (Dec 17, 1980) (describing "substantial injury" as not "triv-
ial or merely speculative harms"), cf. Oxford English Dictionary,
Substantial, definitions 1.3, II.11 ("substantial" here takes definition
II.11, not I.3)).

There are two primary ways in which the Attorney General's "substantial
injury" standard may diverge from the "actual, though not necessarily
pecuniary, harm" standard for the private right of action. First, and
most obviously, the Act allows the Attorney General to show only that
the act or practice is "likely to cause" substantial injury. Second,
"substantial injury" may involve harms of a nature that would not rise
to the standards of injury demanded under state law in a private right
of action but would nonetheless be deemed substantial under federal law
(see generally American Fin. Servs. Ass 'n v FTC, 767 F2d 957, 972 (DC
Cir 1985) (an act or practice causes substantial injury when it causes
"small harm to a large number of people, or if it raises a significant
risk of concrete harm")).

In relying on federal law in this way, it is important to observe the
one change expressly made by the text to the federal "substantial inju-
ry" requirement: The substantial injury may, but need not, be caused to
a person or persons who are consumers, consistent with the overall
purpose of the FAIR Business Practices Act of permitting the Attorney
General to enforce it as to the whole economy.

ABOLISHING THE "CONSUMER-ORIENTED" DOCTRINE IN ATTORNEY GENERAL
ENFORCEMENTS.ct.

New York's current law banning deceptive business practices has been
interpreted to apply only to "consumer-oriented" practices that "affect
the public at large" rather than "private contract disputes, unique to
the parties" (Oswego Laborers, 85 NY2d at 25). The underlying statute,
however, does not require-or even reference-"consumer-oriented" conduct.
This rule was established in the early 1980s by courts concerned that
complex high-value commercial negotiations might be distorted if consum-
er protection laws could be applied by the parties to those negotiations
when the deal goes bad (see Genesco Entertainment v Koch, 593 F Supp
743, 752-53 (SDNY 1984) (originating the requirement), approved by Oswe-
go Laborers, 85 NY2d at 25-26).

The "consumer-oriented" doctrine has been applied erroneously to reject
enforcements brought by the Attorney General, whose enforcements are, by
definition, brought in the name of the People of New York to protect the
public interest. Moreover, the salient reasons for the consumer-oriented
doctrine have no relevance to Attorney General enforcement actions;
indeed, as the residential mortgage-backed securities crisis demon-
strated, sophisticated private commerical deals can sometimes have enor-
mous public consequences not apparent at the time they are made. Worse,
the doctrine has prevented the Attorney General from engaging in
enforcements designed to protect businesses and non-profits, particular-
ly small businesses and non-profits, from deceptive acts and practices.

The FAIR Business Practices Act accordingly exempts Attorney General
enforcements (whether for unfair, deceptive, or abusive conduct) from
the "consumer-oriented" doctrine, in all its varieties and formulations,
including "public impact" "unique to the parties" "one-off' and so on.
In Attorney General enforcements, liability is established when the
Attorney General establishes that the challenged act or practice satis-
fies one or more of the definitions in subdivision (a). That is all that
is required.

The abolition of the "consumer-oriented" doctrine as applied to Attorney
General enforcements may lead to courts needing to alter slightly the
application of the existing judicial definition of "deceptive acts and
practices." Presently, the existing "objective" definition of "deceptive
acts and practices" set out in Oswego Laborers' Loc. 214 Pension Fund v.
Marine Midland Bank, N.A. (85 NY2d 20, 26 (1995)), is "whether represen-
tations or omissions" are "likely to mislead a reasonable consumer
acting reasonably under the circumstances." This definition continues to
apply, without modification, to the private right of action.

But with the abolition of "consumer-oriented," it is now possible for
the Attorney General to bring enforcements deceptive acts and practices
that are not oriented to consumers. In many such cases, the reasonable
consumer standard will still be appropriate, but if the act or practice
is exclusively directed to members of a particular non-consumer popu-
lation, to give effect to the abolition of consumer-oriented it may be
necessary for the court to apply the objective standard of the reason-
able member of that population instead of the average reasonable consum-
er.

The Act does not disturb existing caselaw concerning the application of
the consumer-oriented doctrine to the private right of action (see,
e.g., Himmelstein, McConnell, Gribben, Donoghue & Joseph, LLP v Matthew
Bender & Co., Inc., 37 NY3d 169, 178 (2021)). It simply provides that
this doctrine no longer applies to Attorney General enforcements.

STREAMLINING ATTORNEY GENERAL PROCEEDINGS.ct.

The FAIR Business Practices Act reaffirms the Attorney General's author-
ity to enforce the law against New York businesses that victimize non-
New York residents, and non-New York businesses that victimize New York-
ers, consistent with the Attorney General's broad responsibility to
ensure an honest marketplace in New York and New York's reciprocal
responsibilities to other states to, where appropriate, seek restitution
for out-of-state victims of in-state unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts
and practices.

The FAIR Business Practices Act also clarifies that the Attorney General
may enforce the statute by plenary action or by using the more efficient
Article 4 special court proceedings the Attorney General is already
authorized to use under Executive Law § 63(12), among other statutes
(see, e.g., Matter of People v Applied Card Sys., Inc., 27 AD3d 104, 109
(1st Dep't 2005)).

PRIOR LEGISLATIVE HISTORY:

New bill.

FISCAL IMPLICATIONS:

It is anticipated that the increased civil penalty and widened
protections proposed in the bill would result in an increase in monies
remitted to the state by violators and perpetrators.

EFFECTIVE DATE:
This act shall take effect on the 60th day after it shall have become
law.

Go to top

A08427 Text:

 STATE OF NEW YORK
 ________________________________________________________________________

 8427--A

 2025-2026 Regular Sessions

 IN ASSEMBLY

 May 15, 2025
 ___________

 Introduced by M. of A. LASHER, DINOWITZ, SEAWRIGHT, FORREST, WEPRIN,
 SCHIAVONI, STECK, SIMON, SHIMSKY, VALDEZ, GALLAGHER, TORRES,
 P. CARROLL, HEVESI, EPSTEIN, R. CARROLL, ROSENTHAL, REYES, ALVAREZ,
 RAJKUMAR, BURROUGHS, SIMONE, GLICK, SOLAGES, COLTON, GONZALEZ-ROJAS,
 LUNSFORD, TAPIA, TAYLOR, CUNNINGHAM, O'PHARROW, DE LOS SANTOS,
 MITAYNES, CLARK, LEVENBERG, BORES, GIBBS, CRUZ, STIRPE, WIEDER,
 PAULIN, McMAHON, MEEKS, LEE, SHRESTHA, WRIGHT, JACKSON, BRONSON,
 CONRAD, ROMERO -- (at request of the Attorney General) -- read once
 and referred to the Committee on Consumer Affairs and Protection --
 reported and referred to the Committee on Codes -- committee
 discharged, bill amended, ordered reprinted as amended and recommitted
 to said committee

 AN ACT to amend the general business law, in relation to enacting the
 "fostering affordability and integrity through reasonable (FAIR) busi-
 ness practices act"

 The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and Assem-
 bly, do enact as follows:

 1 Section 1. This act shall be known and may be cited as the "fostering
 2 affordability and integrity through reasonable (FAIR) business practices
 3 act".
 4 § 2. Article 22-A of the general business law is amended by adding a
 5 new section 348 to read as follows:
 6 § 348. Purpose and intent of article. The legislature declares that
 7 the state has a responsibility to protect New Yorkers from unfair,
 8 deceptive and abusive business acts and practices. The legislature
 9 recognizes the limitations of the current state law, which prohibits
 10 only the use of deceptive business acts and practices, and has proven
 11 insufficient to satisfy the state's responsibilities to protect New
 12 Yorkers and the New York economy from unfair, deceptive, and abusive
 13 business practices. For too long, New Yorkers, especially New Yorkers
 14 with limited income, communities of color, seniors, children, veterans,

 EXPLANATION--Matter in italics (underscored) is new; matter in brackets
 [ ] is old law to be omitted.
 LBD03277-23-5

 A. 8427--A 2

 1 and immigrant populations, have been left vulnerable to unscrupulous
 2 business practices. It is time for New York to join all but a handful
 3 of New York's fellow jurisdictions by adopting a comprehensive unfair,
 4 deceptive, and abusive business acts and practices statute that gives
 5 government and private parties the tools to address these harms. The
 6 state must achieve the goal of deterring and remedying a broad range of
 7 unfair, deceptive, and abusive business practices, and leveling the
 8 playing field for the state's many honest businesses and non-profits
 9 that treat their customers fairly. It must also anticipate future
 10 unfair, deceptive, and abusive acts, including from new and emerging
 11 technologies. To that end, this article defines unfair and abusive acts
 12 and practices expansively to reach conduct that is unfair or abusive but
 13 arguably not deceptive.
 14 The state must also ensure the most meaningful and effective
 15 protection to New Yorkers against unfair, deceptive, and abusive busi-
 16 ness practices. This article therefore eliminates atextual exceptions
 17 imposed by courts over the last five decades that have limited the
 18 attorney general's power to enforce the statute to acts that are
 19 "consumer-oriented" or that have an impact on the public at large. The
 20 attorney general has a special responsibility to the public to create a
 21 fair marketplace for all. That responsibility extends to protecting
 22 businesses and non-profits as well as individuals. There is no reason
 23 to believe that a small business or non-profit is any better able to
 24 defend itself from unfair, abusive, and deceptive conduct than a consum-
 25 er, or that small entities need the protections of this article any less
 26 than individuals do. The market and wider society is harmed by the nega-
 27 tive consequences that flow from unfair, deceptive, and abusive business
 28 practices even if those acts and practices have not been understood as
 29 "consumer-oriented".
 30 § 3. The article heading of article 22-A of the general business law,
 31 as amended by chapter 43 of the laws of 1970, is amended to read as
 32 follows:
 33 [CONSUMER] PROTECTION FROM
 34 UNFAIR, DECEPTIVE, OR ABUSIVE ACTS AND
 35 PRACTICES
 36 § 4. Section 349 of the general business law, as added by chapter 43
 37 of the laws of 1970, subdivision (h) as amended by chapter 157 of the
 38 laws of 1984 and subdivision (j) as added by section 6 of part HH of
 39 chapter 55 of the laws of 2014, is amended to read as follows:
 40 § 349. [Deceptive] Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices
 41 unlawful. (a) [Deceptive] Unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or prac-
 42 tices in the conduct of any business, trade or commerce or in the
 43 furnishing of any service in this state are hereby declared unlawful.
 44 For the purposes of this section:
 45 (1) An act or practice is unfair when it causes or is likely to cause
 46 substantial injury which is not reasonably avoidable and is not
 47 outweighed by countervailing benefits to consumers or to competition.
 48 The term "substantial injury" as used in this subdivision shall have the
 49 same meaning as the term "substantial injury" in the federal trade
 50 commission act, 15 U.S.C. Section 41 et seq., provided that the substan-
 51 tial injury of a person or persons other than consumers shall also be
 52 deemed a "substantial injury" for purposes of this section.
 53 (2) An act or practice is abusive when:
 54 (i) it materially interferes with the ability of a person to under-
 55 stand a term or condition of a product or service; or
 56 (ii) it takes unreasonable advantage of:

 A. 8427--A 3

 1 (A) a lack of understanding on the part of a person of the material
 2 risks, costs, or conditions of a product or service;
 3 (B) the inability of a person to protect such person's interests in
 4 selecting or using a product or service; or
 5 (C) the reasonable reliance by a person on a person engaging in the
 6 act or practice to act in the relying person's interests.
 7 (b) (1) Whenever the attorney general shall believe from evidence
 8 satisfactory to [him] the attorney general that any person, including
 9 but not limited to an individual, firm, corporation, company, partner-
 10 ship or association, or agent or employee thereof, has engaged in or is
 11 about to engage in any of the acts or practices stated to be [unlawful
 12 he] unfair, deceptive, or abusive, the attorney general may bring an
 13 action or proceeding in the name and on behalf of the people of the
 14 state of New York to enjoin such unlawful acts or practices and to
 15 obtain restitution of any moneys or property obtained directly or indi-
 16 rectly by any such unlawful acts or practices. In such action or
 17 proceeding, preliminary relief may be granted under article sixty-three
 18 of the civil practice law and rules.
 19 (2) The attorney general may bring such an action or proceeding
 20 against any person conducting any business, trade or commerce or
 21 furnishing a service in this state, whether or not the person is with-
 22 out the state. The attorney general may also bring such an action or
 23 proceeding against any person within the state conducting any business,
 24 trade, or commerce or furnishing a service, whether or not the business,
 25 trade, commerce, or service is conducted or furnished without the state.
 26 (3) An act or practice made unlawful by this section is actionable by
 27 the attorney general regardless of whether or not that act or practice
 28 is consumer-oriented.
 29 (c) Before [any violation of this section is sought to be enjoined]
 30 commencing an action or proceeding pursuant to this section, the attor-
 31 ney general shall be required to give the person against whom such
 32 action or proceeding is contemplated notice by certified mail and an
 33 opportunity to show in writing within five business days after receipt
 34 of notice why [proceedings] an action or proceeding should not be insti-
 35 tuted against [him] such person, unless the attorney general shall find,
 36 in any case in which [he] the attorney general seeks preliminary relief,
 37 that to give such notice and opportunity is not in the public interest.
 38 (d) In any [such] action or proceeding brought pursuant to this
 39 section it shall be a complete defense that the act or practice is, or
 40 if in interstate commerce would be, subject to and complies with the
 41 rules and regulations of, and the statutes administered by, the federal
 42 trade commission or any official department, division, commission or
 43 agency of the United States as such rules, regulations or statutes are
 44 interpreted by the federal trade commission or such department, divi-
 45 sion, commission or agency or the federal courts.
 46 (e) Nothing in this section shall apply to any television or radio
 47 broadcasting station or to any publisher or printer of a newspaper,
 48 magazine or other form of printed advertising, who broadcasts,
 49 publishes, or prints the advertisement.
 50 (f) In connection with any proposed action or proceeding under this
 51 section, the attorney general is authorized to take proof and make a
 52 determination of the relevant facts, and to issue subpoenas in accord-
 53 ance with the civil practice law and rules.
 54 (g) This section shall apply to all [deceptive] unfair, deceptive, or
 55 abusive acts or practices [declared to be unlawful], whether or not
 56 subject to any other law of this state, and shall not supersede, amend

 A. 8427--A 4

 1 or repeal any other law of this state under which the attorney general
 2 or any other party is authorized to take any action or conduct any
 3 inquiry.
 4 (h) In addition to the right of action granted to the attorney general
 5 pursuant to this section, any person who has been injured by reason of
 6 any [violation of] deceptive act or practice made unlawful by this
 7 section may bring an action in [his] such person's own name to enjoin
 8 such [unlawful] deceptive act or practice, an action to recover [his]
 9 such person's actual damages or fifty dollars, whichever is greater, or
 10 both such actions. The court may, in its discretion, increase the award
 11 of damages to an amount not to exceed three times the actual damages up
 12 to one thousand dollars, if the court finds the defendant willfully or
 13 knowingly violated this section. The court may award reasonable attor-
 14 ney's fees to a prevailing plaintiff.
 15 [(j)] (i) Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, all monies recov-
 16 ered or obtained under this article by a state agency or state official
 17 or employee acting in their official capacity shall be subject to subdi-
 18 vision eleven of section four of the state finance law.
 19 § 5. Severability. If any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision,
 20 section or part of this act shall be adjudged by any court of competent
 21 jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair, or
 22 invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be confined in its operation
 23 to the clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section or part thereof
 24 directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have
 25 been rendered. It is hereby declared to be the intent of the legislature
 26 that this act would have been enacted even if such invalid provisions
 27 had not been included herein.
 28 § 6. This act shall take effect on the sixtieth day after it shall
 29 have become a law.

Go to top 

 Sitemap 

 Request Information 

 Directions and Maps
