SOURCE: Harvard Caselaw Access Project static files, ny 132 p.128
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5B via curl; JSON text saved mechanically.

CAP URL: https://static.case.law/ny/132/cases/0122-01.json
William A. Schult, Appellant, v. Conrad Moll, Respondent
1892-03-08
New York Court of Appeals
132 N.Y. 122

William A. Schult, Appellant, v. Conrad Moll, Respondent.
The law favors a construction of a will which will prevent partial intestacy.
The fact of making a will raises a strong presumption against any expecta- ' tion on the part of the testator of leaving or a desire to leave any portion of his estate beyond the operation of his will.
In an action to recover back moneys paid upon a contract to sell real estate the following facts appeared: In 1876, one H. died seized of the premises in question. At that time he was living with one B. as his wife. R., to whom B. had been married, was then alive, but had obtained a divorce from her, the decree in which forbid her remarriage during his life-time. B. had one daughter W., of whom R. was the father, and another daughter O., of whom H. was the father; the latter left no heirs at law. H. devised one-tldrd of his real estate to his “ adopted daughter ” W., one-third to his “daughter” 0., and one-third to his “wife” B., adding ‘ ‘ that is to say, her dower right to my estate ; ” he conferred upon his “wife” B., with his executor, power to sell his real estate, and provided that the proceeds should be deposited by them in a savings bank until his “above-named children” arrived at the age of twenty-one,-when they were to receive their interest of one-third of the money deposited therein. H. then devised to his “wife” the rents and interests of his estate during the minority of his “ children.” B. died intestate a few months after II. 0. died within a year thereafter, aged two years, leaving no relatives on her mother’s side except a grandmother and her half sister W. Subsequently, in a proceeding for the sale of infant’s real estate, the interest of W. was sold to defendant. Held, that under the will, B. was vested with the fee of one-third of the real estate; that upon her death, 0. and W. each became vested with an undivided oné-half; that upon the death of 0., her undivided one-half passed to W.; and so, that defendant had a good title.
(Submitted February 5, 1892;
decided March 8, 1892.)
Appeal from judgment of the General Term of the City Court of Brooklyn, entered upon an order made June 23,1890, which affirmed a judgment in favor of defendant entered upon a decision of the court on trial at Special Term.
This was an action to recover back moneys paid by plaintiff under a contract for the purchase by him of defendant of certain real estate on the ground of defect of title. The judgment denied the relief sought and directed specific performance on the part of plaintiff.
The facts, so far as material, are stated in the opinion.
Moffett & Kramer for appellant.
It is not the province of the court to conjecture what the testator meant, but only to determine the meaning of his words, the intention of the testator, which is to be derived from the language employed in the will itself. (Campbell v. Beaumont, 91 N. Y. 467; Byrnes v. Stilwell, 103 id. 458.) When a testamentary provision admits of two constructions, the one which would render it legal and operative and in harmony with the law should be adopted. But this rule only applies to cases where the parts are inconsistent and cannot be reconciled and where there is an absence of any clear expression to the contrary; it is never adopted except as a last resort to be availed of when all efforts to reconcile the inconsistency by construction have failed. (DuBois v. Ray, 35 N. Y. 175; Roseboom v. Roseboom, 81 id. 357; 52 id. 20, 21; 16 id. 84; 2 Paige, 122; 2 N. Y. 73; 39 id. 39, 83; 63 id. 52; 1 Bosw. 223.) The purchaser is entitled to a clear title, free of encumbrances, where he agrees to pay the full value of the property. (Burwell v. Jackson, 5 Seld. 533; Bostwick v. Beach, 103 N. Y. 421.)
Jacobs do Butcher for respondent.
The title to the real estate in question is marketable and good. (2 Redf. on Wills, 442; Layman v. Lyman, 22 Hun, 263; Vernon v. Vernon, 53 N. Y. 361; Byrnes v. Baer, 86 id. 218; Provost v. Calyer, 62 id. 545.) The will contained words sufficient to carry the fee. (1 R. S. 748, § 1.) It is well settled, that where a will contains language sufficient for a fee, the devisee’s interest will not be restricted or cut down to any less estate by ambiguous words inferential in their intent. (Clark v. Leupp, 88 N. Y. 281; Road v. Watson, 54 Hun, 85; Oothout v. Rogers, 59 id. 97; Crain v. Wright, 114 Hun, 310.) The reasonable supposition is that the testator intended to fully recognize Babetta as his wife, and to give her absolutely what would otherwise have been tier’s only for life, at the same time confining her interest to the third thus devised, as otherwise the wife would be entitled to dower in the whole estate. (Konvalinka v. Schlegle, 104 N. Y. 125; 1 Jarman on Wills [5th Am. ed.], 53, 60, 109; Lawton v. Corleis, 127 N. Y. 100; Vernon v. Vernon, 53 id. 351.) Beinig had no right of curtsey, as Babetta was not seized until after the marriage relation had been dissolved. (Kade v. Lamber, 16 Abb. [N. S.] 288; In re Ensign, 37 Hun, 152; Luhrs v. Einer, 80 N. Y. 171.)

[majority] Parker, J.
Parker, J.
The complaint averred the making of a contract for the purchase and safe of lands; the payment of $500 on account of the purchase-price by the plaintiff; the failure of the defendant, the other party to the contract, to perform, •and demanded judgment for the installment paid, and the expense incurred in making a search.
The answer admitted the making of the contract; denied performance on plaintiff’s part; alleged ability to perform and a proffer of performance on the part of the defendant and demanded judgment; that the contract be specifically performed.
John Hablawitz was formerly the owner of the premises in question. He died in February, 1876, leaving a last will and testament, by which he devised his estate as follows: “ To my adopted daughter, Wilhelmina Hablawitz, one-third of my real estate; to my daughter Catherine Hablawitz, one-third of my real estate; to my wife Babetta Hablawitz, one-third, that is to say, her dower right to my estate.”
Whether the defendant’s title is good and marketable depends upon the answer which must be given to this inquiry: Did the devise to Babetta vest in her the fee of an undivided •one-third of testator’s real estate, or only a life estate therein ? How this question conies to be controlling may be briefly •stated. Babetta Hablawitz was not the lawful wife of the testator, as she had formerly been married to one John Beinig, who obtained a judgment of absolute divorce against her, which contained the usual restriction against her re-marriage during the life-time of Reinig, who was still living at the time of testator’s death.
The testator and Babetta lived together as husband and wife, during which time Catherine Hablawitz was born. Wilhelmina Hablawitz, mentioned in the will as the adopted daughter of the testator, was the child of John and Babetta Reinig, born in lawful wedlock.
Babetta died, intestate a few months after the death of John Hablawitz. Catherine died within a year thereafter, aged two years, leaving no relatives on the putative father’s side, and only her maternal grandmother and the half sister Wilhelmina on her mother’s side.
Subsequently proceedings were instituted under the statute authorizing the sale of infants’ real estate, which resulted in a conveyance of Willielmina’s interest in the real estate to this defendant. The regularity of these proceedings are not brought in question, so if Babetta acquired under the will the fee of an undivided one-third, upon her death such one-tliird descended to her daughters Wilhelmina and Catherine, in equal shares, each of whom thereupon became vested with the undivided one-half of such real estate, and upon the death of Catherine her undivided one-half passed to her half sister Wilhelmina, who thereupon became seized in fee of the whole of said premises. (1 R. S. 753, § 14; Laws 1855, chap. 547; Bollermann v. Blake, 24 Hun, 187.)
We are thus brought to a consideration of the question whether by the devise of Babetta, she became vested with a fee or a life estate.
It may be conceded at the outset that the language of the devise standing alone is capable of either construction, and in determining which of the two is required by the will, the court may invoke the aid of the rule which commands that effect shall be given, if possible, to the manifest intention of the testator. The intention which is to be derived from the language employed in the will may be interpreted in the light of the surrounding circumstances.
It may be observed, in the first place, that the testator left no heirs at law, and that had he died intestate as to any portion of his estate, it would have escheated to the state, and no circumstances are disclosed which would indicate such a desire on his part. That he intended fully to recognize the claims •of Babetta whom he called his wife, upon him, is apparent from the general scheme of his will.
Wilhelmina, whom he describes as his adopted daughter, was in no way connected with him by ties of blood, but was the daughter of his wife by her divorced husband, and yet he devises to her one-third of his estate, the same proportion as that given to Catherine whom he speaks of as his daughter and who was born while testator and Babetta were living together as husband and wife.
There remained yet one-third, and as to it his will continues to my wife Babetta Hablawitz one-third, that is to say her dower right, of my estate.” In view of the disposition made of the other two-thirds by which he provided for the children of his wife, coupled with the fact that he had no heirs to take lands as to which he should die intestate, it would seem as if he must have intended that she should have the other one-third which he may have understood to be a wife’s portion. But knowing that she was not his lawful wife he declares her to be such and characterized the gift in language indicating that he regarded her as sustaining that relation towards him.
That he intended to give Babetta and her daughters his ■entire estate, has support in the other provisions of the will. After the devise to Babetta the will continues “ and I give to my wife Babetta Hablawitz in conjunction with the below-named executor, fidl power to sell and transfer my real estate for the best price they can obtain, and the money received from such sale or sales to be deposited in a savings bank by my wife and the below-named executor, until my above-named children arrive at the age of twenty-one years, then they receive their interest of one-third of the money deposited therein. And' I further devise to my wife the rents and interests of my estate during the minority of my children.”
It will be observed that he confers upon Babetta, in conjunction with the executor a power of sale as to all the real estate of which he died seized, and directs them to deposit the proceeds in a savings bank, until the children reach their majority. Until which time he gives, the rents, and interest of the entire estate to Babetta.
We have thus referred to the language of the will, and briefly to the surrounding circumstances, which may properly be employed in its interpretation, and they seem to strongly indicate, that it was the intention of the testator to vest the fee of an undivided one-third of his real estate in Babetta. One of the facts alluded to has been given prominence in repeated adjudications involving the question of intent. We refer to the fact that if- Babetta did not take a fee then as to an undivided one-third of the estate, testator died intestate subject to a life estate.
The law favors a construction which will prevent partial intestacy. Bedfield in his work on wills says “ the courts have for a long time inclined very decidedly against adopting any construction of wills which would result in partial intestacy unless absolutely forced upon them. This has been done partly as a rule of policy perhaps, but mainly as one calculated to carry into effect the presumed intention of the testator, for the fact of making a will raises a very strong presumption against any expectation or desire on the part of the testator of leaving any portion of his estate beyond the operation of bis will.” (Vol. 2, p. 442.)
This proposition has also received attention in Lyman v. Lyman (22 Hun, 263); Vernon v. Vernon (53 N. Y. 351-361); Provoost v. Calyer (62 N. Y. 545) and Byrnes v. Baer (86 N. Y. 210-218).
If the words “ that is to say her dower right ” were omitted the devise would unquestionably carry the fee. For the reasons already given the conclusion is reached that they were not employed for the purpose of restricting or cutting down the estate and the clause should accordingly be read as devising to Babetta the fee of an undivided one-third of testator’s real estate.
As the question presented involves only the construction of a written instrument, no reason suggests itself for refusing to decree specific performances.
The judgment should be affirmed.
All concur.
Judgment affirmed.

=====

CAP URL: https://static.case.law/ny/132/cases/0128-01.json
In the Matter of Oscar Strasburger, an Adjudged Lunatic
1892-03-08
New York Court of Appeals
132 N.Y. 128

In the Matter of Oscar Strasburger, an Adjudged Lunatic.
The lunacy of a lessor does not discharge or affect his covenants in a mase executed before he was adjudged a lunatic; his estate, in the hands of a committee, will be liable for whatever damages his lessees have sustained because of a breach of a covenant for quiet enjoyment, and to the extent of such damages they are general creditors, and entitled to have their claim ascertained and paid in due course of administration The committee, however, owes no duty to the lessee of specific performance of the lunatic’s covenants, and when the estate is chargeable with damages consequent upon their breach, it is entitled to the protection which the law extends to innocence in measuring such damages.
In the absence of fault upon the part of a lessor, the lessee can recover for a breach of a covenant of quiet enjoyment only such rent as he has advanced, and such mesne profits as he is liable to pay over.
S., who was the lessee of a building in the city of New York, sublet portions thereof to S. & A. D., which they in turn sublet to solvent tenants at largely advanced rentals. S. was thereafter adjudged a lunatic, and a committee appointed of his estate, which was insolvent. The D.’s made a payment of a quarter’s rent in advance to the committee. The rent under the lease to S. not having been paid, he instituted summary proceedings to recover possession, and all the sub-tenants were dispossessed. Thereafter the committee, under order of the court, refunded to the D.’s the proportion of the rent so paid in advance for the portion of the quarter unexpired at the time of the dispossession. Upon a claim presented by the D.’s against the estate for damages, held, that they were entitled only to nominal damages.
Reported below, 56 Hun, 164.
(Argued February 5, 1892;
decided March 8, 1892.)
Appeal from judgment of the General Term of the Supreme Court.in the first judicial department, entered upon an order made March 14, 1890, which affirmed a judgment disallowing a claim against the estate of Oscar Strasburger, a lunatic, for damages to the claimants caused by their being dispossessed of premises leased to them by the lunatic.
Oscar Strasburger was adjudged a lunatic prior to September 17, 1884. On that day Albert Strasburger was appointed committee of his estate and qualified, and thereafter assumed to dischage his duties as such committee. January 15, 1885, Albert Strasburger, having tendered his resignation, Eustace Conway was duly appointed such committee in his place, and he qualified and entered upon his duties as such committee. February 6, 1882, and December 6, 1883, Oscar Strasburger, by written leases, leased to the appellants the first, third, fourth and fifth lots of the building known as numbers 50, 52 Howard street and 16 Mercer street in the city of New York, for terms expiring February 1, 1886, at the annual rental of $4,500 per year. The appellants entered into possession of said premises under said leases, and before September 20, 1884, sublet them in several parcels by written leases to various parties at rents aggregating $7,700 per year for the entire term of their leases from Strasburger, except a small parcel which was orally rented for one year at $100 rent. All the under tenants of the appellants were in possession of their respective parcels and all were solvent. Strasburger was himself the tenant of the owner of the entire building and premises aforesaid under a lease whereby he had agreed' to pay his landlord $10,500 yearly rent. After Strasburger was adjudged a lunatic and while Albert Strasburger was committee of his estate, the rent falling due November 1, 1884, to the owner of the premises was not paid. Albert Strasburger, as committee, however, demanded payment of the appellants of the rent in advance November 1, 1884, for the quarter ending February 1, 1885, and they paid it to him. Prior to November 20,1884, the owner of the premises and landlord of Oscar Strasburger instituted summary proceedings for non-payment of rent, and made the appellants and their under tenants parties to the proceeding. Judgment of dispossession was rendered, and on November 20, 1884, the appellants and their under tenants were all dispossessed.
The difference between the rent paid by the appellants £gid that received by them from their under tenants was $3,200 per annum, amounting from November 20, 1884, to the end of their term, February 1, 1886, to $3,831. The rental received by the appellants from their sub-tenants was reasonable. The estate of the lunatic is insolvent.
After their dispossession the Special Term, upon the app'li•cation of the appellants and upon proceedings duly taken, •directed the committee of the lunatic to refund to the appel.lants such portion of the rent paid by them to him November 1, 1884, in advance, as was for the unexpired portion of the ■quarter, at the time of their dispossession, and the committee .repaid the same to the appellants.
After the last mentioned order, but before payment under 'it, Eustace Conway, as committee of the estate of the lunatic, pursuant to an order made by the Special Term, upon his -.application, gave notice to all the creditors and persons having ■•claims against, the lunatic or his estate to present the same, etc. The appellants presented this claim. Such proceedings were had that afterwards an order was made referring all claims to a referee, and thereupon this claim among others duly came to a hearing before the referee and the facts as above stated appeared and were found.
It also appeared by the evidence taken before the referee that before the owner of the premises took the proceedings for dispossession he told the appellants he would, upon payment of the rent in default, if the committee of the lunatic would consent, substitute the appellants as his tenants in place of the lunatic; that one of the appellants and the agent of the owner then visited the committee and asked him to pay the owner the rent due November 1, 1884, and refund to the appellants the rent paid by them in advance to February, 1885, and allow the appellants to assume the tenancy of the entire premises as from November 1, 1884, and conclude an agreement with the owner to that effect. The committee refused his consent and the proceedings to dispossess followed.
The appellants’ claim for damages was disallowed.
Joseph Fettretch for appellants.
The rule of damages is the difference between the yearly value of the premises and the rent reserved. (Trull v. Granger, 4 Seld. 115; Dodd v. Nakes, 114 N. Y. 265.) The damages sustained by the appellants are the result of a breach of a contract, but which breach was the personal act of the committee, and the committee must be sued personally. (In re Otis, 101 N. Y. 583.) In the instance of an absolute and general contract the performance is not excused by an inevitable accident or other contingency, although not foreseen by or within the control of the party. (Harmony v. Bingham, 2 Kern. 99-115 Tompkins v. Dudley, 25 N. Y. 275
Eustace Conway for respondent.
Albert Strasburger individually is responsible to appellants (if anyone) for exceeding his authority, at all events not the lunatic’s estate. (People v. Tax Comrs., 100 N. Y. 215; In re Otis, 101 id. 585; Peck v. Ingersoll, 7 N. Y. 528.) A tenant evicted by a superior landlord is not entitled to pecuniary damages as against his immediate landlord, in the absence of fraud or bad faith. (Mack v. Patchin, 42 N. Y. 171; In re Otis, 101 id. 580; Cockroft v. N. Y. & H. R. R. Co., 69 id. 201; Noyes v. Anderson, 1 Duer, 342; 1 Sedg. on Dam. 320; Statts v. Ten Eyck, 3 Caines, 111; Armstrongs. Percy, 3 Wend. 540; Kinney v. Watts, 14 id. 38; Burr v. Stanton, 43 N. Y. 467; Walton v. Meeks, 120 id. 79; Trull v. Granger, 8 id. 115.)

[majority] Landon, J.
Landon, J.
The lunacy of Strasburger did not discharge or affect his covenants in the leases to the appellants. (Matter of Otis, 101 N. Y. 580.) His estate is liable for whatever damages the appellants have sustained because of the breach of the covenant for quiet enjoyment in the leases given to them oy him. To the extent of such damages, they are general creditors and entitled to have their claim ascertained in order to be paid in the due course of administration. (Id.) But the question is, what is the measure of their damages \ The appellants claim that it is the value of the unexpired term, less the rents reserved. This would be so if the breach of the covenants for quiet enjoyment resulted from the fault of Strasburger. (Mack v. Patchin, 42 N. Y. 167.) But the general rule is, in the absence of fault in the lessor, that the lessee can recover only such rent as he has advanced, and such mesne profits as he is liable to pay over. (Id.; see Walton v. Meeks, 120 N. Y. 79.) The committee has already repaid the appellants the rent advanced by them upon the portion of the quarter beyond their actual occupancy, and there were no mesne profits which they were liable to pay over. If Strasburger had been sane and had refused to pay the rent to his superior landlord, and thus had refused to protect his covenants with the appellants, the damages for the breach would have been measurable by the rule first stated. But he became a lunatic and the breach followed from his misfortune, not his fault.
It is urged that his committee ought to have paid the rent, and thus have protected the lunatic’s covenants. But why should the committee pay it ? The estate was insolvent, and it does not appear that it was for its interest, to make the payment. It might be better for the estate to, incur whatever damages might result from the breach of the covenants than to expend the money necessary to protect them. The appellants could themselves have protected their possession by paying the superior landlord the rent due him. (Peck v. Ingersoll, 7 N. Y. 528.) The committee takes no title to the lunatic’s estate; he is a mere bailiff to take care of it and administer it under the direction of the court. (Matter of Otis, supra; People ex rel. Smith v. Commissioners of Taxes, 100 N. Y. 215.) He owed no duty to the appellants of a specific performance of the lunatic’s covenants, and when the estate became chargeable with damages consequent upon their breach, the estate was also entitled to the protection which the law extends to innocence in measuring such damages. Indeed, the burden was upon the appellants to prove the facts which would take this case out of the general rule of damages, and bring it within the exceptions. The burden has not been suecessfully borne. The appellants were only entitled to nominal damages.
The judgment should be affirmed, with costs.
All concur.
Judgment affirmed.