SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._multiple_dwelling_law_section_68
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Multiple Dwelling Law Section 68

Smoke detecting devices

1.
 This section shall apply to all multiple dwellings, whenever constructed, provided however, that for the purposes of this section the term “multiple dwelling” shall also include any dwelling accommodation used as a temporary or permanent residence located in any building owned as a condominium or cooperative.

2.
 (a) The owner of every multiple dwelling to which the provisions of this section apply shall equip each apartment or other separate living unit in such multiple dwelling with approved and operational smoke detecting devices in conformity with the state fire prevention and building code; provided, however, that any multiple dwelling not subject to the provisions of such code may, in the alternative, be equipped with battery-operated smoke detecting devices of a type accepted by the division of housing and community renewal.

(b)
 In hotels and other class B multiple dwellings, and in any portion of a class A multiple dwelling used for single room occupancy, at least one smoke detecting device shall be located within each room used for sleeping purposes. In any other multiple dwelling or portion thereof, there shall be at least one smoke detecting device located within each apartment or separate living unit, in an area so that it is clearly audible in each bedroom or other room used for sleeping purposes, with intervening doors closed; provided, however, that no smoke detecting device be located more than ten feet from the entrance to any bedroom or other room used for sleeping purposes.

(c)
 Each smoke detecting device shall include a test device to permit the occupant to readily determine if it is operational.

(d)
 In addition to complying with the provisions of this section, the type, location, number, and manner of installation of smoke detecting devices shall be in accordance with standards prescribed by the state fire prevention and building code council.

3.
 (a) With respect to class A multiple dwellings, other than any portion of any such dwelling used for single room occupancy, and notwithstanding the provisions of section seventy-eight or any other provision of this chapter, or of any law or requirement, state or local, the duties of the owner and tenant with respect to smoke detecting devices installed pursuant to this section shall be as provided in subdivisions four and five of this section.

(b)
 With respect to a class B multiple dwelling, or any portion of a class A multiple dwelling used for single room occupancy, the provisions of subdivision five of this section shall not apply, and smoke detecting devices installed as required by this section shall be subject to the provisions of section seventy-eight of this chapter.

(c)
 The owner of every multiple dwelling shall keep such records as the state fire prevention and building code council shall prescribe relating to the installation and maintenance of smoke detecting devices in the building and make such records available to any local code enforcement official on request.

4.
 In addition to initially providing and installing the smoke detecting devices, the owner shall:

(a)
 replace within thirty days after the receipt of written notice any such device which becomes inoperable within one year of the installation of such device due to a defect in the manufacture of such device and through no fault of the occupant of the apartment or other unit;

(b)
 upon the occurrence of a vacancy, replace or properly equip any such device which has been removed or rendered inoperable, so as to provide operational smoke detecting devices for any new tenant; and

(c)
 notify tenants in writing, individually or through posting of a notice in a common area of the building, of the respective duties of owners and tenants under this section.

5.
 Except as provided in paragraph (b) of subdivision three of this section, the tenant shall keep and maintain any smoke detecting device installed pursuant to this section in good repair and replace any such device which becomes inoperable during his occupancy.

6.
 An owner need not furnish or install a smoke detecting device where one has already been installed, provided that (a) the type of such device and the manner of its installation comply with the provisions of this section and the standards prescribed by the state fire prevention and building code council, (b) the existing device is tested and found to be operational, and

(c)
 the existence of such device in lieu of an owner-furnished device is noted on the records kept by the owner pursuant to paragraph (c) of subdivision three of this section.

7.
 This section shall not apply within cities with a population of one million or more, provided however, any local law in such cities relating to smoke detecting devices shall provide for the installation and maintenance of smoke detecting devices in dwelling accommodations located in buildings owned as condominiums or cooperatives.

Source:
Section 68 — Smoke detecting devices, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/MDW/68 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

50
Entrance halls
50–A
Entrances: doors, locks and intercommunication systems
50–C
Rights of tenants to operate and maintain a lobby attendant service
51
Shafts, elevators and dumbwaiters
51–A
Peepholes
51–B
Mirrors in connection with self-service elevators
51–C
Rights of tenants to install and maintain locks in certain entrance doors
52
Stairs
53
Fire-escapes
54
Cellar entrance
55
Wainscoting
56
Frame buildings and extensions
57
Bells
58
Incombustible materials
59
Bakeries and fat boiling
60
Motor vehicle storage
61
Business uses
62
Parapets, guard railings and wires
63
Sub-curb uses
64
Lighting
65
Boiler rooms
66
Lodging houses
67
Hotels and certain other class A and class B dwellings
68
Smoke detecting devices

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 68. Smoke detecting devices's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 68 — Smoke detecting devices,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/MDW/68
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
