SOURCE: https://www.law.cornell.edu/regulations/new-york/16-NYCRR-96.2
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl; text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.2 - Electric service to submetered multi-unit residential premises-general provisions | State Regulations | US Law | LII / Legal Information Institute

Please help us improve our site!

 ×

 No thank you

 Skip to main content

 Cornell Law
 School
 Search
 Cornell

 Toggle navigation

 Please help
 us improve our site!

 Support Us!

 Search

 About
 LII

 Who We Are

 What We Do

 Who Pays For This

 Contact Us

 Get the
 law

 Constitution

 Supreme Court

 U.S. Code

 CFR

 Federal Rules

 Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure

 Federal Rules of Civil Procedure

 Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure

 Federal Rules of Evidence

 Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure

 U.C.C.

 Law by jurisdiction

 State law

 Uniform laws

 Federal law

 World law

 Lawyer directory

 Legal encyclopedia

 Business law

 Constitutional law

 Criminal law

 Family law

 Employment law

 Money and Finances

 More...

 Help out

 Give

 Sponsor

 Advertise

 Create

 Promote

 Join Lawyer Directory

LII

State Regulations

New York Codes,Rules,and Regulations

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 16 - DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICE

Chapter II - ELECTRIC UTILITIES

Subchapter A - Service

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 16, ch. II, subch. A, pt. 96 - Residential Electric Submetering

N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.2 - Electric service to submetered multi-unit residential premises-general provisions

 N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16 § 96.2 - Electric service to submetered multi-unit residential premises-general provisions 

 State Regulations 

 Compare

(a)
 Provisions applicable to all submetering.
(1)
 Electric service shall only be provided to a multi-unit residential premises in
 which individual dwelling units in the premises receive submetered electric
 service if the submetering (i) is and continues to be authorized by commission
 order where a commission order was necessary, (ii) is and continues to be
 consistent with any conditions imposed by such order, and (iii) is and
 continues to be consistent with this Part notwithstanding previous
 authorization to submeter that did not include the requirements
 herein.

(2) If electric service is
 provided to a multi-unit residential premises in which the individual dwelling
 units in such premises receive submetered electric service, but which, after
 the procedures provided for in section
 96.8(b) and (c)
 of this Part, has been found to be (i) inconsistent with any conditions imposed
 by the commission's order authorizing such service, or (ii) inconsistent with
 applicable provisions of this Part, the rate cap for such service may be
 reduced by up to 40 percent. The rate cap will continue at such reduced level
 from the date specified in the notice of rate cap reduction until such time as
 the department confirms to the submeterer that such inconsistency has been
 corrected. Further, when such inconsistency existed for a period of time prior
 to the department's notice of alleged violation, contained in section
 96.8 of this Part, the reduced
 rate cap may be extended to all or a portion of such period, not exceeding two
 years, and the submeterer shall refund to residents the difference between the
 reduced rate cap established for that period pursuant to this paragraph and any
 charges for electric service paid by residents in such period. A rate cap
 reduction made pursuant to this section is appealable to the commission within
 15 days of the date of the notice of rate cap reduction.

(b) Existing direct metered multi-unit
 residential premises. 

Except as otherwise provided in this Part, electric service
 provided to individual residential units in existing multi-unit residential
 premises through direct metering may not be discontinued or replaced by master
 metering. If, however, a petition to submeter is filed, which:

(1) complies with the applicable requirements
 of sections 96.5 and
 96.6 of this Part;

(2) seeks to convert such premises from
 direct metering to master-metering with submetering; and

(3) demonstrates that the building or complex
 for which master metering with submetering is sought will participate in
 building level demand response programs or will employ on-site co-generation
 plant or an alternative, advanced energy efficiency design, the conversion to
 submetering may be authorized by the commission.

(c) Assisted living and senior living
 facilities. Electric service is authorized to be established or continued to
 assisted living or senior living facilities through master metering.

(d) Campgrounds, recreational trailer parks,
 marinas, and parking facilities. Electric service may be provided to the
 facility owner or operator of campgrounds, recreational trailer parks, marinas
 and parking facilities for redistribution to individual campsites, trailer,
 boat hookups, or plug-in electric vehicle charging stations with or without
 submetering. Master metering and submetering, at the facility owner's or
 operator's option, may be installed and used for billing without commission
 approval and are not subject to submetering service conditions.

Notes

N.Y. Comp.
 Codes R. & Regs. Tit. 16
 §
 96.2

State regulations are updated quarterly; we currently have two versions available.
 Below is a comparison between our most recent version and the prior quarterly release.
 More comparison features will be added as we have more versions to compare.

 No prior version found.

 State Regulations Toolbox

 Accessibility

 About LII

 Contact us

 Advertise here

 Help

 Terms of use

 Privacy
