SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._civil_practice_law_&_rules_section_211
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-29 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Civil Practice Law & Rules Section 211

Actions to be commenced within twenty years

(a)
 On a bond. An action to recover principal or interest upon a written instrument evidencing an indebtedness of the state of New York or of any person, association or public or private corporation, originally sold by the issuer after publication of an advertisement for bids for the issue in electronic or physical form and secured only by a pledge of the faith and credit of the issuer, regardless of whether a sinking fund is or may be established for its redemption, must be commenced within twenty years after the cause of action accrues. This subdivision does not apply to actions upon written instruments evidencing an indebtedness of any corporation, association or person under the jurisdiction of the public service commission, the commissioner of transportation, the interstate commerce commission, the federal communications commission, the civil aeronautics board, the federal power commission, or any other regulatory commission or board of a state or of the federal government. This subdivision applies to all causes of action, including those barred on April eighteenth, nineteen hundred fifty, by the provisions of the civil practice act then effective.

(b)
 On a money judgment. A money judgment is presumed to be paid and satisfied after the expiration of twenty years from the time when the party recovering it was first entitled to enforce it. This presumption is conclusive, except as against a person who within the twenty years acknowledges an indebtedness, or makes a payment, of all or part of the amount recovered by the judgment, or his heir or personal representative, or a person whom he otherwise represents. Such an acknowledgment must be in writing and signed by the person to be charged. Property acquired by an enforcement order or by levy upon an execution is a payment, unless the person to be charged shows that it did not include property claimed by him. If such an acknowledgment or payment is made, the judgment is conclusively presumed to be paid and satisfied as against any person after the expiration of twenty years after the last acknowledgment or payment made by him. The presumption created by this subdivision may be availed of under an allegation that the action was not commenced within the time limited.

(c)
 By state for real property. The state will not sue a person for or with respect to real property, or the rents or profits thereof, by reason of the right or title of the state to the same, unless the cause of action accrued, or the state, or those from whom it claims, have received the rents and profits of the real property or of some part thereof, within twenty years before the commencement of the action.

(d)
 By grantee of state for real property. An action shall not be commenced for or with respect to real property by a person claiming by virtue of letters patent or a grant from the state, unless it might have been maintained by the state, as prescribed in this section, if the patent or grant had not been issued or made.

(e)
 For support, alimony or maintenance. An action or proceeding to enforce any temporary order, permanent order or judgment of any court of competent jurisdiction which awards support, alimony or maintenance, regardless of whether or not arrears have been reduced to a money judgment, must be commenced within twenty years from the date of a default in payment. This section shall only apply to orders which have been entered subsequent to the date upon which this section shall become effective.

Source:
Section 211 — Actions to be commenced within twenty years, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/211 (updated Apr. 17, 2020; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

201
Application of article
202
Cause of action accruing without the state
203
Method of computing periods of limitation generally
204
Stay of commencement of action
205
Termination of action
205–A
Termination of certain actions related to real property
206
Computing periods of limitation in particular actions
207
Defendant’s absence from state or residence under false name
208
Infancy, insanity
208–A
In custody at time of cause of action
209
War
210
Death of claimant or person liable
211
Actions to be commenced within twenty years
212
Actions to be commenced within ten or fifteen years
213
Actions to be commenced within six years: where not otherwise provided for
213–A
Residential rent overcharge
213–B
Action by a victim of a criminal offense
213–C
Action by victim of conduct constituting certain sexual offenses
213–D
Actions to be commenced within three years
214
Actions to be commenced within three years: for non-payment of money collected on execution
214–A
Action for medical, dental or podiatric malpractice to be commenced within two years and six months
214–B
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to phenoxy herbicides
214–C
Certain actions to be commenced within three years of discovery
214–D
Limitations on certain actions against licensed engineers and architects
214–E
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by the infusion of such blood products which result in the contraction of the human ...
214–F
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to any substance or combination of substances found with...
214–G
Certain child sexual abuse cases
214–H
Certain actions by public water suppliers to recover damages for injury to property
214–I
Certain actions arising out of consumer credit transactions to be commenced within three years
214–I*2
Action to recover damages for personal injury caused by contact with or exposure to toxic burn pits
214–J
Certain sexual offense actions
215
Actions to be commenced within one year: against sheriff, coroner or constable
216
Abbreviation of period to one year after notice
217
Proceeding against body or officer
217–A
Actions to be commenced within one year and ninety days
218
Transitional provisions

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Apr. 17, 2020

§ 211. Actions to be commenced within twenty years's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 211 — Actions to be commenced within twenty years,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/CVP/211
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
