SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._social_services_law_section_143-b
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 by independent reviewer 5A via curl of the public.law mirror of the official nysenate.gov text (nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by review/ir5a_fetch.py

N.Y.

Social Services Law Section 143-B

Avoidance of abuses in connection with rent checks

1.
 Whenever a recipient of public assistance and care is eligible for or entitled to receive aid or assistance in the form of a payment for or toward the rental of any housing accommodations occupied by such recipient or his family, such payment may be made directly by the public welfare department to the landlord.

2.
 Every public welfare official shall have power to and may withhold the payment of any such rent in any case where he has knowledge that there exists or there is outstanding any violation of law in respect to the building containing the housing accommodations occupied by the person entitled to such assistance which is dangerous, hazardous or detrimental to life or health. A report of each such violation shall be made to the appropriate public welfare department by the appropriate department or agency having jurisdiction over violations.

3.
 Every public welfare official shall have the power to initiate or to request the recipient to initiate before the appropriate housing rent commission any proper proceeding for the reduction of maximum rents applicable to any housing accommodation occupied by a person entitled to assistance in the form of a rent payment whenever such official has knowledge that essential services which such person is entitled to receive are not being maintained by the landlord or have been substantially reduced by the landlord.

4.
 The public welfare department may obtain and maintain current records of violations in buildings where welfare recipients reside which relate to conditions which are dangerous, hazardous or detrimental to life or health.

5.
 (a) It shall be a valid defense in any action or summary proceeding against a welfare recipient for non-payment of rent to show existing violations in the building wherein such welfare recipient resides which relate to conditions which are dangerous, hazardous or detrimental to life or health as the basis for non-payment.

(b)
 In any such action or proceeding the plaintiff or landlord shall not be entitled to an order or judgment awarding him possession of the premises or providing for removal of the tenant, or to a money judgment against the tenant, on the basis of non-payment of rent for any period during which there was outstanding any violation of law relating to dangerous or hazardous conditions or conditions detrimental to life or health. For the purposes of this paragraph such violation of law shall be deemed to have been removed and no longer outstanding upon the date when the condition constituting a violation was actually corrected, such date to be determined by the court upon satisfactory proof submitted by the plaintiff or landlord.

(c)
 The defenses provided herein in relation to an action or proceeding against a welfare recipient for non-payment of rent shall apply only with respect to violations reported to the appropriate public welfare department by the appropriate department or agency having jurisdiction over violations.

6.
 Nothing in this section shall prevent the public welfare department from making provision for payment of the rent which was withheld pursuant to this section upon proof satisfactory to it that the condition constituting a violation was actually corrected. Where rents were reduced by order of the appropriate rent commission, the public welfare department may make provision for payment of the reduced rent in conformity with such order.

Source:
Section 143-B — Avoidance of abuses in connection with rent checks, https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/SOS/143-B (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).

131
Assistance, care and services to be given
131–A
Monthly grants and allowances of public assistance
131–AA
Monthly statistical reports
131–AAA
Availability of adverse childhood experiences services
131–B
Fees for services
131–BB
Family homelessness and eviction prevention supplement program
131–C
Inclusion of parents and siblings of a minor in the public assistance household
131–D
Substance abuse rehabilitative and preventive services
131–E
Family planning services
131–F
Retroactive social security benefit increases
131–G
Authority to accept public and private gifts
131–H
Authority to operate family homes for adults
131–I
Social services districts
131–I*2
Family loan program
131–J
Certain utility deposits
131–K
Undocumented noncitizens
131–L
Exclusion of agent orange benefits
131–M
Information on resource referral services
131–N
Exemption of income and resources
131–O
Personal allowances accounts
131–P
Group health insurance benefits
131–Q
Electronic payment file transfer system pilot project
131–R
Liability for reimbursement of public assistance benefits
131–S
Payments made for utility service for recipients of public assistance benefits, supplemental security income benefits or additional state...
131–SS
Automated identification of OTDA assistance program participants
131–T
Periodic reporting
131–U
Domestic violence services
131–V
Temporary emergency shelter
131–W
Limitations in the payment of rent arrears
131–X
Reverse mortgage loans
131–Z
Child assistance program
131–ZZ
Child poverty reduction
132
Investigation of applications
132–A
Children born out of wedlock
133
Temporary preinvestigation emergency needs assistance or care
133–A
Contracts for distribution of public assistance grants
134
Supervision
134–A
Conduct of investigation
134–B
Front end detection system
134–C
Requirement to publicly post information
135
Cooperation of public welfare officials
136
Protection of public welfare records
136–A
Information from state tax commission and the comptroller
137
Exemption from levy and execution
137–A
Exemption of earnings of recipients from assignment, income execution and installment payment order
138–A
Responsibility of the department for recipients in family care
139–A
Special provisions to avoid abuse of assistance and care
141
Burial of the dead
142
Exclusiveness of eligibility requirements
142–A
Federal economic opportunity act grants or payments
142–B
Federal manpower development training act and elementary and secondary education act grants or payments
143
Information to be given by employers of labor to social services officials, the department, family court and the state department of ment...
143–A
Information to be given to public welfare officials by retail instalment sellers, small loan companies and sales finance companies
143–B
Avoidance of abuses in connection with rent checks
143–C
Avoidance of abuses in connection with rent security deposits
144
Power of public welfare officials and service officers to administer oaths
144–A
Information to be given to officials of the department and of social services districts
145
Penalties
145–A
Judgment liens
145–B
False statements
145–C
Sanctions
146
Penalty for the sale or exchange of assistance supplies
147
Misuse of food stamps, food stamp program coupons, authorization cards and electronic access devices
148
Penalty for unlawfully bringing a needy person into a public welfare district
149
Penalty for bringing a needy person into the state
150
Penalty for neglect to report or for making false report
151
Penalties for cashing public assistance checks or accepting electronic benefit transfers from public assistance recipients
152
Payments to the New York public welfare association
152–A
Burial reserves for certain recipients of public assistance or care from assigned assets
152–B
Surplus after recovery of cost of public assistance and care
152–C
Menstrual products
152–D
Replacement of stolen public assistance

Up to date

Verified:

Sep. 26, 2026

Last modified:

Sep. 22, 2014

§ 143-B. Avoidance of abuses in connection with rent checks's source at
nysenate​.gov

Link Style

Pragmatic

Pedantic

Stay Connected

Join thousands of people who receive monthly site updates.

Subscribe

Get Legal Help

The New York State Bar Association runs a service for finding
an attorney in good standing. Initial consultations
are usually free or discounted: Lawyer Referral Service

Committed to Public Service

We will always provide free access to the current law. In addition,
we provide special support
for non-profit, educational, and government users. Through social
entre­pre­neurship, we’re lowering the cost of legal services and
increasing citizen access.

Navigate

Find a Lawyer

Blog

About Us

API

Contact Us

Reports

Secondary Sources

Privacy Policy

California:
Codes

Colorado:
C.R.S.

Florida:
Statutes

Nevada:
NRS

New York:
Laws

Oregon:
OAR, ORS

Texas:
Statutes

World:
Rome Statute, International Dictionary

Original Source:
Section 143-B — Avoidance of abuses in connection with rent checks,
https://www.­nysenate.­gov/legislation/laws/SOS/143-B
(last ac­cessed Sep. 26, 2026).
