Source: https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-7/section-3560.204
(via https://www.ecfr.gov/api/renderer/v1/content/enhanced/current/title-7?part=3560&section=3560.204)
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; HTML stripped mechanically)


§ 3560.204 Security deposits and membership fees.
(a) General. Borrowers may collect security deposits when it is reasonable and customary for the area in which the housing is located. Borrowers must hold security deposits in a separate bank or bookkeeping account in accordance with § 3560.302(c)(3).
(b) Allowable amounts. Borrowers may charge security deposits that are typical for the area in which the housing is located, as long as the security deposit charged a tenant does not exceed that tenant's net contribution for one month's rent or basic rent, whichever is greater.
(1) As noted in § 3560.102(b)(1)(viii) and § 3560.156(c)(18)(iii), borrowers must specify in the housing project's management plan how the amount to be charged as a security deposit will be established and must specify the amount to be charged to individual tenants in the lease to be signed by the tenant.
(2) Borrowers may charge security deposits to households receiving HUD assistance in accordance with HUD requirements.
(3) Members of a cooperative shall be required to pay a membership fee no greater than one month's occupancy charge.
(4) Additional security deposits for pets may be charged as long as the additional deposit is not greater than basic rent for 1 month. No additional security deposit for assistance animals is allowed where an assistance animal is necessary for the normal functioning of a household member with a disability.
(5) Borrowers must not charge additional security deposits based on disabilities of tenants or other personal characteristics.
(c) Payment plans. Borrowers must offer, for persons who are eligible for rental assistance or Section 8 assistance, the option of paying the security deposit on an installment payment plan. Should installments not be met, the total charge may become due and payable in full.
(d) Charges for damage or loss. Borrowers may charge tenants for damage or loss caused or allowed by the tenant equal to the cost of the damage or loss.
(1) Borrowers must consider expenses due for addressing normal wear and tear as normal operating expenses and must not charge tenants a fee or withhold security deposits to pay for such costs.
(2) Borrowers may withhold security deposits and may charge tenants for damage or loss costs above security deposit amounts.
(e) State and local security deposit requirements. Borrowers must follow all state and local laws and other requirements governing the handling and disposition of security deposits.
(1) Resolution of any security deposit disputes must be handled in accordance with state and local law.
(2) Any interest earned on security deposits will accrue in accordance with state law.
(f) Unclaimed security deposits. Any funds in the housing project's security deposit account unclaimed by a tenant must be deposited into the housing project's general operating account.
