Source: https://archives.federalregister.gov/issue_slice/1988/12/13/50096-50110.pdf (FTC, Statements of General Policy or Interpretation: Staff Commentary on the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 53 FR 50097 (Dec. 13, 1988))
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; pdftotext (reading order))

50096

Federal R egister / Vol, 53, No. 239 / Tu esd ay, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices

shares of Rock County Bancorp,
Janesville, Wisconsin.

yen options traded on the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange during the Exchange’s
day trading session.
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, December 7,1988.
Applicant states that the proposed
James McAfee,
activities consist of three basic
functions:
A ssociate Secretary o f the Board.
(1) To use reasonable efforts to make
[FR Doc. 88-28546 Filed 12-12-88; 8:45 am]
a “fair and orderly" market in Deutsche
BILLING CODE 6210-01-M
mark and Japanese yen option and to
engage, to a reasonable degree under
existing circumstances, in dealings for
Change in Bank Control; Acquisition of
its own account when a lack of price
Shares of Banks or Bank Holding
continuity or temporary supply/demand
Companies; Frank Kiang, et al.
disparities exist;
The notificant listed below has
(2) To collate and publish the best
applied under the Change in Bank
bids/offers for Deutsche mark and
Control Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)) and
Japanese yen options; and
§ 225.41 of the Board’s Regulation Y (12
(3) To act as agent for orders in
CFR 225.41) to acquire a bank or bank
Deutsche mark and Japanese yen
holding company. The factors that are
options, in particular for “limit orders”
considered in acting on notices are set
that are left on the specialists’ “books."
forth in paragraph 7 of the Act (12 U.S.C.
The Board has not previously
1817(j)(7)J.
determined that the proposed activities
The notices are available for
are permissible under section 4(c)(8) of
immediate inspection at the Federal
the Bank Holding Company Act. Section
Reserve Bank indicated. Once the
4(c)(8) provides that a bank holding
notices have been accepted for
company may, with Board approval,
processing, they will also be available
engage in any activity “which the Board
for inspection at the offices of the Board
after due notice and opportunity for
of Governors. Interested persons may
hearing has determined (by order or
express their views in writing to the
regulation) to be so closely related to
Reserve Bank indicated for that notice
banking or managing or controlling
or to the offices of the Board of
banks as to be a proper incident
Governors. Comments must be received
thereto." Applicant contends that the
not later than December 27,1988.
proposed activity is functionally
A. Federal Reserve Bank of San
equivalent to foreign exchange activities
Francisco (Harry W. Green, Vice
in which banks widely engage.
President) 101 Market Street, San
Applicant also states that several banks
Francisco, California 94105:
have been permitted to engage in the
1.
Frank or Rosaline Kiang, Oakland, proposed activity of acting as specialist
California; to acquire 24.9 percent of the
in foreign currency options on the
voting shares of Met Financial
Philadelphia Stock Exchange.
Corporation, Oakland, California, and
In determining whether an activity is
thereby indirectly acquire Metropolitan
a proper incident to banking, the Board
National Bank, Oakland, California.
must consider whether the proposal may
“reasonably be expected to produce
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, December 7,1988.
benefits to the public, such as greater
James McAfee,
convenience, increased competition, or
gains in efficiency, that outweigh
A ssociate Secretary o f the Board.
possible adverse effects, such as undue
[FR Doc. 88-28545 Filed 12-12-88; 8:45 am]
concentration of resources, decreased or
BILLING CODE 6210-01-M
unfair competition, conflicts of interests,
or unsound banking practices."
Applicant contends that the proposed
Scciete Generaie; Application to Deal
activity would result in public benefits
in Foreign Currency Options as a
by stimulating the development and
Specialist
liquidity of the options market which
Societe Generaie, Paris, France
would aid banks generally in reducing
(“Applicant”), has applied, pursuant to
their foreign exchange risk exposure.
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding
Applicant argues that the proposed
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8))
activity would not result in adverse
(“BHC Act”) and § 225.23(a)(3) of the
effects because they are not
Board’s Regulation Y (12 CFR
predominantly speculative. Rather,
225.23(a)(3)), for permission to engage de Company will generate revenues from
novo through Societe Generaie Optionsits bid/ask spreads, on a carefully
North America, Inc., Philadelphia,
hedged basis, in a closely regulated
Pennsylvania (“Company"), in the
environment.
activity of dealing as the specialist in
In 1985, the Board denied an
Deutsche mark options and Japanese
application by Compagnie Financière de

Suez and Banque Indosuez to act as a
specialist in French franc options on the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange due to the
potential adverse effects that might stem
from the proposal. 72 Federal Reserve
Bulletin 141 (1968). Applicant contends
that its proposal is distinguishable from
the above case in light of its experience
in the proposed activities gained in
trading on overseas markets as well as
changes in the domestic foreign
currency options market since the
Board’s decision.
Any views or requests for hearing
should be submitted in writing and
received by William W. Wiles,
Secretary, Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System, Washington,
DC 20551, not later than January 6,1989.
Any request for a hearing must, as
required by § 262.3(e) of the Board’s
Rules of Procedure (12 CFR § 262.3(e)),
be accompanied by a statement in lieu
of a hearing, identifying specifically any
questions of fact that are in dispute,
summarizing the evidence that would be
presented at a hearing, and indicating
how the party commenting would be
aggrieved by approval of the proposal.
This application may be inspected at
the offices of the Board of Governors or
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, December 7,1988.
James McAfee,

A ssociate Secretary o f the Board.
[FR Doc. 88-28549 Filed 12-12-88; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6210-01-M

United Banks of Colorado, Inc.;
Applications to Engage de novo in
Permissible Nonbanking Activities;
Correction
This notice corrects a previous
Federal Register notice (FR Doc. 8825150) published at page 44123 of the
issue for Tuesday, November 1,1988.
Under the Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City, the entry for United Banks
of Colorado, Inc. is amended to read as
follows:
1. United Banks of Colorado, Inc.,
Denver, Colorado; to engage de novo in
data processing activities and employee
benefits consulting services through a
partnership joint venture between its
4(c)(8)(G) insurance subsidiary, United
Banks Insurance Services, Inc., and an
unaffiliated company, Thompson and
Company Insurance Services, Inc.,
Pasadena, California, pursuant,
respectively, to 12 CFR 225,25 (b)(7) and
previous orders of the Board. Centerre
Bancorporation, 73 Federal Reserve
Bulletin 365 (1987); Norstar Bancorp,
Inc., 72 Federal Reserve Bulletin 729

Federal R egister / V o l 53, No. 239 / Tuesday, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices
(1986); BankVermont Corporation, 72
Federal Reserve Bulletin 377 (1986);
Norstar Bancorp, Inc., 71 Federal
Reserve Bulletin 656 (1985). The joint
venture will not sell insurance as part of
its employee benefits consulting service.
Comments on this application must be
received by December 27,1988.
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, December 7,1988.
James McAfee,

Associate Secretary o f the Board.
[FR Doc. 88-28548 Filed 12-12-88; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6210-01-M

Winter-Park Bancshares, Inc., et al.;
Applications to Engage de novo in
Permissible Nonbanking Activities
The companies listed in this notice
have filed an application under
§ 225.23(a)(1) of the Board’s Regulation
Y (12 CFR 225.23(a)(1)) for the Board’s
approval under section 4(c)(8) of the
Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C.
1843(c)(8)) and § 225.21(a) of Regulation
Y (12 CFR 225.21(a)) to commence or to
engage de novo, either directly or
through a subsidiary, in a nonbanking
activity that is listed in § 225.25 of
Regulation Y as closely related to
banking and permissible for bank
holding companies. Unless otherwise
noted, such activities will be conducted
throughout the United States.
Each application is available for
immediate inspection at the Federal
Reserve Bank indicated. Once the
application has been accepted for
processing, it will also be available for
inspection at the offices of the Board of
Governors. Interested persons may
express their views in writing on the
question whether consummation of the
proposal can “reasonably be expected
to produce benefits to the public, such
as greater convenience, increased
competition, or gains in efficiency, that
outweigh possible adverse effects, such
as undue concentration of resources,
decreased or unfair competition,
conflicts of interests, or unsound
banking practices.” Any request for a
hearing on this question must be
accompanied by a statement of the
reasons a written presentation would
not suffice in lieu of a hearing,
identifying specifically any questions of
fact that are in dispute, summarizing the
evidence that would be presented at a
hearing, and indicating how the party
commenting would be aggrieved by
approval of the proposal.
Unless otherwise noted, comments
regarding the applications must be
received at the Reserve Bank indicated
or the offices of the Board of Governors
not later than January 4,1989.
A. Federal Reserve Bank of
Minneapolis (James M. Lyon, Vice
President) 250 Marquette Avenue,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55480:

1.
Winter-Park Bancshares, Inc*
Exeland, Wisconsin; to engage de novo
through its subsidiary, Winter Insurance
Agency, Winter, Wisconsin, in
insurance activities in a town of less
than 5,000 pursuant to § 225.25{b)(8)(iii)
of the Board’s Regulation Y. These
activities will be conducted in Winter,
Wisconsin; Park Falls, Wisconsin;
Gilman, Wisconsin; and Owen,
Wisconsin.
B.
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco (Harry W. Green, Vice
President) 101 Market Street, San
Francisco, California 94105:
1.
The M itsubishi Bank, Limited,
Tokyo, Japan; to engage de novo through
its subsidiary, MBL Futures, Inc.,
Chicago, Illinois, in acting as a futures
commission merchant for nonaffiliated
persons in the execution and clearance
on major commodity exchanges of
futures contracts and options on futures
contracts for bullion, foreign exchange,
government securities, and certificates
of deposit and other money market
instruments that a bank may buy or sell
in the cash market for its own account
pursuant to § 225.25(b}(18) of the Board’s
Regulaton Y.
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, December 7,1988.
James McAfee,

A ssociate Secretary o f the Board.
[FR Doc. 88-28547 Filed 12-12-88; 8:45 am}
BILLING CODE 6210-01-M

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
Statements of General Policy or
Interpretation Staff Commentary On
the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act
A G E N C Y : Federal Trade Commission.
A C T I O N : Publication of staff
commentary.
S u m m a r y : The Commission staff is

issuing its Commentary on the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act that will
supersede all previously issued staff
interpretations of the Act. The purpose
of the Commentary is to clarify and
codify these interpretations.
d a t e : December 1 3 ,198a
A D D R E S S : Federal Trade Commission,
Washington, DC 20580.
F O R F U R T H E R I N F O R M A T IO N C O N T A C T :

Clarke W. Brinckerhoff, Program
Advisor, John F. LeFevre, Program
Advisor, Division of Credit Practices,
Federal Trade Commission,
Washington, DC 20580, (202) 326-3208 or
(202) 326-3209.
S U P P L E M E N T A R Y IN F O R M A T IO N : On
March 7 , 198a the staff of the Federal
Trade Commission (“staff’ or “FTC
staff’) published its proposed Staff
Commentary on the Fair Debt Collection
Practices Act (“FDCPA”) in the Federal
Register (51 FR 8019). That notice set
forth the text of the proposed

50097

Commentary, along with (1) the staffs
rationale for issuing the Commentary
and (2) a list of the principal areas
where it varied in appreciable measure
from the informal opinions previously
offered by the FTC staff. That notice
also briefly described the FDCPA, the
Commission’s role in enforcing the
statute, and the FTC’s staffs interest in
improving the present method of
providing advice by making informal
staff letters available to the public. It
explained that the staff viewed the
publication of the Commentary as an
opportunity to provide a more
comprehensive vehicle for providing
staff opinions concerning the FDCPA,
and to revise previous advice that the
staff had come to believe was
inconsistent or inaccurate. Both the
notice dated March 7,1986, and the
introduction to the proposed
Commentary specified that it does not
have the force of a trade regulation rule
or formal agency action, and that it is
not binding on the Commission or the
public.
The notice in the Federal Register
dated March 7,1986, stated that the FTC
staff would accept public comments on
the proposed Commentary to aid in
preparation of the final product. Three
trade associations, six corporations, the
consumer protection division of the
offices of three state Attorneys General,
one state regulatory agency, one
national consumer organization, two
local consumer groups, and two law
firms responded to this invitation.
Although the notice stated the FTC staff
was requesting comments until May 6,
1986, all comments were taken into
account in preparing the Commentary,
even those received after that date.
On July 9,1986, four months after
publication of the proposed
Commentary, the President signed into
law a bill (Pub. L. 99-3610 repealing
former section 803(6)(F), which had
exempted "any attorney-at-law
collecting a debt as an attorney on
behalf of and in the name of a client.”
The FTC staff has responded to a large
number of inquiries from attorneys
seeking its views on how the FDCPA
applies to their practices. Therefore, the
staff has added comments in
appropriate locations to reflect the
advice it has provided to attorneys on
these issues.
This notice (1) summarizes comments
received from the public in response to
the FTC staff s 1986 publication of the
Fair Debt Collection Practices Act
Commentary in “proposed” form, (2)
highlights the major areas where the
staff revised the Commentary based on
those comments or refused to do so, and
(3) outlines the major issues added to
the Commentary, reflecting written
advice which the staff has provided to
attorneys following repeal of the

50098

Fed eral R egister / Vol. 53, No. 239 / Tuesday, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices

“attorney-at-law collecting a debt”
exemption in July 1986.
In this notice, the word “comment”
refers to an opinion set forth in the
Commentary by the staff, “public
commenter” refers to a party that
submitted views on the proposed
Commentary following its publication in
the Federal Register, and “public
comments” refers to those views.
Principal Revisions To Commentary
Based on Public Comments
Generally, the FTC staff found the
public comments helpful in preparing
the final version of the Commentary,
although not all the proposals were
adopted. Most of the public comments
were aimed at clarifying the staffs
intent. The redraft adopted these
suggestions where it appeared that they
resulted in an appreciable improvement.
The overwhelming majority of the
revisions the FTC staff made in the
Commentary involved only minor
changes (adding a word or parenthetical
phrase or making some minor editorial
change), and were designed to clarify
points or to avoid possible unintended
inferences. However, besides the
addition of comments relating to
attorney debt collectors, there were
some changes of a substantive nature
that were made based on public
comments. This section highlights the
most significant of the clarifications and
revisions that were made based on
public comments.
1. L ocation inform ation (section 804
(h 5 ))
The FTC staff has made adjustments
to two comments to acknowledge that a
debt collector who is seeking location
information by mail may identify his
employer when expressly asked to do
so. The staff added parenthetical
references to comment #4 to section 804,
and to comment #4 to section 807(14),
which discusses section 804(1) and (5)
under the heading "relation to other
sections."
One public commenter pounted out
that if the person from whom the locaton
information is sought replies by
expressly requesting the name of the
employer of the individual debt collector
who sent the letter,1 sections 804(1) and
804(5) may appear to place conflicting
obligations on the debt collection firm.
On the one hand, section 804(1) requires
a debt collector employee, in
communications seeking location
information, to “identify his employer" if
"expressly requested.” Yet section
1 Such a communication would be signed by the
individual debt collector, without indicating that the
letter is from a debt collection firm.

804(5) generally prohibits a debt
collector from using “any language or
symbol on any envelope or in the
contents of any communication effected
by the mails or telegram that indicates
that the debt collector is in the debt
collection business or that the
communication relates to the collection
of a debt.”
The FTC staff believes a proper
interpretation of the FDCPA is to read
section 804(1) as controlling this
situation, because it specifically
addresses the situation in which an
individual expressly requests the name
of the debt collection firm. In that case,
we believe that the debt collection firm
must reveal its identity in order to
acquire location information. The
comments bearing on this issue have
therefore been changed to reflect that
position.
2. C ontact lim ited to consum er's
attorn ey (section 805(a))
Public commenters argued forcefully
that comment #3, stating that a debt
collector could not communicate with a
consumer who stated that an attorney
would represent him with respect to all
fu tu re debts, would place an
unreasonable burden on the debt
collector. They reported that the
standard operating procedure for many
debt collectors is to close the
consumer’s file once a debt is collected
or efforts to collect it cease. Should a
second debt from the same consumer be
assigned to the debt collector, therefore,
the collector might be unaware of the
previous file on that debtor and would
not know whether the consumer was
represented by an attorney with respect
to all future debts. These commenters
contend that the only way a debt
collector could comply with our
proposed interpretation would be to
check every new debtor file against the
closed Files to determine whether (1) the
collector had ever previously contacted
that debtor, (2) the debtor had
previously been represented by an
attorney, and (2) the debtor had given
the collector a blanket notice of legal
representation. They suggested instead
that, when contacted about a
subsequent debt, the consumer should
simply inform the debt collector that he
is still represented by an attorney and
that the debt collector should contact
the attorney.
The FTC staff now believes that the
portion of comment #3 in the proposed
Commentary regarding future
representation is simply not supported
by the statute, or envisioned by its
legislative history. Furthermore, it could
easily be the case that the attorney in
fact no longer represents the consumer.

Accordingly, the staff has modified the
second paragraph of comment #3 to
section 805(a) to replace the broad
reference to "all current and future
debts” with the more appropriate “other
debts.”
3. C onsum er con sen t to third p arty
con tacts (section 805(b))
The statement in comment #1 that
consumers consent to third party
contacts “may be presumed from
circumstances” has been deleted. One
public commenter expressed concern
that this formulation might open the
door to overreaching by debt collectors.
The deleted phrase was not necessary
to the point involved— that consent need
not necessarily be in writing—which is
better made by providing a clear
example of such consent.
4. L ists o f d eb tors (S ection 806(3))
One public commenter noted that this
section of the proposed Commentary did
not completely reflect the FDCPA’s
reference to sections of the Fair Credit
Reporting Act. The description has been
amended and a comment has been
added to reflect that relationship, in
accord with a prior staff opinion on the
section and a Commission interpretation
on the FCRA.
5. S tatem en t b y d eb t co llec to r o f
p o s sib le action (S ection 807(5))
A revision was made to correct the
Commentary’s inadvertent reference to
the cred itor, rather than to the d eb t
co llector, in comment #3 to this section.
Comment #3 concerns statements by the
debt collector about action that is
unlikely to be taken in a particular case.
Obviously, as several public
commenters pointed out, the creditor’s
knowledge that action is unlikely is not
automatically imputed to the debt
collector.
6. D ocum ents d ecep tiv e a s to au thorship
(S ection 807(9))
An appropriate clause has been added
to the description and to comment #1, to
give a more complete discussion of this
section than in the proposed
Commentary, which focused only on
documents that fraudulently appear to
be government documents. One public
commenter correctly pointed out that
the statute covers a much wider range of
deceptive practices as to the source of
the document.
7. L etters m a rked “p erso n a l" o r
“co n fid en tia l” (S ection 808(8))
Comment #3 to this section has been
expanded to assert that use of the term
“Personal” or “Confidential”, as well as

Federal Register / VoL 53, No. 239 / Tuesd ay, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices
the word “Telegram” or the like, does
not violate this section.
One public commenter stated that
debt collectors use designations of this
sort to protect the consumer’s privacy
by attempting to ensure that the
envelope is not opened by unauthorized
persons, and argued that such terms are
essentially part of the letter’s address.
The FTC staff agrees that the
proposed change is logical. The staff has
already recognized that a rigid, literal
approach to section 808(8) would lead to
absurd results (i.e., taken literally, it
would prohibit showing any part of the
consumer’s address on the envelope).
The legislative purpose was to prohibit a
debt collector from using symbols or
language on envelopes that would
reveal that the contents pertain to debt
collection—not to totally bar the use of
harmless words or symbols on an
envelope. Indeed, it was for this reason
that comment #3 to this section of the
proposed Commentary (in accord with
prior informal staff advice) explicitly
recognized that the term “Telegram” or
similar designation on an envelope does
not violate this section.
8. W aiver o f venue p rov ision (S ection
811)
Numerous public commenters
objected to comment #1 to this section,
indicating a fear that the staffs
interpretation would lead to a flood of
waiver provisions hidden in the fine
print of consumer credit contracts.
Although the FTC staff believes that
these parties misread the comment,
which clearly stated that any waiver
“must be provided to the debt collector,”
the comment has been expanded to be
even more explicit on the point.
Significant Public Comments Not
Adopted
There were several areas in which
public commenters suggested changes in
the Commentary that were not adopted.
This section discusses the most
significant of those proposals, and sets
forth the staff s principal reasons for
maintaining its pQsition.

the debt are not “communications” and,
hence, do not violate any provision
where that term is used.
The FTC staff continues to believe
that some contacts with consumers can
violate section 805(a) or section 805(c)
because they at least “indirectly” refer
to the debt, even if the obligation isn’t
specifically mentioned. For example,
there is no doubt that a debt collector
who has previously contacted a
consumer about a debt violates section
805(a) if he calls the consumer at 3 AM
and says only only “Hi, this is Joe, I
haven’t forgotten you”—the words may
not refer to the debt, but the consumer
will know from previous collection
efforts by “Joe” what the call is about.
The words “or indirectly” in the
definition make it clear that Congress
intended a common sense approach to
this situation. Furthermore, the word
“communication” (or variations thereof)
is used six times in section 804, which
authorizes the seeking of location
information from third parties with the
general requirement that the debt will
n ot be disclosed to suGh parties,
demonstrating that this term was not
intended to be limited throughout the
statute to acts that specifically refer to
the debt, regardless of the definition set
forth in section 803(2).
2. D efin ition o f “lo catio n in form ation ”
(section 803(7))
Public commenters made varying
suggestions that would effectively
amend the section’s definition of
“location information”—i.e., "a
consumer’s place of abode and his
telephone number at such place, or his
place of employment.” One public
commenter expressed the view that a
debt collector was somehow limited by
this language to obtaining only one of
the three enumerated items (home
address or home phone or work
address), while others suggested that we
interpret the definition to include a
fourth item (work phone). Because no
public commenter provided a convincing
rationale for its position, and because
the FTC staff believes that the definition
is clear, both suggestions were declined.

1. C ontacts in w hich th e c o llec to r d o es
not m ention th e d eb t (S ection s 803(2),
805(a), 805(c))

3. U se o f “co p y o f a ju dgm en t” in n o tice
(section 807(2)(A))

Several public commenters contended
that the FTC staff s treatment of certain
contacts consumers as violations of the
FDCPA was incorrect because the
contacts did not involve a
"communication” under the definition
provided in section 803(2), which refers
to “conveying of information regarding a
debt directly or indirectly to any
person.” These commenters argued that
contacts that do not explicitly refer to

Some public commenters criticized the
staffs statement in comment #3 to
section 807(2) that the validation notice
provided by a debt collector to comply
with section 809(a)(4) may use the
phrase “copy of a judgment” even where
no judgment exists. Staff had previously
advised in informal opinion letters that
the use of those words violated section
807(2)(A) because they suggested that a
judgment existed when it did not.

50099

Because the practical effect of these
interpretations was to make verbatim
use of the statutory language of section
809(a)(4)) of violation of section
807(2){A), they were rejected by the
leading court decision 2 and by the staff
in the proposed Commentary. The FTC
staff continues to believe its reasons for
revising prior staff opinions (discussed
in item 5 of the notice in the Federal
Register dated March 7,1986) are wellfounded, and thus it has adhered to that
position.
One public commenter suggested that
we might also permit the phrase “copy
of th e judgment” as well. Because the
phrase used in section 809(a)(4) is “copy
of a judgment” (emphasis addend) and
this language led to the sta ffs current
interpretation, the Commentary has not
been revised on this point.
4. F a lse alleg a tio n s o f fra u d (section
807(7))
Some public commenters contended
that the language pf this section, which
outlaws the “false representation or
implication that the consumer
committed any crime or other conduct in
ord er to d isg race th e con su m er”
(emphasis added) demonstrates that
specific intent is essentia) to a violation.
The FTC staff agrees that some element
of intent is involved, but believes that
an intent to disgrace can be inferred
from the nature of the acts the consumer
is being accused of—fraud (comment 1)
or crime (comment 2). Therefore, the
comments on this section have not been
changed.
5. D isclosu re o f d eb t co llectio n p u rp ose
(section 807(11))
Several public commenters questioned
the staff’s refusal to construe section
807(11) as requiring debt collectors to
disclose the purpose of each and every
written and oral contact, pointing out
that court decisions have gone both
ways on the issue. The staffs position,
reflected in the Commission’s Sixth and
Seventh Annual Reports to Congress—
that such disclosures need not be made
where they are obvious or have already
been made—has not changed, and the
comments provide no new argument for
revising that view.
Other public commenters asked the
staff to retract the comment stating that
a debt collector may not send a note
saying only “please call me right away”
to a consumer whom the collector has
not previously contacted. They argued
that such a note could not violate this
1 Blackw ell v. Professional Business Services o f Georgia. In c ., 526 F. Supp. 535.535-39 (NX). Ca.
1981).

50100

Fed eral R egister / Vol. 53, No. 239 / Tuesday, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices

section because it made no reference to
the debt and therefore was not a
“communication,” as defined in section
803(2). Because the staff believes that (1)
the intent of section 807(11) was to
require that debt collectors’ purposes be
known to parties they contact, and (2)
the use of the term “communication” in
other sections of the FDCPA shows that
its construction is not always limited to
the definition set forth in section 803(2),
this comment was retained.3
6. E lem ents o f u n fairn ess (section 808)
Some public commenters criticized
comment #2, which concerns general
violations of this section of the FDCPA,
for construing the term “unfair” in the
same way as the Commission has
construed it under section 5 of the FTC
Act. They argued that the comment
would, in effect, repeal some of the
subsections of section 808 because the
proscribed conduct would not cause the
type of injury required, or would not be
considered unfair based on a cost/
benefit analysis. Because the location of
the comment—under section 808
g en erally , as opposed to any of its
subsections—makes it clear that the
staff did not intend to negate any of the
eight types of conduct specified by
Congress to be a violation of this
provision in subsections (1) through (8),
the staff retained this comment.
Other public commenters asked that
comment #2 be expanded to state that
section 808 does not cover inadvertent
acts or any act that was reasonably
calculated to collect the debt. Because
this comment was meant simply to
reflect the FTC staffs view that the
Commission’s approach to “unfair
practices" (as reflected in its treatment
of that concept in section 5 of the FTC
Act) is applicable in analyzing general
violations of section 808, comment #2
has not been substantially revised.
7. D etails o f v alid ation n otices (section
809(a))
Some public commenters objected to
the staff s view that section 809(a)
imposes no requirements as to form,
sequence, location, or type size of the
notice (comment 3); to our reasons for
reversing prior informal opinions to the
contrary (item 10 in the March 7,1986
notice in the Federal Register); and to
our view that the notice may be
provided orally (comment 5). However,
the public commenters provided no new
analysis to change the staffs reading of
the section. Therefore, the Commentary
has not been changed on this point.
a See discussion of FDCPA section 804 in item 1
of this section of this notice.

8. P roper forum fo r su it on an o ra l
con tract (section 811(a)(2))
One public commenter suggested
deletion of comment 4 to section 811.
Section 811(a)(2) clearly states that there
are only two districts where suit may be
brought by a debt collector on a debt—
where the consumer “signed the
contract sued upon” and where the
consumer “resides at the
commencement of the action.” The staff
decided to retain the comment, which
simply notes the obvious fact that if
there is only an oral agreement (which
by definition can not be “signed"), suit
may only be brought where the
consumer resides.
9. M iscellan eou s req u ests fo r a d d ed
com m ents.
Some public commentors made a
number of suggestions that the FTC staff
establish n ew principles in the
Commentary.4 Although not all of the
proposals were without merit, the staff
believes it is unwise to add major new
sections to the final version of the
Commentary to address issues that have
never been the subject of staff
correspondence.
New Comments Based on Recent Staff
Letters To Attorneys
The staff has added comments to
reflect the large volume of written
advice it has provided to attorneys
following repeal of the “attorney-atlaw” exemption in July 1986.5 This
section synthesizes the conclusions
reached in the most significant additions
made to the Commentary based on this
recent correspondence.
1. C overage (S ection s 803(2, 5, 6), 811)
Attorneys or law firms that engage in
traditional debt collection activities
(sending dunning letters, making
4 The principal proposals were that the staff add
to the Commentary (1) a lengthy new comment in
section 803(6} that a party could be a “debt
collector” with respect to some accounts but not
others, (2) a definition of "default” in connection
with section 803(6)(G)(iii) (now section 803(B)(F)(iii))
concerning accounts not in default when received,
(3) a statement that section 806(3) does not prohibit
a debt collector from responding to a specific credit
reference inquiry from a creditor, (4) substantial
new material to various comments in section 807(14)
to cover a situation where one debt collector
provides services as a contractor for another debt
collector, (5) a statement that section 808(1} does
not prohibit an agreement between a consumer and
debt collector, and (6) a statement that the
verification required by section 809(b) may be
provided by an agent of the debt collector.
5 Although most of the issues raised in those
letters related to attorneys as debt collectors, a few
of them also asked for interpretations on other
issues as well. For the sake of completeness, all
significant staff opinions included in this
correspondence (which has been widely circulated
already) have been included in the Commentary.

collection calls to consumers) are
covered by the FDCPA, but those whose
practice is limited to legal activities are
not covered.6 Similarly, filing or service
of a complaint or other legal paper (or
transmission of a notice that is a legal
prerequisite to enforcement of a debt) is
not a “communication” covered by the
FDCPA, but traditional collection efforts
are covered.7
A student loan is a “debt” covered by
the FDCPA;8 however, alimony, tort
claims, and non-pecuniary obligations
are not covered.9
A salaried attorney who collects
debts on behalf of, and in the name of,
his creditor employer,10 and a state
educational agency that collects student
loans, 11 are exempt from coverage by
the FDCPA.
Debt collectors (including attorney
debt collectors) are subject to the venue
limitations of the FDCPA.12
2. C om m unications b y d eb t co llecto rs
(section s 805(b), 806(3-4))
An attorney debt collector, who
represents either (1) a creditor or (2) a
debt collector that previously tried to
collect an account, may report his
collection efforts to the debt collector.13
An attorney may communicate with a
witness in a lawsuit that has been
filed.14
A debt collector may provide a list of
consumers, against whom judgments
have been entered, to an investigator in
order to locate such individuals.15 A
debt collector may place a public notice
required by law as a prerequisite to
enforcing the debt.16
3. D ispute an d v erification (section 809)
An attorney debt collector must
provide the required validation notice,
even if a previous debt collector (or the
creditor) has given such notice.17 A debt
collector does not comply with the
obligation to verify the debt simply by
including proof with the first
communication to the consumer.18
* Section 803(6), comments 1-2.
7 Section 803(2), comment 2; section 809(a),
comments 6-7.
* Section 803(5), comment 1.
9 Section 803(5), comment 2.
10 Section 803(6)(A), comment 4(a).
11 Section 803(6)(C), comment 4(c).
*2 Section 811, comment 6.
13 Section 805(b), comment 8.
14 Section 805(b), comment 8.
15 Section 806(3-4), comment 5.
10 Section 806(3-4), comment 6.
17 Section 809(a), comment 7.
18 Section 809(b), comment 1.

Federal Register / VoL 53, No. 239 / Tu esd ay, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices
An attorney debt collector may take
legal action within 30 days of sending
the required validation notice,
regardless of whether the consumer
disputes the debt; if the consumer
disputes the debt, the attorney may still
take legal action but must cease other
collection efforts (e.g., letters or calls to
the consumer) until verification is
obtained and mailed to the consumer.19
4. P erm issible forum to en fo rce a
judgm ent on a d eb t (section 811)
If a judgment has been obtained from
a forum that satisfies the requirements
of this section, a debt collector may
bring suit to enforce it in another
jurisdiction.20
By direction of the Commission.
Donald S. Clark,

Secretary.
Federal Trade Commission Staff
Commentary on the Fair Debt Collection
Practices Act
Introduction
This Commentary is the vehicle by
which the staff of the Federal Trade
Commission publishes its
interpretations of the Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act (FDCPA). It is a
guideline intended to clarify the staff
interpretations of the statute, but does
not have the force or effect of statutory
provisions. It is not a formal trade
regulation rule or advisory opinion of
the Commission, and thus is not binding
on the Commission or the public.
The Commentary is based primarily
on issues discussed in informal staff
letters responding to public requests for
interpretations and on the Commission’s
enforcement program, subsequent to the
FDCPA’s enactment. It is intended to
synthesize staff views on important
issues and to give clear advice where
inconsistencies have been discovered
among staff letters. In some cases,
reflection on the issues posed or
relevant court decisions have resulted in
a different interpretation from that
expressed by the staff in those informal
letters. Therefore, the Commentary
supersedes the staff views expressed in
such correspondence.
In many cases several different
sections or subsections of the FDCPA
may apply to a given factual situation.
This results from the effort by Congress
in drafting the FDCPA to be both
explicit and comprehensive, in order to
limit the opportunities for debt
collectors to evade the underlying
legislative intention. Although it may be
of only technical interest whether a
18 Section 809(a), comment 8.
20 Section 811, comment 5.

given act violates one, two, or three
sections of the FDCPA, the Commentary
frequently provides cross references to
other applicable sections so that it may
serve as a more comprehensive guide for
its users. The Commentary attempts to
discuss the more common overlapping
references, usually under the heading
“Relation to other sections,” and deals
with issues raised by each factual
situation under the section or subsection
that the staff deems most directly
applicable to it.
The Commentary will be revised and
updated by the staff as needed, based
on the experience of the Commission in
responding to public inquiries about,
and enforcing, the FDCPA. The
Commission welcomes input from
interested industry, consumer, and other
public parties on the Commentary and
on issues discussed in it.
The staff will continue to respond to
requests for informal interpretations.
Updates of the Commentary will
consider and, where appropriate,
incorporate issues raised in
correspondence and other public
contacts, as well as the Commission’s
enforcement efforts. Therefore, a party
who is interested in raising an issue for
inclusion in future editions of the
Commentary does not need to make any
formal submission or request to that
effect.
The Commentary should be used in
conjunction with the statute. The
abbreviated description of each section
or subsection in the Commentary is
designed only as a preamble to
discussion of issues pertaining to each
section and is not intended as a
substitute for the statutory text.
The Commentary should not be
considered as a reflection of all court
rulings under the FDCPA. For example,
on some issues judicial interpretations
of the statute vary depending on the
jurisdiction, with the result that the
staffs enforcement position can not be
in accord with all decided cases.
S ection 801—S hort T itle
Section 801 names the statute the
“Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.”
The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act
(FDCPA) is Title VIII of the Consumer
Credit Protection Act, which also
includes other federal statutes relating
to consumer credit, such as the Truth in
Lending Act (Title I), the Fair Credit
Reporting Act (Title VI), and the Equal
Credit Opportunity Act (Title VII).
S ection 802—Findings an d P u rpose
Section 802 recites the Congressional
findings that serve as the basis for the
legislation.

50101

S ection 803—D efin ition s
Section 803(1) defines “Commission”
as the Federal Trade Commission.
1.
G en eral. The definition includes
only the Federal Trade Commission, not
necessarily the staff acting on its behalf.
Section 803(2) defines
“communication” as the “conveying of
information regarding a debt directly or
indirectly to any person through any
medium.”
1. G eneral. The definition includes
oral and written transmission of
messages which refer to a debt.
2. E xclu sions. The term does not
include formal legal action (e.g., filing of
a lawsuit or other petition/pleadings
with a court; service of a complaint or
other legal papers in connection with a
lawsuit, or activities directly related to
such service). Similarly, it does not
include a notice that is required by law
as a prerequisite to enforcing a
contractual obligation between creditor
and debtor, by judicial or nonjudicial
legal process.
The term does not include situations
in which the debt collector does not
convey information regarding the debt,
such as:
• A request to a third party for a
consumer to return a telephone call to
the debt collector, if the debt collector
does not refer to the debt or the caller’s
status as (or affiliation with) a debt
collector.
• A request to a third party for
information about the consumer’s
assets, if the debt collector does not
reveal the existence of a debt.
• A request to a third party in
connection with litigation (e.g.,
requesting a third party to complete a
military affidavit that must be filed as a
prerequisite to enforcing a default
judgment, if the debt collector does not
reveal the existence of the debt.”
Section 803(3) defines “consumer” as
“any natural person obligated or
allegedly obligated to pay any debt.”
1.
G en eral. The definition includes
only a “natural person” and not an
artificial person such as a corporation or
other entity created by statute.
Section 803(4) defines “creditor” as
“any person who offers or extends
credit creating a debt or to whom a debt
is owed”. However, the definition
excludes a party who “receives an
assignment or transfer of a debt in
default solely for the purpose of
facilitating collection of such debt for
another.”
1.
G eneral. The definition includes the
party that actually extended credit or
became the obligee on an account in the
normal course of business, and excludes

50102

Fed eral R egister / Vol. 53, No. 239 / Tuesday, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices

a party that was assigned a delinquent
debt only for collection purposes.
Section 803(5) defines “debt” as a
consumer’s “obligation . . . to pay
money arising out of a transaction in
which the money, arising out of a
transportation in which the money,
property, insurance, or services (being
purchased) are primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes. . . .”
1. E xam ples. The term includes:
• Overdue obligations such as
medical bills that were originally
payable in full within a certain time
period (e.g., 30 days).
• A dishonored check that was
tendered in payment for goods or
services acquired or used primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes.
• A student loan, because the
consumer is purchasing “services”
(education) for personal use.
2. E xclu sions. The term does not
include:
• Unpaid taxes, fines, alimony, or tort
claims, because they are not debts
incurred from a "transportation
(involving purchase of) property * * *
or services * * * for personal, family or
household purposes.”
• A credit card that a cardholder
retains after the card issuer has
demanded its return. The cardholder’s
account balance is the debt.
• A non-pecuniary obligation of the
consumer such as the responsibility to
maintain adequate insurance on the
collateral, because it does not involve
an “obligation * * * to pay money.”
Section 803(6) defines “debt collector”
as a party “who uses any
instrumentality of interstate commerce
or the mails in * * * collection of * * *
debts owed * * * another.”
1. E xam ples. The term includes:
• Employees of a debt collection
business, including a corporation,
partnership, or other entity whose
business is the collection of debts
owned another.
• A firm that regularly collects
overdue rent on behalf of real estate
owners, or periodic assessments on
behalf of condominium associations,
because it "regularly collects * * *
debts owned or due another."
• A party based in the United States
who collects debts owned by consumers
residing outside the United States,
because he “uses * * * the mails" in the
collection business. The residence of the
debtor is irrelevant.
• A firm that collects debts in its own
name for a creditor solely by
mechanical techniques, such as (1)
placing phone calls with pre-recorded
messages and recording consumer
responses, or (2) making computergenerated mailings.

• An attorney or law firm whose
efforts to collect consumer debts on
behalf of its clients regularly include
activities traditionally associated with
debt collection, such as sending demand
letters (dunning notices) or making
collection telephone calls to the
consumer. However, an attorney is not
considered to be a debt collector simply
because he responds to an inquiry from
the consumer following the filing of a
lawsuit.
2. E xclu sions. The term does not
include:
• Any person who collects debts (or
attempts to do so) only in insolated
instances, becuause the definition
includes only those who “regularly”
collect debts.
• A credit card issuer that collects its
cardholder’s account, even when the
account is based upon purchases from
participating merchants, because the
issuer is collecting its own debts, not
those “owed or due another.”
• An attorney whose practice is
limied to legal activities (e.g., the filing
and prosecution of lawsuits to reduce
debts to judgment).
3. A p p lication o f d efin ition to cred ito r
using an oth er n am e. Creditors are
generally excluded from the definition of
“debt collector” to the extent that they
collect their own debts in their own
name. However, the term specifically
applies to “any creditor who, in the
process of collecting his own debts, uses
any name other than his own which
would indicate that a third person is”
involved in the collection.
A creditor is a debt collector for
purposes of this act if:
• He uses a name other than his own
to collect his debts, including a fictitious
name.
• His salaried attorney employees
who collect debts use stationery that
indicates that attorneys are employed
by someone other than the creditor or
are independent or separate from the
creditor (e.g., ABC Corp. sends
collection letters on stationery of "John
Jones, Attorney-at-Law”).
• He regularly collects debts for
another creditor; however, he is a debt
collector only for purposes of collecting
these debts, not when he collects his
own debt in his own name.
• The creditor's collection division or
related corporate collector is not clearly
designated as being affiliated with the
creditor; however, the creditor is not a
debt collector if the creditor’s
correspondence is clearly labeled as
being from the "collection unit of the
(creditor’s name),” since the creditor is
not using a "name other than his own"
in that instance.

Relation to other sections. A creditor
who is covered by the FDCPA because
he uses a “name other than his own”
also may violate section 807(14), which
prohibits using a false business name.
When he falsely uses an attorney’s
name, he violates section 807(3).
4.
Specific exemptions from definition
o f debt collector.
(a) Creditor employees. Section
803(6)(A) provides that “debt collector”
does not include “any officer or
employee of a creditor while, in the
name of the creditor, collecting debts for
such creditor”.
The exemption includes a collection
agency employee, who works for a
creditor to collect in the creditor’s name
at the creditor’s office under the
creditor’s supervision, because he has
become the de facto employee of the
creditor.
The exemption includes a creditor’s
salaried attorney (or other) employee
who collects debts on behalf of, and in
the name of, that creditor.
The exemption does not include a
creditor’s former employee who
continues to collect accounts on the
creditor’s behalf, if he acts under his
own name rather than the creditors’s.
(b) Creditor-controlled collector.
Section 803(6)(B) provides that “debt
collector” does not include a party
collecting for another, where they are
both “related by common ownership or
affiliated by corporate control, if the
(party collects) only for persons to
whom it is so related or affiliated and if
the principal business of such person is
not the collection of debts”.
The exemption applies where the
collector and creditor have “common
ownership or * * * corporate control."
For example, a company is exempt
when it attempts to collect debts of
another company after the two entities
have merged.
The exemption does not apply to a
party related to a creditor if it also
collects debts for others in addition to
the related creditors.
(c) State and federal officials. Section
803(6)(C) provides that “debt collector”
does not include any state or federal
employee "to the extent that collecting
or attempting to collect any debt is in
the performance of his official duties”.
The exemption applies only to such
governmental employees in the
performance of their “official duties”
and, therefore, does not apply to an
attorney employed by a county
government who also collected bad
checks for local merchants where that
activity is outside his official duties.

F ed eral R egister / Vol. 53, No. 239 / Tu esd ay, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices
The exemption includes a state
educational agency that is engaged in
the collection of student loans.
(d] P rocess serv ers. Section 803(6)(D)
provides that ‘‘debt collector” dos not
include “any person while serving or
attempting to serve legal process on any
other person in connection with the
judicial enforcement of any debt”.
The exemption covers marshals,
sheriffs, and any other process servers
while conducting their normal duties
relating to serving legal papers.
(e) N on-profit cou n selors. Section
803(6)(E) provides that “debt collector”
does not include “any nonprofit
organization which, at the request of
consumers, performs bona fide
consumer credit counseling and assists
consumers in the liquidation of their
debts by receiving payments from such
consumers and distributing such
amounts to creditors”.
This exemption applies only to nonprofit organizations; it does not apply to
for-profit credit counseling services that
accept fees from debtors and regularly
transmit such funds to creditors.
CDM iscellan eou s. Section 803(6) (F)
provides that “debt collector” does not
include collection activity by a party
about a debt that “(i) is incidental to a
bona fide fiduciary obligation
or * * * escrow arrangement;
(ii) * * * was originated by such
person; (iii) * * * was not in default at
the time it was obtained by such person;
or (iv) (was) obtained by such person as
a secured party in a commercial credit
transaction involving the creditor.”
The exemption (i) for bona fide
fiduciary obligations or escrow
arrangements applies to entities such as
trust departments of banks, and escrow
companies. It does not include a party
who is named as a debtor’s trustee
solely for the purpose of conducting a
foreclosure sale (i.e., exercising a power
of sale in the event of default on a loan).
The exemption (ii) for a party that
originated the debt applies to the
original creditor collecting his own
debts in his own name. It also applies
when a creditor assigns a debt originally
owed to him, but retains the authority to
collect the obligation on behalf of the
assignee to whom the debt becomes
owed. For example, the exemption
applies to a creditor who makes a
mortgage or school loan and continues
to handle the account after assigning it
to a third party. However, it does not
apply to a party that takes assignment
of retail installment contracts from the
original creditor and then reassigns
them to another creditor but continues
to collect the debt arising from the
contracts, because the debt was not

“originated by” the collector/first
assignee.
The exception (iii) for debts not in
default when obtained applies to parties
such as mortgage service companies
whose business is servicing current
accounts.
The exemption (iv) for a secured party
in a commercial transaction applies to a
commercial lender who acquires a
consumer account that was used as
collateral, following default on a loan
from the commercial lender to the
original creditor.
(g)
A ttorneys. A provision of the
FDCPA, as enacted in 1977 (former
section 803(6)(F}), providing that "debt
collector” does not include “any
attorney-at-law collecting a debt as an
attorney on behalf of and in the name of
a client,” was repealed by Pub. L. 99361, which became effective in July 1986.
Therefore, an attorney who meets the
definition set forth in section 803(6) is
now covered by the FDCPA.
Section 803(7) defines “location
information” as “a consumer’s place of
abode and his telephone number at such
place, or his place of employment.”
This definition includes only
residence, home phone number, and
place of employment. It does not cover
work phone numbers, names of
supervisors and their telephone
numbers, salaries or dates of paydays.
Section 803(8) defines “state” as “any
State, territory, or possession of the
United States, the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or
any political subdivision of any of the
foregoing.”
S ection 804—A cqu isition o f L ocation
Inform ation
Section 804 requires a debt collector,
when communicating with third parties
for the purpose of acquiring information
about the consumer’s location to “(1)
identify himself, state that he is
confirming or correcting location
information concerning the consumer,
and, only if expressly requested, identify
his employer;” (2) not refer to the debt,
(3) usually make only a single contact
with each third party, (4) not
communicate by post card, (5) not
indicate the collection nature of his
business purpose in any written
communication, and (6) limit
communications to the consumer's
attorney, where the collector knows of
the attorney, unless the attorney fails to
respond to the communication.
1.
G eneral. Although the FDCPA
generally protects the consumer’s
privacy by limiting debt collector
communications about personal affairs
to third parties, it recognizes the need
for some third party contact by

50103

collectors to seek the whereabouts of
the consumer.
2. Id en tification o f d eb t co llec to r
(section 804(1)). An individual employed
by a debt collector seeking location
information must identify himself, but
must not identify his employer unless
asked. When asked, however, he must
give the true and full name of the
employer, to comply with this provision
and avoid a violation of § 807(14).
An individual debt collector may use
an alias if it is used consistently and if it
does not interfere with another party’s
ability to identify him (e.g., the true
identity can be ascertained by the
employer).
3. R eferra l to d eb t (section 804(2)). A
debt collector may not refer to the
consumer’s debt in any third party
communication seeking location
information, including those with other
creditors.
4. R eferen ce to d eb t c o llec to r’s
bu sin ess (section 804(5)). A debt
collector may not use his actual name in
his letterhead or elsewhere in a written
communication seeking location
information, if the name indicates
collection activity (such as a name
containing the word “debt”, “collector”,
or “collection”), except when the person
contacted has expressly requested that
the debt collector identify himself.
5. C om m unication w ith con su m er’s
attorn ey (section 804(6)). Once a debt
collector learns a consumer is
represented by an attorney in
connection with the debt, he must
confine his request for location
information to the attorney. (See also
comments on section 805(a)(2)).
S ection 805—C om m unication in
C onnection W ith D ebt C ollection
S ection 805(a)—C om m unication with
th e consum er. Unless the consumer has
consented or a court order permits, a
debt collector may not communicate
with a consumer to collect a debt (1) at
any time or place which is unusual or
known to be inconvenient to the
consumer (8AM-9PM is presumed to be
convenient), (2) where he knows the
consumer is represented by an attorney
with respect to the debt, unless the
attorney fails to respond to the
communication in a reasonable time
period, or (3) at work if he knows the
consumer’s employer prohibits such
contacts.
1.
S cop e. For purposes of this section,
the term “communicate” is given its
commonly accepted meaning. Thus, the
section applies to contacts with the
consumer related to the collection of the
debt, whether or not the debt is
specifically mentioned.

5 0 1 0 4 ___________ F ed eral R egister / Vol. 53, No. 239 / Tuesday, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices
2. In con ven ien t o r unusual tim es o r
p la c e s (section 805(a)(1)). A debt
collector may not call the consumer at
any time, or on any particular day, if he
has credible information (from the
consumer or elsewhere) that it is
inconvenient. If the debt collector does
not have such information, a call on
Sunday is not p e r s e illegal.
3. C onsum er rep resen ted b y attorn ey
(section 805(a)(2)). If a debt collector
learns that a consumer is represented by
an attorney in connection with the debt,
even if not formally notified of this fact,
the debt collector must contact only the
attorney and must not contact the
consumer.
A debt collector who knows a
consumer is represented by counsel with
respect to a debt is not required to
assume similar representation on other
debts; however, if a consumer notifies
the debt collector that the attorney has
been retained to represent him for other
debts placed with the debt collector, the
debt collector must deal only with that
attorney with respect to such debts.
The creditor’s knowledge that the
consumer has an attorney is not
automatically imputed to the debt
collector.
4. C alls at w ork (section 805(a)(3)). A
debt collector may not call the consumer
at work if he has reason to know the
employer forbids such communication
(e.g., if the consumer has so informed
the debt collector).
S ection 805(b)—C om m unication w ith
third p arties. Unless the consumer
consents, or a court order or section 804
permits, “or as reasonably necessary to
effectuate a postjudgment judicial
remedy,” a debt collector “may not
communicate, in connection with the
collection of any debt, with any person
other than the consumer, his attorney, a
consumer reporting agency if otherwise
permitted by law, the creditor, the
attorney of the creditor, or the attorney
of the debt collector.”
1. C onsum er con sen t to th e th ird p arty
con tact. The consumer’s consent need
not be in writing. For example, if a third
party volunteers that a consumer has
authorized him to pay the consumer’s
account, the debt collector may
normally presume the consumer’s
consent, and may accept the payment
and provide a receipt to the party that
makes the payment. However, consent
may not be inferred only from a
consumer’s inaction when the debt
collector requests such consent.
2. L ocation inform ation. Although a
debt collector’s search for information
concerning the consumer’s location
(provided in § 804) is expressly excepted
from the ban on third party contacts, a
debt collector may not call third parties

under the pretense of gaining
information already in his possession.
3. Incidental contacts with telephone
operator or telegraph clerk. A debt
collector may contact an employee of a
telephone or telegraph company in order
to contact the consumer, without
violating the prohibition on
communication to third parties, if the
only information given is that necessary
to enable the collector to transmit the
message to, or make the contact with,
the consumer.
4. A ccessibility by third party. A debt
collector may not send a written
message that is easily accessible to third
parties. For example, he may not use a
computerized billing statement that can
be seen on the envelope itself.
A debt collector may use an “in care
o f ’ letter only if the consumer lives at,
or accepts mail at, the other party’s
address.
A debt collector does not violate this
provision when an eavesdropper
overhears a conversation with the
consumer, unless the debt collector has
reason to anticipate the conversation
will be overhead.
5. Non-exceptedparties. A debt
collector may discuss the debt only with
the parties specified in this section
(consumer, creditor, a party’s attorney,
or credit bureau). For example, unless
the consumer has authorized the
communication, a collector may not
discuss the debt (such as a dishonored
check) with a bank, or make a report on
a consumer to a non-profit counseling
service.
6. Judicial remedy. The words “as
reasonably necessary to effectuate a
postjudgment judicial remedy” mean a
communication necessary for execution
or enforcement of the remedy. A debt
collector may not send a copy of the
judgment to an employer, except as part
of a formal service of papers to achieve
a garnishment or other remedy.
7. Audits or inquiries. A debt collector
may disclose his files to a government
official or an auditor, to respond to an
inquiry or conduct an audit, because the
disclosure would not be “in connection
with the collection of any debt."
8. Communications by attorney debt
collectors. An attorney who represents
either a creditor or debt collector that
has previously tried to collect an
account may communicate his efforts to
collect the account to the debt collector.
Because the section permits a debt
collector to communicate with “the
attorney of the creditor, or the attorney
of the debt collector”, communications
between these parties (even if the
attorney is also a debt collector) are not
forbidden.

An attorney may communicate with a
potential witness in connection with a
lawsuit he has filed (e.g., in order to
establish the existence of a debt),
because the section was not intended to
prohibit communications by attorneys
that are necessary to conduct lawsuits
on behalf of their clients.
S ection 805(c)—C easing
com m unication. Once a debt collector
receives written notice from a consumer
that he or she refuses to pay the debt or
wants the collector to stop further
collection efforts, the debt collector
must cease any further communication
with the consumer except “(1) to advise
the consumer that the debt collector’s
further efforts are being terminated; (2)
to notify the consumer that the debt
collector or creditor may invoke
specified remedies which are ordinarily
invoked by such debt collector or
creditor; or (3) where applicable, to
notify the consumer that the debt
collector or creditor intends to invoke a
specified remedy.”
1. Scope. For purposes of this section,
the term “communicate” is given its
commonly accepted meaning. Thus, the
section applies to any contact with the
consumer related to the collection of the
debt, whether or not the debt is
specifically mentioned.
2. R equ est fo r paym ent. A debt
collector’s response to a “cease
communication” notice from the
consumer may not include a demand for
payment, but is limited to the three
statutory exceptions.
S ection 805(d)— “con su m er”
defin ition . For section 805 purposes, the
term “consumer” includes the
“consumer’s spouse, parent (if the
consumer is a minor), guardian,
executor, or administrator.”
1.
B road “consu m er" defin ition .
Because of the broad statutory
definition of “consumer” for the
purposes of this section, many of its
protections extend to parties close to the
consumer. For example, the debt
collector may not call the consumer’s
spouse at a time or place known to be
inconvenient to the spouse. Conversely,
he may call the spouse (guardian,
executor, etc.) at any time or place that
would be in accord with the limitations
of section 805(a).
S ection 806—H arassm en t o r A bu se
Section 806 prohibits a debt collector
from any conduct that would "Harass,
oppress, or abuse any person in
connection with the collection of a
debt." It provides six examples of
harassement or abuse.
1.
Scope. Prohibited actions are not
limited to the six subsections listed as

Federal Register / Vol. 53, No, 239 / Tuesd ay, D ecem b er 13, 1988 / N otices
examples of activities that violate this
provision.
2. U n n ecessary c a lls to th ird p arties.
A debt collector may not leave
telephone messages with neighbors
when the debt collector knows the
consumer’s name and telephone number
and could have reached him directly.
3. M ultiple co n tacts w ith consum er. A
debt collector may not engage in
repeated personal contacts with a
consumer with such frequency as to
harass him. Subsection (5) deals
specifically with harassment by multiple
phone calls.
4. A bu sive conduct. A debt collector
may not pose a lengthy series of
questions or comments to the consumer
without giving the consumer a chance to
reply. Subsection (2) deals specifically
with harassment involving obscene,
profane, or abusive language.
Section 806(1) prohibits the “use or
threat of use of violence or other
criminal means to harm * * * any
person.*'
1.
Im p lied threat. A debt collector
may violate this section by an implied
threat of violence. For example, a debt
collector may not pressure a consumer
with statements such as “We’re not
playing around here—we can play
tough" or “W e’re going to send
somebody to collect for us one way or
the other.”
Section 806(2) prohibits the use of
obscene, profane, or abusive language.
1.
A bu sive language. Abusive
language includes religious slurs,
profanity, obscenity, calling the
consumer a liar or a deadbeat, and the
use of racial or sexual epithets.
Section 806(3) prohibits the
“publication of a list of consumers who
allegedly refuse to pay debts,” except to
report the items to a “consumer
reporting agency", as defined in the Fair
Credit Reporting Act or to a party
otherwise authorized to receive it under
that Act.
Section 806(4) prohibits the
“advertisement for sale of any debt to
coerce payment of the debt."
1. Sham ing p roh ib ited . These
provisions are designed to prohibit debt
collectors from “shaming” a customer
into payment, by publicizing the debt/
2. E xchan ge o f lists. Debt collectors
may not exchange lists of consumers
who allegedly refuse to pay their debts.
3. Inform ation to cred ito r su bscrib ers.
A debt collector may not distribute a list
of alleged debtors to its creditor
subscribers.
4. C od ed lists. A debt collector that
publishes a list of consumers who have
had bad debts, coded to avoid generally
disclosing the consumer’s identity (e.g.,
showing only the drivers license number

and first three letters of each consumer’s
name) does not violate this provision,
because such publication is permitted
under the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
5.
L ist fo r u se b y in vestigator. A
debtor collector does not violate these
provisions by providing a list of
consumers against whom judgments
have been entered to a private
investigator in order to locate such
individuals, because section 805(b)
specifically permits contacts
“reasonably necessary to effectuate a
post-judgment judicial remedy."
8.
P u blic n o tice req u ired b y law . A
debt collector does not violate these
provisions by providing public notices
that are required by law as a
prerequisite to enforcement of a security
interest in connection with a debt.
Section 806(5) prohibits contacting the
consumer by telephone “repeatedly or
continuously with intent to annoy,
abuse, or harass any person at the
called number."
1.
M ultiple p h on e ca lls.
“Continuously" means making a series
of telephone calls, one right after the
other. “Repeatedly” means calling with
excessive frequency under the
circumstances.
Section 806(6) prohibits, except where
section 804 applies, “the placement of
telephone calls without meaningful
disclosure of the caller's identity."
1. A lia ses. A debt collector
employee’s use of an alias that permits
identification of the debt collector [i.e.,
where he uses the alias consistently,
and his true identity can be ascertained
by the employer) constitutes a
“meaningful disclosure of the caller’s
identity."
2. Id en tification o f ca ller. An
individual debt collector must disclose
his employer's identity, when discussing
the debt on the telephone with
consumers or third parties permitted by
section 805(b).
3. R elation to o th er section s. A debt
collector who uses a false business
name in a phone call to conceal his
identity violates section 807(14), as well
as this section.
S ection 807—F a lse o r M isleadin g
R ep resen tation s
Section 807 prohibits a debt collector
from using any “false, deceptive, or
misleading representation or means in
connection with the collection of any
d ebt” It provides sixteen examples of
false or misleading representations.
1.
S cop e. Prohibited actions are not
limited to the sixteen subsections listed
as examples of activities that violate
this provision. In addition, section
807(10), which prohibits the “use of any
false representation or deceptive

50105

means" by a debt collector, is
particularly broad and encompasses
virtually every violation, including those
not covered by the other subsections.
Section 807(1) prohibits "the false
representation or implication that the
debt collector is vouched for, bonded by,
or affiliated with the United States or
any State * *
1.
S y m bol on dunning n otice. A debt
collector may not use a symbol in
correspondence that makes him appear
to be a government official. For
example, a collection letter depicting a
police badge, a judge, or the scales of
justice, normally violates this section.
Section 807(2) prohibits falsely
representing either “(A) the character,
amount, dr legal status of any debt; or
(B) any services rendered or
compensation which may be lawfully
received by" the collector.
1. L eg a l S tatu s o f d ebt. A debt
collector may not falsely imply that legal
action has begun.
2. A m ount o f d e b t A debt collector
may not claim an amount more than
actually owed, or falsely assert that the
debt has matured or that it is
immediately due and payable, when it is
not.
3. Judgm ent. When a debt collector
provides the validation notice required
by section 809(a)(4), the notice may
include the words “copy of a judgment”
whether or not a judgment exists,
because section 809(a)(4) provides for a
statement including these words.
Compliance with section 809(a)(4) in this
manner will not be considered a
violation of section 807(2){A).
Section 807(3) prohibits falsely
representing or implying that “any
individual is an attorney or that any
communication is from an attorney.”
1. Form o f leg a l corresp on d en ce. A
debt collector may not send a collection
letter from a “Pre-Legal Department,"
where no legal department exists. An
attorney may use a computer service to
send letters on his own behalf, but a
debt collector may not send a computergenerated letter deceptively using an
attorney’s name.
2. N am ed in d iv id u al A debt collector
may not falsely represent that a person
named in a letter is his attorney.
3. R elation to o th er section s. If a
creditor falsely uses an attorney’s name
rather than his own in his collection
communications, he both loses his
exemption from the FDCPA’s definition
of “debt collector" (Section 803(6)) and
violates this provision.
Section 807(4) prohibits falsely
representing or implying to the
consumer that nonpayment “will result
in the arrest or imprisonment of any

50106

F ed eral R egister / V ol. 53, No. 239 / Tuesday, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices

person or the seizure, garnishment,
attachment, or sale of any property or
wages of any person * * *”
Section 807(5) prohibits the “threat to
take any action that cannot legally be
taken or that is not intended to be
taken.”
1. D ebt c o lle c to r ’s statem en t o f h is
ow n d efin ite action . A debt collector
may not state that he will take any
action unless he intends to take the
action when the statement is made, or
ordinarily takes the action in similar
circumstances.
2. D ebt c o lle c to r ’s statem en t o f
d efin ite action b y th ird party. A debt
collector may not state that a third party
will take any action unless he has
reason to believe, at the time the
statement is made, that such action will
be taken.
3. S tatem en t o f p o s sib le action . A
debt collector may not state or imply
that he or any third party may take any
action unless such action is legal and
there is a reasonable likelihood, at the
time the statement is made, that such
action will be taken. A debt collector
may state that certain action is possible,
if it is true that such action is legal and
is frequently taken by the collector or
creditor with respect to similar debts;
however, if the debt collector has reason
to know there are facts that make the
action unlikely in the particular case, a
statement that the action was possible
would be misleading.
4. T hreat o f crim in al action . A debt
collector may not threaten to report a
dishonored check or other fact to the
police, unless he actually intends to take
this action.
5. T hreat o f attachm en t. A debt
collector may not threaten to attach a
consumer’s tax refund, when he has no
authority to do so.
6. T hreat o f leg a l or oth er action .
Section 807(5) refers not only to a false
threat of legal action, but also a false
threat by a debt collector that he will
report a debt to a credit bureau, assess a
collection fee, or undertake any other
action if the debt is not paid. A debt
collector may also not misrepresent the
imminence of such action.
A debt collector’s implication, as well
as a direct statement, of planned legal
action may be an unlawful deception.
For example, reference to an attorney or
to legal proceedings may mislead the
debtor as to the likelihood or imminence
of legal action.
A debt collector’s statement that legal
action has been recommended is a
representation that legal action may be
taken, since such a recommendation
implies that the creditor w'ill act on it at
least some of the time.

Lack of intent may be inferred when
Section 807(9) prohibits the use of any
the amount of the debt is so small as to
document designed to falsely imply that
make the action totally unfeasible or
it issued from a state or federal source,
when the debt collector is unable to take or "which creates a false impression as
the action because the creditor has not
to its source, authorization, or
authorized him to do so.
approval.”
7.
Illeg a lity o f th reaten ed act. A debt
1.
R elation to oth er section s. Most of
collector may not threaten that he will
the violations of this section involve
illegally contact an employer, or other
simulated legal process, which is more
third party, or take some other “action
specifically covered by section 807(13).
that cannot legally be taken” (such as
However, this subsection is broader in
advising the creditor to sue where such
that it also covers documents that
advice would violate state rules
fraudulently appear to be official
governing the unauthorized practice of
government documents, or otherwise
law). If state law forbids a debt collector mislead the recipient as to their
from suing in his own name (or from
authorship.
doing so without first obtaining a formal
Section 807(10) prohibits the “use of
assignment and that has not been done),
any false representation or deceptive
the debt collector may not represent that means to collect or attempt to collect
he will sue in that state.
any debt or to obtain information
Section 807(6) prohibits falsely
concerning a consumer.”
representing or implying that a transfer
1. R elation to oth er section s. The
of the debt will cause the consumer to
prohibition is so comprehensive that
(A) lose any claim or defense, or (B)
violation of any part of section 807 will
become subject to any practice
usually also violate subsection (10).
prohibited by the FDCPA.
Actions
that violate more specific
1.
R eferra l to cred itor. A debt
provisions are discussed in those
collector may not falsely state that the
sections.
consumer’s account will be referred
2. C om m unication form at. A debt
back to the original creditor, who would
collector may not communicate by a
take action the FDCPA prohibits the
format or envelope that misrepresents
debt collector to take.
the nature, purpose, or urgency of the
Section 807(7) prohibits falsely
message. It is a violation to send any
representing or implying that the
communication that conveys to the
"consumer committed any crime or
consumer a false sense of urgency.
other conduct in order to disgrace the
However, it is usually permissible to
consumer.”
send a letter generated by a machine,
1. F a lse alleg ation o f frau d . A debt
such as a computer or other printing
collector may not falsely allege that the
device. A bona fide contest entry form,
consumer has committed fraud.
which provides a clearly optional
2. M isrepresen tation o f crim in al law .
location to enter employment
A debt collector may not make a
information, enclosed with request for
misleading statement of law, falsely
payment, is not deceptive.
implying that the consumer has
3. F a lse statem en t o r im plication s. A
committed a crime, or mischaracterize
debt collector may not falsely state or
w'hat constitutes an offense by
imply that a consumer is required to
misstating or omitting significant
assign his wages to his creditor when he
elements of the offense. For example, a
is not, that the debt collector has
debt collector may not tell the consumer
counseled the creditor to sue when he
that he has committed a crime by
has not, that adverse credit information
issuing a check that is dishonored, when
has been entered on the consumer’s
the statute applies only where there is a
credit record when it has not, that the
"scheme to defraud."
entire amount is due when it is not, or
Section 807(8) prohibits
that he cannot accept partial payments
“Communicating or threatening to
communicate to any person (false) credit when in fact he is authorized to accept
them.
information * * *, including the failure
4. M isrepresen tation o f law . A debt
to communicate that a disputed debt is
disputed.”
collector may not mislead the consumer
1. D isputed d ebt. If a debt collector
as to the legal consequences of the
knows that a debt is disputed by the
consumer’s actions (e.g., by falsely
consumer, either from receipt of written
implying that a failure to respond is an
admission of liability).
notice (section 809) or other means, and
reports it to a credit bureau, he must
A debt collector may not state that
report it as diputed.
federal law requires a notice of the debt
2. P ost-report dispute. When a debt
collector’s intent to contact third parties.
collector learns of a dispute after
5. M isleading letterh ead . A debt
reporting the debt to a credit bureau, the
collector’s employee who is an attorney
dispute need not also be reported.
may not use “attorney-at-law”

Federai Register / VoL 53, No. 239 / T u esd ay, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices
stationery without referring to his
employer, so as to falsely imply to the
consumer that the debt collector had
retained a private attorney to bring suit
on the account
Section 807(11} requires the debt
collector to "disclose clearly in all
communications made to collect a debt
or to obtain information about a
consumer, that the debt collector is
attempting to collect a debt and that any
information obtained will be used for
that purpose”, except where section 804
provides otherwise.
1. O ral com m unications. A debt
collector must make the required
disclosures in both oral and written
communications.
2. D isclosu re to consum ers. When a
debt collector contacts a consumer and
clearly discloses that he is seeking
payment of a debt, he need not state
that all information will be used to
collect a debt, since that should be
apparent to the consumer. The debt
collector need not repeat the required
disclosure in subsequent contacts.
A debt collector may not send the
consumer a note saying only “please
call me right away” unless there has
been prior contact between the parties
and the collector is thus known to the
consumer.
3. D isclosu res to th ird p arties. Except
when seeking location information, the
debt collector must state in the first
communication with a third party that
he is attempting to collect the debt and
that information will be used for that
purpose, but need not do so in
subsequent communications with that
party.
Section 807(12} prohibits falsely
representing or implying that “accounts
have been turned over to innocent
purchasers for value.”
1.R ela tion to o th er sectio n s. Section
807(6}(A) prohibits a false statement or
implication that threatening to affect the
consumer’s rights may be affected by
transferring the account; this subsection
forbids falsely stating or implying that a
transfer to certain parties has occurred.
Section 807(13) prohibits falsely
representing or implying that
“documents are legal process.”
1.
S im u lated leg a l p ro cess. A debt
collector may not send written
communications that deceptively
resemble legal process forms. He may
not send a form or a dunning letter that,
taken as a whole, appears to simulate
legal process. However, one legal phrase
(such as “notice of legal action" or
“show just cause why"} alone will not
result in a violation of this section
unless it contributes to an erroneous
impression that the document is a legal
form.

Section 807(14) prohibits the “use of
any business, company, or organization
name other than the (collector’s) true
name”.
1. P erm issib le bu sin ess nam e. A debt
collector may use a name that does not
misrepresent his identity or deceive the
consumer. Thus, a collector may use its
full business name, the name under
which it usually transacts business, or a
commonly-used acronym. When the
collector uses multiple names in its
various affairs, it does not violate this
subsection if it consistently uses the
same name when dealing with a
particular consumer.
2. C red itor m isrep resen tation o f
iden tity. A creditor may not use any
name that would falsely imply that a
third party is involved in the collection.
The in-house collection unit of "ABC
Corp." may use the name “ABC
Collection Division,” but not the name
“XYZ Collection Agency” or some other
unrelated name.
A creditor violates this section if he
uses the name of a collection bureau as
a conduit for a collection process that
the creditor controls in collecting his
own accounts. Similarly, a creditor may
not use a fictitious name or letterhead,
or a “post office box address” name that
implies someone else is collecting his
debts.
A creditor does not violate this
provision where an affiliated (and
differently named) debt collector
undertakes collection activity, if the
debt collector does business separately
from the creditor [e.g., where the debt
collector in fact has other clients that he
treats similarly to the creditor, has his
own employees, deals at arms length
with the creditor, and controls the
process himself}.
3. A ll co llectio n a c tiv ities cov ered . A
debt collection business must use its
real business name, commonly-used
name, or acronym in both written and
oral communications.
4. R elation to o th er sectio n s. If a
creditor uses a false business name, he
both loses his exemption from the
FDCPA’s definition of “debt collector”
(section 803(6)} and violates this
provision. If a debt collector falsely uses
the name of an attorney rather than his
true business name, he violates section
807(3} as well as this section. When a
debt collector uses a false business
name in a phone call, he violates section
806(6) as well as this section.
When using the mails to obtain
location information, a debt collector
may not (unless expressly requested by
the recipient to identify the firm) use a
name that indicates he is in the debt
collection business, or he will violate
section 804(5). When a debt collector’s

50107

employee who is seeking location
information replies to an inquiry about
his employer’s identity under section
804(1), he must give the true name of his
employer.
Section 807(15) prohibits falsely
representing or implying that documents
are not legal process forms or do not
require action by the consumer.
1.
D isg u ised le g a l p ro cess. A debt
collector may not deceive a consumer
into failing to respond to legal process
by concealing the import of the papers,
thereby subjecting the consumer to a
default judgment.
Section 807(16} prohibits falsely
representing or implying that a debt
collector operates or is employed by a
"consumer reporting agency” as defined
in the Fair Credit Reporting Act.
1. D ual ag en cies. The FDCPA does not
prohibit a debt collector from operating
a consumer reporting agency.
2. M isleadin g nam es. Only a bona fide
consumer reporting agency may use
names such as “Credit Bureau,” "Credit
Bureau Collection Agency," “General
Credit Control,” "Credit Bureau Rating,
Inc.,” or "National Debtors Rating.” A
debt collector’s disclaimer in the text of
a letter that the debt collector is not
affiliated with (or employed by) a
consumer reporting agency, will not
necessarily avoid a violation if the
collector uses a name that indicates
otherwise.
3. Factual issue. Whether a debt
collector that has called itself a credit
bureau actually qualifies as such is a
factual issue, to be decided according to
the debt collector's actual operation.
S ection 808—U nfair P ractices
Section 808 prohibits a debt collector
from using “unfair or unconscionable
means” in his debt collection activity. It
provides eight examples of unfair
practices.
1. Scope. Prohibited actions are not
limited to the eight subsections listed as
examples of activities that violate this
provision.
2. Elem ents o f unfairness. A debt
collector’s act in collecting a debt may
be “unfair" if it causes injury to the
consumer that is (1) substantial, (2) not
outweighed by countervailing benefits to
consumers or competition, and (3) not
reasonably avoidable by the consumer.
Section 808(1) prohibits collecting any
amount unless the amount is expressly
authorized by the agreement creating
the debt or is permitted by law.
1.
K inds o f am ounts cov ered . For
purposes of this section, “amount"
includes not only the debt, but also any
incidental charges, such as collection

50108

F ed eral R egister / Vol. 53, No. 239 / Tuesday, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices

charges, interest, service charges, late
fees, and bad check handling charges.
2. L eg ality o f ch arg es. A debt collector
may attempt to collect a fee or charge in
addition to the debt if either (a) the
charge is expressly provided for in the
contract creating the debt and the
charge is not prohibited by state law, or
(B) the contract is silent but the charge
is otherwise expressly permitted by
state law. Conversely, a debt collector
may not collect an additional amount if
either (A) state law expressly prohibits
collection of the amount or (B) the
contract does not provide for collection
of the amount and state law is silent.
3. L eg ality o f fe e under state law . If
state law permits collection of
reasonable fees, the reasonableness
(and consequential legality) of these
fees is determined by state law.
4. A greem ent n ot in writing. A debt
collector may establish an “agreement”
without a written contract. For example,
he may collect a service charge on a
dishonored check based on a posted
sign on the merchant’s premises
allowing such a charge, if he can
demonstrate that the consumer knew of
the charge.
Section 808(2) prohibits accepting a
check postdated by more than five days
unless timely written notice is given to
the consumer prior to deposit.
Section 808(3) prohibits soliciting any
postdated check for purposes of
threatening or instituting criminal
prosecution.
Section 808(4) prohibits depositing a
postdated check prior to its date.
1. P ostd ated ch ecks. These provisions
do not totally prohibit debt collectors
from accepting postdated checks from
consumers, but rather prohibit debt
collectors from misusing such
instruments.
Section 808(5) prohibits causing any
person to incur telephone or telegram
charges by concealing the true purpose
of the communication.
1. Long d istan ce ca lls to th e d eb t
co llector. A debt collector may not call
the consumer collect or ask a consumer
to call him long distance without
disclosing the debt collector’s identity
and the communication’s purpose.
2. R elation to oth er section . A debt
collector who conceals his purpose in
asking consumers to call long distance
may also violate section 807(11), which
requires the debt collector to disclose
his purpose in some communications.
Section 808(6) prohibits taking
nonjudicial action to enforce a security
interest on property, or threatening to do
so, where (A) there is not present right
to the collateral, (B) there is no present
intent to exercise such rights, or (C) the
property is exempt by law.

1. S ecu rity en forcers. Because the
FDCPA’s definition of “debt collection”
includes parties whose principal
business is enforcing security interests
only for section 808(6) purposes, such
parties (if they do not otherwise fall
within the definition) are subject only to
this provision and not to the rest of the
FDCPA.
Section 808(7) prohibits
“Communicating with a consumer
regarding a debt by post card.”
1. D ebt. A debt collector does not
violate this section if he sends a post
card to a consumer that does not
communicate the existence of the debt.
However, if he had not previously
disclosed that he is attempting to collect
a debt, he would violate section 807(11),
which requires this disclosure.
Section 808(8) prohibits showing
anything other than the debt collector’s
address, on any envelope in any written
communication to the consumer, except
that a debt collector may use his
business name if it does not indicate
that he is in the debt collection business.
1. B u sin ess n am es p ro h ib ited on
en v elop es. A debt collector may not put
on his envelope any business name with
“debt” or “collector” in it, or any other
name that indicates he is in the debt
collection business. A debt collector
may not use the American Collectors
Association logo on an envelope.
2. C o llecto r’s nam e. Whether a debt
collector/consumer reporting agency’s
use of his own "credit bureau” or other
name indicates that he is in the
collection business, and thus violates
the section, is a factual issue to be
determined in each individual case.
3. H arm less w ords o r sym bols. A debt
collector does not violate this section by
using an envelope printed with words or
notations that do not suggest the
purpose of the communication. For
example, a collector may communicate
via an actual telegram or similar service
that uses a Western Union (or other
provider) logo and the word “telegram”
(or similar word) on the envelope, or a
letter with the word “Personal” or
“Confidential” on the envelope.
4. T ran sparent en v elop es. A debt
collector may not use a transparent
envelope, which reveals language or
symbols indicating his debt collection
business, because it is the equivalent of
putting information on an envelope.
S ection 809— V alidation o f D ebts
Section 809(a) requires a collector,
within 5 days of the first
communication, to provide the consumer
a written notice (if not provided in that
communication) containing (1) the
amount of the debt and (2) the name of
the creditor, along with a statement that

he will (3) assume the debt’s validity
unless the consumer disputes it within
30 days, (4) send a verification or copy
of the judgment if the consumer timely
disputes the debt, and (5) identify the
original creditor upon written request.
1. Who must provide notice. If the
employer debt collection agency gives
the required notice, employee debt
collectors need not also provide it. A
debt collector’s agent may give the
notice, as long as it is clear that the
information is being provided on behalf
of the debt collector.
2. Single notice required. The debt
collector is not required to provide more
than one notice for each debt. A notice
need not offer to identify the original
creditor unless the name and address of
the original creditor are different from
the current creditor.
3. Form o f notices. The FDCPA
imposes no requirements as to the form,
sequence, location, or typesize of the
notice. However, an illegible notice does
not comply with this provision.
4. Alternate terminology. A debt
collector may condense and combine the
required disclosures, as long as he
provides all required information.
5. Oral notice. If a debt collector’s first
communication with the consumer is
oral, he may make the disclosures orally
at that time in which case he need not
send a written notice.
6. Legal action. A debt collector’s
institution of formal legal action against
a consumer (including the filing of a
complaint or service of legal papers by
an attorney in connection with a lawsuit
to collect a debt) or transmission of a
notice to a consumer that is required by
law as a prerequisite to enforcing a
contractual obligation is not a
“communication in connection with
collection of any debt,” and thus does
not confer section 809 notice-andvalidation rights on the consumer.
7. Collection activities by attorneys.
An attorney who regularly attempts to
collect debts by means other than
litigation, such as writing the consumer
demand letters (dunning notices) or
calling the consumer on the phone about
the obligation (except in response to a
consumer’s call to him after suit has
been commenced), must provide the
required notice, even if a previous debt
collector (or creditor) has given such a
notice.
8. Effect o f including proof with first
notice. A debt collector must verify a
disputed debt even if he has included
proof of the debt with the first
communication, because the section is
intended to assist the consumer when a
debt collector inadvertently contacts the

Federal Register / V ol. 53, No. 239 / Tuesday, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices
wrong consumer at the start of his
collection efforts.
Section 809(b) requires that, if the
consumer disputes the debt or requests
identification of the original creditor in
writing, the collector must cease
collection efforts until he verifies the
debt and mails a response. Section
809(c) states that a consumer’s failure to
dispute the validity of a debt under this
section may not be interpreted by a
court as an admission of liability.
1.
P re-n otice co llectio n . A debt
collector need not cease normal
collection activities within the
consumer’s 30-day period to give notice
of a dispute until he receives a notice
from the consumer. An attorney debt
collector may take legal action within 30
days of sending the notice, regardless of
whether the consumer disputes the debt
If the consumer disputes the debt, the
attorney may still take legal action but
must cease collection efforts until
verification is obtained and mailed to
the consumer.
A debt collector may report a debt to
a credit bureau within the 30-day notice
period, before he receives a request for
validation or a dispute notice from the
consumer.

of community property at her residence
that is available to pay his debts does
not alter the forum limitations on
individual consumers.
3. R e a l esta te secu rity. A debt
collector may sue based on the location
of a consumer’s real property only when
he seeks to enforce an interest in such
property that secures the debts.
4. S erv ices w ithout w ritten con tract.
Where services were provided pursuant
to an oral agreement, the debt collector
may sue only where the consumer
resides. He may not sue where services
were performed (if that is different from
the consumer’s residence), because that
is not included as permissible forum
location by this provision.
5. E n forcem en t o f judgm ents. If a
judgment is obtained in a forum that
satisfies the requirements of this section,
it may be enforced in another
jurisdiction, because the consumer
previously has had the opportunity to
defend the original action in a
convenient forum.
6. S cop e. This provision applies to
lawsuits brought by a debt collector,
including an attorney debt collector,
when the debt collector is acting on his
own behalf or on behalf of his client.

Section 810—M ultiple D ebts

S ection 812—Furnishing C ertain
D ecep tiv e Form s

Section 810 provides: “If any
consumer owes multiple debts and
makes any single payment to any debt
collector with respect to such debts,
such debt collector my not apply such
payment to any debt which is disputed
by the consumer and, where applicable,
shall apply such payment in accordance
with the consumer's directions.”
Section 811—L eg al A ction s b y D ebt
C ollectors
Section 811 provides that a debt
collector may sue a consumer only in
the judicial district where the consumer
resides or signed the contract sued
upon, except that an action to enforce a
security interest in real property which
secures the obligation must be brought
where the property is located.
1. W aiver. Any waiver by the
consumer must be provided directly to
the debt collector (not to the creditor in
the contract establishing the debt),
because the forum restriction applies to
actions brought by the debt collector.
2. M ultiple d efen d an ts. Since a debt
collector may sue only where the
consumer (1) lives or (2) signed the
contract, the collector may not join an
ex-husband as a defendant to a suit
against the ex-wife in the district of her
residence, unless he also lives there or
signed the contract there. The existence

Section 812 prohibits any party from
designing and furnishing forms, knowing
they are or will be used to deceive a
consumer to believe that someone other
than his creditor is collecting the debt,
and imposes FDCPA civil liability on
parties who supply such forms.
1. P ractice p ro h ib ited . This section
prohibits the practice of selling to
creditors dunning letters that falsely
imply that a debt collector is
participating in collection of the debt,
when in fact only the creditor is
collecting.
2. C overage. This section applies to
anyone who designs, complies, or
furnishes the forms prohibited by this
section.
3. P re-collection letters. A form seller
may not furnish a creditor with (1) a
letter on a collector’s letterhead to be
used when the collector is not involved
in collecting the creditor’s debts, or (2) a
letter indicating “copy to (the collector)”
if the cdllector is not participating in
collecting the creditor’s debt. A form
seller may not avoid liability by
including a statement in the text of a
form letter that the sender has not yet
been assigned the account for collection,
if the communication as a whole, using
the collector’s letterhead, represents
otherwise.
4. K n ow ledge requ ired . A party does

50109

not violate this provision unless he
knows or should have known that his
form letter will be used to mislead
consumers into believing that someone
other than the creditor is involved in
collecting the d ebt
5.
P articipation b y d eb t co llecto r. A
debt collector that uses letters as his
only collection tool does not violate this
section, merely because he charges a
flat rate per letter, if he is meaningfully
“participating in the collection of a
debt.” The consumer is not misled in
such cases, as he would be in the case
of a party who supplied the creditor
with form letters and provided little or
no additional service in the collection
process. The performance of other tasks
associated with collection (e.g., handling
verification requests, negotiating
payment arrangements, keeping
individual records) is evidence that such
a party is “participating in the
collection.”
S ection 813—C iv il L ia b ility
Section 813 (A) imposes civil liability
in the form of (1) actual damages, (2)
discretionary penalties, and (3) costs
and attorney’s fees, (B) discusses
relevant factors a court should consider
in assessing damages, (C) exculpates a
collector who maintains reasonable
procedures from liability for an
unintentional error, (D) permits actions
to be brought in federal or state courts
within one year from the violation, and
(E) shields a defendant who relies on an
advisory opinion of the Commission.
1. E m p loy ee lia b ility . Since the
employees of a debt collection agency
are “debt collectors,” they are liable for
violations to the same extent as the
agency.
2. D am ages. The courts have awarded
“actual damages” for FDCPA violations
that were not just out-of-pocket
expenses, but included damages for
personal humiliation, embarrassment,
mental anguish, or emotional distress.
3. A pplication o f statu te o f lim itation
p erio d . The section’s one year statute of
limitations applies only to private
lawsuits, not to actions brought by a
government agency.
4. A d v isory opin ion s. A party may act
in reliance on a formal advisory opinion
of the Commission pursuant to 16 CFR
T.l-1.4, without risk of civil liability.
This protection does not extend to
reliance on this Commentary or other
informal staff interpretations.
S ection 814—A dm in istrative
E nforcem en t
Section 814 provides that the principal

50110

F ed eral R egister / V ol. 53, No. 239 / Tuesday, D ecem ber 13, 1988 / N otices

federal enforcement agency for the
FDCPA is the Federal Trade
Commission, but assigns enforcement
power to other authorities empowered
by certain federal statutes to regulate
financial, agricultural, and
transportation activities, where FDCPA
violations relate to acts subject to those
laws.
S ection 815—R eports to C ongress by
C om m ission
Section 815 requires the Commission
to submit an annual report to Congress
which discusses its enforcement and
other activities administering the
FDCPA. assesses the degree of
compliance, and makes
recommendations.
S ection 818—R elation s to S tate Law s
Section 816 provides that the FDCPA
pre-empts state laws only to the extent
that those laws are inconsistent with
any provision of the FDCPA, and then
only to the extent of the inconsistency.
A State law is not inconsistent if it gives
consumers greater protection than the
FDCPA.
1. In con sisten t law s. Where a state
law provides protection to the consumer
equal to, or greater than, the FDCPA, it
is not pre-empted by the federal statute.
S ection 817—E xem ption F or S tate
R egulation
Section 817 orders the Commission to
exempt any class of debt collection
practices from the FDCPA within any
State if it determines that State laws
regulating those practices are
substantially similar to the FDCPA. and
contain adequate provision for
enforcement.
1. S tate exem ption s. A state with a
debt collection law may apply to the
Commission for an exemption. The
Commission must grant the exemption if
the state’s law is substantially similar to
the FDCPA, and there is adequate
provision for enforcement. The
Commission has published procedures
for processing such applications (16 CFR
901).
S ection 818—E ffectiv e D ate
Section 818 provides that the FDCPA
took effect six months from the date of
its enactment.
1. K ey d ates. The FDCPA was
approved September 20,1977, and
became effective March 20,1978.
|FR Doc. 88-28573 Filed 12-12-88; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 67SO-01-M

DEPARTM ENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES
Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental
Health Administration
Initial Review Committees and Science
Advisory Board; Meeting Agendas;
January
A G EN C Y; Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and

Mental Health Administration.
a c t i o n : Notice of meetings.
s u m m a r y : This notice sets forth

schedules and proposed agendas of the
forthcoming meetings of the agency's
initial review committees and a science
advisory board in the month of January
1989.
The Extramural Science Advisory
Board, NIMH, will discuss the peer
review process and the extramural
program in the behavioral sciences of
the National Institute of Mental Health.
The review committees will be
performing initial review of applications
for Federal assistance. Therefore,
portions of these meetings will be closed
to the public as determined by the
Administrator, ADAMHA, in
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(b) (6) and
5 U.S.C. app. 2 10(d). Notice of these
meetings is required under the Federal
Advisory Committee Act, Pub. L. 92-463.
C om m ittee N am e: Clinical Biology
Subcommittee of the Psychopathology
and Clinical Biology Research Review
Committee, NIHM.
D ate an d T im e: January 18-20: 9:00
a.m.
P la ce: Chevy Chase Holiday Inn, 5520
Wisconsin Avenue, Chevy Chase, MD
20815.
Status o f M eeting: Open—January 18:
9:00-10:00 a.m., Closed—Otherwise.
C on tact: Maureen Eister, Parkland
Building, Room 9C-08, 5600 Fishers
Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, (301)
443-1340.
P urpose: The committee is charged
with the initial review of applications
for assistance from the National
Institute of Mental Health for support of
activities in the fields of research and
research training in the areas of clinical
psychopathology and clinical biology as
they relate to mental health, with
recommendations to the National
Advisory Mental Health Council for
final review.
C om m ittee N am e: Extramural Science
Advisory Board, NIMH.
D ate an d T im e: January 22-24:10:00
a.m.
P la ce: January 22—Bethesda Marriott,
5151 Pooks Hills Road. Bethesda,
Maryland 20814.
January 23-24— National Institutes of
Health, Building 31, Conference Room 9,

9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD
20892.
Status o f M eeting: Open.
C ontact: Anthony Pollitt, Parklawn
Building, Room 17C-20, 5600 Fishers
Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, (301) 4433175.
P u rpose: The Extramural Science
Advisory Board, NIMH, advises the
Secretary of Health and Human
Services, the Administrator, Alcohol.
Drug Abuse, and Mental Health
Administration, and the Director,
National Institute of Mental Health, on
the direction scope, balance, and
emphasis of the Institute’s extramural
science programs.
C om m ittee N am e: Psychopathology
Subcommittee of the Psychopathology
and Clinical Biology Research Review
Committee, NIMH.
D ate an d T im e: January 25-27: 9:00
a.m.
P la ce: Congressional Days Inn, 1775
Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852.
Status o f M eeting: Open—January 25:
9:00-10:00 a.m., Closed—Otherwise.
C ontact: Emilie A. Embrey, Parklawn
Building, Room 9C-08, 5600 Fishers
Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, (301)
443-1340.
P urpose: The committee is charged
with the initial review of applications
for assistance from the National
Institute of Mental Health for support of
activities in the fields of research and
research training in the areas of clinical
psychopathology and clinical biology as
they relate to mental health, with
recommendations to the National
Advisory Mental Health Council for
final review.
Substantive information, summaries
of the meetings, and rosters of
committee members may be obtained as
follows: Ms. Joanna Kieffer, NIMH
Committee Management Officer, Room
9-105, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers
Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, (301)
443-4333.
Date: December 7,1988.
Peggy W. Cockrill,

Committee Management Officer, Alcohol,
Drug Abuse, and Mental Health
Administration.
[FR Doc. 88-28650 Filed 12-12-88; 8:45 am)
BILLING CODE 4160-20-M

Food and Drug Administration
IDocket No. 88N-0415]
Drug Export; Ifex (Ifosfamide) For
Injection
AG E N C Y: Food a n d Drug A d m in istra tio n .
action : Notice.

