Source: https://www.hud.gov/sites/documents/43503c1hsgh.pdf (HUD Handbook 4350.3 REV-1, Chapter 1: Introduction)
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; pdftotext -layout)

                                                                                    4350.3 REV-1



                              CHAPTER 1. INTRODUCTION


1-1    Purpose of This Handbook

       A.     HUD-subsidized multifamily properties represent an important and valuable
              resource in addressing the nation’s affordable housing needs. The successful
              delivery of this housing resource to the people who need it depends on effective
              occupancy policies and procedures. HUD’s occupancy requirements and
              procedures ensure that eligible applicants are selected for occupancy, that
              tenants receive the proper level of assistance, and that tenants are treated fairly
              and consistently.

       B.     This handbook describes the occupancy requirements and procedures governing
              the HUD-subsidized multifamily housing programs identified in paragraph 1-2.
              The handbook also addresses the procedures by which households apply for
              housing and the rights and responsibilities of in-place tenants and property
              owners.

       C.     This handbook is addressed to tenants, owners, managers, HUD Field Office
              Staff, Performance-Based Contract Administrators and Traditional Contract
              Administrators. The first points of contact regarding information in this handbook
              are Office of Multifamily Housing staff in the corresponding local HUD Field
              Office for an area.

       D.     This handbook does not supersede any Contract Administrator’s or owner’s
              rights, obligations, or requirements. Where the Handbook references HUD or
              Contract Administrator, the Contract Administrator will only perform those tasks
              required under the provisions of their Annual Contributions Contract (ACC).

1-2    Programs Subject to This Handbook

       A.     Applicable Programs

              The requirements and procedures described in this handbook apply to each
              HUD-subsidized multifamily housing program listed in Figure 1-1.

       B.     State Agency Financed Properties

              For HUD-subsidized properties financed by state agencies, this handbook covers
              only the applicable HUD requirements. Owners of these properties are subject to
              additional requirements established by states and their designated housing
              finance or other agencies.

              1.      State agencies may enforce state requirements, as long as they do not
                      conflict with this handbook or HUD regulations.

              2.      State agencies must obtain written HUD approval before changing any of
                      the HUD forms required by this handbook.



HUD Occupancy Handbook                         1-1                                            6/07
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                        4350.3 REV-1




                            Figure 1-1: Programs Subject to This Handbook

           Section 221(d)(3) Below-Market Interest Rate (Section 221(d)(3) BMIR)
           Section 236
           Rental Assistance Payment (RAP)
           Rent Supplement
           Section 8 Project-Based Assistance
                New Construction

                State Agency Financed (generally are New Construction or Substantial
                Rehabilitation projects)

                Substantial Rehabilitation

                Section 202 Projects with Section 8 Assistance (Section 202/8)

                Rural Housing Section 515 Projects with Section 8 Assistance (RHS Section
                515/8)

                Loan Management Set-Aside (LMSA)

                Property Disposition Set-Aside (PDSA)

           Section 202 with 162 Assistance – Project Assistance Contracts (Section 202 PACs)
           Section 202 with Project Rental Assistance Contracts (Section 202 PRACs)
           Section 202 without Assistance (Income Limits Only)
           Section 811 with Project Rental Assistance Contracts (Section 811 PRACs)



       C.     How Applicability Varies

              Not all requirements apply to all properties or tenants. Furthermore, some
              properties are assisted under multiple programs and are subject to multiple sets
              of requirements.

              1.       Applicability can vary by:

                       a.       Type of program (e.g., Section 236 versus Section 8);

                       b.       Type of Section 8 assistance (e.g., Loan Management Set-Aside
                                versus New Construction);

                       c.       Date that subsidy contracts took effect or were executed;

                       d.       Date a tenant moved in or first received subsidy; and

                       e.       Date a tenant was converted to Section 8 assistance.

HUD Occupancy Handbook                           1-2                                              5/03
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                      4350.3 REV-1



              2.      When applicability does vary, a paragraph or subparagraph in this
                      handbook entitled “Applicability” will be included to indicate which
                      projects, units, or tenants are subject to or exempt from the requirement.
                      The variation will be described in subsequent paragraphs.

       D.     Programs and Properties Not Subject to This Handbook

              This handbook does not apply to:

              1.      HUD-owned properties;

              2.      Section 8 Moderate Rehabilitation Program;

              3.      Public housing;

              4.      Housing Choice Voucher Program;

              5.      Enhanced Voucher Program; and

              6.      Unassisted market rate properties and health care facilities.

              7.      *HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing*

              8.      *Mainstream Vouchers*

       E.     Compliance

              The failure of owners to perform required functions as prescribed in this
              handbook may result in civil money penalties as detailed in 24 CFR part 30.
              Such action does not preclude the application of administrative, as well as
              criminal remedies where warranted. Further information concerning program
              enforcement can be found in HUD Handbook 4350.1, Multifamily Asset
              Management and Project Servicing.

1-3    Background – Key Multifamily Subsidized Housing Programs

       A.     Financing Subsidies: Mortgage Insurance and Mortgage Interest Rate
              Subsidies

              1.      Section 221(d)(3) BMIR. This program insured and subsidized mortgage
                      loans to facilitate the new construction or substantial rehabilitation of
                      multifamily rental or cooperative housing for low- and moderate-income
                      families. The reduced mortgage interest rate, usually from 1% to 3%,
                      resulted in lower operating costs for these projects and therefore reduced
                      rents. This program no longer provides subsidies for new mortgage
                      loans, but existing Section 221(d)(3) BMIR properties continue to operate
                      under the program. Families living in Section 221(d)(3) BMIR projects are
                      considered subsidized because the reduced rents for these properties are
                      made possible by subsidized mortgage interest rates.



HUD Occupancy Handbook                         1-3                                              8/13
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                    4350.3 REV-1



                      Some BMIR projects have experienced escalating operating costs that
                      have caused the BMIR rents to increase beyond levels that are readily
                      affordable to lower and moderate-income tenants. In these cases, HUD
                      may have allocated project-based rental assistance through Section 8
                      Loan Management Set-Aside (LMSA) to these properties to decrease
                      vacancies and improve the project’s financial position (see subparagraph
                      C below).

              2.      Section 236. The Section 236 program, established by the Housing and
                      Urban Development Act of 1968, combined federal mortgage insurance
                      with interest reduction payments to the mortgagee for the production of
                      low-cost rental housing. Under this program, HUD provided interest
                      subsidies to lower a project’s mortgage interest rate to as low as 1
                      percent. This program no longer provides insurance or subsidies for new
                      mortgage loans, but existing Section 236 properties continue to operate
                      under the program. The interest reduction payment results in lower
                      operating costs and subsequently a reduced rent structure.

                      The Section 236 basic rent is the rent that the owner must collect to cover
                      the property’s operating costs given the mortgage interest reduction
                      payments made to the property. The Section 236 market rent represents
                      the rents needed to cover operating costs if the mortgage interest were
                      not subsidized. All tenants pay at least the Section 236 basic rent for
                      their property and, depending on their income level, may pay a rent up to
                      the Section 236 market rent. Tenants paying less than the Section 236
                      market rent are considered assisted tenants.

                      Some Section 236 properties have experienced escalating operating
                      costs, causing the basic rents to increase beyond levels readily affordable
                      to many low-income tenants. To help maintain the financial health of the
                      property, HUD may have allocated project-based rental assistance
                      through Section 8 LMSA to a Section 236 property (see subparagraph C
                      below). Some Section 236 properties have other forms of project-based
                      rental assistance, such as Rent Supplement or RAP (see subparagraph C
                      below).

              3.      Section 231. The Section 231 program insures mortgage loans to
                      facilitate the construction and substantial rehabilitation of multifamily
                      rental housing for elderly persons and/or persons with physical
                      disabilities. In Section 231 properties, elderly persons or elderly families
                      must occupy no less than 50 percent of the units. In units designated as
                      elderly units, owners must restrict occupancy to an elderly person or an
                      elderly family. Owners may admit nonelderly physically disabled families
                      to the nonelderly units up to the percentage allowed in the Regulatory
                      Agreement. The property may serve a greater percentage of nonelderly
                      persons with physical disabilities than the percentage allowed in the
                      regulatory agreement only after the owner has received written approval
                      from HUD. This program no longer provides subsidies for new mortgage
                      loans, but existing Section 231 properties with subsidy continue to
                      operate under the program.


HUD Occupancy Handbook                         1-4                                            5/03
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                  4350.3 REV-1



                      Some Section 231 properties have experienced escalating operating
                      costs, causing the rents to increase beyond levels readily affordable to
                      many low-income tenants. To help maintain the financial health of the
                      property, HUD may have allocated project-based rental assistance
                      through Section 8 LMSA to a Section 231 property (see subparagraph C
                      below). Some Section 231 properties have other forms of project-based
                      rental assistance, such as Rent Supplement (see subparagraph C below).

       B.     Direct Loans and Capital Advances

              The Section 202 program has historically developed housing for the elderly and
              persons with disabilities. Project sponsors apply directly to HUD for development
              loans or capital advances. The program began in the 1960s. *Since then*, it has
              evolved from a loan program to a capital advance program and has been
              combined with other forms of assistance to make the rents affordable. Although
              the Section 202 program originally developed housing to serve the elderly and
              persons with disabilities, properties developed through the current Section 202
              Capital Advance program serve only elderly families/persons. The Section 811
              Capital Advance program now serves persons with disabilities. The descriptions
              below summarize the Section 202 program over the years and the addition of the
              Section 811 program.

              1.      Section 202 Direct, Low-Interest Loans. This program provided Section
                      202 low-interest, direct loans to develop housing for the elderly or
                      disabled. Some of these Section 202 properties received tenant
                      subsidies in the form of Rent Supplement or Section 8 Loan Management
                      Set-Aside contracts (see subparagraph C below). The program was
                      discontinued after 1976; however, many of these properties are still in
                      service.

              2.      Section 202 Direct, Formula Interest Rate Loans. This program replaced
                      the Section 202 direct, low-interest loan program. It also provided long-
                      term, direct loans to finance housing for the elderly or persons with
                      disabilities. However, these loans carried an interest rate based on the
                      average yield on 30 year marketable obligations of the United States and
                      properties were developed with 100% Section 8 assistance to help keep
                      units affordable to low-income families. The program, commonly referred
                      to as Section 202/8, stopped making loans in 1991, but there are many
                      Section 202/8 properties in service. The Section 162 program was
                      created in 1988 as a program for persons with disabilities. (See Project
                      Assistance Contracts (PACs) in subparagraph C below).

              3.      Section 202 and Section 811 Capital Advances. Since October 1991,
                      HUD has provided capital advances, rather than loans, to finance the

                      development of rental housing for the elderly and persons with
                      disabilities. The Section 202 Capital Advance Program provides housing
                      for the elderly, and the Section 811 Capital Advance Program does the
                      same for persons with disabilities. These programs replaced the Section
                      202 direct, formula interest rate loan program. In both the Section 202


HUD Occupancy Handbook                        1-5                                            8/13
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                   4350.3 REV-1



                      and Section 811 programs, the development of rental housing with
                      supportive services is subsidized with an interest-free capital advance,
                      and repayment is not required as long as the housing remains available
                      to very low-income elderly or very low-income persons with disabilities.
                      The capital advances are provided together with tenant rental subsidies in
                      the form of Project Rental Assistance Contracts (PRACS) (see
                      subparagraph C below).

       C.     Project Rental Subsidies

              The housing subsidies described below are paid to owners on behalf of tenants
              to keep the amount that tenants pay for rent affordable. This assistance is tied to
              the property and differs in that respect from tenant-based rental assistance
              programs (e.g., Housing Choice Vouchers) where the subsidy follows the tenant
              when a tenant moves to another property.

              1.      Rental Assistance Payment (RAP) Contracts. The RAP program was
                      established by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 to
                      provide additional rental assistance subsidy to property owners on behalf
                      of very low-income tenants. RAP was available only to Section 236
                      properties and was the predecessor of the project-based Section 8
                      program.

              2.      Rent Supplement Contracts. The Rent Supplement Program was
                      established by the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 and was
                      the first project-based assistance program for mortgages insured by the
                      Office of Housing. These contracts were available to Section 221(d)(3)
                      BMIR, Section 231, Section 236 (insured and noninsured), and Section
                      202 properties for the life of the mortgage. The program was suspended
                      under the housing subsidy moratorium of January 5, 1973. Owners of
                      properties with Rent Supplement contracts were allowed to convert to
                      project-based Section 8 assistance.

              3.      Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contracts.

                      a.     New Construction and Substantial Rehabilitation Contracts.
                             Under this program, repealed by Congress in 1983, HUD provided
                             (upon application) Section 8 project-based assistance to public
                             housing authorities (PHAs) or private owners for up to 20 or 40
                             years after completion of the construction or substantial
                             rehabilitation of rental housing. The Section 8 financial assistance
                             provided a subsidy that helped bridge the gap between the rents
                             needed to make a project feasible and the rents affordable to the
                             tenants. Financing was provided by commercial lending

                             institutions and often insured by HUD through the Federal
                             Housing Administration (FHA) or a State Housing Finance
                             Agency. HUD has not approved any new projects since 1983, but
                             projects approved prior to that time may still receive subsidy.



HUD Occupancy Handbook                        1-6                                            5/03
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                     4350.3 REV-1



                      b.     Rural Housing Section 515 Properties with Section 8 Contracts
                             (RHS Section 515/8). The USDA Rural Housing Service Section
                             515 Rural Rental Housing program provides direct, below-market
                             interest rate loans for the construction or acquisition and
                             rehabilitation of rental housing for low- and moderate-income
                             families (including the elderly and disabled) in rural areas. Some
                             properties developed through this program received Section 8
                             rental assistance contracts to make the rental units more
                             affordable to eligible families. New Section 515 properties are still
                             being developed, however these new projects are no longer
                             combined with Section 8 contracts.

                      c.     Loan Management Set-Aside (LMSA) Contracts. This Section 8
                             program was developed to provide assistance to insured projects
                             experiencing immediate or potentially serious financial difficulties.
                             The assistance helped minimize defaults and reduce insurance
                             fund claims by providing rental assistance to tenants and thereby
                             making the project affordable to low-income families. The
                             contracts were available for projects insured under the Section
                             236, Section 221(d)(4), and Section 221(d)(3) and 221 (d) (3)
                             BMIR programs, as well as Section 202 projects.

                      d.     Property Disposition Set-Aside (PDSA) Contracts. This Section 8
                             program was used in connection with the sale of HUD-owned
                             properties and/or foreclosure of HUD-held mortgages for
                             properties formerly insured under the Section 236 and Section
                             221(d)(3) BMIR programs or other low-income housing programs.
                             Like LMSA contracts, this program helped ensure that the units in
                             these properties would remain affordable to low-and moderate-
                             income households and minimize displacement.

              4.      Project Assistance Contracts (PACs). Created for Section 202 properties
                      for persons with disabilities, Section 162 provided subsidies in the form of
                      Project Assistance Contracts to nonprofit sponsors to help make rents
                      affordable in Section 202 projects developed for persons with disabilities.
                      The PAC covered the difference between the HUD approved operating
                      costs of the property and the tenant’s contributions toward rent plus the
                      debt service on the loan. HUD awarded PACs to Section 202 projects for
                      persons with disabilities funded in fiscal years 1989 and 1990.

                      Project Rental Assistance Contracts (PRACs). Beginning in 1991, HUD
                      replaced the Section 202/8 and Section 202 PAC programs with
                      assistance through PRACs for projects developed with Section 202 or
                      Section 811 Capital Advances. The PRAC provides a rental subsidy on
                      behalf of tenants in these properties that covers the difference between
                      the HUD approved operating costs of the project and the tenant’s
                      contribution toward the rent.




HUD Occupancy Handbook                         1-7                                             6/09
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                    4350.3 REV-1



1-4    Contract Administrators

       A.     Subsidy contract administration involves a broad range of responsibilities,
              including program compliance functions to ensure that HUD-subsidized
              properties are serving eligible families at the correct level of assistance, and
              asset management functions to ensure the physical and financial health of HUD
              properties.

       B.     HUD has primary responsibility for contract administration but has assigned
              portions of these responsibilities to other organizations that act as Contract
              Administrators for HUD. These Contract Administrators are generally housing
              agencies, such as State Housing Finance Agencies or local housing authorities.
              There are two types of Contract Administrators that assist HUD in performing
              contract administration functions.

              1.      Traditional Contract Administrators. These Contract Administrators have
                      been used for over 20 years and have Annual Contributions Contracts
                      (ACCs) with HUD. Under their ACCs, Traditional Contract Administrators
                      are responsible for asset management functions and HAP contract
                      compliance and monitoring functions. They are paid a fee by HUD for
                      their services.

              2.      Performance-Based Contract Administrators (PBCAs). The use of
                      PBCAs began as an initiative in 2000. Under a performance-based ACC,
                      the scope of responsibilities of a Contract Administrator is more limited
                      than that of a Traditional Contact Administrator. A PBCA’s
                      responsibilities focus on the day-to-day monitoring and servicing of
                      Section 8 HAP contracts. PBCAs are generally required to administer
                      contracts on a statewide basis and have strict performance and reporting
                      requirements as outlined in their ACC.

1-5    Principles for Addressing Overlapping Federal, State, and Local
       Requirements

       A.     General

              In addition to complying with this handbook, owners must comply with other
              federal, state, and local laws applicable to the occupancy of multifamily housing
              properties. If other federal, state, or local laws conflict with HUD’s requirements,
              owners must contact the HUD Field Office or Contract Administrator for
              guidance. Also, when addressing complex overlapping requirements, it is always
              prudent for owners to seek proper counsel.



       B.     Statutory Program Eligibility Requirements

              Federal statutory program eligibility requirements cannot be overruled by state or
              local law.



HUD Occupancy Handbook                         1-8                                            6/09
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                      4350.3 REV-1



       C.     Multiple Federal Laws

              If more than one federal law applies to a situation, the laws should be read and
              applied together. Where one law imposes a more restrictive requirement or
              standard on the owner than another, the more restrictive requirement or standard
              is controlling as to federal law.

       D.     Overlap Between Federal and State/Local Nondiscrimination Laws

              If state or local laws impose different nondiscrimination requirements than federal
              law, the more rigorous standard, the one that promotes the higher level of
              protection for the tenant, is controlling regardless of whether the more rigorous
              standard is that of the state, local, or federal law.

1-6    Handbook Organization

       A.     Organization of Chapters

              To help show the similarities across programs, this handbook is structured
              topically (e.g., eligibility, determining income, and calculating tenant rents) rather
              than by program. After introducing the key civil rights and nondiscrimination
              requirements applicable to these properties, the handbook describes the relevant
              procedures and requirements organized by the major types of occupancy
              functions (e.g., eligibility determination, waiting list management). It covers the
              requirements at key steps in admitting tenants and also the occupancy
              responsibilities for owners and tenants after initial occupancy (e.g.,
              recertifications, unit transfers).

       B.     Format

              Each chapter describes the key requirements and procedures relevant to that
              topic. The handbook also uses several types of helpful aids to assist the reader
              in understanding program requirements. These include:

              1.      Examples. These are brief descriptions of situations that help explain the
                      occupancy topic being covered.

              2.      Figures. These are reference charts, tables, or technical information.

              3.      Exhibits. Exhibits are similar to figures but are usually more detailed
                      charts with technical information or samples of documents. Exhibits are
                      identified in the text of a chapter, but they appear at the end of a chapter
                      to avoid interrupting the narrative flow.

              4.      Glossary. The glossary contains definitions of key technical terms used
                      in the handbook.

              5.      Appendices. Appendices contain more extensive technical information,
                      sample formats, forms, and instructions for preparing forms. Appendices
                      appear at the end of the handbook.


HUD Occupancy Handbook                          1-9                                             5/03
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                    4350.3 REV-1



              6.      Index. The index provides key paragraph and page references for
                      important terms and technical concepts covered in this handbook.

       C.     Key Terms

              1.      There are a number of key technical terms used in this handbook, which
                      are defined in the Glossary because they have very specific definitions
                      established by federal statute, regulations, or program requirements. At
                      the beginning of each chapter, a figure provides a list of the key terms
                      used in that chapter, which are defined in the Glossary. It is important
                      that readers familiarize themselves with the definitions of these terms
                      presented in the Glossary, as well as with the content of the chapter.

              2.      Uses of “Disability” and “Persons with Disabilities”. In this handbook, the
                      terms “disability” and “persons with disabilities” have more than one
                      definition.

                      a.     One set of definitions for these terms are used when determining
                             a family’s eligibility under multifamily subsidized housing programs
                             that assist persons with disabilities. See Figure 3-6 and the
                             Glossary for the definitions used when determining eligibility.

                      b.     Separate and distinct definitions of these terms apply to
                             requirements and procedures addressing civil rights protections.
                             See the Glossary for these definitions.

                      c.     See paragraph 2-23 for more information about the use of these
                             terms in the handbook.

1-7    Additional Program Resources

       A.     Relevant HUD Handbooks

              The following additional HUD handbooks are useful references when performing
              occupancy functions.

              1.      HUD Handbook 4350.1, Multifamily Asset Management and Project
                      Servicing.

              2.      HUD Handbook 4350.2, Section 8 Loan Management Set-Aside for
                      Projects with HUD-Insured and HUD-Held Mortgages.

              3.      HUD Handbook 4350.5, Subsidy Contract Administration and Field Office
                      Monitoring.

              4.      HUD Handbook 4381.5, HUD Management Agent Handbook.

              5.      HUD Handbook 4571.1, Section 202 Direct Loan Program for Housing for
                      the Elderly or Handicapped.



HUD Occupancy Handbook                        1-10                                            5/03
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                   4350.3 REV-1



              6.      HUD Handbook 4571.2, Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons with
                      Disabilities.

              7.      HUD Handbook 4571.3, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly.

              8.      HUD Handbook 8025.1, Implementing Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing
                      Requirements for Multifamily Housing.

       B.     Other HUD Publications and Information

              HUD provides public access to departmental policies, procedures, and notices
              and other important program information through the Internet. HUD encourages
              clients to utilize its websites as the most efficient means for obtaining the most
              recent and up-to-date information on HUD programs. The following websites and
              documents contain valuable information on issues affecting multifamily housing:

              1.      HUD Website. http://portal.hud.gov/portal/page/portal/HUD. Users can
                      obtain updates on new HUD priorities, plans, and initiatives and read
                      housing-related newsclips. A site map lists key subject areas included in
                      the website; a search mechanism allows users to find information
                      contained in the website or to retrieve HUD forms. The website also
                      connects users to local HUD Field Office websites.

              2.      HUD Office of Multifamily Housing Website.
                      http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/mfh.
                      This website provides current information and resources from the Office
                      of Multifamily Housing. It includes up-to-date policy information,
                      information about Contract Administrators, and information about the
                      Tenant Rental Assistance Certification System (TRACS). The following is
                      one of the relevant links found on this website:
                      http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/mfh/hs
                      grent.
                      This website contains links to HUD fact sheets about determining rents
                      for the following programs:

                            Below-Market Interest Rate (BMIR);
                            Project-Based Section 8;
                            Section 202/162 PAC and Section 202/811 PRAC;
                            Section 236;
                            Rent Supplement; and
                            Rental Assistance Payment.

              3.      HUD Office of Fair Housing Intranet Website for Civil Rights Front-End
                      Reviews. http://hudatwork.hud.gov/po/e/FEReview/cr-review.cfm. This
                      website provides guidance on responsibility for civil rights front-end
                      monitoring reviews. This reference is an internal Departmental site that is
                      available only to HUD staff. It contains the following materials:

                            Final Rule for Compliance Procedures for Affirmative Fair Housing
                             Marketing Nomenclature Change;


HUD Occupancy Handbook                        1-11                                           6/07
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                   4350.3 REV-1



                            Statements by the Deputy Secretary, each Assistant Secretary,
                             and the Assistant Deputy Secretary for Field Policy and
                             Management establishing the Department’s endorsement of
                             program staff conducting Civil Rights Front-End and Limited
                             Monitoring Reviews;
                            General operational procedures for conducting Civil Rights Front-
                             End and Limited Monitoring Reviews;
                            Frequently asked questions for all programs about the rationale
                             for processes to be followed; and
                            Procedures, checklists and data for each program to be used for
                             the Civil Rights Front-End and Limited Monitoring Reviews.

              4.      HUD Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity – Persons with
                      Disabilities.
                      http://portal.hud.gov/portal/page/portal/HUD/topics/information_for_disabl
                      ed_persons. This website contains information on the rights of persons
                      with disabilities *who are beneficiaries of or participants in HUD-
                      subsidized multifamily housing programs*, and *includes* the accessibility
                      requirements of the Fair Housing Act, *Section 504, and the Americans
                      with Disabilities Act*.

              5.      TRACS Website.
                      http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/mfh/tr
                      x/trxsum. This website updates readers on developments in TRACS.
                      TRACS documents, announcements, and frequently asked questions and
                      responses are posted on the website. Users can also participate in the
                      TRACS discussion forum or email TRACS with questions, comments, and
                      concerns.

              6.      Resident’s Rights and Responsibilities Brochure. This brochure was
                      developed by HUD and describes the rights and responsibilities of
                      tenants living in HUD-subsidized properties. It also highlights property-
                      related activities where tenants have a right to participate and lists
                      sources of additional assistance. The brochure is available *in English as
                      well as several other languages at
                      http://www.hud.gov/offices/fheo/lep.xml* or it can be ordered as noted
                      below under subparagraph C Ordering Publications.

                      HUDCLIPS Website.
                      http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/administration/
                      hudclips. HUDCLIPS is HUD’s Client Information and Policy System,
                      which provides clients with fast, easy access to HUD’s official repository
                      of policies, procedures, announcements, and other materials. The
                      HUDCLIPS website contains full text searchable databases of HUD
                      handbooks, notices, forms, letters, Code of Federal Regulations Title 24
                      and U.S. Code Titles 12-42. HUDCLIPS conveniently lists documents
                      recently added to the HUD repository.

              7.      Inventory of Units for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities Website:
                      http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/mfh/ht


HUD Occupancy Handbook                        1-12                                           8/13
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                    4350.3 REV-1



                      o/inventorysurvey. This inventory is designed to assist prospective
                      applicants with locating units in HUD insured and HUD subsidized
                      multifamily properties that serve the elderly and/or persons with
                      disabilities.

              8.      HUD User Policy Development and Research Information Service
                      Website http://www.huduser.org/portal/index.html. Income limits for
                      eligibility are located at this website under the “Data Sets” drop down
                      menu.

              9.      Multifamily Rental Housing Integrity Improvement Project (RHIIP) Website
                      http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/mfh/rh
                      iip/mfhrhiip. This website contains brochures, newsletters, training
                      materials, RHIIP Tips and other information related to reducing errors in
                      rent and income determinations.

              11.     Enterprise Income Verification (EIV) System for Multifamily Housing
                      Program Users Website
                      http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/mfh/rh
                      iip/eiv/eivhome. This website contains manuals and information relating
                      to gaining access to the EIV system and use of the EIV system for upfront
                      verification of a tenant’s *employment and income and to assist in the
                      reduction of administrative and subsidy errors.*

              12.     *EIV & You brochure. This brochure was developed by HUD to inform
                      applicants and tenants about HUD’s EIV system and how they may be
                      impacted when owners use the data in the EIV system for verification of
                      employment and income and for reducing errors in HUD’s rental
                      assistance programs. The brochure is available English as well as
                      several other languages. The English version of the brochure is available
                      at http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/eivbrochure.pdf or it can be
                      ordered as noted below under subparagraph C Ordering Publications.*

              13.     *Promoting Fair Housing.
                      http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/fair_housing_e
                      qual_opp/promotingfh. This webpage outlines AFFH requirements for a
                      wide range of HUD programs and includes a description of the Affirmative
                      Fair Housing Marketing Plan (AFHMP) requirement that applies to
                      multifamily housing programs covered by HUD’s regulations at 24 CFR
                      200.600 et seq.*

              14.     *HUD Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity – Limited English
                      Proficiency (LEP). http://www.hud.gov/offices/fheo/lep.xml. This website
                      contains resources on LEP issues, including the Department’s published
                      LEP guidance for recipients of federal financial assistance. This website
                      also contains links to translations of a wide range of vital and commonly
                      used general and multifamily housing documents, including pertinent
                      notices, forms, and brochures.*




HUD Occupancy Handbook                        1-13                                              5/03
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                   4350.3 REV-1



       C.     Ordering Publications

              *Documents can be ordered on-line from the HUD Direct Distribution Center at
              http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/administration/dds.*
              For those who do not have Internet access, documents can be ordered by calling
              HUD at 800-767-7468 or faxing *to* 202-708-2313. Interested parties can also
              request a catalogue of publications through the above numbers.

1-8    Handbook Waivers, Key Statutes, and Regulations

       A.     The procedures in this handbook are presented to ensure that the statutory,
              regulatory, and contractual obligations regarding HUD-subsidized multifamily
              housing are fulfilled. The HUD Multifamily HUB Director, or other designated
              HUB or Field Office Multifamily Housing Official, may waive directives specified in
              this handbook only if they are not formally required by statute or regulation.

       B.     Figure 1-2 lists the regulations and statutes that pertain to the key programs and
              requirements covered in this handbook.




HUD Occupancy Handbook                        1-14                                           5/03
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                        4350.3 REV-1




 Figure 1-2: Regulations and *Authorities* for Key HUD Multifamily Housing Programs

                         A. Requirements Applicable Across All Programs

       Requirement                    Regulation                              Statute
General HUD Program            24 CFR, part 5              Various statutes
Requirements
Title VI, Subtitle D of the                                42 U.S.C. 13641
Housing and Community
Development Act of 1992
Fair Housing Act (Title VIII   24 CFR, part 100            42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq.
of the Civil Rights Act of     24 CFR, part 108
1968)
Title VI of the Civil Rights   24 CFR, part 1              42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.
Act of 1964
Section 504 of the             24 CFR, part 8              29 U.S.C. 794
Rehabilitation Act of 1973

*Nondiscrimination and         *24 CFR, part 107*          *Executive Order 11063*
Equal Opportunity in
Housing*
*Collection of Data*           *24 CFR, part 121*          *Fair Housing Act*
*Economic Opportunities for    *24 CFR, part 135*          *12.U.S.C. 1701u*
Low and Very Low Income
Persons*
Age Discrimination Act of      24 CFR, part 146            42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.
1975

Tenant Participation           24 CFR, part 245            12 U.S.C. 1715z-1b
Regulations




HUD Occupancy Handbook                              1-15                                          8/13
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                         4350.3 REV-1




 Figure 1-2: Regulations and *Authorities* for Key HUD Multifamily Housing Programs

                            B. Regulations and Statutes by Programs
         Program                      Regulation                              Statute
Section 221(d)(3) BMIR         24 CFR, part 221             12 U.S.C. 1715(l); Section 221(d)(5) of
                                                            the National Housing Act
Section 236                    24 CFR, part 236             12 U.S.C. 1715z-1; Section 236 of the
                                                            National Housing Act
Section 202 – Direct Loan      24 CFR part 891, subpart E   12 U.S.C. 1701(q); Section 202 of the
                                                            Housing Act of 1959
Section 202 – Capital          24 CFR part 891, subpart B   12 U.S.C. 1701(q); Section 202 of the
Advance                                                     Housing Act of 1959 as amended by
                                                            Section 801 of the Cranston-Gonzales
                                                            National Affordable Housing Act
Section 811 – Capital          24 CFR part 891, subpart C   42 U.S.C. 8013; Section 811 of the
Advance                                                     Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable
                                                            Housing Act
*Section 202/811 – Mixed       *24 CFR part 891, subpart    *12 U.S.C. 1701(q); Section 202 of the
Finance*                       F*                           Housing Act of 1959 as amended by
                                                            Section 801 of the Cranston-Gonzales
                                                            National Affordable Housing Act
                                                            42 U.S.C. 8013; Section 811 of the
                                                            Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable
                                                            Housing Act*
Section 8 New Construction     24 CFR, part 880             42 U.S.C. 1437(f)(b); Section 8(b) of the
                                                            United States Housing Act of 1937, as in
                                                            effect before October 1, 1983.
Section 8 Substantial Rehab    24 CFR, part 881             42 U.S.C. 1437(f)(b); Section 8(b) of the
                                                            United States Housing Act of 1937, as in
                                                            effect before October 1, 1983.
State Agency Section 8         24 CFR, part 883             42 U.S.C. 1437(f)(b); Section 8(b) of the
                                                            United States Housing Act of 1937.
RHS Section 515/8              24 CFR, part 884             42 U.S.C. 1437(f)(b); Section 8(b) of the
                                                            United States Housing Act of 1937.
Section 8 LMSA                 24 CFR part 886, subpart A   Not applicable.
Section 8 PDSA                 24 CFR part 886, subpart C   42 U.S.C. 1437(f)(b); Section 8(b) of the
                                                            United States Housing Act of 1937.
Section 202/8                  24 CFR part 891, subpart E   42 U.S.C. 1437(f)(g); Section 8(g) of the
                                                            United States Housing Act of 1937
PAC/PRAC                       24 CFR, part 891             42 U.S.C. 8013(d)(2); Section 811 of the
                                                            Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable
                                                            Housing Act




HUD Occupancy Handbook                            1-16                                                8/13
Chapter 1: Introduction
                                                                                         4350.3 REV-1




 Figure 1-2: Regulations and *Authorities* for Key HUD Multifamily Housing Programs

RAP                       24 CFR part 236, subpart D         12 U.S.C. 1715z-1; Section 236 of the
                                                             National Housing Act
Rent Supplement           24 CFR, part 215 (currently        12 U.S.C. 1701(s); Section 101 of the
                          expired, but still in effect for   Housing and Urban Development Act of
                          existing contracts per 24          1965
                          CFR 200.1302)




HUD Occupancy Handbook                          1-17                                                 8/13
Chapter 1: Introduction
