Source: https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/PIH/documents/EIV_Training_FAQs.pdf (HUD PIH Enterprise Income Verification FAQs)
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; pdftotext -layout)

                    ENTERPRISE INCOME VERIFICATION
                                 FAQs


User Access/HUD Form 52676

1. Q. Will the EIV 2020 System Training satisfy the required Annual Security Awareness
      responsibility?

   A. All PHA EIV users are required to take the recommended Cyber Awareness Challenge
      2021 Training offered through Department of Defense at the following link
      https://public.cyber.mil/training/cyber-awareness-challenge/, or one that is
      comparable.

2. Q. Will HUD approve a new User Access Form?

   A. The Form HUD-52676 EIV System User Access Authorization Form and Rules of Behavior
      and User Agreement has been updated and can be found at
       https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/PIH/documents/HUD-52676.pdf


3. Q. When are EIV users required to fill out a new Form HUD-52676?

   A. A new Form HUD-52676, EIV System User Access Authorization and Rules of Behavior
      and User Agreement is required for:
      • New EIV System Users
      • Modification to existing EIV System User’s access, (adding additional user role(s)), or
         removing user role(s) no longer required to perform job duties in EIV.
      • EIV System user’s access is re-instated or terminated.

Debts Owed to PHAs and Terminations

4. Q. Are PHAs required to add current program participants with existing repayment
      agreement to the Debts Owed Module?

   A. No. The Debts Owed Module is a national repository of debts owed to PHAs or Section 8
      landlords and adverse information of former program participants who have voluntarily
      or involuntarily terminated participation in one of HUD’s rental assistance programs.

5. Q. Are PHAs required to enter information in the Debts Owed Module for all terminated
      households or just the households who leave a HUD rental assistance program owing a
       debt?

   A. Only households terminated from a HUD rental assistance program (voluntarily or
      involuntarily) under adverse terms or owe a debt should be entered into the debts
      owed module.

6. Q. How can a PHA access the Debts Owed Module in EIV?

   A. The Debts Owed Module is located on the EIV Main Page, on the left navigation panel.
      To enter/edit a debt or adverse information, a user must be assigned the Program
      Administrator - Public Housing and/or Program Administrator - Voucher role. EIV user
      roles must be approved by the PHA Executive Director (or designee) and requested on
      the Form HUD-52676.

7. Q. How long after a participant leaves the program can a PHA enter a debt under the Debts
      Owed Module?

   A. A PHA must enter any debts owed into the Debts Owed Module within 60 calendar days from
       the effective date of any action recorded on line 2b of the form HUD-50058 and form
       HUD-50058 MTW, in accordance with PIH Notice 2011-65.

8. Q. Is the Debts Owed Module available to PHAs who have converted their Public Housing
      Program to the Rental Assistance Demonstration (RAD) Program?

   A. The Debts Owed Module is not available to PHAs who have converted its public housing
      program to the RAD Program in accordance with the Consolidated and Further
      Continuing Appropriation Act of 2012 (P.L. 112-552 as amended by P.L. 113-76, P.L. 113-
      235, P.L. 114-113, P.L. 115-31, and P.L. 115-141) and Notice H-2019-9 PIH-2019-23(HA).
      PHAs should be reporting families into the debt owed module, as appropriate, prior to
      the conversion.

9. Q. Can a PHA enter participants into the Debts Owed Module who were terminated but do
      not owe a debt?

   A. Yes, a PHA can enter both debts owed and/or adverse termination information into the
      Debts Owed Module.

10. Q. When should a PHA use the Existing Tenant Search Module in EIV?
    A. PHA’s are required to perform an Existing Tenant Search prior to admissions as part of
       the screening process for applicants.

11. Q. Under the Debts Owed Module can a PHA view/access records from another PHA?
    A. Under normal circumstances a PHA will only have access to their own records; however
       during admissions, when performing an existing tenant search, debt’s owed information
       will become available from other PHA’s.

12. Q. How do I search for a debt owed by a former tenant?

   A. Click on the Former Tenant Search link under the Debts Owed Module on the left
      navigation panel, enter the 9-digit SSN and click the ‘Get Information’ button.


13. Q. Are applicants responsible for paying back a debt that was not reported in EIV?

    A. PHA’s are required to use EIV in its entity and to report all debts owed into the Debt’s
       Owed Module. In instances where the debt was not reported PHA’s should adhere to
       their administrative plan policies.

Computer Matching
14. Q. What does the term Matching mean?

    A. The term “Matching” refers to the Computer Matching Agreements (CMA’s)
       established between HUD and the Social Security Administration, and HUD and the
       Department of Health and Human Services, National Directory of New Hires. The
       purpose of the matching agreements is to assist HUD in verifying the employment and
       income of participants in certain HUD rental assistance programs.

   Q. When does Computer Matching with HHS and SSA occur?

   A. The HUD/SSA computer match occurs between the 1st and 15th of each month and the
      HUD/HHS computer match occurs between the 16th and 30th of each month.
15. Q. How can the EIV Identity Verification error codes be found?

   A. Log into the EIV system, click on the Identify Verification Report. Type in the PHA code
      and the description of the error codes can be found by clicking the Error Description
      Help link on the right-hand side of the page.

16. Q. How does a PHA correct a failed effective date check error?

   A. The effective date of the action is more than 15 months old. The required action is to
      enter a current effective date on line 2b of the form HUD-50058. The PHA must ensure
      that it has completed a current re-exam of family income and composition.


17. Q. Are there plans to include self-reported income reported on IRS Form-1040 in EIV?

   A. There are no current plans for enhancements to the EIV System to include self-reported
      income reported on IRS Form-1040.



IVT (Income Verification Tool)
18. Q. Does the Income Verification Tool replace the New Hires Report?

   A. No, PHAs that conduct interim reexams and adjust family rent contributions must
      continue to review the New Hires Report monthly and follow up with identified tenants.

19. Q. What quarters in the IVT Report should be used to identify IVT discrepancies?
   A. The quarters highlighted in red under the “Income Amount” column on the Member
      Earnings History page should be used when discussing identified discrepancies.


20. Q. How can a household be removed from the IVT once the PHA has determined there is
       not a discrepancy?

   A. The PHA must confirm/validate the tenant reported income information. If an error is
      found the PHA must correct the HUD-50058 to match the verified income. Once the
      steps above have been completed and the households’ income matches again during
      the next quarterly computer match, and there are no discrepancies the household will
      automatically fall off the IVT report.


21. Q. How does the IVT calculate the income?

   A. The IVT does not calculate income. It only discloses income discrepancies between
      tenant reported income information reported from HUD’s data sharing agreements with
      HHS/NDNH and SSA.


22. Q. When will the IVT printing issue be fixed?

   A. Enhancements have been implemented to print the IVT Reports. Users can export a
      Household Level Detail Report from the Member Level Dashboard. This report includes
      details of all household members and income information. Users can export all reports
      to PDF or Excel by using the dropdown located on the grid of each report.


Identify Verification Status
23. Q. Are PHA’s required to notify HUD when IVT discrepancies are resolved?

   A. PHA are not required to notify HUD when discrepancies are resolved; however, PHA’s
      are required to maintain documentation in the tenant file as outlined in PIH Notice
      2018-18.

24. Q. What is sporadic income?

   A. Sporadic income is income not received on a regular basis. Please reference CFR 5.609(c) (9) for
       further guidance.
25. Q. Will EIV ever start posting VA benefits?

   A. Currently, there are no plans to expand income sources in EIV.

26. Q. Will child support orders and pay history be added in EIV?

   A. Currently, child support payments are not included in the Computer Matching
      Agreements which HUD uses to collect income information of program participants, and
      there are currently no plans to expand the income sources in EIV.

27. Q. In the Identity Verification Report why is a previously 'Verified' SSN now showing
       'Excluded' in EIV?

   A. If an individual’s identity verification status is EXCLUDED this means that HUD will not
      send the tenant personal identifiers (name, DOB and/or SSN) to SSA for validation
      because a valid SSN is not reported on line 3n of the Form HUD 50058 or the individual
      has failed EIV pre-screening. Failed EIV pre-screening informs the PHA of any tenant
      who has failed HUDs EIV pre-screening process due to incorrect personal identifiers
      (DOB, name, and/or SSN) or invalid form HUD-50058, meaning the transmitted effective
      date of action is more than 15 months old, an indication of a possible overdue annual
      reexam. Tenants that appear on this report are excluded from the data matching
      process with SSA and HHS. Thus, HUD will not request or obtain income information for
      these individuals.

28. Q. Why is EIV rejecting a ‘Verified’ SSN?

   A. There is a time lag of up to 3 months between when a local Social Security
      Administration (SSA) office issues SSN and when it is reported to the national SSA
      database. IMS/PIC tests against the national database. If the national database has not
      been updated, the validity test will fail. IMS/PIC tests all non-validated SSNs once a
      month. The first time a suspect SSN is received, it is not rejected. Instead, the user gets
      a warning. There is currently a 4-month "grace" period for invalid SSNs. This means
      that, if an SSN is found invalid on March 5, the record will be treated normally with no
      restrictions for four months from that date or until July 5. If it is validated during the
      grace period, then the issue is resolved. If it is not validated at the end of the grace
      period, the normal "lock" goes into effect. Until the issue is resolved the system will not
      accept further forms for that household (except VOID or EOP).


29. Q. How does a PHA resolve SSA discrepancies of a tenant’s social security number?
A. If SSA’s records are wrong, only the tenant can request SSA to correct his/her record, by
   completing and submitting form SS-5 Application for a Social Security Card to the local
   SSA office. If the tenant’s surname recorded on line 3b of the form HUD-50058 is not
   the same surname reflected in SSA’s records, PIH Notice 2018-24 advise PHAs to ask the
   tenant to provide documentation (SSN card, birth certificate, State issued identification
   card, marriage license or court documents) of the other name he/she is using and
   update line 3b of form HUD-50058 with the correct surname. If the tenant has been a
   victim of identity theft the tenant should file an identity theft complaint with the local
   police department and/or Federal Trade Commission and monitor the tenant’s credit
   with the 3 national credit reporting agencies. The tenant should also provide the PHA
   written documentation of the filed identity theft complaint.
