Source: https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/PIH/documents/PHOG_GrievanceProcedures.pdf (HUD Public Housing Occupancy Guidebook, Grievance Procedures chapter)
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; pdftotext -layout)

                                                                                                            PUBLIC HOUSING
                                                                                                       OCCUPANCY GUIDEBOOK




Grievance Procedures
Contents
1   Chapter Overview ................................................................................................................................. 3
2   General Requirements......................................................................................................................... 3
3   Applicability and Due Process Determinations .................................................................................. 3
4   Initiating a Grievance and Informal Settlement ................................................................................. 4
5   Grievance Hearing Procedures ........................................................................................................... 6
6   Grievance Hearing Decisions .............................................................................................................. 7
7   Accessibility, Effective Communication, and Limited English Proficiency Requirements ............... 8




Grievance Procedures                                                                                                                        1
US Department of Housing & Urban Development
December 2020
                                                                         PUBLIC HOUSING
                                                                    OCCUPANCY GUIDEBOOK


The Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act (Public Law 116-136) provides the
US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with broad authority to waive or establish
alternative requirements for numerous statutory and regulatory requirements for the Public Housing
program. Through Public and Indian Housing (PIH) Notices, HUD established temporary waivers and
alternative requirements to be used at the discretion of the PHA and which may provide for
flexibilities from some of the statutory and regulatory requirements described in this document. HUD
strongly encourages PHAs to utilize any and all waivers and alternative requirements as necessary to
keep Public Housing programs operational to the extent practicable during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Please visit https://www.hud.gov/coronavirus/public_housing_agencies for the latest COVID-19-
related resources, including relevant PIH Notices.




Grievance Procedures                                                                        2
US Department of Housing & Urban Development
December 2020
                                                                                              PUBLIC HOUSING
                                                                                         OCCUPANCY GUIDEBOOK




1 Chapter Overview
This chapter outlines the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) requirements for Public
Housing Agencies (PHAs) in establishing and implementing grievance procedures, under 24 CFR part 966.
Specifically, this chapter provides guidance on the elements of the grievance process and the PHA’s grievance
procedure. The grievance procedure is an administrative remedy, prescribed by HUD to PHAs, to ensure
adequate due process regarding adverse actions against public housing tenants.1


2 General Requirements
PHAs must have a grievance procedure that meets HUD’s regulatory requirements in addition to any other
requirements by local, State or Federal law.2 The grievance procedure must either be included or incorporated
by reference in the PHA’s lease and a copy of the procedure provided to each tenant and resident
organization.3 If a PHA desires to change its grievance procedure, at least 30 days’ notice of the proposed
changes and an opportunity to present written comments must be provided to tenants and resident
organizations. PHAs must consider all submitted comments prior to adopting any changes to the grievance
procedure.4


3 Applicability and Due Process Determinations
The grievance procedure is applicable to disputes a tenant may have with respect to a PHA’s action or failure
to act in accordance with the individual tenant’s lease or the PHA’s regulations which adversely affect the
individual tenant’s rights, duties, welfare, or status (“grievances”).5 The grievance procedure is not applicable
to disputes between tenants not involving the PHA or to class grievances. Additionally, the grievance
procedure established by PHAs is not to be used by a group or groups of tenants as a forum for initiating or
negotiating PHA policy changes.6

As it relates to terminations and evictions, HUD may make a due process determination that the law of the
jurisdiction requires that the tenant must be given the opportunity for a hearing in court that provides the
basic elements of due process before eviction. A judicial eviction or lease termination in a State or local court
includes the elements of due process if the following procedural safeguards are required:


1 On March 8, 2016, HUD published its “Streamlining Administrative Regulations for Public Housing, Housing

Choice Voucher, Multifamily Housing, and Community Planning and Development Programs,” also known as the “streamlining rule.”
This rule eliminates many prescriptive requirements related to the process for obtaining a hearing and the procedures governing the
hearing, and permits PHAs to establish local requirements regarding the process for obtaining a grievance hearing. However, this rule
does not prevent a PHA from maintaining the current procedures in place immediately before this final rule. See Notice PIH 2016-05,
Streamlining Administrative Regulations for Programs Administered by Public Housing Agencies for implementation guidance.
2 42 U.S.C. 1437d(k); 24 CFR § 5.105; 24 CFR part 966
3 24 CFR § 966.52(b) and (d)
4 24 CFR § 966.52(c)
5 24 CFR §§ 966.50, 966.53(a)
6 24 CFR § 966.51(b); The PHA Plan process is the appropriate forum for making policy recommendations, see 24 CFR §§ 903.13 and

903.17

Grievance Procedures                                                                                                     3
US Department of Housing & Urban Development
December 2020
                                                                                           PUBLIC HOUSING
                                                                                      OCCUPANCY GUIDEBOOK



        Adequate notice to the tenant of the grounds for terminating the tenancy and for eviction;
        Right of the tenant to be represented by counsel;
        Opportunity for the tenant to refute the evidence presented by the PHA, including the right to confront
         and cross-examine witnesses and to present any affirmative legal or equitable defense that the tenant
         may have; and
        A decision on the merits.7

If HUD has issued a due process determination and a PHA is terminating the lease through judicial eviction
procedures, the PHA is not required to provide the opportunity for a hearing under the PHA’s grievance
procedure. Additionally, if HUD has issued a due process determination, a PHA may exclude the following
three types of terminations or evictions from its grievance procedure:
     Any criminal activity that threatens the health, safety, or right to peaceful enjoyment of the premises of
        other residents or employees of the PHA;
     Any violent or drug-related criminal activity on or off such premises; and
     Any criminal activity that resulted in felony conviction of a household member.8

HUD recommends that the PHA’s grievance procedure contain a statement of applicability which describes
the situations in which the grievance procedure is and is not applicable. PHAs may contact counsel in their
local HUD office to find out whether HUD has issued a due process determination for their state.



4 Initiating a Grievance and Informal Settlement
Grievances originate with a tenant, who must present the grievance either orally or in writing to the PHA office
or to the office of the development in which the tenant lives. A PHA cannot require that a tenant present a
grievance in writing.9 To present a grievance, an individual must be a tenant, defined as the adult person(s)
(other than a live-in aide) who resides in the unit and executed the lease as the lessee or, where there is no
such person, who resides in the unit or resides in the unit and is the remaining head of household.10 Tenants
who have presented a grievance are referred to as complainants.11 HUD recommends, but does not require,
that the grievance procedure state the addresses of the PHA office and location where grievances will be
accepted, and state a reasonable length of time for how long after the adverse action the tenant has to file
the grievance, for example, 10 working days.

The PHA’s first step in the grievance procedure is to attempt an informal settlement with the complainant
except in limited circumstances described below.12 HUD does not prescribe a specific format for the informal
settlement process. However, at the informal stage, the grievance typically is first reviewed to ensure that the
grievance is a type of dispute that can be appropriately addressed through the grievance process. If the type
of dispute is appropriate, the grievance may be referred to the department or office responsible for the matter
being grieved. The complainant typically is then contacted by a representative of that department or office,


7 24 CFR § 966.53
8 24 CFR § 966.51(a)(2)(i)
9 24 CFR § 966.54
10 24 CFR § 966.53(f); 966.54; An individual appointed power of attorney for a tenant or a legal guardian with legal authority to act for

the tenant also may present a grievance.
11 24 CFR § 966.53(b)
12 24 CFR § 966.54


Grievance Procedures                                                                                                          4
US Department of Housing & Urban Development
December 2020
                                                                                              PUBLIC HOUSING
                                                                                         OCCUPANCY GUIDEBOOK



and an informal discussion arranged at a mutually agreeable time. Complainants may attend with their own
representative at their discretion. Some PHAs have separate methods for handling informal discussions on
allegations of discrimination or harassment that differ from those for disputes about PHA operations. PHAs
are reminded that allegations of discrimination or harassment may involve violations of and be the subject of
complaints pursuant to the Fair Housing Act or other civil rights laws.13

The PHA must prepare a summary of the informal discussion within a reasonable time following the
discussion. A copy must be provided to the tenant and another copy retained in the tenant’s file. The
discussion summary must include:

        The name of each participant;
        The date(s) of the meeting(s);
        The nature of and specific reasons for the proposed disposition of the complaint; and
        The procedures by which a complainant may obtain a grievance hearing if they are not satisfied with
         the outcome of the informal discussion.14

The utilization of the informal discussion process is beneficial as it may often help to eliminate the time and
expense associated with a hearing. For example, a tenant may grieve an excess utility consumption surcharge
for which the tenant could be granted relief if the tenant meets certain criteria as described in the applicable
notice given by the PHA.15 The informal discussion could allow the PHA to clarify the applicable criteria and for
the tenant to demonstrate eligibility for individual relief from the surcharge avoiding the need for a hearing.
As another example, PHAs can avoid the cost of eviction proceedings if the tenant agrees to vacate the unit
during the informal grievance discussions. If an eviction is required, sometimes tenants agree to voluntarily
vacate a unit to avoid having an eviction on their record. However, if the tenant agrees yet fails to vacate, the
PHA must continue with the grievance hearing and eviction process. The tenant must be informed of this
process in accordance with grievance hearing requirements.16

PHAs may establish an expedited grievance procedure in the following circumstances, bypassing the
requirement for informal settlement:
    Terminations or evictions that involve any criminal activity that threatens the health, safety, or right to
       peaceful enjoyment of the PHA’s public housing premises by other residents or PHA employees; or
    Terminations or evictions that involve any drug-related or violent criminal activity on or off such
       premises.17




13 See, e.g., 24 CFR Part 1 (Title VI of the Civil Rights Act), Part 8 (Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973), and Part 100 (Fair

Housing Act). For guidance about preventing and addressing harassment allegations under the Fair Housing Act, go to
HUDexchange.info/ at https://www.hudexchange.info/trainings/preventing-harassment/. See also, “Quid Pro Quo and Hostile
Environment Harassment and Liability for Discriminatory Housing Practices Under the Fair Housing Act” (“Harassment Rule”), 81 Fed
Reg. 63054 (Sep. 14, 2016)
14 24 CFR § 966.54
15 See 24 CFR § 965.508
16 24 CFR §§ 966.4(l)(3)(iv) and (n); 24 CFR 966.52(e)
17 24 CFR § 966.53(d)


Grievance Procedures                                                                                                              5
US Department of Housing & Urban Development
December 2020
                                                                                        PUBLIC HOUSING
                                                                                   OCCUPANCY GUIDEBOOK




5 Grievance Hearing Procedures
Grievance hearings must be held before a hearing officer.18 The hearing officer may be an individual or a
panel consisting of more than one person. The hearing officer must be impartial and must not be the person
or subordinate of the person who made or approved the decision under review. HUD does not require hearing
officers to have legal training. The PHA’s policies for selecting hearing officers must be included in the lease
forms and any changes to the policy are subject to a 30-day comment period.19

Grievance hearings also must be scheduled promptly for a time and place reasonably convenient to both the
complainant and the PHA.20 Although HUD does not prescribe a process for determining a specific date and
place for a grievance hearing, upon receiving a request for a hearing, some PHAs ask that the complainant
propose several dates and times when they would be available to attend a grievance hearing. The PHAs may
choose then to compare their hearing officer’s schedules and follow up with the complainant to choose a
reasonably convenient time for the tenant and the PHA. Once a date and time are determined, a written
notice specifying the time, place, and the procedures governing the hearing must be delivered to the
complainant and the appropriate official.21

If the complainant or the PHA fails to appear at the scheduled hearing, the hearing officer may postpone the
hearing for up to 5 business days or may decide that the absent party has waived their right to a grievance
hearing. However, the complainant maintains the right to challenge the PHA’s disposition of the grievance in
an appropriate judicial proceeding. Both the complainant and PHA must be notified of the hearing officer’s
determination.22

Prior to the hearing, either the complainant or PHA may arrange for a transcript of the hearing to be made.
The cost of the transcript will be paid by the party requesting the transcript. Any interested party may
purchase a copy of the transcript.23

At the hearing, the complainant must first demonstrate that they are entitled to the relief sought.24 Next, the
PHA has the burden of justifying its action or failure to act on the aggrieved matter.25 The hearing officer has
discretion as to how to conduct the hearing within HUD’s requirements; for example, the hearing officer
determines whether to grant a continuance of the proceedings if requested by one of the parties. The
complainant must be afforded a fair hearing, which includes the following elements:

        Opportunity to examine and copy documents
         Prior to the hearing, complainants must be provided an opportunity to examine any PHA documents,
         including records and regulations, that are directly relevant to the hearing. Complainants must be
         allowed to copy any such documents at the complainant’s expense.26


18 24 CFR § 966.56(a)
19 24 CFR § 966.53(e)
20 24 CFR § 966.56(a)
21 24 CFR § 966.56(a)
22 24 CFR § 966.56(c)
23 24 CFR § 966.56(e)
24 24 CFR § 966.56(d)
25 24 CFR § 966.56(d)
26 24 CFR § 966.56(b)(1); With respect to an adverse action based upon a criminal record, the PHA must provide the tenant and the

subject of the record with a copy at no cost. See 24 CFR § 966.4(l)(5)(v) See also PIH Notice 2015-19, “Guidance for Public Housing
Agencies (PHAs) and Owners of Federally-Assisted Housing on Excluding the Use of Arrest Records in Housing Decisions.”

Grievance Procedures                                                                                                     6
US Department of Housing & Urban Development
December 2020
                                                                           PUBLIC HOUSING
                                                                      OCCUPANCY GUIDEBOOK



        If the PHA does not make the documents available for examination upon request by the complainant,
        the PHA cannot use the documents at the grievance hearing.27 Additionally, in the case of an eviction,
        the PHA cannot proceed with the eviction if the PHA does not make documents available for review
        upon the tenant’s request.28

       Right to be represented
        Complainants have the right to be represented by counsel or another person chosen as their
        representative and to have that person make statements on their behalf.29

       Right to a private hearing
        Complainants have the right to a private hearing, unless they request a public hearing.30

       Right to support complaint
        Complainants have the right to present evidence and arguments in support of their complaint, to
        refute evidence relied on by the PHA or project management, and to confront and cross-examine all
        witnesses relied upon by the PHA.31

       Decision based on facts
        The decision must be based solely and exclusively upon the facts presented at the hearing.32



6 Grievance Hearing Decisions
The hearing officer must prepare a written decision within a reasonable time following the hearing. The
decision must state the reason(s) for the decision.33 Although HUD does not prescribe the content that must
be included in a written decision, common content for a written decision may include, but is not limited to:

       The names of the complainant, hearing officer, other participants, including complainant’s counsel or
        representative, and witnesses;
       The date, time and location of the hearing;
       A summary of the grievance;
       The date on which the informal settlement discussion was held, who was present, and a summary of
        the results of the informal discussion (preferably quoting the informal settlement summary letter);
       A summary of the evidence, argument and testimony presented at the hearing; and
       The reason(s) for the hearing decision, citing the policy or regulation that supports the decision made.

A copy of the decision must be sent to the complainant and a copy must be placed in the complainant’s
tenant file.34 The PHA must maintain a log of all hearing officer decisions and make the log available upon



27 24 CFR § 966.56(b)(1)
28 24 CFR § 966.4(m)
29 24 CFR § 966.56(b)(2)
30 24 CFR § 966.56(b)(3)
31 24 CFR § 966.56(b)(4)
32 24 CFR § 966.56(b)(5)
33 24 CFR § 966.57(a)
34 24 CFR § 966.57(a)


Grievance Procedures                                                                                   7
US Department of Housing & Urban Development
December 2020
                                                                                      PUBLIC HOUSING
                                                                                 OCCUPANCY GUIDEBOOK



request to prospective complainants, prospective complainants’ representatives, or hearing officers.35 At a
minimum, the log must include the date of the hearing decision, the general reason for the grievance hearing
(failure to pay rent, community service and self-sufficiency noncompliance, etc.) and whether the
decision was in the favor of the complainant or the PHA.36

The hearing officer’s decision is binding on the PHA, meaning the PHA must take the action or refrain from
taking the action, as cited in the decision, unless the PHA’s Board of Commissioners determines that:

        The grievance does not concern the PHA’s action or failure to act in accordance with or involving the
         complainant’s lease or the PHA’s regulations, which adversely affect the complainant’s rights, duties,
         welfare, or status; or
        The decision of the hearing officer is contrary to Federal, State, or local law, HUD regulations, or
         requirements of the annual contributions contract between HUD and the PHA.37

A decision by the hearing officer or panel or Board of Commissioners that is in favor of the PHA’s action or
failure to act, or a decision that denies the relief requested in whole or in part, does not waive the
complainant’s rights to a subsequent trial or judicial review.38


7 Accessibility, Effective Communication, and Limited English
  Proficiency Requirements
PHAs must provide reasonable accommodations for persons with disabilities throughout the grievance
process.39 This requirement includes, but is not limited to, providing reasonable accommodation for persons
with disabilities to participate in the hearing, to engage in the informal settlement process, to provide
additional time, etc. Reasonable accommodations may include, for example, qualified sign language
interpreters, readers, accessible locations, or attendants.40

All notifications and communications must ensure effective communication for persons with disabilities. PHAs
must provide appropriate auxiliary aids and services necessary to ensure effective communication, which
includes ensuring that information is provided in appropriate accessible formats as needed, e.g., Braille,
audio, large-print, optical readers on computers available for viewing, assistive listening device systems, and
sign language interpreters.41 There may be other effective methods of making aurally delivered information
available to individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing, or other effective methods of making visually
delivered materials available to individuals who are blind or have low vision. PHAs must provide, at their
expense, auxiliary aids and services for effective communication with complainants during the grievance
process. An individual with a disability may request a specific type of auxiliary aid or service as his or her
preferred method of communication.42


35 24 CFR § 966.57(a)
36 Notice PIH 2016-05, Streamlining Administrative Regulations for Programs Administered by Public Housing Agencies
37 24 CFR § 966.57(b)
38 24 CFR § 966.57(c)
39 See 24 CFR Part 8 ; See also 28 CFR part 35.
40 24 CFR § 966.56(f); See 24 CFR Part 8; See also 28 CFR part 35.
41 24 CFR § 966.56(f); See 24 CFR Part 8; See also 28 CFR part 35.
42 24 CFR § 8.6; See also 28 CFR part 35, Subpart E.


Grievance Procedures                                                                                                  8
US Department of Housing & Urban Development
December 2020
                                                                                         PUBLIC HOUSING
                                                                                    OCCUPANCY GUIDEBOOK




PHAs also must take reasonable steps to ensure meaningful access to their programs and activities to
individuals with limited English proficiency (LEP).43 Detailed information on LEP requirements as well as
reasonable accommodations and effective communications is provided in the Fair Housing and
Nondiscrimination Chapter.




43 24 CFR § 966.56(g); See also HUD’s Final Guidance to Federal Financial Assistance Recipients: Title VI Prohibition Against National

Origin Discrimination Affecting Limited English Proficient Persons (LEP Guidance) (72 FR 2732). LEP guidance and LEP information is
available on HUD’s website at https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/fair_housing_equal_opp/promotingfh/lep-faq.

Grievance Procedures                                                                                                       9
US Department of Housing & Urban Development
December 2020
