Source: https://www.hud.gov/sites/documents/43503c9hsgh.pdf (HUD Handbook 4350.3 REV-1, Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV))
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; pdftotext -layout)

                                                                                        4350.3 REV-1



                 CHAPTER 9. ENTERPRISE INCOME VERIFICATION (EIV)

9-1     Introduction

         This chapter describes the requirements for using the information in the Enterprise
         Income Verification (EIV) system for verifying employment and income of tenants and for
         reducing administrative and subsidy errors.

                         Section 1: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV) System introduces
                          the EIV system and the mandatory use of EIV data.

                         Section 2: EIV Source Data describes the sources providing EIV data.

                         Section 3: EIV Reports describes each of the EIV Income and
                          Verification Reports and how they are to be used.

                         Section 4: Security of EIV Data describes disclosure of EIV data
                          requirements and the importance of securing EIV data as well as the
                          requirements for receiving annual security awareness training.

                         Section 5: Penalties for Failure to Have Access to or Failure to Use
                          EIV describes the penalties an owner and/or management agent may
                          incur for failure to have access to the EIV system or failure to use the EIV
                          system.

                         Section 6: EIV Resources provides a listing of resources available to
                          help owners get access to EIV and to understand and use the EIV system
                          and EIV data.

9-2     Key Terms

        A.       There are a number of technical terms used in this chapter that have very
                 specific definitions established by federal statute or regulations, or by HUD.
                 These terms are listed in Figure 9-1, and their definitions can be found in the
                 Glossary to this handbook. It is important to be familiar with these definitions
                 when reading this chapter.

        B.       The terms “disability” and “persons with disabilities” are used in two contexts –
                 for civil rights protections, and for program eligibility purposes. Each use has
                 specific definitions.

                 1.       When used in context of protection from discrimination or improving the
                          accessibility of housing, the civil rights-related definitions apply.

                 2.       When used in the context of eligibility under multifamily subsidized
                          housing programs, the program eligibility definitions apply.

                 NOTE: See the Glossary for specific definitions and paragraph 2-23 for an
                 explanation of this difference.


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                 9-1                                              8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 1:                                                                            4350.3 REV-1
Enterprise Income Verification (EIV) System


                                           Figure 9-1: Key Terms
                                    Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)

                                    Improper Payments


                     Section 1: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV) System

9-3     Key Regulations

         This paragraph identifies the key regulatory citation pertaining to this Section. The
         citation and its title are listed below.

                         24 CFR 5.233 Mandated Use of HUD’s Enterprise Income Verification
                          (EIV) System

9-4     Introduction to the EIV System

         The EIV system is a web-based application which provides owners with employment,
         wage, unemployment compensation and Social Security benefit information for tenants
         participating in HUD’s assisted housing programs. Information in EIV is derived from
         computer matching programs initiated by HUD with the Social Security Administration
         (SSA) and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), for all tenants
         with valid personal identifying information (name, date of birth (DOB), and Social
         Security number (SSN)) reported on the form HUD-50059. Information in the EIV
         system is used by owners to verify employment and income at the time of recertification
         and to reduce errors in subsidy payments.

9-5     Mandatory Use of the EIV System

        A.       Use of EIV applies to all programs covered by this Handbook listed in Chapter 1,
                 Figure 1-1.

        B.       Owners must use the EIV system in its entirety:

                         As a third party source to verify tenant employment and income
                          information during mandatory recertifications of family composition and
                          income, in accordance with 24 CFR 5.236, and administrative guidance
                          issued by HUD, and

                         To reduce administrative and subsidy payment errors in accordance with
                          HUD administrative guidance.

        C.       Contract Administrators (HUD staff, PBCAs and TCAs) must use EIV for
                 monitoring the owner’s compliance with obtaining access to and using the EIV
                 system.

        D.       Independent Public Auditors (IPAs) and the Office of Inspector General (OIG)
                 may use EIV for auditing purposes. See the Glossary for the definition for IPA.


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                    9-2                                        8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 2:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
EIV Source Data



                                                  Section 2: EIV Source Data

9-6     EIV Data

        A.        Data in the EIV system comes from several sources including the following:

                  1.      Tenant information in the EIV system is data from current, active forms
                          HUD-50059 transmitted to the Tenant Rental Assistance Certification
                          System (TRACS).

                  2.      Employment and income information comes from two sources, 1) the
                          Department of Health and Human Services (HHS’) National Directory of
                          New Hires (NDNH) and 2) the Social Security Administration (SSA).

                          a.       NDNH

                                   1.       New Hires (W-4)
                                   2.       Quarterly wages for federal and non-federal employees
                                   3.       Quarterly unemployment compensation

                          b.       SSA

                                   1.       Social Security (SS) benefits
                                   2.       Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits
                                   3.       Dual Entitlement benefits
                                   4.       Medicare premium information
                                   5.       Disability status

        B.        Schedule of EIV Updates

                  1.      SSA Updates

                          a.       A quarterly match is conducted against SSA records for tenants
                                   who pass the SSA identity test (See C.2 below).

                          b.       Each quarter the entire tenant population is matched with SSA.
                                   Each month during a quarter, a group of tenants are matched on
                                   their next recertification month. (See Figure 9-2 below.)

                          c.       The SSA match process begins at the beginning of each month
                                   with all of the data being loaded into EIV by the second week of
                                   the month.

                          d.       Records that are new or that have been significantly updated are
                                   matched in the next monthly SSA matching cycle.

                          e.       Benefits that include the cost of living adjustments (COLAs) are
                                   not available from SSA for uploading into EIV until the end of the
                                   calendar year.


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                     9-3                                          8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 2:                                                                                    4350.3 REV-1
EIV Source Data



                                   When processing recertifications with an effective date of January
                                   1, February 1, March 1 and April 1, in order to complete the
                                   Recertification Steps outlined in Chapter 7, Figure 7-3, and
                                   provide the tenant with the required 30-day notice of any increase
                                   in rent, the owner must use one of the methods below for
                                   determining the tenant’s income.

                                   (1)      Use the benefit information reported in EIV that does not
                                            include the COLA as third party verification as long as the
                                            tenant confirms that the income data in EIV is what he/she
                                            is receiving;

                                   (2)      Use the SSA benefit, award letter or Proof of Income Letter
                                            provided by the tenant that includes the COLA adjustment
                                            if the date of the letter is within 120 days from the date of
                                            receipt by the owner;

                                   (3)      Determine the tenant’s income by applying the COLA
                                            increase percentage to the current verified benefit amount
                                            and document the tenant file with how the tenant’s income
                                            was determined; or

                                   (4)      Request third party verification directly from SSA when the
                                            income in EIV does not agree with the income the tenant
                                            reports he/she is receiving. (See Paragraph 9-15)

                                   (5)      All recertifications effective after April 1 must reflect the
                                            SSA benefit that includes the COLA.

                          f.       EIV retains the last eight actions processed by SSA for a tenant.

                                   Figure 9-2 Schedule of SSA Updates
  Group                  Recertification Month                    Months Data Is Refreshed in EIV
  I           April, May, June, July                             January, April, July, October
  II          August, September, October, November               February, May, August, November
  III         December, January, February, March                 March, June, September, December


                                   For example, the SSA data for tenants with a recertification month
                                   of April, May, June or July is refreshed in EIV in January, April,
                                   July and October.

                  3.      NDNH Updates

                          a.       Tenants who pass the identity match with SSA are matched with
                                   the NDNH new hires (W-4), wage and unemployment data.




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                    9-4                                                   8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 2:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
EIV Source Data



                          b.       There are two matches performed:

                                   (1)      Monthly match:

                                            (a) Entire eligible tenant base is matched with the new
                                                hires (W-4) data, and

                                            (b) Newly admitted tenants are matched with the wage
                                                and unemployment benefit data.

                                   (2)      Quarterly match of the entire tenant base with the new
                                            hires (W-4), wage and unemployment benefit data.

                                   See Figure 9-3 below.

                          c.       The new hires (W-4), wage and unemployment benefit data is
                                   loaded into EIV by the 20th of each month.

                          d.       EIV retains the last 8 actions processed by HHS of the NDNH
                                   employment and income data for a tenant.

                                Figure 9-3 Scheduled of NDNH Updates

                                          Month       Type of Match
                                          January          Monthly
                                         February          Quarterly
                                          March            Monthly
                                           April           Monthly
                                           May             Quarterly
                                           June            Monthly
                                           July            Monthly
                                          August           Quarterly
                                         September         Monthly
                                          October          Monthly
                                         November          Quarterly
                                         December          Monthly




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                   9-5                                              8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                              4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



        C.       Screening of Personal Identifiers

                 1.       EIV Pre-screening

                          Prior to sending tenant information to SSA for validation of a tenant’s
                          personal identifiers (last name, DOB and SSN), a pre-screening is
                          conducted to identify tenants who are missing or have invalid personal
                          identifiers. These tenants are not sent to SSA for the identity match until
                          the personal identifier information has been corrected in TRACS.

                 2.       SSA Identity Test

                          a.       Tenants who pass the EIV pre-screening test are sent to SSA for
                                   verification of their personal identifiers against SSA records.
                                   Tenants whose personal identifiers do not match SSA’s records
                                   cannot be matched against HHS’ NDNH or SSA’s records until the
                                   personal identifier information has been corrected in TRACS.

                          b.       Tenants whose personal identifiers match SSA’s records are
                                   matched against HHS’ NDNH and SSA’s records to obtain
                                   employment and income information.

                 See Paragraph 9-12.C for information on using the Failed EIV Pre-Screening and
                 Failed SSA Identity Test Reports for correcting discrepant data.

                                         Section 3: EIV Reports

9-7     Key Regulations

         This paragraph identifies the key regulatory citations pertaining to this Section. The
         citation and its title are listed below.

                         24 CFR 5.233 Mandated Use of HUD’s Enterprise Income Verification
                          (EIV) System

                         24 CFR 5.236 Procedures for termination, denial, suspension, or
                          reduction of assistance based on information obtained from a SWICA or
                          Federal agency

                         24 CFR 5.659 Family information and verification.

9-8     Using EIV Reports

        A.       Owners must use the EIV system in its entirety. To do this, the owner must use:

                 1.       EIV Income Report as a third party source to verify a tenant’s
                          employment and income during mandatory recertifications (annual and
                          interim) of family composition and income, and



HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                 9-6                                            8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                              4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                 2.       Other EIV Income Reports (Income Discrepancy Report, New Hires
                          Report, No Income Reported on 50059, and No Income Reported by HHS
                          or SSA) to identify issues or discrepancies which may impact a family’s
                          assistance; and

                 3.       EIV Verification Reports (Existing Tenant Search, Multiple Subsidy
                          Report, Identity Verification Reports, and Deceased Tenants Report) that
                          further assists in reducing subsidy payment errors.

        B.       Owners must:

                 1.       Use the Existing Tenant Search in EIV as part of their screening criteria
                          for new tenants and must include written policies for using the search in
                          their Tenant Selection Plan. (See Chapter 4, Section 1 for a discussion
                          on requirements of the Tenant Selection Plan.)

                 2.       Develop policies and procedures for staff to follow for using the EIV
                          Income reports and remaining Verification Reports

                 3.       Have current, signed consent forms HUD-9887 on file before accessing
                          the employment and income information in EIV for a tenant. (See
                          Chapter 3, Paragraph 3-11 for a discussion on the requirements on
                          consent forms.)

        C.       Owners may not suspend, terminate, reduce, make a final denial of rental
                 assistance, or take any other adverse action against an individual based solely
                 on the date in EIV. See Chapter 8, Section 4 for information on investigating
                 discrepancies and errors and determining fraud.

9-9     Documentation to Demonstrate Owners Compliance with Use of the Income
        Report

        The following documentation is required to be in the tenant file to demonstrate the
        owner’s compliance with mandated use of EIV as the third party source to verify tenant
        employment and income information.

        A.       No Dispute of EIV Information: EIV Income Report, current acceptable tenant-
                 provided documentation and, if necessary (as determined by the owner), third
                 party verification from the source.

        B.       Disputed EIV Information: EIV Income Report and third party verification from
                 the source for disputed information.

        C.       Tenant-reported Income Not Verified through the EIV System: EIV Income
                 Report, current acceptable tenant-provided documents or third party verification
                 from the source.

        See Paragraph 9-11 and Exhibit 9-5, Use of EIV Reports, for documentation
        requirements for all EIV reports.


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                 9-7                                            8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



9-10 Independent Third Party Verification

        A.       Owners must request and obtain independent third party verification directly from
                 the source which is used to complement EIV data when the below occurs. In
                 these situations, the owner must not use tenant-provided documentation even if
                 generated from a third-party source.

                 1.       The tenant is unable to provide acceptable and current employment
                          and/or income documentation to support the wage and unemployment
                          income in EIV;

                 2.       The tenant disputes the EIV income information;

                 3.       There is an EIV income discrepancy reported at the time of recertification
                          (annual or interim) or at other times as specified in the owner’s policies
                          and procedures;

                 4.       There is incomplete EIV employment or income data for a tenant and the
                          owner needs additional information. Examples of additional information
                          include but are not limited to:

                          (a)      Effective date of income (i.e. employment, unemployment
                                   compensation or Social Security benefits).

                          (b)      For new employment: pay rate, number of hours worked per
                                   week, pay frequency, hire date (not required to be reported to
                                   state so it may not be in EIV), etc. (See Exhibit 9-6 for data
                                   elements that are optional for employers to report to the state.)

                          (c)      There is no EIV employment or income data for a tenant.

                 See Chapter 5, Paragraph 5-13 for information on acceptable verification
                 methods.

        B.       When the owner is unable to obtain third party verification, e.g., the third party
                 does not respond, the tenant file must be documented why third party verification
                 was not available. (See Chapter 5, Paragraph 5-18 for documentation
                 requirements.)

        C.       The owner may accept self-declaration from the tenant only if third party
                 verification cannot be verified by another acceptable verification method. (See
                 chapter 5, Paragraph 5-13.B for certification requirements.)

        D.       Owners always have the discretion to obtain additional third party verification of
                 income or verification of other EIV data based on circumstances encountered
                 during the recertification process.




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                  9-8                                                8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                 4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



9-11 EIV Income Reports

        When selecting the Income Report for an individual tenant, either from the list of tenants
        for a particular project and/or contract or by querying by the head of household’s SSN,
        there are three reports that the owner must use at the time of recertification. The reports
        can be accessed by clicking on the tab for a particular report.


        A.       Summary Report

                 This report is a summary of information taken from the current, active
                 certifications contained in the TRACS file at the time of the income match. It also
                 provides the Identity Verification Status for each household member.

                 1.       Identity Verification Status

                          There are four verification statuses identified:

                          Verified – personal identifiers (last name, DOB and SSN) match the SSA
                          database

                          Failed – personal identifiers do not match the SSA database

                          Not Verified – personal identifiers have not yet been sent to SSA for
                          validation or validation is in process by SSA

                          Deceased – SSA’s records indicate the person is deceased

                 2.       Owners must use this report:

                          a.       At the time of recertification to review and resolve the status of
                                   any household member(s) with a “failed” or “deceased” status.

                                   NOTE: Owners do not have to do anything at the time of
                                   recertification when the status is “Not Verified”. However, the
                                   owner must check the Failed SSA Identity Test report monthly as
                                   changes in the Identity Verification Status for these tenants may
                                   occur.

                          b.       As verification that a tenant’s SSN has been “Verified” by SSA as
                                   being a valid SSN.

                 3.       Owners must retain in the tenant file:

                          a.       The Summary Report(s) as verification of the SSN for all
                                   household members whose Identity Verification Status is
                                   “Verified”.

                          b.       If the Summary Report in the tenant file shows an Identity
                                   Verification Status of “Verified” for all household members

HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                   9-9                                                8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                 4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                                   required to have a SSN, the owner does not have to continue to
                                   print out the Summary Report at recertification unless there is a
                                   change in household composition or in a household member’s
                                   identity verification status.

                                   NOTE: To minimize the risk of exposing a tenant’s SSN, owners
                                   may remove and destroy, at the time of recertification, copies of
                                   verification documentation received from the tenant at the time of
                                   disclosure of their SSN once the Identity Verification Status shows
                                   “Verified”. Owners are encouraged to minimize the number of
                                   tenant records that contain documents that display the full nine-
                                   digit SSN. Owners must not include the full nine-digit SSN for a
                                   tenant in emails or other electronic communications.

                                   See Chapter 3, Paragraph 3-9 for SSN disclosure and verification
                                   requirements.

                          c.       Any correspondence or documentation received to resolve the
                                   “Failed” or “Deceased” status.

                          d.       Documentation for household members not required to disclose
                                   and provide verification of a SSN:

                                   Exempt from SSN disclosure and verification requirements:
                                       Tenants who were 62 years of age or older as of January
                                         31, 2010, and whose initial determination of eligibility was
                                         begun before January 31, 2010, and

                                           Individuals who do not contend eligible immigration status.

                                   These individuals will continue to have a TRACS generated
                                   identification number in the SSN field. No employment or income
                                   information will be provided in EIV for these individuals, therefore,
                                   third party verification from the income source will have to be
                                   obtained.

                                   See Paragraph 9-12 for information on resolving data for tenants
                                   with the “failed” or “deceased” Identity Verification Status.

        B.       Income Report

                 Owners must use the Income Report at the time of recertification (annual and
                 interim) of family composition and income and at other times as indicated in their
                 policies and procedures.

                 The Income Report:

                         Provides employment and income information reported in the NDNH and
                          SSA databases for all household members who passed the SSA identity


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                   9-10                                            8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                              4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                          test, and

                         Identifies household members who may be receiving multiple subsidies
                          by displaying the following message:
                          “This member may be receiving multiple subsidies. See the Multiple
                          Subsidy Report for details.”

                 1.       Components of the Income Report

                          The Income Report provides a variety of information about each member
                          of a household. The components of the report are:

                          a. TRACS certification information and tenant personal identifiers

                          b. Employment information

                          c. Quarterly wages

                          d. Quarterly unemployment benefits

                          e. Social Security benefits (SS)

                          f.   Dual Entitlement benefits

                          g. Medicare data

                          h. Supplemental Security Income (SSI)

                          i.   SSA disability status

                          See Exhibit 9-3, EIV Income Report Information, for the types of
                          information contained in each of the components of the report.

                 2.       The Income Report does not include other income the household may
                          receive such as welfare benefits, most pensions, child support, etc. It
                          should also be noted that a tenant may have wages that the employer did
                          not report to the State Workforce Agency (SWA), therefore, not contained
                          in the NDNH database.

                          See Chapter 5, Paragraph 5-6 for the elements of annual income and
                          Exhibit 5-1 for Income Inclusions and Exclusions.

                 3.       NDNH (New Hires (W-4), Wage and Unemployment Compensation)

                          a.       Owners must use the Income Report identifying the NDNH
                                   employment, wage and unemployment income information in the
                                   EIV system as third party verification of the tenant’s employment
                                   and/or unemployment. The owner must not use the quarterly
                                   income reported in the EIV system to calculate the tenant’s
                                   income.

HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                 9-11                                           8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports




                          b.       The owner must confirm with the tenant that the employment
                                   and/or unemployment information in EIV is correct. If the tenant
                                   confirms that the employment and/or unemployment information in
                                   the EIV system is correct, the owner must:

                                   (1)      Print the Income Report and use the report as third party
                                            verification of the tenant’s employment and/or
                                            unemployment.

                                   (2)      Request the tenant provide documentation, e.g., four
                                            current, consecutive check stubs, which will support his/her
                                            current income being received.

                                   (3)      Use the tenant provided documentation for determining the
                                            tenant’s income unless additional information is needed or
                                            the owner has reason to reject the tenant provided
                                            documentation. In these instances, third party verification
                                            must be obtained from the income source. (See Chapter
                                            5, Paragraph 5-13 for guidance on tenant provided
                                            documents.)

                                   (4)      Annualize the tenant’s income using the current income
                                            projected forward for the next 12 months. (See Chapter 5,
                                            Section 1 for instructions on calculating income.)

                                   (5)      Make copies of any tenant provided documents for the
                                            tenant file and return the originals to the tenant.

                                   (6)      Retain the Income Report and supporting documentation
                                            in the tenant file along with the applicable form HUD-
                                            50059.

                          c.       If the tenant disputes the employment, wage or unemployment
                                   information in the EIV system or when the tenant reports he/she is
                                   employed or receiving unemployment but there is no information
                                   in EIV, the owner must obtain third party verification from the
                                   employer or SWA.

                          NOTE: See Chapter 5, Paragraph 5-5.A for calculating income using the
                          EIV system.

                 4.       Social Security Benefits

                          a.       Owners must use the Income Report identifying the SSA benefit
                                   information in the EIV system as third party verification of the
                                   tenant’s receipt of SS benefits and to calculate the tenant’s
                                   income. A copy of the SSA award or benefit letter or Proof of


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                   9-12                                           8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                                   Income Letter is not required unless the tenant disputes the SSA
                                   information in the EIV system.

                          b.       The owner must confirm with the tenant that the SSA benefit
                                   information in the EIV system is correct. If the tenant confirms
                                   that the SSA information in the EIV system is correct, the owner
                                   must:

                                   (1)      Print the Income Report and use the report as third party
                                            verification of the tenant’s SSA benefits.

                                   (2)      Annualize the tenant’s income using the monthly gross
                                            benefit amount projected forward for the next 12 months.
                                            (See Chapter 5 for instructions on calculating income.)

                                            NOTE: See Chapter 5, Paragraph 5-6.O for calculating
                                            the income for Intermediate Care Facility/Mentally
                                            Retarded (ICF/MR) or Intermediate Care
                                            Facility/Developmentally Disabled (ICF/DD) and Assisted
                                            Living Units in Elderly Projects and Paragraph 5-6.J for
                                            Adjustments to Prior Overpayments of Benefits

                                   (3)      Include the Medicare premium in the medical expense
                                            deduction calculation if the premium is being paid by the
                                            tenant. (See d below if the Medicare premium is not being
                                            paid by the tenant.)

                                   (4)      Retain the Income Report in the tenant file along with the
                                            applicable form HUD-50059.

                          c.       If the tenant disputes the SSA information in the EIV system or
                                   when the tenant reports he/she is receiving SSA benefits but there
                                   is no SSA information in the EIV system, the owner must obtain
                                   third party verification by requesting the tenant provide a copy of
                                   their benefit or award letter or Proof of Income Letter, dated within
                                   the last 120 days from the date of receipt by the owner. If the
                                   tenant does not have a current letter from SSA, the owner should
                                   ask the tenant to request benefit information from SSA using
                                   SSA’s website or using SSA’s toll-free number.

                          NOTE: See Chapter 5, Paragraph 5-5.A for calculating income using the
                          EIV system.

                          d.       When the Medicare premium is being paid by the tenant, the
                                   premium is included as a medical expense. If the Medicare
                                   Premium is being paid by the tenant, the amount of the premium
                                   is listed under “Premium” and an “N” is in the “Buy-in” column of
                                   the Medicare Data section of the Income Report.




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                   9-13                                           8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                   4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports




                                             Premium               Buy-in   Buy-in Start     Buy-in Stop

                    Hospital Insurance             $0.00             N       Not Available    Not Available

                   Supp. Med. Insurance           $110.50            N       Not Available    Not Available



                          e.       When the Medicare premium is not being paid by the tenant but is
                                   being paid by the state or another entity, there should be a “Y” in
                                   the buy-in column and the date when the third party started paying
                                   the tenant’s Medicare premium in the “Buy-in Start” column of the
                                   Medicare Data section of the Income Report.

                                             Premium               Buy-in   Buy-in Start     Buy-in Stop

                    Hospital Insurance             $0.00             N       Not Available    Not Available

                   Supp. Med. Insurance           $110.50            Y         10/10/09       Not Available



                          f.       When the state or other entity no longer pays the tenant’s
                                   Medicare premium, there should be a date in the “Buy-in Stop”
                                   column of the Medicare Data section of the Income Report.

                                             Premium               Buy-in   Buy-in Start     Buy-in Stop

                    Hospital Insurance             $0.00             N       Not Available    Not Available

                   Supp. Med. Insurance           $110.50            Y         10/10/09         03/01/10



                                   NOTE: The “Y” indicator and dates in the Buy-in column is
                                   information received from SSA and is not always accurate. If the
                                   tenant disputes the EIV data and can provide current
                                   documentation as verification to support they are paying the
                                   Medicare premium themselves, then the tenant file must be
                                   documented with this additional information and the owner can
                                   include the Medicare premium in the tenant’s medical expense
                                   deduction.

                          g.       While the SSA provides information on Medicare premiums, it
                                   does not provide as part of the computer matching, information on
                                   additional deductions such as Medicare Part D (prescription
                                   drugs) premiums or garnishments. Therefore, the owner will need
                                   to request that tenants disclose any deductions they may have
                                   from their SSA benefits. For example, if the tenant is paying
                                   his/her Medicare premium and the difference between the gross
                                   and the net SSA benefits exceeds the amount of the Medicare
                                   premium, the owner must discuss this with the tenant to determine
                                   any deductions that may impact the tenant’s income or allowable

HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                          9-14                                        8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                                   expenses, e.g., Medicare Part D (prescription drugs) premiums
                                   are an allowable medical expense.

                          h.       The SSA Disability Status is not always accurate, therefore, the
                                   owner must not use this status indicator for determining an
                                   applicant’s or tenant’s eligibility as disabled for a HUD program or
                                   for receiving the elderly/disabled household allowance.

                 5.       New Admissions

                          For all new admissions, including Initial Certifications (IC), the owner
                          must:

                          a.       Review the Income Report within 90 days after transmission of the
                                   move-in certification to TRACS to confirm/validate the income
                                   reported by the household.

                          b.       Resolve any income discrepancies with the household within 30
                                   days of the Income Report date.

                          c.       Print and retain the Income Report in the tenant file along with any
                                   documentation received to resolve income discrepancies, if
                                   applicable.

                 6.       Applicants

                          The EIV system only contains employment and income information for
                          tenants. Therefore, owners must request third party verification from the
                          income source for determining an applicant’s income for eligibility and
                          rent calculation purposes.

        C.       Income Discrepancy Report

                 1.       The Income Discrepancy Report identifies households where there is a
                          difference of $2,400 or more annually in the wages, unemployment
                          compensation and/or Social Security benefit income reported by NDNH
                          and SSA and the wages, unemployment compensation and/or Social
                          Security benefit income reported in TRACS for the period of income (POI)
                          used for the discrepancy analysis.

                          The report identifies tenants whose income may have been under- or
                          over-reported. Negative numbers on the report represent potential tenant
                          under reporting of income while a positive number represents a potential
                          decrease in a tenant’s income. In either case, the owner must investigate
                          all discrepancies identified to determine whether or not they are valid.
                          The definition of improper payments includes payments for the incorrect
                          amount, both overpayments and underpayments. (See the Glossary for
                          the definition of improper payments. Also, see Exhibit 9-7, Income
                          Discrepancy Report, for a description of the POI used for discrepancy



HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                  9-15                                             8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                              4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                          analysis.)

                          NOTE: Wage, unemployment and Social Security income in TRACS
                          includes:

                                             TRACS
                                          Income Code                Type of Income
                                               B               Business
                                                F              Federal Wage
                                               M               Military Pay
                                               W               Nonfederal Wage
                                               U               Unemployment
                                               SS              Social Security
                                                               Supplemental Security
                                                  SSI
                                                               Income

                          NOTE: Other income the household receives, e.g., welfare benefits,
                          most pensions, child support, etc., may be reported in annual income in
                          TRACS but it is not used for the discrepancy analysis in the EIV system.

                 2.       The Income Discrepancy Report is a tool to alert owners that there may
                          be a discrepancy in the income reported by the tenant during the POI
                          used for the discrepancy analysis. The owner must investigate all
                          discrepancies identified on the report to determine whether or not the
                          discrepancy is valid. The owner is not expected to reconcile dollar
                          amounts to the penny when resolving discrepancies.

                 3.       Owners must:

                          a.       Print the Income Discrepancy Report at the same time they print
                                   the Income Report.

                                   NOTE: It is important that the Income Discrepancy Report be
                                   printed at the same time as the Income Report as each week a
                                   completely new report is generated based on the current
                                   information in the system for a tenant. The old report is over-
                                   written with the current data.

                          b.       Review and resolve any discrepancies in income reported on the
                                   Income Discrepancy Report with the family at the time of
                                   recertification or within 30 days of the EIV Income Report date.
                                   Any unreporting, underreporting or over-reporting of income by the
                                   tenant and reported on current or historical forms HUD-50059
                                   must be identified. (See Chapter 8, Paragraphs 8-18 and 8-19 for
                                   the procedures for addressing discrepancies, errors and fraud.)




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                      9-16                                         8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
 Section 3:                                                                                      4350.3 REV-1
 EIV Reports




                           c.       Retain the Income Discrepancy Report along with detailed
                                    information on the resolution of the reported discrepancy in the
                                    tenant file. This includes information on resolution of the
                                    discrepancy regardless of whether the discrepancy was found to
                                    be valid or invalid.

                           d.       Make sure the information in TRACS agrees with the information
                                    on the form HUD-50059 in the tenant file. If it is determined that
                                    the information in TRACS differs from the information found on the
                                    tenant’s current HUD-50059, retransmit the current HUD-50059 to
                                    correct the TRACS database. This is important since the income
                                    discrepancies reported in the EIV system are determined by
                                    comparing the wage, unemployment and Social Security benefits
                                    income reported by NDNH and/or SSA with the wage,
                                    unemployment and Social Security benefits income reported by
                                    the household and transmitted to TRACS.

Example 1: Valid3.discrepancy
                    Discrepancy Examples.

The EIV Income Discrepancy Report shows the tenant had Reported Annual Wages and Benefits during the
period of income used for the discrepancy analysis. However, there are no Projected Annual Wages or
Benefits reported on the form HUD-50059. The owner must investigate this to determine if the tenant did not
report his/her income at the time of recertification. If the tenant did not report his/her income, this would be a
valid discrepancy. The owner must obtain third party verification of the tenant’s income, process corrected
form HUD-50059(s) to include any unreported or underreported income, notify tenant of funds due and their
obligation to reimburse the owner, collect funds due from tenant and/or enter into a repayment agreement
and reimburse HUD for funds collected from the tenant less the amount retained for pursuing collection. If
not a valid discrepancy, the owner will document the file with the results of the investigation supporting this
determination.

Projected Annual Wages and Benefits from Form HUD-50059:               $0
Period Of Income for Discrepancy Analysis                              06/01/2008 - 05/31/2009
Discrepancy Analysis                                                   Actuals        Annualized Last Quarter
Reported Annual Wages and Benefits from EIV Data:                      $22,018.70     $19,518.57
Amount of Annual Income Discrepancy:                                   ($22,018.70) ($19,518.57)
Amount of Monthly Income Discrepancy:                                  ($1,834.89)    ($1,626.55)
Percentage of Income Discrepancy:                                      (100%)         (100%)




 HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                   9-17                                                  8/13
 Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                     4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports


 Example 2: Valid discrepancy

 The EIV Income Discrepancy Report shows that the tenant had Reported Annual Wages and Benefits during
 the period of income used for the discrepancy analysis of $15,957.03 actual and $17,210.18 annualized.
 The Projected Annual Wages reported on the form HUD-50059 are $14,472.00. The annualized last quarter
 income exceeds the $2,400 discrepancy threshold ($17,210.18-$14,472.00 = $2,738.18). The owner must
 investigate this to determine if the tenant should have reported a cumulative increase of $200 per month
 ($2,400 annually) or more in the household’s income. If the tenant should have reported the increase in
 income as required by his/her lease, this would be a valid discrepancy. If valid, the owner would obtain third
 party verification, process an interim recertification in accordance with Chapter 7, Paragraph 7-13.D of
 Handbook 4350.3 REV-1, notify tenant of funds due and their obligation to reimburse the owner, collect
 funds due from tenant and/or enter into a repayment agreement and reimburse HUD for funds collected from
 the tenant less amount retained for pursuing collection. If not a valid discrepancy, the owner will document
 the file with the results of the investigation supporting this determination.

 Projected Annual Wages and Benefits from Form HUD-50059:              $14,472.00
 Period Of Income for Discrepancy Analysis                             06/01/2008 - 05/31/2009


 Discrepancy Analysis                                                  Actuals       Annualized Last Quarter
 Reported Annual Wages and Benefits from EIV Data:                     $15,957.03    $17,210.18
 Amount of Annual Income Discrepancy:                                  ($1,485.03)   ($2,738.18)
 Amount of Monthly Income Discrepancy:                                 ($123.75)     ($228.18)
 Percentage of Income Discrepancy:                                     9.31%         15.910000%
 .

 Example 3: Invalid discrepancy
 The EIV Income Discrepancy Report shows that the tenant had Reported Annual Wages and Benefits during
 the period of income used for the discrepancy analysis. However, there are no Reported Annual Wages or
 Benefits on the form HUD-50059 for the same period of time. The form HUD-50059 used in the discrepancy
 analysis was the tenant’s move-in form HUD-50059. The owner must investigate this discrepancy to
 determine if the tenant accurately reported his/her income at the time of move-in. If verification is received
 that the tenant was not working at the time of move-in and the wages reported on the EIV Income Report
 were earned prior to move-in, this would be an invalid discrepancy. No action is required of the owner
 except to document the tenant’s file of the findings as a result of the investigation.

 Projected Annual Wages and Benefits from Form HUD-50059:            $0
 Period Of Income for Discrepancy Analysis                           06/01/2008 - 05/31/2009

 Discrepancy Analysis                                                Actuals         Annualized Last Quarter
 Reported Annual Wages and Benefits from EIV Data:                   $10,341.38      $7,507.72
 Amount of Annual Income Discrepancy:                                ($10,341.38)    ($7,507.72)
 Amount of Monthly Income Discrepancy:                               ($861.78)       ($625.64)
 Percentage of Income Discrepancy:                                   (100%)          (100%)




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                 9-18                                                  8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                 4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports


        D.       Other EIV Income Reports

                 The EIV system contains the following stand-alone income reports. Owners
                 must use these reports as discussed below and at times as established in their
                 policies and procedures. Owners must retain a “Master” file that contains a copy
                 of the report and documentation and/or notations as indicated in the report
                 discussions below.


                 Caution: Any detail reports retained in a tenant’s file must only contain
                 information for members of that tenant’s household. Many of the reports do not
                 have page breaks between households; therefore, owners will need to separate
                 the reports by household by cutting the reports apart until page breaks are
                 inserted in the EIV system.

                 1.       Additional Income Reports
                          There are three additional income reports that owner must use: the No
                          Income Reported on 50059, the No Income Reported by HHS or SSA,
                          and the New Hires Report. These reports are accessed from the Monthly
                          Summary Report when querying by project number and/or contract
                          number. Additionally, the New Hires Report can be found in the EIV
                          system as a Verification Report. If the report is underlined, this indicates
                          that the report is an active link. Just click on the report name to obtain
                          data about households identified where no income was reported or where
                          a household member is reported as having new employment.

                          a.       No Income Reported on 50059
                                   This report is a tool for owners to use to identify tenants who
                                   passed the identity match against SSA’s records but have zero
                                   income represented in the TRACS system.

                                   (1)      Owners must use this report only as identified and
                                            described in their policies and procedures. When running
                                            the report, the owner must select the recertification month
                                            “All”.

                                   (2)      Owners are not required to retain copies of this report

                                   NOTE: It is recommended that owners have a policy to re-verify
                                   the status of tenants reporting zero income at least quarterly. As
                                   part of the procedures for implementing the policy, the owner must
                                   use the EIV Income Report to determine if the tenant or any family
                                   members have income reported by HHS or SSA.

                          b.       No Income Reported by HHS or SSA
                                   This report is a tool for owners to use to identify tenants who
                                   passed the SSA identity test but no employment or income
                                   information was received from the match against either the SSA or
                                   NDNH records.



HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                   9-19                                             8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                 4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                                   (1)      Owners must use this report as identified and described in
                                            their policies and procedures. When running the report,
                                            the owner must select recertification month “All”.

                                   (2)      Because no income was reported as a result of the match
                                            against SSA and NDNH records does not mean that the
                                            tenant(s) does not have income.

                                   (3)      Owners must make sure when they interview the tenants
                                            at the time of recertification that the right questions are
                                            asked so that the tenants are given the opportunity to
                                            disclose any income they receive.

                                   (4)      Owners are not required to retain copies of this report.

                                   NOTE: It is recommended that owners have a policy to re-verify
                                   the status of tenants reporting zero income at least quarterly. As
                                   part of the procedures for implementing the policy, the owner must
                                   use the EIV Income Report to determine if the tenant, or any
                                   family members, has income reported by HHS or SSA.

                          c.       New Hires Report

                                   This report identifies tenants who have started new jobs within the
                                   last six months. The information in this report is updated monthly.
                                   The New Hires Report can also be found in the EIV system as a
                                   Verification Report.

                                   (1)      Owners must use this report at least quarterly to determine
                                            if any of their tenants have started new employment
                                            whereby the tenant has not reported a change in income to
                                            the owner between recertifications and/or the new
                                            employment was not reported at the time of recertification.
                                            When running the report, the owner must select
                                            recertification month “All”.

                                   (2)      Because tenants participating in one of Multifamily
                                            Housing’s rental assistance programs are required to
                                            report changes in income when the household’s income
                                            cumulatively increases by $200 or more per month, owners
                                            must reach out to their tenants to report the income
                                            changes so that rent adjustments can be made in a timely
                                            manner, thus eliminating/reducing the amount of
                                            retroactive rent repayments. (See Chapter 7, Paragraph 7-
                                            12.B.)

                                   (3)      Owners must:




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                   9-20                                              8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                                            (a)   Contact the tenant regarding his/her new
                                                  employment.

                                            (b)   Confirm with the tenant that they have a new job
                                                  and that the employment information in the EIV
                                                  system is correct. If the tenant agrees that the
                                                  employment information in the EIV system is
                                                  correct, request the tenant provide documents, e.g.,
                                                  four current, consecutive pay stubs, employment
                                                  confirmation letter specifying rate of pay, number of
                                                  hours worked each week, pay frequency, etc., for
                                                  use in determining the tenant’s income or, if
                                                  necessary, request third party verification from the
                                                  employer.

                                                  If the tenant disputes the information in the EIV
                                                  system, the owner must obtain third party
                                                  verification from the employer.

                                            (c)   Process a recertification in accordance with
                                                  program requirements that includes the
                                                  employment income.

                                            (d)   Retain a copy of the report in a master “New Hires
                                                  Report” file along with notations as to the outcome
                                                  of the contact with the tenant (e.g., J. Jones –
                                                  interim recertification processed to include income
                                                  from new employment). All correspondence with
                                                  the tenant third party verifications, etc., must be
                                                  retained in the tenant file.

                                   See Paragraph 7-10.A and the HUD Model Leases in Appendix 4
                                   for change in income reporting requirements.

9-12 EIV Verification Reports

        The EIV system contains the following stand-alone reports that identify potential issues
        which may impact the family’s assistance. Owners must use these reports as discussed
        below and at times as established in their policies and procedures to reduce subsidy
        payment errors. Owners must retain a “Master” file that contains a copy of the report
        and documentation and/or notations as indicated in the report discussions below.

        Caution: Any detail reports retained in a tenant’s file must only contain information for
        members of that tenant’s household. Many of the reports do not have page breaks
        between households; therefore, owners will need to separate the reports by household
        by cutting the reports apart until page breaks are inserted in the EIV system.
        The Verification Reports can be accessed from the EIV Homepage, left sidebar.




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                 9-21                                               8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                               4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports




        A.       Existing Tenant Search

                 This report identifies applicants applying for assisted housing that may be
                 receiving rental assistance at the time of application at another Multifamily
                 Housing or Public and Indian Housing (PIH) location.
                 Owners must:

                 1.       Use this report at the time they are processing an application to
                          determine if the applicant or any applicant household members are
                          currently being assisted at another Multifamily Housing or PIH location.

                 2.       Discuss with the applicant if the report identifies that the applicant or a
                          member of the applicant’s household is residing at another location,
                          giving the applicant the opportunity to explain any circumstances relative
                          to his/her being assisted at another location. This may be a case where
                          the applicant wants to move from his/her present location or where two
                          assisted families share custody of a minor child.

                 3.       Follow up with the respective Public Housing Agency (PHA) or owner to
                          confirm the individual’s program participation status before admission, if
                          necessary, depending on the outcome of the discussion with the
                          applicant. The report gives the owner the opportunity to coordinate
                          move-out and move-in dates with the PHA or owner of the property at the
                          other location.

                 4.       Retain the search results with the application along with any
                          documentation obtained as a result of contacts with the applicant and the
                          PHA and/or owner at the other location.

        B.       Multiple Subsidy Report

                 This report identifies individuals who may be receiving multiple HUD rental
                 subsidies.

                 1.       Owners must:

                          a.       Use the Multiple Subsidy Report at least quarterly to identify any
                                   tenants who are receiving assistance at another location. Owners
                                   must follow up with tenants identified on the report where the
                                   discrepancy was not identified and resolved at the time of
                                   recertification.

                          b.       Perform a search to determine if possible multiple subsidies exist.

                          c.       Discuss with the tenant if the results of the search shows that a
                                   tenant is being assisted at another location. The tenant must be
                                   given the opportunity to explain any circumstances relative to
                                   his/her being assisted at another location.



HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                 9-22                                            8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                 4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports




                          d.       Follow up with the respective PHA or owner, if necessary, to
                                   confirm if the tenant is being assisted at the other location.
                                   Depending on the results of this investigation, the owner may
                                   need to take action to terminate the tenant’s assistance or
                                   tenancy. (See Chapter 8, Sections 1 and 2 for procedures for
                                   terminating assistance or tenancy.)

                          e.       Print out and retain a copy of the search results along with any
                                   documentation supporting any contacts made or information
                                   obtained to determine if a household and/or household member is
                                   receiving multiple subsidies. Additional documentation to support
                                   any action taken if a household or a household member is
                                   receiving multiple subsidies will be retained in the tenant file and
                                   should be noted on the report.

                                   If a tenant’s multiple subsidy was discussed and resolved at the
                                   time of recertification, this should be noted on the printed report
                                   and no further action is required.

                          NOTE: HUD does not prohibit owners of partially subsidized projects
                          from housing tenants who are receiving assistance through the Housing
                          Choice Voucher program. While these tenants may appear on the
                          Multiple Subsidy Report, HUD does not consider them as receiving
                          double subsidy. (See Paragraph 3-21 for a discussion on Applicants with
                          Housing Choice Vouchers.) In these instances, owners should print out a
                          copy of the Multiple Subsidy Report and note that the tenant has a
                          Housing Choice Voucher and is not receiving double subsidy, e.g., tenant
                          is residing in a Section 236 unit and receiving rental assistance through
                          the Housing Choice Voucher program.

        C.       Identity Verification Report

                 There are three reports that are accessed from the Identity Verification Report
                 link. Owners must use the Failed EIV Pre-Screening and the Failed Verification
                 Report (Failed the SSA Identity Test) reports monthly to clear up any invalid,
                 discrepant or missing information in the TRACS database that was not identified
                 and corrected at the time of recertification. When running the report, the owner
                 must select recertification month “All”. There will not be any employment or
                 income information in EIV for tenants who fail either the EIV Pre-Screening or
                 SSA Identity Test so it is essential that any discrepancies are corrected within 30
                 days from the date of the reports. Owners must conduct third party verifications
                 to obtain employment and income data for these tenants. The Number of
                 households Not-Verified (verification in process) Report is not required to be
                 used by owners.

                 If the report name is underlined, this indicates it is an active link. Just click on the
                 report name to obtain data about household members who meet the
                 characteristics of the reports.


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                  9-23                                             8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports




                 1.       Failed EIV Pre-Screening Report

                          This report identifies tenants who fail the EIV pre-screening test because
                          of invalid or missing personal identifiers (last name, DOB or SSN). The
                          tenants identified in this report will not be sent to SSA for the SSA identity
                          test until the personal identifier information is corrected in TRACS.

                          Owners must:

                          a.       Use this report monthly to identify tenants that did not pass the
                                   pre-screening test and the reason(s) they did not pass so that the
                                   errors can be corrected. Owners must follow up with tenants
                                   identified on the report where discrepant personal identifiers were
                                   not corrected at the time of recertification.

                          b.       Before contacting the tenant, confirm accuracy of data entry in
                                   TRACS, e.g., has a number been transposed when entering the
                                   SSN.

                          c.       Confirm with the affected tenant their SSN, last name, and/or
                                   DOB.

                          d.       Obtain documentation from the tenant to verify any discrepant
                                   personal identifiers.

                          e.       Correct any discrepancies in TRACS so that the tenant will be
                                   included in the TRACS file provided to the EIV system for
                                   inclusion in the SSA identity test.

                          f.       Print and retain a copy of the report in a master “Failed EIV Pre-
                                   screening Report” file. The report must be documented with
                                   action taken to resolve invalid or discrepant personal identifiers.

                          See Exhibit 9-1 for the EIV Failed Pre-screening Report Error Messages
                          and corrective action.

                          NOTE: This report will include those persons who are exempt from the
                          SSN disclosure and verification requirements. In these instances, the
                          owner will note on the copy of the report retained in the “Failed EIV Pre-
                          Screening Report” master file that the tenant(s) is exempt from SSN
                          requirements.

                          Exempt from SSN disclosure and verification requirements:

                              Tenants who were 62 years of age or older as of January 31, 2010,
                               and whose initial determination of eligibility was begun before January
                               31, 2010; and



HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                  9-24                                            8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                               4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                              Individuals who do not contend eligible immigration status.

                 2.       Failed Verification Report (Failed the SSA Identity Test)

                          This report identifies household members who failed the SSA identity test
                          because their personal identifiers (last name, DOB or SSN) do not match
                          SSA’s records, as well as, identifies deceased household members.

                          Owners must:

                          a.       Use this report monthly to identify those tenants that did not pass
                                   the SSA identity verification test and the reason(s) they did not
                                   pass so that the errors can be corrected.

                          b.       Follow up with tenants identified on the report where discrepant
                                   personal identifiers were not corrected at the time of
                                   recertification.

                          c.       Before contacting the tenant, confirm accuracy of data entry in
                                   TRACS, e.g., has a number been transposed when entering the
                                   SSN.

                          d.       Confirm with the affected tenant their last name, SSN and/or DOB.

                          e.       Obtain verification or documentation to support the tenant’s
                                   personal identifiers and the accuracy of the form HUD-50059 and
                                   TRACS data.

                          f.       Correct any discrepancies in TRACS so that the tenant will be
                                   included in the match against SSA and NDNH data.

                          g.       Encourage the tenant to contact SSA to correct any inaccurate
                                   data in their databases if the personal identifiers on the form HUD-
                                   50059 and in TRACS are accurate. The tenant can request SSA
                                   to correct his/her record by completing and submitting form SS-5,
                                   Application for a Social Security Card, and verifying
                                   documentation to the local SSA office.

                          h.       Print and retain a copy of the report. The report must be
                                   documented with action taken to resolve invalid or discrepant
                                   personal identifiers.

                          NOTE: If a tenant’s information was corrected at the time of
                          recertification but the EIV data has not yet been updated, this should be
                          noted on the printed report and no further action is required.

                          See Exhibit 9-2 for the Failed Verification Report (Failed the SSA Identity
                          Test) Error Messages and corrective action.




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                  9-25                                           8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                  4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports


        D.       Deceased Tenant Report

                 This report identifies tenants who are participating in one of Multifamily Housing’s
                 rental assistance programs who are reported by SSA as being deceased.

                 1.       Owners must:

                          a.       Use this report at least quarterly to identify those tenants reported
                                   by SSA as being deceased. When running the report, the owner
                                   must select recertification month “All”.

                          b.       Confirm, in writing, with the head of household, next of kin or
                                   contact person/entity provided by the tenant whether or not the
                                   person is deceased.

                          c.       If the person is deceased:

                                   (1)      Update the household composition and income and
                                            allowances, if applicable, on the form HUD-50059. The
                                            effective date of the form HUD-50059 should be in
                                            accordance with Chapter 7, Paragraph 7-13.D.

                                   (2)      In the case of a deceased single member of a household,
                                            process a Move-out using form HUD-50059-A. The
                                            effective date of the form HUD-50059-A will be retroactive
                                            to the earlier of 14 days after the tenant’s death or the date
                                            the unit was vacated (see Chapter 9, Paragraph 9-12.E).

                                   NOTE: Single member deceased households are denoted on the
                                   report with a red asterisk (*) after the member’s deceased date.

                                   (3)      Any overpayment of subsidy that was paid on behalf of the
                                            deceased tenant must be repaid to HUD.

                          d.       Discrepancies must be corrected in the TRACS system within 30
                                   days from the date of the report.

                          e.       Encourage the tenant to contact the SSA to correct any inaccurate
                                   data in their databases if the person identified as being deceased
                                   in the SSA database is not deceased.

                          f.       Print and retain a copy of the report in a master “Deceased
                                   Tenant” file. The report must be documented with action taken to
                                   resolve any discrepancies. All correspondence or action taken for
                                   a particular tenant must be retained in the tenant file.

                         NOTE: If action was taken to remove the deceased tenant from the
                         household at the time of recertification but the EIV data has not yet been
                         updated, note this on the printed report and no further action is required.



HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                   9-26                                             8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                             4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                 2.       The Deceased Tenants Report is updated every weekend. See
                          examples below addressing when a deceased individual will be removed
                          from the report.

                          Example 1: Mr. Jones was listed on the Deceased Tenants Report dated
                          December 14, 2009, with a deceased date of November 20, 2009. On
                          December 1, 2009, the owner confirmed that Mr. Jones was actually alive
                          and advised Mr. Jones to visit his local SSA office to have the error
                          corrected. SSA corrected the error on December 20, 2009. When HUD
                          conducted computer matching with SSA on January 6, 2010, HUD
                          obtained new SSA data which indicated that Mr. Jones was not
                          deceased. The Deceased Tenants Report was updated on the weekend
                          of January 8, 2010. When the owner accessed the Deceased Tenants
                          Report on January 11, 2010, Mr. Jones was no longer on the report.

                          Example 2: Mr. Williams was listed on the Deceased Tenants Report
                          dated December 14, 2009, with a deceased date of June 10, 2009. On
                          January 6, 2010, the owner confirmed that Mr. Williams was deceased.
                          The owner then completed and submitted the move-out on form HUD-
                          50059-A on January 7, 2010. The Deceased Tenants Report was
                          updated on the weekend of January 8, 2010. When the owner accessed
                          the Deceased Tenants Report on January 11, 2010, Mr. Williams was no
                          longer on the report.

        E.       New Hires Report

                 For a description of the New Hires Report, see Paragraph 9-11.D.

9-13 Reimbursement of Over- or Under-payment of Subsidy

        A.       Unreported or Underreported Income

                 If the owner determines the tenant unreported or underreported his/her income,
                 the owner must go back to the time the unreported or underreporting of income
                 started, not to exceed the 5-year limitation that the tenant was receiving
                 assistance described on forms HUD-9887 and HUD-9887-A. The owner must
                 follow the instructions in Chapter 8 for meeting with the tenant to discuss
                 reimbursement of funds due the owner and repayment agreement requirements.

        B.       Over-reported income

                 If, at the time of recertification, there is an Income Discrepancy Report in the EIV
                 system that reflects a decrease of $2,400 or more in wages, unemployment
                 and/or Social Security income reported in the EIV system and the wage,
                 unemployment and/or Social Security income in TRACS for the POI used for the
                 discrepancy analysis, the owner must investigate the discrepancy. If, after
                 investigating the discrepancy, the owner determines that an error was made in
                 calculating the tenant’s income, the owner must follow the instructions in Chapter
                 8, Paragraph 8-24 to reimburse the tenant for any overpayment in rent. It is
                 important that the owner determine whether the income appearing on the EIV

HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                9-27                                           8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                 Income Discrepancy Report should be included as income and does not meet
                 one of the income exclusions represented in Exhibit 5-1.

9-14 Retention of EIV Reports

        A.       Owners must retain:

                 1.       The Income Report, the Summary Report(s) showing Identity Verification
                          Status as “Verified” and the Income Discrepancy Report(s) and
                          supporting documentation must be retained in the tenant file for the term
                          of tenancy plus three years.

                 2.       Any tenant provided documentation, or other third party verification of
                          income, received to supplement the SSA or NDNH data must be retained
                          in the tenant file for the term of tenancy plus three years.

                 3.       Results of the Existing Tenant Search must be retained with the
                          application:

                          (a)      If applicant is not admitted, the application and search results
                                   must be retained for three years.

                          (b)      If applicant is admitted, the application and search results must be
                                   retained in the tenant file for the term of tenancy plus three years.

                 4.       The master files for the New Hires Report, Identity Verification Reports,
                          Multiple Subsidy Report and Deceased Tenants Report must be retained
                          for three years.

                          See Exhibit 9-5, Use of EIV Reports.

        B.       Once the retention period has expired, owners must dispose of the data in a
                 manner that will prevent any unauthorized access to personal information, e.g.,
                 burn, pulverize, shred, etc.

9-15 Requesting Verification of Information from SSA

        Owners must not send the tenant to the SSA office if they do not have information
        needed to verification Social Security benefits. Instead, the owner must ask the tenant
        to request benefit information from SSA using SSA’s website or toll-free number.

        A.       The owner may assist the tenant in requesting benefit information from SSA, if
                 the tenant requests their assistance in accessing the SSA website or has
                 questions on completing the request. To request a Proof of Income Letter from
                 SSA’s website go to http://www.socialsecurity.gov. From the left side bar:

                               Select “What you can do online”
                               Select “If you get benefits”
                               Select “Request a Proof of Income Letter”


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                  9-28                                              8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                 Tenants should check the box “All Benefit Information Available” to make sure all
                 benefits received are provided.

        B.       To request a Proof of Income Letter from SSA’s toll-free number call 1-800-772-
                 1213.

        C.       This information is free and the tenant should receive the letter in the mail within
                 10 days. The tenant will provide the Proof of Income Letter to the owner for use
                 in calculating their income. A copy of the letter will be retained in the tenant’s file
                 and the original returned to the tenant for their records.

9-16 EIV Income Incorrect or Does Not Belong to the Tenant

        There may be times when the source or originator of the EIV information makes an error
        when submitting or reporting information about tenants. HUD cannot correct data in
        the EIV system, only the originator of the data can correct the information. When
        data is corrected by the source or originator, HUD will obtain the updated information
        with its next computer matching process. Below are procedures to follow regarding
        incorrect EIV information.

        A.       TRACS data reported in the EIV system originates from the owner. Once data is
                 corrected in the owner’s software, the corrected data must be transmitted to
                 TRACS.

        B.       Employment and wage information reported in the EIV system originates from
                 the employer. The employer reports this information to the local State Workforce
                 Agency (SWA), who in turn, reports the information to HHS’ NDNH database.
                 If the tenant disputes the accuracy of the information in the EIV system that was
                 provided by the employer and after additional third party verification is obtained
                 by the owner it is determined that the information is not accurate, the tenant
                 should contact the employer directly, in writing, to dispute the employment and/or
                 wage information and request that the employer correct erroneous information.
                 The tenant should provide the owner a copy of this written correspondence to
                 maintain in the tenant file.

        C.       Unemployment benefit information reported in the EIV system originates from
                 the local SWA. If the tenant disputes the accuracy of the information in the EIV
                 system that was provided by the SWA and after additional third party verification
                 is obtained by the owner it is determined that the information is not accurate, the
                 tenant should contact the SWA directly, in writing, to dispute the unemployment
                 benefit information, and request that the SWA correct erroneous information.
                 The tenant should provide the owner a copy of this written correspondence to
                 maintain in the tenant file.

        D.       SS and SSI benefit information reported in the EIV system originates from the
                 SSA. If the tenant disputes the accuracy of the information in the EIV system
                 that was provided by the SSA and after additional third party verification is
                 obtained by the owner it is determined that the information is not accurate, the
                 tenant should contact the SSA at (800) 772-1213, or visit the local SSA office
                 and request that the erroneous information be corrected. SSA office information

HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                9-29                                              8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 3:                                                                              4350.3 REV-1
EIV Reports



                 is available in the government pages of the local telephone directory or online at
                 http://www.socialsecurity.gov.

        E.       Identity Theft. Incorrect information in the EIV system may be a sign of identity
                 theft. Sometimes someone else may use an individual’s SSN, either on purpose
                 or by accident. SSA does not require an individual to report a lost or stolen SSN
                 card, and reporting a lost or stolen SSN card to SSA will not prevent the misuse
                 of an individual’s SSN. A person using an individual’s SSN can get other
                 personal information about that individual and apply for credit in that individual’s
                 name.

                 If the tenant suspects someone is using his/her SSN, he/she should:

                 1. Check their Social Security records to ensure their records are correct (call
                    SSA at 1-800-772-1213);

                 2. File an identity theft complaint with the Federal Trade Commission (call FTC
                    at 1-877-438-4338, or visit their website at:
                    http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/edu/microsites/idtheft/); and

                 3. Monitor his/her credit reports with the three national credit reporting agencies
                    (Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian).

                      Tenants may request their credit report and place a fraud alert on their credit
                      report with the three national credit reporting agencies at:
                      http://www.annualcreditreport.com or by contacting the credit reporting
                      agency directly. Each agency’s contact information is listed below:

                      National Credit Reporting Agencies Contact Information

                      Equifax Credit Information Services, Inc.
                      P.O. Box 740241
                      Atlanta, GA 30374
                      Website: http://www.equifax.com
                      Telephone: (800) 685-1111

                      Experian
                      P.O. Box 2104
                      Allen, TX 75013
                      Website: http://www.experian.com
                      Telephone: (888) 397-3742

                      TransUnion
                      P.O. Box 6790
                      Fullerton, CA 92834
                      Website: http://www.transunion.com
                      Telephone: (800) 680-7289 or (800) 888-4213




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                9-30                                            8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 4:                                                                              4350.3 REV-1
Security of EIV Data



                                        Section 4: Security of EIV Data

9-17 Disclosure of EIV Data

        A.       Disclosure of an Individual’s EIV Information to Another Person or Entity

                 The Federal Privacy Act (5 USC 552a, as amended) prohibits the disclosure of
                 an individual’s information to another person without the written consent of such
                 individual. As such, the EIV data of an adult household member may not be
                 shared (or a copy provided or displayed) with another adult household member
                 or to a person assisting the tenant with the recertification process, unless the
                 individual has provided written consent to disclose such information.
                 The owner, however, is not prohibited from discussing with the head of
                 household and showing the head of household how the household’s income and
                 rent were determined based on the total income reported and verified.
                 See Exhibit 9-4, for a Sample Tenant Consent to Disclose EIV Income
                 Information for use by the owner in obtaining the tenant’s consent to disclose
                 information to another adult household member.

        B.       Disclosure to Persons Assisting Tenants with the Recertification Process

                 With the written consent of the tenant, EIV data may be shared with persons
                 assisting the tenant with the recertification process. Tenants who require
                 assistance during the recertification process may have a representative present
                 to assist them in their ability to participate in the recertification process; this
                 includes review and explanation of the written third party income verifications.
                 Disclosure of EIV information to these parties must be employment or income
                 information pertaining only to the tenant who has provided his/her consent.
                 These parties must not have access to EIV information for any other household
                 members.

                 Parties to whom the tenant can provide written consent include:

                      Service coordinators (only if they are present at and assisting the tenant with
                       the recertification process)
                      Translators/Interpreters
                      Individuals assisting an elderly individual or a person with a disability
                      Guardians
                      Powers of Attorney
                      Other Family Members

                 See Exhibit 9-4, for a Sample Tenant Consent to Disclose EIV Income
                 Information for use by the owner in obtaining the tenant’s consent to disclose
                 information to persons assisting the tenant with the recertification process.

        C.       Disclosure for Official Purpose

                 The data in the EIV system contains personal information on individual tenants
                 that is covered by the Privacy Act. The information in the EIV system may only


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                 9-31                                           8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 4:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
Security of EIV Data



                 be used for limited official purposes:

                 1.       Official Purpose Includes:

                          a.       Owners, in connection with the administration of Multifamily
                                   Housing programs, for verifying the employment and income at
                                   the time of recertification and for reducing administrative and
                                   subsidy payment errors.

                          b.       CAs (PBCAs and TCAs) and HUD staff for monitoring and
                                   oversight of the access and mandatory use of the EIV system.

                          c.       IPAs, when hired by an owner to perform the financial audit of the
                                   project, for use in determining the owner’s compliance with
                                   verifying income and determining the accuracy of the rent and
                                   subsidy calculations.

                                   Restrictions on disclosure requirements for IPAs:

                                   (1)      Can only access EIV income information within hard copy
                                            files and only within the offices of the owner or
                                            management agent;

                                   (2)      Cannot transmit or transport EIV income information in any
                                            form;

                                   (3)      Cannot enter EIV income information on any portable
                                            media;

                                   (4)      Must sign non-disclosure oaths (Rules of Behavior for Non-
                                            system Users) that the EIV income information will be used
                                            only for the purpose of the audit; and

                                   (5)      Cannot duplicate EIV income information or re-disclose
                                            EIV income information to any user not authorized by
                                            Section 435(j)(7) of the Social Security Act to have access
                                            to the EIV income data.

                                   NOTE: See the Glossary for the definition of Independent Public
                                   Auditor.

                          d.       OIG investigators for auditing purposes.

                          e.       Disclosure of EIV information to individuals who are assisting in
                                   the recertification process and who are present during the
                                   recertification interview and process. (See Section B above)

                 2.       Official Purpose Does NOT Include:




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                   9-32                                            8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 4:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
Security of EIV Data



                          a.       Sharing the information with governmental entities not involved in
                                   the recertification process used for HUD’s assisted housing
                                   programs, e.g., the Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC)
                                   program and Rural Housing Services (RHS’) Section 515
                                   program. EIV data must not be shared with state officials
                                   monitoring the owner for LIHTC compliance or by owners for
                                   completion of the LIHTC Tenant Income Certification (TIC). EIV
                                   data also must not be shared with RHS staff for monitoring an
                                   owner’s compliance for tenants receiving Section 8 assistance or
                                   by owners for certifying tenants who do not receive Section 8
                                   assistance.

                                   Disclosing the EIV information to owners for use under the LIHTC
                                   and RHS Section 515 programs is not allowed since neither the
                                   Internal Revenue Service (IRS) nor RHS are a party to the
                                   computer matching agreements with HHS and SSA. The fact that
                                   there is financing through other federal agencies involved in a
                                   particular property under one of the authorized HUD programs
                                   does not then permit that federal agency to use or view
                                   information in the EIV system that is covered by the computer
                                   matching agreements. The computer matching agreements are
                                   governed by the Privacy Act and the Social Security Act. For
                                   example, Sections 453(j)(7)(E)(ii) and (iv) of the Social Security
                                   Act limit disclosure of the data matched between HUD and HHS’
                                   NDNH to public housing agencies, the IG, the Attorney General,
                                   private owners, management agents and CAs. HHS subsequently
                                   approved disclosure of NDNH information to IPAs hired by an
                                   owner to conduct the financial audit of their property.

                          b.       Disclosure of the EIV information to Service Coordinators even
                                   though the tenant signs a release of information consent form
                                   authorizing the Service Coordinator to have access to their file is
                                   not allowed unless the Service Coordinator is present during the
                                   interview and assisting the tenant with the recertification process.
                                   The statute authorizing the computer matching identifies those
                                   parties to whom the information can be disclosed and the statute
                                   does not include Service Coordinators.

        D.       Penalties for Willful Disclosure or Inspection of EIV Data

                 1. Unauthorized Disclosure – felony conviction and fine up to $5,000 or
                    imprisonment up to five (5) years, as well as civil damages.

                 2. Unauthorized Inspection – misdemeanor penalty of up to $1,000 and/or one
                    (1) year imprisonment, as well as civil damages.

9-18 EIV Rules of Behavior (ROB)

        A.       With EIV System Access ROB Requirements


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                  9-33                                            8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 4:                                                                            4350.3 REV-1
Security of EIV Data



                 All EIV users who have access to the EIV system must adhere to the EIV ROB
                 signed at the time of requesting access to the EIV system.

                 1.       Instructions for requesting access to the EIV system for both internal HUD
                          users and external users are posted on the Multifamily EIV website at:
                          http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/eiv/eivapps.cfm

                 2.       External users. The signed initial and current online (unsigned) access
                          authorization forms containing the ROB must be kept on file along with
                          the owner approval letters. Upon request, the forms must be made
                          available to the entity monitoring EIV system compliance.

                 3.       Internal users. A copy of the signed ROB will be kept on file by the
                          TRACS/EIV Security Officer and a signed copy should also be retained
                          by the EIV user.

                 4.       Each HUD Program Center and Contract Administrator must have at least
                          two staff members with access to the EIV system who can provide other
                          staff members with EIV reports used for monitoring purposes.

        B.       Without EIV System Access ROB Requirements

                 1.       Owner and management agent staff, service bureau staff, HUD staff and
                          CA staff who do not have access to the EIV system but who view or use
                          EIV data/reports provided by authorized EIV Coordinators or EIV Users in
                          order to perform their job functions, must adhere to the EIV ROB posted
                          on the Multifamily EIV website at:
                          http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/mfh/rh
                          iip/eiv/eivapps.

                          The ROB must be signed and kept on file. Upon request, the signed
                          ROB must be made available to the entity monitoring EIV system
                          compliance.

                          NOTE: HUD staff will check the “CA” box at the bottom of the form.

                 2.       IPAs hired by the owner to perform a financial audit must adhere to the
                          ROB posted on the Multifamily EIV website at:
                          http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/eiv/rulesofbehavior.pdf.

                          The ROB must be signed by the IPA and kept on file. Upon request, the
                          signed ROB must be made available to the entity monitoring EIV system
                          compliance.

             Section 5: Penalties for Failure to Have Access to or Failure to Use EIV

9-19 Penalties for Failure to Have Access To and/or Failure to Use EIV

        A.       Owners who do not have access to or are not using the EIV system in its entirety:


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                9-34                                          8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 5:                                                                               4350.3 REV-1
Penalties for Failure to Have Access to or Failure to Use EIV



                  1.       Will receive a finding on the Management and Occupancy Review (MOR)
                           report, if the violation was identified during the MOR. The violation can
                           be identified at times other than at the time of the MOR.

                  2.       Will incur a penalty of a five percent decrease in the voucher payment for
                           the month following the date the violation was found and each
                           subsequent voucher payment until the violation is cured.

                  3.       Must make an adjustment on the next scheduled voucher to adjust for the
                           five percent decrease.

                  4.       Will be monitored by the CA to ensure the adjustment is made.

         B.       The owner will have 30 days to cure the violation.

                  1.       The violation will be cured by obtaining access to and/or using the EIV
                           system and the owner will then make an adjustment to the next
                           scheduled voucher to collect the funds previously returned to HUD even if
                           the owner takes longer than 30 days to cure the finding.

                  2.       If the violation is not cured during the 30 day period, both the owner and
                           the management agent, if applicable, will be flagged in HUD’s Active
                           Partners Performance System (APPS). Once the violation is cured, the
                           flag will be removed.

          C.       When there is a change in ownership or management at a property, the new
                   owner or management agent must obtain access to and begin using the EIV
                   system within 90 days from the date the owner takes possession of the property
                   or the effective date of the management agreement with the owner. Owners
                   and/or management agents who fail to obtain access and begin using the EIV
                   system within this timeframe may be subject to the penalties described above.

9-20     Security Training

         A.       EIV users are required to complete online security training annually. To meet
                  this requirement, EIV users must complete the online Cyber-Awareness
                  Challenge (for DoD and Federal Personnel) training program. At the end of the
                  training, EIV users must print and maintain the Certificate of Completion
                  provided. The training can be found at
                  http://iase.disa.mil/eta/index.html#onlinetraining.

                  EIV users authorized by owners to have access to EIV on their behalf may also
                  need to complete the applicable online Security Awareness Training
                  Questionnaire for Multifamily Housing Programs upon initial access to the system
                  and annually thereafter.




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                      9-35                                       8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 5:                                                                                  4350.3 REV-1
Penalties for Failure to Have Access to or Failure to Use EIV


         B.       EIV users should:

                  1.       Review Section 4 on Security contained in the Multifamily EIV User
                           Manual for Multifamily Housing Program Users posted at:
                           http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/eiv/usermanual.pdf,

                  2.       Review the EIV Security Administration Manual posted at:
                           http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/eiv/securityadminmanual.pdf

                  3.       View the Security training provided during the most recent EIV webcast,
                           posted at:
                           http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/webcasts/archives/multifamily

         C.       Owner and management agent staff who do not have access to EIV but who use
                  EIV reports to perform their job function must have security training annually.

9-21 Safeguarding EIV Data

         A.       Technical Safeguards

                  1.       All individuals who have access to the EIV system must have a valid
                           WASS User ID and password and must use this ID and password for
                           accessing the EIV system. Upon receipt of the assigned WASS User ID,
                           an individual must then apply to be approved for access to the EIV
                           system.

                  2.       To assist in ensuring that only those individuals who have a need to use
                           the EIV system to perform their job function have access to the EIV
                           system, users must be certified to use the system:

                           a.       EIV Coordinators are certified at initial access and annually
                                    thereafter.

                           b.       EIV Users are certified at initial access and bi-annually thereafter.

                           If this certification is not made, the user’s EIV access is terminated.

                  3.       A Security Awareness Training Questionnaire, which supplements
                           required annual security training, may be completed at the time of initial
                           access to the system and annually thereafter. The EIV system is
                           designed with the ability to block the entry of those individuals who have
                           not successfully completed the questionnaire (i.e., answered 90 percent
                           of the questions correctly).

         B.       Administrative Safeguards

                  1.       Policies and procedures must be established to govern the use of the EIV
                           system. These procedures should address:




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                      9-36                                          8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 5:                                                                                4350.3 REV-1
Penalties for Failure to Have Access to or Failure to Use EIV



                           a.       Authorized use of the EIV system;

                           b.       How to handle security breaches; and

                           c.       Destruction of EIV data.

                  2.       EIV manuals and the instructions in this handbook should be reviewed
                           when implementing these administrative safeguards.

                  3.       Posting of bulletins and flyers can assist in communicating how sensitive
                           EIV data is and how this data should be handled.

         C.       Physical Safeguards

                  Physical safeguarding of EIV data refers to steps that must be taken to help
                  ensure the data is safe when stored electronically or in hardcopy and when
                  transmitting data electronically.

                  1.       Storing and Transmitting of Electronic EIV Data

                           a.       EIV data stored electronically must be in a restricted access
                                    directory or, if placed on portable media, labeled appropriately and
                                    encrypted using a NIST compliant vendor. Similarly, all emails
                                    containing EIV data must be encrypted using a NIST compliant
                                    vendor. A list of compliant vendors can be found at:
                                    http://csrc.nist.gov/groups/STM/cmvp/documents/140-
                                    1/1401vend.htm.

                           b.       The full nine-digit SSN for a tenant must not be included in emails
                                    or other electronic communications.

                           NOTE: The downloading of EIV data to mobile devices is not allowed for
                           IPAs.

                  2.       Hardcopy EIV Data

                           EIV data that is printed out must not be left unattended. The documents
                           should be retrieved as soon as they are printed and, if possible, use a
                           restricted printer, copier, or facsimile machine. When faxing EIV data,
                           ensure there is someone waiting and ready to retrieve the fax as soon as
                           it is received (printed). When mailing EIV data, the data must be sent to
                           an office of the owner/management agent. EIV data must not be mailed to
                           Independent Public Auditor offices.

                  3.       Computer Security

                           The EIV system is set up to time out after 30 minutes of inactivity. This
                           automatic safeguard should not be the only security measure taken.
                           Individuals who use the EIV system should use a password protected
                           screensaver and lock their computer when leaving their workspace. A


HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                      9-37                                        8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 6:                                                                             4350.3 REV-1
EIV Resources



                          user should not leave a computer unattended with EIV data displayed on
                          the screen. It is also recommended that the EIV system be exited using
                          the “X” at the top right of the screen which will remove the user from the
                          entire WASS system.

                 4.       Destroying EIV data

                          EIV data must be destroyed as soon as it has served its purpose as
                          prescribed by HUD’s policies and procedures and in accordance with
                          HUD’s prescribed retention period. Shredding, burning or pulverizing are
                          all examples of acceptable ways to destroy EIV data.

                                            Section 6: EIV Resources

9-22 Resource Materials

        This section summarizes some of the resources available to EIV users. Owners should
        visit the Multifamily EIV website often for updated documents and/or announcements.

                Multifamily EIV website:
                 http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/mfh/rhiip/eiv/e
                 ivhome

                EIV Multifamily Help Desk
                 Telephone: 1-800-767-7588
                 Email: Mf_Eiv@hud.gov

                Enterprise Income Verification System User Manual for Multifamily Housing
                 Program Users http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/eiv/usermanual.pdf

                Rental Housing Integrity Improvement Project (RHIIP) website:
                 http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/mfh/rhiip/mfhr
                 hiip

                Resolving Income Discrepancies Between Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
                 System Data and Tenant-Provided Income Information”
                 http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/eiv/reqnguide.cfm

                EIV webcasts
                 http://portal.hud.gov/portal/page/portal/HUD/webcasts/archives/multifamily

                EIV training provided to HUD RHIIP Help Desk Representatives and Contract
                 Administrators.
                 http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/mfh/rhiip/mfhr
                 hiip

                A Guide to Interviewing for Owners of HUD Subsidized Multifamily Housing
                 Projects



HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                 9-38                                          8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Section 6:                                                                         4350.3 REV-1
EIV Resources



                 http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/interviewguide.pdf

                Rent and Income Determination Quality Control Monitoring Guide for Multifamily
                 Housing Programs
                 http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/qcguide.pdf

                EIV & You brochure
                 http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/eivbrochure.pdf

                EIV Multifamily Housing Programs Security Administration Manual
                 http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/rhiip/eiv/eivapps.cfm

                Mf_eiv_comments@hud.gov mailbox to provide suggestions on how to improve
                 the EIV system




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                9-39                                       8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
Exhibits                                                                          4350.3 REV-1



                                            Chapter 9 Exhibits

Exhibit 9-1      Failed EIV Pre-screening Report Error Messages
                 http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/documents/huddoc?id=43503e9-1HSGH.pdf

Exhibit 9-2      Failed Verification Report (Failed the SSA Identity Test) Error Messages
                 http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/documents/huddoc?id=43503e9-2HSGH.pdf

Exhibit 9-3      EIV Income Report Information
                 http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/documents/huddoc?id=43503e9-3HSGH.pdf

Exhibit 9-4      Sample Tenant consent to Disclose EIV Income Information
                 http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/documents/huddoc?id=43503e9-4HSGH.pdf

Exhibit 9-5      Use of EIV Reports
                 http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/documents/huddoc?id=43503e9-5HSGH.pdf

Exhibit 9-6      National Directory of new Hires (NDNH) Data Elements
                 http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/documents/huddoc?id=43503e9-6HSGH.pdf

Exhibit 9-7      How EIV Calculates Income Discrepancies
                 http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/documents/huddoc?id=43503e9-7HSGH.pdf




HUD Multifamily Occupancy Handbook                 9-40                                     8/13
Chapter 9: Enterprise Income Verification (EIV)
