Source: https://www.hud.gov/sites/documents/hsg-06-01gc5guid.pdf (HUD Special Claims Processing Guide, Chapter 5: Special Claims for Unpaid Rent, Tenant Damages, and Other Charges)
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; pdftotext -layout)

CHAPTER 5 SPECIAL CLAIMS FOR UNPAID RENT, TENANT DAMAGES,
AND OTHER CHARGES

Section 5-1 CONCEPT

A special claim for unpaid rent, tenant damages and other charges due under the lease is
reimbursement to a property owner for a former tenant’s failure to pay the monthly rent,
other charges due under the lease, or for damages caused by the negligence or abuse of
the former tenant.


Section 5-2   ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS

   A. Project/Contract types:

       Section 8, Section 202/8, Section 202 PAC, Section 202 PRAC or Section 811
       PRAC.

   B. The owner is eligible to submit a special claim for unpaid rent, other charges due
      under the lease and damages if:

       The former tenant was receiving rental assistance at move-out; or if the rental
       assistance had been terminated prior to move-out, the assistance was terminated
       based upon the tenant’s failure to comply with his/her responsibilities to fulfill
       program requirements, such as:

                  •   Failure to provide the needed information relating to family
                      composition and income.
                  •   Failure to provide social security numbers.
                  •   Failure to sign consent forms and or verification forms.
                  •   Failure to sign the form HUD-50059.
                  •   Failure or inability to establish citizenship or eligible immigration
                      status.
                  •   Failure to move to a different-sized unit within 30 days after the
                      owner notifies him/her that the unit of the required size is
                      available.

       Note: Owners cannot submit a special claim for the unit when termination of
             rental assistance was based on the tenant’s income increasing to where
             he/she no longer qualifies for assistance.

   C. In projects that are partially assisted, if a tenant’s assistance is terminated or a
      tenant moves out of a unit and the assistance is given to a tenant in another unit
      effective the day after the termination or move out, the owner is not entitled to a
      special claim for unpaid rent, tenant damages, or other charges.
              For example, in a partially assisted Section 236 project the tenant in
              Unit 26 who is receiving Section 8 assistance moves-out on July 26.
              The owner gives the Section 8 assistance to the tenant in Unit 30
              effective July 27. The owner is not entitled to receive a special claim
              for unpaid rent, tenant damages, or other charges for Unit 26.

D. Other requirements for unpaid rent and other charges due under the lease:

       1. The owner/agent collected the appropriate security deposit from the
          tenant. If the owner/agent did not collect the appropriate security deposit
          from the tenant, the claim will be reduced by the amount of the security
          deposit the owner should have collected from the tenant.

           Note: If the security deposit held by the owner met the rules in effect at
                 the time the deposit was collected, or if the owner was not
                 previously required to collect a security deposit under program
                 requirements, the special claim will not be reduced because a
                 security deposit wasn’t collected or where the deposit does not
                 match the current rules.

       2. By signing form HUD-52671-A, the owner/agent certifies they have billed
          the tenants for unpaid rent and have taken all reasonable steps to collect
          the debt:

                 a. A certified letter has been sent to the tenant detailing the unpaid
                    rent and other charges, the disposition of the security deposit,
                    demanding payment, and advising the tenant that failure to pay
                    the sums due will result in the owner/agent hiring a collection
                    agency to collect the debt. The letter must include a notice to the
                    tenant that they have a right to discuss the charges with the
                    owner/agent.

                 b. If the tenant did not make payment on the monies owed, other
                     efforts were attempted to collect the monies (i.e., engaging a
                     collection agency).

       3. State and local law must permit such amounts to be deducted from
                   the tenant’s security deposit.

       4. “Other charges” due under the lease are to be included with unpaid rent.

                 a. Allowable “other charges” due under the lease include:

                      (1) Failure to return keys.
                      (2) Late fees, if allowable under the lease and state or local
                          law, or

                      (3) Any charges for damages during tenancy that the tenant
                          was previously billed for and that were still unpaid at
                          move-out.

                b. Not allowable “other charges” due under the lease include:

                      (1) Legal fees.

                      (2) Collection agency fees.

                      (3) Unpaid utility bills left by the tenant.

                      (4) Cost of photographing unit to prove tenant damage.

                c. Section 202/8, Section 202 PAC, Section 202 and Section 811
                   PRAC leases do not allow for charges for late fees, returned
                   checks or unreturned keys therefore these charges are not
                   allowable as special claims.

E. Other requirements for tenant damages:

       1. By signing form HUD-52671A the owner/agent certifies they have
          determined the damage claim was due to the tenant’s negligence or abuse.

       2. Only extraordinary repairs and/or replacements should be claimed. See
          Appendix 5C, “ Tenant Damages versus Normal Wear and Tear.”

       3. The owner/agent cannot request reimbursement on the damage claim for
           items where reimbursement was made from the Reserve for Replacements
          or Residual Receipts accounts or by insurance coverage. An owner/agent
          should be encouraged to apply for insurance reimbursement prior to
          submitting a claim to HUD. However, it is important to note, if an owner
          receives special claims reimbursement for damage covered by the owners
          insurance after HUD has already paid, the owner is required to repay
          HUD.

       4. Any damages, other than those billed during tenancy, found and billed at
          move-out are claimed as damages on the claim form.

       5. Failure to provide the tenant with an itemized listing of damages will result
          in the denial of the claim.
Section 5-3   OWNER/AGENT CLAIM SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS

The owner/agent must submit the following:

   A. Claim forms:

       HUD-52670-A Part 2, Schedule of Special Claims
       HUD-52671-A, Special Claims for Unpaid Rent/Damages

   B. Submit forms to:

       HUD or CA

   C. Supporting documentation for unpaid rents and other charges due under the lease:

          1. Refer to Section 1-5 for the general requirements that are part of the claim
             process.

          2. Evidence that the owner/agent took all reasonable steps to collect the debt.
             Such information must include:

                   a. A copy of the signed form HUD-50059 completed at move-in
                      which shows the amount of security deposit that was required.

                   b. Documentation that the appropriate security deposit was
                      collected from the tenant: for example, a copy of the original
                      lease, a copy of the tenant’s rent ledger card, a copy of the
                      receipt(s) for security deposit.

                     c. Copy of the certified letter sent to the tenant detailing the unpaid
                        rent and other charges due under the lease, the disposition of the
                        security deposit, demanding payment, and advising the tenant
                        that failure to pay the sums due will result in the owner/agent
                        hiring a collection agency to collect the debt. The letter must
                        include a notice to the tenant that they have a right to discuss the
                        charges with the owner/agent. (See Security Deposit Disposition
                        Notice 3-3.C 4).

                   d. Documentation that the matter was turned over to a collection
                      agency for collection and that the collection agency has
                      attempted to collect the debt (i.e., copy of the agency’s first
                      demand letter).
             e. Documentation for other charges that were due under the lease
                that demonstrates the charges were approved by HUD.

 D. Supporting documentation for a damage claim:

       1. Evidence that the owner/agent took all reasonable steps to collect the
          debt (see item C.2 above for documentation requirements).

       2. The owner/agent must certify the submitted claim is not the result of
          normal wear and tear or routine maintenance. See Appendix 5C,
          Examples of “Tenant Damage versus Normal Wear and Tear”.

       3. Copies of the move-in and move-out inspection reports.

       4. A copy of the security deposit disposition notice provided to the tenant
          which indicates the move-out date, amount of security deposit
          collected, amount of security deposit returned and any charges
withheld
          from the deposit for unpaid rent, tenant damages or other charges due
          under the lease.

        5. A repair cost breakdown that must include at least one of the following:

                  (1) Invoices

                  (2) Receipts

                  (3) Owner/agent certification

                  (4) Other documentation acceptable to HUD or the CA

       The owner/agent must determine the useful life expectancy of replaceable
       items that have been damaged by the tenant. Refer to Appendix 5D for a
       sample “Life Expectancy Chart” to determine the predicted life
       expectancy of replaceable items.

               Example: In 2000 new carpeting was installed in a unit. The
               owner/agent determines that the carpet had a life expectancy of
               five years and would not have expected to replace the carpet until
               2005. In 2001, a family moved into the unit and then moved out in
               2003. At move-out, the entire carpet had to be replaced two years
               earlier than expected. The family should not be charged more than
               2/5 of the cost of the new carpeting. If the carpeting had been in
               service for five or more years at the time the family moved-out,
                    none of the cost of replacing the carpet would have been charged
                    to the family.

  E. If a claim is also being made for unpaid rent and other charges due under the
  lease
      for the same unit and tenant, the claim for tenant damages must be calculated on
      the same form HUD-52671-A and filed as one claim.

  F. Checklist:

     A checklist of required documentation must be used and submitted with the claim
     forms. See Appendix 5B for a sample “Checklist- Special Claims for Unpaid
     Rent/Damages.

  B. TRACS requirements:

     The move-out or unit transfer for the tenant who owes the unpaid rent or who was
     responsible for the damages must be viewable in TRACS.

  C. Claim Amount:

         1. The total claim for unpaid rent and damages for any Section 8 units may
            not exceed the monthly contract rent in effect when the tenant vacated the
            unit (or at the time the tenant’s rental assistance was terminated), minus
            the security deposit, plus interest earned and amounts collected from the
            tenant or other sources to cover the unpaid rent and damages.

             Example: $65.00 is held by the owner, which includes the security deposit
             and interest earned. The tenant left the unit owing $300.00 in unpaid rent
             and $200.00 in damages. The owner/agent is unable to collect payment
             from the tenant for the unpaid rent or damages. The contract rent at the
             time the tenant moved-out is $400.00. HUD will pay up to $335.00
             (contract rent minus the security deposit and interest).

         2. For the LMSA program the total claim limit is the security deposit and the
            remainder of one month’s contract rent.

         3. For the PD program the limit is two month’s rent less the security deposit
            collected or potentially collected.


Section 5-4 OWNER/AGENT CLAIM TIMELINES

  A. Submission deadline:
       The claim forms must be received by HUD or the CA within 180 calendar days
       from the date the vacated unit is available for occupancy.

   B. Start Date: N/A

   C. Ending date: N/A

   D. Length of claim period: N/A


Section 5-5 HUD OR CA CLAIM REVIEW PROCESS

In addition to the general review requirements in Section 1-6, the reviewer must:

   A. Review all calculations on HUD-52671-A for accuracy.

   B. Confirm that the appropriate security deposit was collected from the tenant. If the
      owner/agent did not collect the appropriate security deposit from the tenant, the
      claim will be reduced by the amount of the security deposit the owner/agent did
      not collect.

   C. Confirm that any other charges due under the lease are allowed under the lease for
      the project.

   D. If the tenant did not make payment, confirm that the owner/agent pursued the debt
      through a collection agency and the collection agency attempted to collect the
      debt.

   E. Review the owner/agent breakdown of costs to repair the damages and confirm
      that the costs are reasonable for the work described.

   F. Confirm that the damage charges were not due to normal wear and tear but were
      for extraordinary repairs and/or replacements. Appendix 5C provides guidance
      on the distinction between allowable claims for tenant damages and normal wear
      and tear on a unit and may be provided to an owner/agent for clarification on this
      matter.

   G. Verify that the owner/agent used the life expectancy for replaceable items to
      calculate how much, if any, of the replacement cost should be charged to the
      tenant.
Section 5-6 REIMBURSEMENT OF SPECIAL CLAIMS PAYMENTS


  A. Any reimbursement from HUD received by the owner must be applied first
     toward any unpaid rent due under the lease.

         1. No reimbursement may be claimed for unpaid rent for the period after
             termination
     of tenancy.

        2. If the tenant reimburses the owner/agent for the monies owed after a claim
           has been paid for unpaid rent, other charges due under the lease, or tenant
           damages, the owner/agent must refund the tenant’s payment to HUD.
