Source: https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CRPT-108hrpt683/pdf/CRPT-108hrpt683.pdf (H.R. Rep. No. 108-683 (2004))
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; pdftotext -layout)

                                      108TH CONGRESS                                                                            REPORT
                                                     " HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES                                           !
                                         2d Session                                                                             108–683




                                       SERVICEMEMBERS AND VETERANS LEGAL PROTECTIONS
                                                        ACT OF 2004


                                           SEPTEMBER 13, 2004.—Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the
                                                          State of the Union and ordered to be printed



                                      Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, from the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
                                                          submitted the following


                                                                                  R E P O R T
                                                                                [To accompany H.R. 4658]

                                                        [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

                                        The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, to whom was referred the
                                      bill (H.R. 4658) to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to
                                      make certain improvements and technical corrections to that Act,
                                      having considered the same, reports favorably thereon with amend-
                                      ments and recommends that the bill as amended do pass.
                                        The amendments are as follows:
                                        Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the following:
                                      SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
                                        (a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Servicemembers and Veterans
                                      Legal Protections Act of 2004’’.
                                        (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
                                      Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
                                                         TITLE I—IMPROVEMENTS TO SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT
                                      Sec. 101. Clarification of meaning of ‘‘judgment’’ as used in the Act.
                                      Sec. 102. Requirements relating to waiver of rights under the Act.
                                      Sec. 103. Right of servicemember plaintiffs to request stay of civil proceedings.
                                      Sec. 104. Termination of leases.
                                      Sec. 105. Prevention of double taxation of certain servicemembers.
                                                                TITLE II—EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS
                                                                        Subtitle A—Extension of Health Care Coverage
                                      Sec. 201. Two-year period of continuation of employer-sponsored health care coverage.
                                      Sec. 202. Reinstatement of reporting requirements.
                                                                                   Subtitle B—Other Matters
                                      Sec. 211. Requirement for employers to provide notice of rights and duties under USERRA.
                                      Sec. 212. Demonstration project for referral of USERRA claims against Federal agencies to the Office of Special
                                                Counsel.
                                                                    TITLE III—MATTERS RELATING TO FIDUCIARIES
                                      Sec. 301. Definition of fiduciary.
                                            29–006




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006    PO 00000      Frm 00001    Fmt 6659    Sfmt 6631     E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX    HR683
                                                                                               2
                                      Sec. 302. Inquiry, investigations, and qualification of fiduciaries.
                                      Sec. 303. Misuse of benefits by fiduciaries.
                                      Sec. 304. Additional protections for beneficiaries with fiduciaries.
                                      Sec. 305. Annual report.
                                      Sec. 306. Annual adjustment in benefits thresholds.
                                      Sec. 307. Effective dates.
                                                                                TITLE IV—OTHER MATTERS
                                      Sec. 401. Inventory of medical waste management activities at Department health-care facilities.
                                      Sec. 402. Care for newborn children of veterans receiving maternity care.
                                      Sec. 403. Technical amendments to education program provisions.


                                                    TITLE I—IMPROVEMENTS TO
                                                 SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT
                                      SEC. 101. CLARIFICATION OF MEANING OF ‘‘JUDGMENT’’ AS USED IN THE ACT.
                                        Section 101 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 511) is amend-
                                      ed by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                                            ‘‘(9) JUDGMENT.—The term ‘judgment’ means any judgment, decree, order, or
                                          ruling, final or temporary.’’.
                                      SEC. 102. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO WAIVER OF RIGHTS UNDER THE ACT.
                                        Section 107 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 517) is amend-
                                      ed—
                                              (1) In subsection (a), by inserting after the first sentence the following new
                                            sentence: ‘‘Any such waiver that applies to an action listed in subsection (b) of
                                            this section is effective only if it is in writing and is executed as an instrument
                                            separate from the obligation or liability to which it applies.’’;
                                              (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
                                              (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection (c):
                                        ‘‘(c) PROMINENT DISPLAY OF CERTAIN CONTRACT RIGHTS WAIVERS.—Any waiver in
                                      writing of a right or protection provided by this Act that applies to a contract, lease,
                                      or similar legal instrument must be in at least 12 point type.’’.
                                      SEC. 103. RIGHT OF SERVICEMEMBER PLAINTIFFS TO REQUEST STAY OF CIVIL PRO-
                                                CEEDINGS.
                                       Section 202(a) of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 522(a)) is
                                      amended by inserting ‘‘plaintiff or’’ before ‘‘defendant’’.
                                      SEC. 104. TERMINATION OF LEASES.
                                         (a) JOINT LEASES.—Subsection (a) of section 305 of the Servicemembers Civil Re-
                                      lief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 535) is amended to read as follows:
                                         ‘‘(a) TERMINATION BY LESSEE.—
                                                ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The lessee on a lease described in subsection (b) may, at
                                             the lessee’s option, terminate the lease at any time after—
                                                      ‘‘(A) the lessee’s entry into military service; or
                                                      ‘‘(B) the date of the lessee’s military orders described in paragraph (1)(B)
                                                   or (2)(B) of subsection (b), as the case may be.
                                                ‘‘(2) JOINT LEASES.—A lessee’s termination of a lease pursuant to this sub-
                                             section shall terminate any obligation a dependent of the lessee may have under
                                             the lease.’’
                                         (b) MOTOR VEHICLES LEASES.—
                                                (1) APPLICABILITY TO PCS ORDERS FROM STATES OUTSIDE CONUS.—Subpara-
                                             graph (B) of subsection (b)(2) of such section is amended by striking ‘‘military
                                             orders for’’ and all that follows through ‘‘or to deploy’’ and inserting ‘‘military
                                             orders—
                                                            ‘‘(i) for a change of permanent station—
                                                                   ‘‘(I) from a location in the continental United States to a location
                                                                outside the continental United States; or
                                                                   ‘‘(II) from a location in a State outside the continental United
                                                                States to any location outside that State; or
                                                            ‘‘(ii) to deploy’’.
                                                (2) DEFINITIONS.—Such section is further amended by adding at the end the
                                             following new subsection:
                                         ‘‘(i) DEFINITIONS.—
                                                ‘‘(1) MILITARY ORDERS.—The term ‘military orders’, with respect to a
                                             servicemember, means official military orders, or any notification, certification,
                                             or verification from the servicemember’s commanding officer, with respect to the
                                             servicemember’s current or future military duty status.
                                                ‘‘(2) CONUS.—The term ‘continental United States’ means the 48 contiguous
                                             States and the District of Columbia.’’.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000      Frm 00002     Fmt 6659    Sfmt 6621    E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX     HR683
                                                                                          3
                                        (c) COVERAGE OF INDIVIDUAL DEPLOYMENTS.—Subsection (b) of such section is fur-
                                      ther amended in paragraph (1)(B) and paragraph (2)(B)(ii) (as designated by sub-
                                      section (b) of this section) by inserting ‘‘, or as an individual in support of a military
                                      operation,’’ after ‘‘deploy with a military unit’’.
                                      SEC. 105. PREVENTION OF DOUBLE TAXATION OF CERTAIN SERVICEMEMBERS.
                                       Section 511(c) of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 571(c)) is
                                      amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
                                           ‘‘(5) USE, EXCISE, OR SIMILAR TAXES.—A tax jurisdiction may not impose a use,
                                         excise, or similar tax on the personal property of a nonresident servicemember
                                         when the laws of the tax jurisdiction fail to provide a credit against such taxes
                                         for sales, use, excise, or similar taxes previously paid on the same property to
                                         another tax jurisdiction.’’.

                                      TITLE II—EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT
                                                      RIGHTS
                                           Subtitle A—Extension of Health Care Coverage
                                      SEC. 201. TWO-YEAR PERIOD OF CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYER-SPONSORED HEALTH CARE
                                                 COVERAGE.
                                         (a) IMPROVEMENT IN PERIOD OF COVERAGE.—Subsection (a)(1)(A) of section 4317
                                      of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘18-month period’’ and in-
                                      serting ‘‘24-month period’’.
                                         (b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to elec-
                                      tions made under such section 4317 on or after the date of the enactment of this
                                      Act.
                                      SEC. 202. REINSTATEMENT OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
                                        Section 4332 of title 38, United States Code, is amended in the matter preceding
                                      paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘no later than February 1, 1996, and annually thereafter
                                      through 2000’’ and inserting ‘‘no later than February 1, 2005, and annually there-
                                      after’’.

                                                              Subtitle B—Other Matters
                                      SEC. 211. REQUIREMENT FOR EMPLOYERS TO PROVIDE NOTICE OF RIGHTS AND DUTIES
                                                UNDER USERRA.
                                         (a) NOTICE.—Chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding
                                      at the end the following new section:
                                      ‘‘§ 4334. Notice of rights and duties
                                         ‘‘(a) REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE NOTICE.—Each employer shall provide to persons
                                      entitled to rights and benefits under this chapter a notice of the rights, benefits, and
                                      obligations of such persons and such employers under this chapter. The requirement
                                      for the provision of notice under this section may be met by the posting of the notice
                                      where employers customarily place notices for employees.
                                         ‘‘(b) CONTENT OF NOTICE.—The Secretary shall provide to employers the text of
                                      the notice to be provided under this section.’’.
                                         (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter
                                      is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
                                      ‘‘4334. Notice of rights and duties.’’.
                                          (c) IMPLEMENTATION.—(1) Not later than the date that is 90 days after the date
                                      of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall make available to employ-
                                      ers the notice required under section 4334 of title 38, United States Code, as added
                                      by subsection (a).
                                        (2) The amendments made by this section shall apply to employers under chapter
                                      43 of such title on and after the first date referred to in paragraph (1).
                                      SEC. 212. DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR REFERRAL OF USERRA CLAIMS AGAINST FEDERAL
                                                 AGENCIES TO THE OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL.
                                        (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROJECT.—The Secretary of Labor and the Office of Special
                                      Counsel shall carry out a demonstration project under which certain claims against
                                      Federal executive agencies under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reem-
                                      ployment Rights Act under chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, are referred
                                      to, or otherwise received by, the Office of Special Counsel for assistance, including




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00003   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                          4
                                      investigation and resolution of the claim as well as enforcement of rights with re-
                                      spect to the claim.
                                         (b) REFERRAL OF ALL PROHIBITED PERSONNEL ACTION CLAIMS TO THE OFFICE OF
                                      SPECIAL COUNSEL.—(1) Under the demonstration project, the Office of Special Coun-
                                      sel shall receive and investigate all claims under the Uniformed Services Employ-
                                      ment and Reemployment Rights Act with respect to Federal executive agencies in
                                      cases where the Office of Special Counsel has jurisdiction over related claims pursu-
                                      ant to section 1212 of title 5, United States Code.
                                         (2) For purposes of paragraph (1), a related claim is a claim involving the same
                                      Federal executive agency and the same or similar factual allegations or legal issues
                                      as those being pursued under a claim under the Uniformed Services Employment
                                      and Reemployment Rights Act.
                                         (c) REFERRAL OF OTHER CLAIMS AGAINST FEDERAL EXECUTIVE AGENCIES.—(1)
                                      Under the demonstration project, the Secretary—
                                              (A) shall refer to the Office of Special Counsel all claims described in para-
                                            graph (2) made during the period of the demonstration project; and
                                              (B) may refer any claim described in paragraph (2) filed before the dem-
                                            onstration project that is pending before the Secretary at the beginning of the
                                            demonstration project.
                                         (2) A claim referred to in paragraph (1) is a claim under chapter 43 of title 38,
                                      United States Code, against a Federal executive agency by a claimant with a social
                                      security account number with an odd number as its terminal digit, or, in the case
                                      of a claim that does not contain a social security account number, a case number
                                      assigned to the claim with an odd number as its terminal digit.
                                         (d) ADMINISTRATION OF DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.—(1) The Office of Special Coun-
                                      sel shall administer the demonstration project. The Secretary shall cooperate with
                                      the Office of Special Counsel in carrying out the demonstration project.
                                         (2) In the case of any claim referred, or otherwise received by, to the Office of Spe-
                                      cial Counsel under the demonstration project, any reference to the ‘‘Secretary’’ in
                                      sections 4321, 4322, and 4326 of title 38, United States Code, is deemed a reference
                                      to the ‘‘Office of Special Counsel’’.
                                         (3) In the case of any claim referred to, or otherwise received by, the Office of Spe-
                                      cial Counsel under the demonstration project, the Office of Special Counsel shall re-
                                      tain administrative jurisdiction over the claim.
                                         (e) PERIOD OF PROJECT.—The demonstration project shall be carried out during
                                      the period beginning on the date that is 60 days after the date of the enactment
                                      of this Act, and ending on September 30, 2007.
                                         (f) EVALUATIONS AND REPORT.—(1) The Comptroller General of the United States
                                      shall conduct periodic evaluations of the demonstration project under this section.
                                         (2) Not later than April 1, 2007, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress
                                      a report on the evaluations conducted under paragraph (1). The report shall include
                                      the following information and recommendations:
                                              (A) A description of the operation and results of the demonstration program,
                                            including—
                                                   (i) the number of claims described in subsection (c) referred to, or other-
                                                 wise received by, the Office of Special Counsel and the number of such
                                                 claims referred to the Secretary of Labor, and
                                                   (ii) for each Federal executive agency, the number of claims resolved, the
                                                 type of corrective action obtained, the period of time for final resolution of
                                                 the claim, and the results obtained.
                                              (B) An assessment of whether referral to the Office of Special Counsel of
                                            claims under the demonstration project—
                                                   (i) improved services to servicemembers and veterans; or
                                                   (ii) significantly reduced or eliminated duplication of effort and unin-
                                                 tended delays in resolving meritorious claims of those servicemembers and
                                                 veterans.
                                              (C) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of referring all claims
                                            under chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, against Federal executive
                                            agencies to the Office of Special Counsel for investigation and resolution.
                                              (D) Such other recommendations for administrative action or legislation as
                                            the Comptroller General determines appropriate.
                                         (g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
                                              (1) The term ‘‘Office of Special Counsel’’ means the Office of Special Counsel
                                            established by section 1211 of title 5, United States Code.
                                              (2) The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary of Labor.
                                              (3) The term ‘‘Federal executive agency’’ has the meaning given that term in
                                            section 4303(5) of title 38, United States Code.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00004   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                          5

                                                   TITLE III—MATTERS RELATING TO
                                                             FIDUCIARIES
                                      SEC. 301. DEFINITION OF FIDUCIARY.
                                        (a) IN GENERAL.—(1) Chapter 55 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by
                                      adding at the end the following new section:
                                      ‘‘§ 5506. Definition of ‘fiduciary’
                                         ‘‘For purposes of this chapter and chapter 61 of this title, the term ‘fiduciary’
                                      means—
                                              ‘‘(1) a person who is a guardian, curator, conservator, committee, or person
                                            legally vested with the responsibility or care of a claimant (or a claimant’s es-
                                            tate) or of a beneficiary (or a beneficiary’s estate); or
                                              ‘‘(2) any other person having been appointed in a representative capacity to
                                            receive money paid under any of the laws administered by the Secretary for the
                                            use and benefit of a minor, incompetent, or other beneficiary.’’.
                                         (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding
                                      at the end the following new item:
                                      ‘‘5506. Definition of ‘fiduciary’.’’.
                                          (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO             SECTION 5502.—Section 5502 of such title is
                                      amended—
                                             (1) in subsection (a)—
                                                   (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘other person’’ and inserting ‘‘other fidu-
                                                 ciary’’; and
                                                   (B) in the second sentence of paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘for benefits
                                                 under this title’’ after ‘‘in connection with rendering fiduciary services’’;
                                             (2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘guardian, curator, conservator, or other per-
                                           son’’ each place it appears and inserting ‘‘fiduciary’’; and
                                             (3) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘guardian, curator, or conservator’’ and in-
                                           serting ‘‘fiduciary’’.
                                        (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO SECTION 6101.—Section 6101(a) of such title is
                                      amended by striking ‘‘guardian, curator,’’ and all that follows through ‘‘beneficiary,’’
                                      and inserting ‘‘fiduciary (as defined in section 5506 of this title) for the benefit of
                                      a minor, incompetent, or other beneficiary under laws administered by the Sec-
                                      retary,’’.
                                      SEC. 302. INQUIRY, INVESTIGATIONS, AND QUALIFICATION OF FIDUCIARIES.
                                         (a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 55 of title 38, United States Code, as amended by sec-
                                      tion 301(a)(1), is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                                      ‘‘§ 5507. Inquiry, investigations, and qualification of fiduciaries
                                         ‘‘(a) Any certification of a person for payment of benefits of a beneficiary to that
                                      person as such beneficiary’s fiduciary under section 5502 of this title shall be made
                                      on the basis of—
                                               ‘‘(1) an inquiry or investigation by the Secretary of the fitness of that person
                                             to serve as fiduciary for that beneficiary, such inquiry or investigation—
                                                     ‘‘(A) to be conducted in advance of such certification;
                                                     ‘‘(B) to the extent practicable, to include a face-to-face interview with such
                                                  person; and
                                                     ‘‘(C) to the extent practicable, to include a copy of a credit report for such
                                                  person issued within one year of the date of the proposed appointment;
                                               ‘‘(2) adequate evidence that certification of that person as fiduciary for that
                                             beneficiary is in the interest of such beneficiary (as determined by the Secretary
                                             under regulations); and
                                               ‘‘(3) the furnishing of any bond that may be required by the Secretary.
                                         ‘‘(b) As part of any inquiry or investigation of any person under subsection (a),
                                      the Secretary shall request information concerning whether that person has been
                                      convicted of any offense under Federal or State law which resulted in imprisonment
                                      for more than one year. If that person has been convicted of such an offense, the
                                      Secretary may certify the person as a fiduciary only if the Secretary makes a spe-
                                      cific finding that the person has been rehabilitated and is an appropriate person to
                                      act as fiduciary for the beneficiary concerned under the circumstances.
                                         ‘‘(c)(1) In the case of a proposed fiduciary described in paragraph (2), the Sec-
                                      retary, in conducting an inquiry or investigation under subsection (a)(1), may carry
                                      out such inquiry or investigation on an expedited basis that may include waiver of
                                      any specific requirement relating to such inquiry or investigation, including the oth-
                                      erwise applicable provisions of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of such subsection.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00005   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                                  6
                                      Any such inquiry or investigation carried out on such an expedited basis shall be
                                      carried out under regulations prescribed for purposes of this section.
                                         ‘‘(2) Paragraph (1) applies with respect to a proposed fiduciary who is—
                                               ‘‘(A) the parent (natural, adopted, or stepparent) of a beneficiary who is a
                                            minor;
                                               ‘‘(B) the spouse or parent of an incompetent beneficiary;
                                               ‘‘(C) a person who has been appointed a fiduciary of the beneficiary by a court
                                            of competent jurisdiction; or
                                               ‘‘(D) being appointed to manage an estate where the annual amount of vet-
                                            erans benefits to be managed by the proposed fiduciary does not exceed $3600,
                                            as adjusted pursuant to section 5312 of this title.
                                         ‘‘(d) TEMPORARY FIDUCIARIES.—When in the opinion of the Secretary, a temporary
                                      fiduciary is needed in order to protect the assets of the beneficiary while a deter-
                                      mination of incompetency is being made or appealed or a fiduciary is appealing a
                                      determination of misuse, the Secretary may appoint one or more temporary fidu-
                                      ciaries for a period not to exceed 120 days. If a final decision has not been made
                                      within 120 days, the Secretary may not continue the appointment of the fiduciary
                                      without obtaining a court order for appointment of a guardian, conservator, or other
                                      fiduciary under the authority provided in section 5502(b) of this title.’’.
                                         (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter
                                      is amended by adding after the item added by section 301(a)(2) the following new
                                      item:
                                      ‘‘5507. Inquiry, investigations, and qualification of fiduciaries.’’.
                                      SEC. 303. MISUSE OF BENEFITS BY FIDUCIARIES.
                                         (a) PROTECTION OF VETERANS BENEFITS WHEN ADMINISTERED BY FIDUCIARIES.—
                                      (1) Chapter 61 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
                                      following new sections:
                                      ‘‘§ 6106. Misuse of benefits by fiduciaries
                                         ‘‘(a) FEE FORFEITURE IN CASE OF BENEFIT MISUSE BY FIDUCIARIES.—A fiduciary
                                      may not collect a fee from a beneficiary for any month with respect to which the
                                      Secretary or a court of competent jurisdiction has determined that the fiduciary mis-
                                      used all or part of the individual’s benefit, and any amount so collected by the fidu-
                                      ciary as a fee for such month shall be treated as a misused part of the individual’s
                                      benefit.
                                         ‘‘(b) LIABILITY OF FIDUCIARIES FOR MISUSED BENEFITS.—(1) If the Secretary or a
                                      court of competent jurisdiction determines that a fiduciary that is not a Federal,
                                      State, or local government agency has misused all or part of a beneficiary’s benefit
                                      that was paid to such fiduciary, the fiduciary shall be liable for the amount misused,
                                      and such amount (to the extent not repaid by the fiduciary) shall be treated as an
                                      erroneous payment of benefits under this title to the fiduciary for purposes of laws
                                      pertaining to the recovery of overpayments. The amount of such overpayment shall
                                      constitute a liability of such fiduciary to the United States and may be recovered
                                      in the same manner as any other debt due the United States. Subject to paragraph
                                      (2), upon recovering all or any part of such amount, the Secretary shall pay an
                                      amount equal to the recovered amount to such beneficiary or such beneficiary’s suc-
                                      cessor fiduciary.
                                         ‘‘(2) The total of the amounts paid to a beneficiary (or a beneficiary’s successor
                                      fiduciary) under paragraph (1) and under section 6107 of this title may not exceed
                                      the total benefit amount misused by the fiduciary with respect to that beneficiary.
                                         ‘‘(c) MISUSE OF BENEFITS DEFINED.—For purposes of this chapter, misuse of bene-
                                      fits by a fiduciary occurs in any case in which the fiduciary receives payment, under
                                      any of laws administered by the Secretary, for the use and benefit of a beneficiary
                                      and uses such payment, or any part thereof, for a use other than for the use and
                                      benefit of such beneficiary or that beneficiary’s dependents. Retention by a fiduciary
                                      of an amount of a benefit payment as a fiduciary fee or commission, or as attorney’s
                                      fees (including expenses) and court costs, if authorized by the Secretary or a court
                                      of competent jurisdiction, shall be considered to be for the use or benefit of such
                                      beneficiary.
                                         ‘‘(d) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may prescribe by regulation the meaning of the
                                      term ‘use and benefit’ for purposes of this section.
                                         ‘‘(e) FINALITY OF DETERMINATIONS.—A determination by the Secretary that a fidu-
                                      ciary has misused benefits is a decision of the Secretary for purposes of section
                                      511(a) of this title.
                                      ‘‘§ 6107. Reissuance of benefits
                                         ‘‘(a) NEGLIGENT FAILURE BY SECRETARY.—(1) In any case in which the negligent
                                      failure of the Secretary to investigate or monitor a fiduciary results in misuse of
                                      benefits by the fiduciary, the Secretary shall pay to the beneficiary or the bene-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006    PO 00000      Frm 00006      Fmt 6659     Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                               7
                                      ficiary’s successor fiduciary an amount equal to the amount of benefits that were
                                      so misused.
                                         ‘‘(2) There shall be considered to have been a negligent failure by the Secretary
                                      to investigate and monitor a fiduciary in the following cases:
                                               ‘‘(A) A case in which the Secretary failed to timely review a fiduciary’s ac-
                                             counting.
                                               ‘‘(B) A case in which the Secretary was notified of allegations of misuse, but
                                             failed to act in a timely manner to terminate the fiduciary.
                                               ‘‘(C) In any other case in which actual negligence is shown.
                                         ‘‘(b) REISSUANCE OF MISUSED BENEFITS IN OTHER CASES.—(1) In any case in
                                      which a fiduciary described in paragraph (2) misuses all or part of an individual’s
                                      benefit paid to such fiduciary, the Secretary shall pay to the beneficiary or the bene-
                                      ficiary’s successor fiduciary an amount equal to the amount of such benefit so mis-
                                      used.
                                         ‘‘(2) Paragraph (1) applies to a fiduciary that—
                                               ‘‘(A) is not an individual; or
                                               ‘‘(B) is an individual who, for any month during a period when misuse occurs,
                                             serves 10 or more individuals who are beneficiaries under this title.
                                         ‘‘(c) RECOUPMENT OF AMOUNTS REISSUED.—In any case in which the Secretary re-
                                      issues a benefit payment (in whole or in part) under subsection (a) or (b), the Sec-
                                      retary shall make a good faith effort to obtain recoupment from the fiduciary to
                                      whom the payment was originally made.’’.
                                         (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter
                                      is amended by adding at the end the following new items:
                                      ‘‘6106. Misuse of benefits by fiduciaries.
                                      ‘‘6107. Reissuance of benefits.’’.
                                      SEC. 304. ADDITIONAL PROTECTIONS FOR BENEFICIARIES WITH FIDUCIARIES.
                                         (a) ONSITE REVIEWS AND REQUIRED ACCOUNTINGS.—(1) Chapter 55 of title 38,
                                      United States Code, as amended by section 302(a), is further amended by adding
                                      at the end the following new sections:
                                      ‘‘§ 5508. Periodic onsite reviews of institutional fiduciaries
                                         ‘‘In addition to such other reviews of fiduciaries as the Secretary may otherwise
                                      conduct, the Secretary shall provide for the periodic onsite review of any person or
                                      agency located in the United States that receives the benefits payable under laws
                                      administered by the Secretary to another individual pursuant to the appointment
                                      of such person or agency as a fiduciary under section 5502(a)(1) of this title in any
                                      case in which the fiduciary is serving in that capacity with respect to more than
                                      20 beneficiaries and the total annual amount of such benefits exceeds $50,000, as
                                      adjusted pursuant to section 5312 of this title.
                                      ‘‘§ 5509. Authority to redirect delivery of benefit payments when a fiduciary
                                                 fails to provide required accounting
                                         ‘‘(a) REQUIRED REPORTS AND ACCOUNTINGS.—The Secretary may require a fidu-
                                      ciary to file a report or accounting pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Sec-
                                      retary.
                                         ‘‘(b) ACTIONS UPON FAILURE TO FILE.—In any case in which a fiduciary fails to
                                      submit a report or accounting required by the Secretary under subsection (a), the
                                      Secretary may, after furnishing notice to such fiduciary and the beneficiary entitled
                                      to such payment of benefits, require that such fiduciary appear in person at a re-
                                      gional office of the Department serving the area in which the beneficiary resides in
                                      order to receive such payments.’’.
                                         (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding
                                      after the item added by section 302(b) the following new items:
                                      ‘‘5508. Periodic onsite reviews of institutional fiduciaries.
                                      ‘‘5509. Authority to redirect delivery of benefit payments when a fiduciary fails to provide required accounting.’’.
                                          (b) CIVIL MONETARY PENALTIES; JUDICIAL ORDERS OF RESTITUTION.—(1) Chapter
                                      61 of title 38, United States Code, as amended by section 303(a), is further amended
                                      by adding at the end the following new sections:
                                      ‘‘§ 6108. Civil monetary penalties
                                         ‘‘(a) PENALTY FOR CONVERSION.—Any person (including an organization, agency,
                                      or other entity) who, having received, while acting in the capacity of a fiduciary pur-
                                      suant to section 5502 of this title, a payment under a law administered by the Sec-
                                      retary for the use and benefit of another individual, converts such payment, or any
                                      part thereof, to a use that such person knows or should know is other than for the
                                      use and benefit of such other individual shall be subject to, in addition to any other
                                      penalty that may be prescribed by law, a civil monetary penalty assessed by the
                                      Secretary of not more than $5,000 for each such conversion.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006    PO 00000     Frm 00007     Fmt 6659    Sfmt 6621     E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX        HR683
                                                                                                  8
                                        ‘‘(b) PENALTY IN LIEU OF DAMAGES.—Any person who makes a conversion of a
                                      payment described in subsection (a) and is subject to a civil monetary penalty under
                                      that subsection by reason of such conversion shall also be subject to an assessment
                                      by the Secretary, in lieu of damages sustained by the United States resulting from
                                      the conversion, of not more than twice the amount of any payments so converted.
                                        ‘‘(c) COSTS OF RECOVERY.—From amounts collected under this section, the amount
                                      necessary to recoup the Department’s costs of such collection shall be credited to ap-
                                      propriations currently available for the same purpose as the appropriation that in-
                                      curred those costs, to remain available until expended.
                                      ‘‘§ 6109. Authority for judicial orders of restitution
                                         ‘‘(a) Any Federal court, when sentencing a defendant convicted of an offense aris-
                                      ing from the misuse of benefits under this title, may order, in addition to or in lieu
                                      of any other penalty authorized by law, that the defendant make restitution to the
                                      Department.
                                         ‘‘(b) Sections 3612, 3663, and 3664 of title 18 shall apply with respect to the
                                      issuance and enforcement of orders of restitution under subsection (a). In so apply-
                                      ing those sections, the Department shall be considered the victim.
                                         ‘‘(c) If the court does not order restitution, or orders only partial restitution, under
                                      subsection (a), the court shall state on the record the reasons therefor.
                                         ‘‘(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), amounts received or recovered by the
                                      Secretary pursuant to an order of restitution under subsection (a), to the extent and
                                      in the amounts provided in advance in appropriations Acts, shall be available to de-
                                      fray expenses incurred by the Office of the Inspector General for the investigation
                                      of fiduciaries under this title.
                                         ‘‘(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to amounts received in connection
                                      with misuse by a fiduciary of funds paid as benefits under laws administered by the
                                      Secretary. Such amounts shall be paid to the individual whose benefits were mis-
                                      used unless the Secretary has previously reissued the misused benefits, in which
                                      case the amounts shall be treated in the same manner as overpayments recouped
                                      by the Secretary and shall be deposited to the credit of the applicable revolving
                                      fund, trust fund, or appropriation.’’.
                                         (2) The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding
                                      after the item added by section 303(b) the following new items:
                                      ‘‘6108. Civil monetary penalties.
                                      ‘‘6109. Authority for judicial orders of restitution.’’.
                                      SEC. 305. ANNUAL REPORT.
                                         (a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 55 of title 38, United States Code, as amended by sec-
                                      tion 304(a)(1), is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
                                      ‘‘§ 5510. Annual report
                                         ‘‘The Secretary shall include in the Annual Benefits Report of the Veterans Bene-
                                      fits Administration or the Secretary’s Annual Performance and Accountability Re-
                                      port information concerning fiduciaries who have been appointed to receive pay-
                                      ments for beneficiaries of the Department. As part of such information, the Sec-
                                      retary shall separately set forth the following:
                                              ‘‘(1) The number of beneficiaries in each category (veteran, surviving spouse,
                                            child, adult disabled child, or parent).
                                              ‘‘(2) The types of benefit being paid (compensation, pension, dependency and
                                            indemnity compensation, death pension or benefits payable to a disabled child
                                            under chapter 18 of this title).
                                              ‘‘(3) The total annual amounts and average annual amounts of benefits paid
                                            to fiduciaries for each category and type of benefit.
                                              ‘‘(4) The number of fiduciaries who are the (spouse, parent, legal custodian,
                                            court-appointed fiduciary, institutional fiduciary, custodian in fact, and super-
                                            vised direct payment).
                                              ‘‘(5) The number of cases in which the fiduciary was changed by the Secretary
                                            because of a finding that benefits had been misused.
                                              ‘‘(6) How such cases of misuse of benefits were addressed by the Secretary.
                                              ‘‘(7) The final disposition of such cases of misuse of benefits, including the
                                            number and dollar amount of any civil or criminal penalties imposed.
                                              ‘‘(8) Such other information as the Secretary considers appropriate.’’.
                                         (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter
                                      is amended by adding after the items added by the amendment made by section
                                      304(a)(2) the following new item:
                                      ‘‘5510. Annual report.’’.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006     PO 00000      Frm 00008      Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6631   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                          9
                                      SEC. 306. ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT IN BENEFITS THRESHOLDS.
                                         Section 5312(b)(1) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘and
                                      the annual benefit amount limitations under sections 5507(c)(2)(D) and 5508 of this
                                      title,’’ after ‘‘(d)(3) of such section,’’.
                                      SEC. 307. EFFECTIVE DATES.
                                         (a) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided, this title and the amendments
                                      made by this title shall take effect on the first day of the seventh month beginning
                                      after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                         (b) SPECIAL RULES.—(1) Section 5510 of title 38, United States Code, as added by
                                      section 305(a), shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                         (2) Sections 6106 and 6107 of title 38, United States Code, as added by section
                                      303(a), shall apply with respect to any determinations by the Secretary of Veterans
                                      Affairs made after the date of the enactment of this Act of misuse of funds by a
                                      fiduciary.

                                                           TITLE IV—OTHER MATTERS
                                      SEC. 401. INVENTORY OF MEDICAL WASTE MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES AT DEPARTMENT
                                                HEALTH-CARE FACILITIES.
                                         (a) INVENTORY.— The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish and maintain
                                      a national inventory of medical waste management activities in the health-care fa-
                                      cilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs. The inventory shall include the fol-
                                      lowing:
                                               (1) A statement of the current national policy of the Department on managing
                                            and disposing of medical waste, including regulated medical waste in all its
                                            forms.
                                               (2) A description of the program of each geographic service area of the De-
                                            partment to manage and dispose of medical waste, including general medical
                                            waste and regulated medical waste, with a description of the primary methods
                                            used in those programs and the associated costs of those programs, with cost
                                            information shown separately for in-house costs (including full-time equivalent
                                            employees) and contract costs.
                                         (b) REPORT.—Not later than April 15, 2005, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall
                                      submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Rep-
                                      resentatives a report on medical waste management activities in the facilities of the
                                      Department of Veterans Affairs. The report shall include the following:
                                               (1) The inventory established under subsection (a), including all the matters
                                            specified in that subsection.
                                               (2) A listing of each violation of medical waste management and disposal reg-
                                            ulations reported at any health-care facility of the Department over the pre-
                                            ceding five years by any State or Federal agency, along with an explanation of
                                            any remedial or other action taken by the Secretary in response to each such
                                            reported violation.
                                               (3) A description of any plans to modernize, consolidate, or otherwise improve
                                            the management of medical waste and disposal programs at health-care facili-
                                            ties of the Department, including the projected costs associated with such plans
                                            and any barriers to achieving goals associated with such plans.
                                               (4) An assessment or evaluation of the available methods of disposing of med-
                                            ical waste and identification of which of those methods are more desirable from
                                            an environmental perspective in that they would be least likely to result in con-
                                            tamination of air or water or otherwise cause future cleanup problems.
                                      SEC. 402. CARE FOR NEWBORN CHILDREN OF VETERANS RECEIVING MATERNITY CARE.
                                         (a) AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE NEWBORN INFANT CARE.—Subchapter VIII of chapter
                                      17 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following
                                      new section:
                                      ‘‘§ 1786. Care for newborn children of veterans receiving maternity care
                                         ‘‘(a) AUTHORITY.—Subject to subsections (b) and (c), when a female veteran who
                                      is enrolled in the health-care system established under section 1705 of this title is
                                      receiving maternity care from the Department delivers of a child in a Department
                                      facility or in a non-Department facility under a Department contract the Secretary
                                      may furnish care to the neonate.
                                         ‘‘(b) CARE IN A DEPARTMENT FACILITY.—In a case in which a neonate covered by
                                      subsection (a) is born in a Department facility, care furnished for the neonate at
                                      that facility shall be furnished without charge to the veteran who delivered of that
                                      neonate.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00009   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                             10
                                         ‘‘(c) CARE IN A NON-DEPARTMENT FACILITY.—In a case in which a neonate covered
                                      by subsection (a) is born in a non-Department facility or is provided care in a non-
                                      Department facility following birth in a Department facility and transfer from that
                                      facility, the Secretary may provide for the payment of the cost of care and services
                                      for the neonate in the same manner, and subject to the same limitations, as if such
                                      care and services were emergency treatment furnished the veteran subject to section
                                      1725 of this title, except that—
                                                ‘‘(1) the services for which the Secretary may make payment shall be limited
                                             to those items and services for which payment may be made under the medicare
                                             program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act for post-natal care fur-
                                             nished to a neonate; and
                                                ‘‘(2) the rate of payment for such services may not exceed the payment rates
                                             applicable to those items and services under the medicare program under such
                                             title.’’.
                                         (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter
                                      is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1784 the following new
                                      item:
                                      ‘‘1786. Care for newborn children of veterans receiving maternity care.’’.
                                      SEC. 403. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO EDUCATION PROGRAM PROVISIONS.
                                        (a) INAPPLICABILITY OF WAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR ON-JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS
                                      LEADING TO SELF-EMPLOYMENT.—(1) Section 3677(b) is amended by adding at the
                                      end the following new paragraph:
                                        ‘‘(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(A) and subsection (c)(8), no wages shall be re-
                                      quired to be paid an eligible person or veteran by a training establishment described
                                      in section 3452(e)(2) of this title.’’.
                                        (2) Section 3452(e), as amended by section 301 of the Veterans Benefits Act of
                                      2003 (Public Law 108–183; 117 Stat. 2658), is amended by striking ‘‘An’’ in para-
                                      graph (2) and inserting ‘‘For the period beginning on October 1, 2005, and ending
                                      on September 30, 2010, an’’.
                                        (b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect
                                      as if included in the enactment of section 301 of the Veterans Benefits Act of 2003
                                      (Public Law 108–183; 117 Stat. 2658).
                                        Amend the title so as to read:
                                          A bill to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to make certain improve-
                                      ments and technical corrections to that Act, otherwise to improve legal protections
                                      provided to reserve component members called to active duty, and for other pur-
                                      poses.

                                                                                   INTRODUCTION
                                         The reported bill reflects the Committee’s consideration of four
                                      bills introduced during the 108th Congress: H.R. 4658, H.R. 4659,
                                      H.R. 4477, and H.R. 4032, and testimony received from the Office
                                      of Special Counsel on June 23, 2004.
                                         On June 16, 2004, the Subcommittee on Benefits held a hearing
                                      on H.R. 4032, the Veterans Fiduciary Act of 2004, introduced on
                                      March 25, 2004, by Honorable Susan A. Davis, Honorable Michael
                                      H. Michaud, Honorable Lane Evans, Honorable Bob Filner, Honor-
                                      able Corrine Brown, Honorable Ciro D. Rodriguez, Honorable Dar-
                                      lene Hooley, Honorable Ted Strickland, Honorable Raul M.
                                      Grijalva, Honorable Barney Frank, Honorable Timothy H. Bishop,
                                      Honorable Tim Holden, Honorable Kevin Brady, Honorable Grace
                                      F. Napolitano, and Honorable Ben Chandler.
                                         On June 23, 2004, the full Committee held a hearing on legisla-
                                      tion, including H.R. 4477, and two draft bills. H.R. 4477, the Pa-
                                      triot Employer Act of 2004, was introduced on June 2, 2004, by
                                      Honorable James P. McGovern, Honorable Jeb Bradley and Honor-
                                      able Lane Evans. The first draft bill was a proposed extension of
                                      the maximum period of employer-sponsored health care coverage
                                      that a Reservist or National Guardsmember may voluntarily elect
                                      to continue under the Uniformed Services Employment and Re-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000     Frm 00010     Fmt 6659     Sfmt 6601    E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      11

                                      employments Rights Act (USERRA), and was subsequently intro-
                                      duced as H.R. 4659 on June 23, 2004, by the Chairman and Rank-
                                      ing Member of the Subcommittee on Benefits, Honorable Henry E.
                                      Brown, Jr., and Honorable Michael H. Michaud, and the Chairman
                                      of the Committee, Honorable Christopher H. Smith. The second
                                      draft bill was a proposed amendment to the Servicemembers Civil
                                      Relief Act (SCRA) to make certain improvements and technical cor-
                                      rections to the Act, and was subsequently introduced as H.R. 4658
                                      on June 23, 2004, by the Chairman and Ranking Member of the
                                      Committee, Honorable Christopher H. Smith and Honorable Lane
                                      Evans.
                                        On July 21, 2004, the full Committee met and ordered H.R. 4658,
                                      as amended, reported favorably to the House by unanimous voice
                                      vote.

                                                               SUMMARY OF THE REPORTED BILL
                                           H.R. 4658, as amended, would:
                                              Title I—Improvements to Servicemembers Civil Relief Act
                                           1. Define in the general provisions of the Servicemembers Civil
                                              Relief Act (SCRA) that the term ‘‘judgment’’ would mean ‘‘any
                                              judgment, decree, order or ruling, final or temporary.’’
                                           2. Clarify that waivers by servicemembers of rights and protec-
                                              tions under SCRA which must be in writing, must also be exe-
                                              cuted in a separate instrument; and require that certain writ-
                                              ten waivers must be in at least 12 point type.
                                           3. Provide that plaintiffs as well as defendants may request
                                              stays of civil proceedings under SCRA.
                                           4. Clarify that dependents as well as servicemembers are cov-
                                              ered by SCRA’s residential and motor vehicle lease termi-
                                              nation provisions on joint leases.
                                           5. Provide that SCRA’s lease termination provisions also apply
                                              when the servicemember has permanent change of station or-
                                              ders from a State outside the continental United States to any
                                              location outside that State.
                                           6. Define for the purposes of SCRA’s lease termination provi-
                                              sions that the term ‘‘military orders’’ would mean, with re-
                                              spect to a servicemember, ‘‘official military orders, or any noti-
                                              fication, certification, or verification from the servicemember’s
                                              commanding officer, with respect to the servicemember’s cur-
                                              rent or future military duty status.’’
                                           7. Define for the purposes of SCRA’s lease termination provi-
                                              sions that the term ‘‘continental United States’’ would mean
                                              ‘‘the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia.’’
                                           8. Clarify that SCRA’s lease termination provisions cover indi-
                                              vidual deployments, as well as military unit deployments.
                                           9. Prohibit double taxation of servicemembers when the laws of
                                              a tax jurisdiction do not provide a credit against use, excise
                                              or similar taxes the servicemember previously paid to another
                                              tax jurisdiction.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00011   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      12

                                                    Title II—Employment and Reemployment Rights
                                           1. Increase from 18 months to 24 months the maximum period
                                              of employer-sponsored health coverage that an employee cov-
                                              ered by USERRA may elect to continue, beginning with the
                                              date the absence from the position of employment begins; and
                                              provide that the effective date of the increased coverage would
                                              be the date of enactment.
                                           2. Reinstate the requirement for comprehensive annual reports
                                              from the Secretary of Labor to Congress on the disposition of
                                              cases filed under USERRA; such reports would begin no later
                                              than February 1, 2005.
                                           3. Require employers to provide notice to employees of the
                                              rights, benefits and obligations of employers and employees
                                              that apply under USERRA, and require the Department of
                                              Labor to make available to employers the text of the notice,
                                              to be provided within 90 days after date of enactment.
                                           4. Establish a demonstration project for the referral of com-
                                              plaints by federal executive branch employees under USERRA
                                              to the Office of Special Counsel for investigation and resolu-
                                              tion, and require the Secretary of Labor and the Office of Spe-
                                              cial Counsel to carry out the demonstration project.
                                           5. Allow the Office of Special Counsel for the demonstration
                                              project to receive and investigate all cases involving both com-
                                              plaints of prohibited personnel actions and complaints under
                                              USERRA.
                                           6. Define a complaint for purposes of the demonstration project
                                              as one filed under chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code,
                                              against a Federal executive agency by a claimant with a social
                                              security number with an odd number as its terminal digit, or
                                              a case number assigned to the claim with an odd number as
                                              its terminal digit.
                                           7. Allow the Secretary of Labor to refer to the Office of Special
                                              Counsel certain pending complaints filed before the beginning
                                              of the demonstration project.
                                           8. Require the demonstration project to be carried out during the
                                              period beginning 60 days after the date of enactment, and
                                              ending on September 30, 2007.
                                           9. Require the Comptroller General of the United States to con-
                                              duct periodic evaluations of the demonstration project; require
                                              a report to Congress no later than April 1, 2007, on the peri-
                                              odic evaluations; and require the report to address certain
                                              other matters pertaining to the demonstration project.

                                                          Title III—Matters Relating to Fiduciaries
                                           1.   For purposes of payment of VA benefits, define a fiduciary as
                                                a guardian, curator, conservator, committee or person legally
                                                vested with the responsibility or care of a claimant (or the
                                                claimant’s estate) or of a beneficiary (or the beneficiary’s es-
                                                tate), or any other person appointed in a representative ca-
                                                pacity to receive money paid by VA.
                                           2.   Require VA, prior to certification, to conduct an inquiry or
                                                investigation as to the fitness of a fiduciary. Such inquiry or




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00012   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      13

                                               investigation would include, to the extent practicable, a face-
                                               to-face interview, a copy of a credit report within one year of
                                               appointment, and the furnishing of any bond that may be re-
                                               quired by the Secretary.
                                           3. Require the Secretary, as a part of the inquiry or investiga-
                                               tion, to request information about whether the potential fidu-
                                               ciary has been convicted of any offense under Federal or
                                               State law.
                                           4. Permit a less rigorous inquiry or investigation of the parent
                                               of a minor beneficiary, spouse or parent of an incompetent
                                               beneficiary, the person appointed by a court of competent ju-
                                               risdiction, or the person appointed to manage an estate
                                               where the annual amount of veterans benefits to be managed
                                               does not exceed $3,600.
                                           5. Give the Secretary the authority to appoint a temporary fidu-
                                               ciary, for a period not to exceed 120 days, if needed to protect
                                               the assets of the beneficiary when a determination of incom-
                                               petence is being made or appealed, or a fiduciary is appeal-
                                               ing a determination of misuse.
                                           6. Prohibit the Secretary from continuing the temporary fidu-
                                               ciary beyond 120 days if a final decision has not been made
                                               on the competence of the beneficiary or fiduciary, unless the
                                               Secretary has obtained a court order for a guardian.
                                           7. Prohibit a fiduciary from collecting a fee from the beneficiary
                                               for any month when the Secretary or a court has determined
                                               the fiduciary has misused some or all of the veteran’s bene-
                                               fits.
                                           8. Require that any fiduciary, except a Federal, State, or local
                                               government agency, shall be liable for any amount misused,
                                               and that such amount shall be treated as an erroneous pay-
                                               ment to the fiduciary for purposes of law pertaining to the
                                               recovery of overpayments.
                                           9. Require the Secretary to repay misused benefits if the mis-
                                               use is due to the Secretary’s failure to investigate or monitor
                                               a fiduciary, when the fiduciary is (1) not an individual or (2)
                                               is an individual who, for any month during a period when
                                               misuse occurs, serves 10 or more individuals who are bene-
                                               ficiaries.
                                           10. Require the Secretary to conduct periodic on-site reviews of
                                               any person or agency located in the United States that
                                               serves as a fiduciary to more than 20 beneficiaries and the
                                               total annual amount of benefits exceeds $50,000.
                                           11. Permit a fiduciary who converts a payment for some use
                                               other than for the beneficiary to be subject to a civil mone-
                                               tary penalty, and an assessment by the Secretary in lieu of
                                               damages sustained by the United States, of not more than
                                               twice the amount converted.
                                           12. Permit that amounts received or recovered from a fiduciary,
                                               to the extent and in the amounts provided in advance appro-
                                               priations, shall be available to defray expenses incurred by
                                               the Office of the Inspector General for the inquiry or inves-
                                               tigation of fiduciaries.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00013   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      14

                                           13. Require the Secretary to include in an annual report infor-
                                               mation on the fiduciary program, to include the number of
                                               beneficiaries, the types of benefits being paid, and the num-
                                               ber of cases in which the fiduciary was changed by the Sec-
                                               retary because of a finding that benefits had been misused.
                                                                       Title IV—Other Matters
                                           1. Require the Secretary to establish and maintain an inventory
                                              of medical waste management activities in VA facilities.
                                           2. Require the Secretary to submit by April 15, 2005, a report to
                                              the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and the
                                              House of Representatives on VA’s medical waste management
                                              activities, including inventory, regulatory violations, and plans
                                              for management improvements.
                                           3. Authorize VA to provide post-natal care to newborns of en-
                                              rolled female veterans receiving maternity care who are with-
                                              out other health insurance coverage. VA’s payment would be
                                              the amount Medicare would pay for services related to deliv-
                                              ering the child of a Medicare beneficiary.
                                           4. Make a technical correction to section 301 of P.L. 108–183,
                                              which expanded the Montgomery GI Bill program to authorize
                                              educational assistance for on-job training in certain self-em-
                                              ployment programs, by clarifying that the veteran or depend-
                                              ent in on-job training for certain self-employment programs
                                              beginning on October 1, 2005, and ending on September 30,
                                              2010 need not receive a training wage from the employer in
                                              order to receive the VA benefit for that period.

                                                                   BACKGROUND AND DISCUSSION
                                            Title I—IMPROVEMENTS TO SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL
                                                             RELIEF ACT
                                         Clarification of meaning of ‘‘judgment’’ as used in the Act.—Sec-
                                      tion 101 of the bill would clarify the meaning of the term ‘‘judg-
                                      ment’’ as used in the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA). The
                                      term ‘‘judgment’’ appears in sections 103, 201, 202, 204 and 601 of
                                      the SCRA, but it is not included in section 101, which contains the
                                      statute’s definitions. The Committee intends that the term be
                                      broadly construed and not be interpreted as limited to final judg-
                                      ments in cases. The term ‘‘judgment’’ would mean ‘‘. . . any judg-
                                      ment, decree, order, or ruling, final or temporary.’’
                                         Requirements relating to waiver of rights under the Act.—Section
                                      102 of the bill would require that waivers in writing under section
                                      107 of the SCRA must also be executed in a separate instrument.
                                      This requirement would make the waiver provisions of section 107
                                      consistent with the waiver provisions of section 103(d)(1) of the
                                      SCRA, which for waivers by certain persons primarily or second-
                                      arily liable on an obligation or liability, already requires a separate
                                      waiver instrument. While agreements by servicemembers and other
                                      persons to waive rights and protections under the SCRA would re-
                                      main legal, the Committee believes that when written waivers are
                                      required under the SCRA, servicemembers should have the addi-
                                      tional protection of a separate waiver instrument. This would pre-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00014   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      15

                                      vent an effective waiver from being placed, for example, in a
                                      lengthy unrelated text. Additionally, section 102 of the bill would
                                      require the prominent display of waivers in 12 point type. This
                                      would prevent an effective waiver from being placed, for example,
                                      in fine print at the bottom of a page.
                                         Right of servicemember plaintiffs to request stay of civil pro-
                                      ceedings.—Section 103 of the bill would allow servicemembers who
                                      are plaintiffs in a legal action to request a stay of a civil proceeding
                                      under section 202 of the SCRA. The predecessor statute, the Sol-
                                      diers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act, expressly covered plaintiffs for
                                      the purpose of stay requests, and the SCRA should similarly cover
                                      plaintiffs.
                                         Termination of leases.—Section 104 of the bill would clarify that
                                      under section 305 of the SCRA, when a servicemember terminates
                                      a residential or motor vehicle lease entered into jointly with a de-
                                      pendent, the obligations of both the servicemember and the de-
                                      pendent are terminated. The Committee’s belief that this clarifica-
                                      tion is necessary based on sworn testimony at a full committee
                                      hearing on June 23, 2004, that some servicemembers and their de-
                                      pendents in the Fort Hood, Texas, area have experienced refusals
                                      by certain property management companies to release dependents
                                      from joint leases. The large scale deployments of soldiers and unit
                                      relocations from Fort Hood as part of the war against terrorism
                                      have created unusual pressures on providers of rental housing in
                                      that local area, and the Committee is concerned about the potential
                                      for similar occurrences in other places with significant military
                                      populations.
                                         The intent of Congress on this matter did not change with enact-
                                      ment of the SCRA, which updated and strengthened the Soldiers’
                                      and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act. The overall purpose of the statute is
                                      to provide various legal rights and protections for servicemembers
                                      and their dependents. All along, the intent of Congress has been
                                      that, when the servicemember properly terminates such a lease, it
                                      is terminated with respect to all of the parties to the lease. An in-
                                      terpretation of section 305 that would as a practical matter provide
                                      no relief by leaving the servicemember’s dependent bound by a
                                      joint lease is clearly inconsistent with the section’s purpose. How-
                                      ever, this clarification, with its more specific language, is intended
                                      to preclude future disputes about the application to dependents of
                                      section 305.
                                         Section 104 of the bill would also modify the language of section
                                      305 of the SCRA to allow motor vehicle lease terminations for any
                                      permanent change of station move from a state outside of the conti-
                                      nental United States to any other location outside that state. The
                                      term ‘‘continental United States’’ would be defined as meaning the
                                      ‘‘48 contiguous states and the District of Columbia.’’ The term
                                      ‘‘State’’ is currently defined in section 101(6)(A) of the SCRA to in-
                                      clude ‘‘a commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United
                                      States.’’ Section 104 would assure that a servicemember who re-
                                      ceives a permanent change of station order to move from a state
                                      outside the continental United States to another location outside
                                      that state is accorded the same protections as a servicemember
                                      who receives a permanent change of station order to move from a




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00015   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      16

                                      state within the continental United States to a location outside of
                                      the continental United States.
                                         Section 104 of the bill would also amend section 305 to broaden
                                      the definition of the term ‘‘military orders’’ to mean ‘‘official mili-
                                      tary orders, or any notification, certification, or verification from
                                      the servicemember’s commanding officer, with respect to the
                                      servicemember’s current or future military duty status.’’ The
                                      amended definition would allow servicemembers who must deploy
                                      on short notice, who experience delays in receiving orders, or who
                                      for other valid reasons are without formal ‘‘military orders,’’ to pro-
                                      vide a suitable termination notice to lessors.
                                         Section 305 of SCRA would further be amended to include indi-
                                      vidual as well as unit deployments. Some servicemembers receive
                                      individual orders to fill unit vacancies, and this section would allow
                                      lease termination for servicemembers who receive orders to deploy
                                      ‘‘as an individual in support of a military operation.’’
                                         Prevention of double taxation of certain servicemembers.—Section
                                      105 of the bill would not allow a tax jurisdiction to impose a use,
                                      excise, or similar tax on the personal property of a servicemember
                                      who is not a resident, if the tax jurisdiction’s laws do not provide
                                      a credit against such taxes previously paid on the same personal
                                      property in another tax jurisdiction. With this section, the Com-
                                      mittee would extend the long-standing policy of Congress against
                                      double taxation of servicemembers expressed in title V of the SCRA
                                      to use, excise, or other similar taxes.
                                            Title II—EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS
                                                  SUBTITLE A—EXTENSION OF HEALTH CARE COVERAGE

                                         Two-year period of continuation of employer-sponsored health
                                      care coverage.—Section 201 of the bill would increase from 18
                                      months to 24 months the maximum period of employer-sponsored
                                      health coverage that an employee covered by USERRA may elect
                                      to continue. The coverage would become effective for elections made
                                      on or after the date of enactment.
                                         Section 4317 of title 38, United States Code, allows
                                      servicemembers covered under USERRA to elect to continue em-
                                      ployer-sponsored health coverage for up to 18 months while on ac-
                                      tive duty, provided the servicemember pays up to 102 percent of
                                      the premiums. A growing number of Guard and Reserve members
                                      are on active duty for longer than 18 months. This change would
                                      bring eligibility for continued health care coverage in line with the
                                      period of time which a member of the Guard or Reserve may be in-
                                      voluntarily called to active duty.
                                         Reinstatement of reporting requirements.—Section 202 of the bill
                                      would reinstate a requirement that the Secretary of Labor, in con-
                                      sultation with the Office of Special Counsel and the U.S. Attorney
                                      General, provide annual reports to Congress on the disposition of
                                      cases filed under USERRA, effective February 1, 2005. The pre-
                                      vious reporting requirement expired on February 1, 1996. With
                                      greater reliance on the National Guard and Reserve components of
                                      the Armed Forces for national defense during the war against ter-
                                      rorism, annual reports are necessary to evaluate USERRA’s effec-
                                      tiveness.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00016   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      17

                                                                   SUBTITLE B—OTHER MATTERS

                                         Requirement for employers to provide notice of rights and duties
                                      under USERRA.—Section 211 of the bill is derived from H.R. 4477
                                      and would require employers to provide notice to employees of the
                                      rights, benefits and obligations under USERRA. Section 211 would
                                      also require the Department of Labor to make available to employ-
                                      ers, within 90 days after the date of enactment of this provision,
                                      the text of the notice.
                                         Since fiscal year 2002, the number of USERRA complaints filed
                                      with the Department of Labor has increased each year by approxi-
                                      mately 10 percent. According to testimony received by the Com-
                                      mittee, many problems emerge because employers and employees
                                      do not know the legal rights and duties associated with USERRA.
                                      This section is intended to raise awareness among employers and
                                      employees, as well as reduce workplace conflicts related to
                                      USERRA issues. The Committee believes that this provision would
                                      decrease inadvertent violations of the law by providing timely and
                                      accurate information to both employers and employees.
                                         Demonstration project for referral of USERRA claims against
                                      Federal agencies to the Office of Special Counsel.—Section 212 of
                                      the bill would require the Secretary of Labor and the Office of Spe-
                                      cial Counsel (OSC) to carry out a three-year demonstration project
                                      on enforcement of USERRA rights for federal executive branch em-
                                      ployees. OSC currently does not initially investigate USERRA
                                      claims made by Federal executive branch employees. The Depart-
                                      ment of Labor performs the initial investigation, resolves certain
                                      cases and then refers the remaining cases it finds to be meritorious
                                      to the OSC for formal enforcement. The demonstration project
                                      would allow the OSC to handle cases from beginning to end, includ-
                                      ing investigation, settlement and litigation, to determine whether
                                      that approach would be more effective.
                                         Approximately half of the cases filed after the beginning of the
                                      demonstration project would be sent by the Department of Labor
                                      to the OSC, using a random selection process based on the last
                                      digit of the claimant’s social security number or case number, if a
                                      social security number is not available. The Comptroller General of
                                      the United States would be required to conduct periodic evalua-
                                      tions of the demonstration project and to submit a report to Con-
                                      gress on the evaluations. The Comptroller would also be required
                                      to provide an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of refer-
                                      ring all USERRA claims against federal executive agencies to OSC
                                      for investigation and resolution.
                                                 Title III—MATTERS RELATING TO FIDUCIARIES
                                          When VA monetary benefits are payable to an individual who is
                                      incapable of managing his or her own affairs, the Secretary of Vet-
                                      erans Affairs has the authority to appoint a third party payee as
                                      a fiduciary. The fiduciary may be a relative, friend, guardian, con-
                                      servator, curator, person with temporary custody of the beneficiary
                                      (‘‘custodian-in-fact’’), or other federal fiduciary appointed by VA.
                                          Section 5502 of title 38, United States Code, permits a fiduciary
                                      to be appointed ‘‘regardless of any legal disability on the part of the
                                      beneficiary.’’ Nonetheless, VA has issued regulations authorizing
                                      the appointment of a fiduciary only when a beneficiary is mentally




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00017   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      18

                                      ill, incompetent, or under a legal disability. 38 C.F.R. § 13.55. Ac-
                                      cording to VA, there are currently about 100,000 VA beneficiaries
                                      who have payments made to a fiduciary; approximately 65,000 of
                                      these are veterans, 32,000 are other adults such as surviving
                                      spouses and adult disabled children, and 3,000 are minor children.
                                         At a July 2003 oversight hearing, the Subcommittee on Benefits
                                      learned that under current law, VA is not required to reissue bene-
                                      fits to a veteran if the fiduciary has misappropriated some or all
                                      of the beneficiary’s funds. Title III of the bill would strengthen the
                                      protections afforded to incompetent veterans and other bene-
                                      ficiaries who receive VA benefits, as well as require additional
                                      oversight of the fiduciaries.
                                         Definition of fiduciary.—Section 301 of the bill would define, for
                                      the purposes of chapters 55 and 61 of title 38, United States Code,
                                      the term fiduciary as (1) a person who is a guardian, curator, con-
                                      servator, committee, or person legally vested with the responsi-
                                      bility or care of a claimant (or a claimant’s estate) or of a bene-
                                      ficiary (or a beneficiary’s estate); or (2) any other person having
                                      been appointed in a representative capacity to receive money paid
                                      under any of the laws administered by the Secretary for the use
                                      and benefit of a minor, incompetent, or other beneficiary. Under
                                      current law, a fiduciary for VA purposes is not defined.
                                         Inquiry, investigations, and qualification of fiduciaries.—Section
                                      302 of the bill would require VA to certify, following an inquiry or
                                      investigation, the fitness of a fiduciary. Such inquiry or investiga-
                                      tion would be conducted through, to the extent practicable, a face-
                                      to-face interview, review of a credit report for the proposed fidu-
                                      ciary issued within one year of appointment, and the furnishing of
                                      any bond that may be required by the Secretary. Additionally, the
                                      Secretary would be required to request information on whether
                                      that person has been convicted of any offense under Federal or
                                      State law; if so, the Secretary may certify the person as a fiduciary
                                      only if the Secretary makes a specific finding of rehabilitation and
                                      finds that the potential fiduciary is an appropriate person to act as
                                      the fiduciary for the beneficiary. This provision is not intended to
                                      require an extensive criminal background check of the proposed fi-
                                      duciary. VA would be required to have a proposed fiduciary attest
                                      as to whether or not he/she had been imprisoned for more than one
                                      year. The Committee expects that if the proposed fiduciary had
                                      been so imprisoned, the Secretary would make further inquiry con-
                                      cerning the nature of the offense, the length of time since the of-
                                      fense occurred, and other indications of rehabilitation in order to
                                      determine if the proposed fiduciary is an appropriate person to
                                      serve as a fiduciary for a beneficiary.
                                         In the case of a parent (natural, adopted, or step) of a minor ben-
                                      eficiary, spouse or parent of an incompetent beneficiary, a person
                                      who has been appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction, or ap-
                                      pointed to manage an estate where the annual amount of veterans
                                      benefits to be managed does not exceed $3,600 (adjusted for annual
                                      cost-of-living increases), the Secretary may certify the potential fi-
                                      duciary on an expedited basis. In such cases, the Secretary would
                                      be authorized to waive the requirements for a face-to-face inter-
                                      view, credit report check, or other requirements for appointment.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00018   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      19

                                         If needed to protect the assets of the beneficiary while a deter-
                                      mination of incompetence is being made or appealed, or a fiduciary
                                      is appealing a determination of misusing a veteran’s benefits, the
                                      Secretary would have the authority to appoint a temporary fidu-
                                      ciary, not to exceed 120 days. If a final decision has not been made
                                      within the allotted time frame, the Secretary would not be able to
                                      continue the temporary appointment without obtaining an order
                                      from a court of competent jurisdiction, such as a state Probate or
                                      Family Court, for the appointment of a guardian, conservator, or
                                      similar legal fiduciary. The Committee intends that the Secretary
                                      have the authority to act promptly to protect the beneficiary’s in-
                                      terest in those unusual cases where the appointment of a custo-
                                      dian-in-fact is not available or while an appeal of a proposed find-
                                      ing of incompetency or change of fiduciary is pending.
                                         Misuse of benefits by fiduciaries.—Section 303 of the bill would
                                      protect a veteran’s benefits when administered by a fiduciary. If
                                      the Secretary or a court has determined the fiduciary has misused
                                      some or all of the veterans’ benefits, he or she would be prohibited
                                      from collecting a fee from a beneficiary for any month during which
                                      the misuse had occurred, and any fee collected would be treated as
                                      a misused benefit.
                                         Any fiduciary, except a Federal, State, or local government agen-
                                      cy, would be personally liable for the amount misused, and that
                                      amount would be treated as an erroneous payment to the fiduciary
                                      for purposes of laws pertaining to the recovery of overpayments.
                                      The misappropriated amount would be subject to recovery in the
                                      same manner as any other debt due the United States. The Com-
                                      mittee expects the Secretary to vigorously use the tools available
                                      for the collection of debts owed to the United States in collecting
                                      misused benefits. In the event that any misused benefits are col-
                                      lected, the Secretary would be required to repay to the beneficiary
                                      or the beneficiary’s successor fiduciary, an amount equal to the re-
                                      covered amount of misused benefits, unless the benefits had al-
                                      ready been reissued.
                                         In the event the misused benefits are due to the Secretary’s fail-
                                      ure to investigate or monitor the fiduciary, the Secretary would be
                                      liable to repay all the benefits without first having to collect them
                                      from the fiduciary. Failure to adequately monitor a fiduciary would
                                      include the Secretary’s failing to review, in a timely manner, a fi-
                                      duciary’s accounting; failing to act in a timely manner when noti-
                                      fied of allegations of misuse; and any other case when actual neg-
                                      ligence is shown. In addition, the Secretary would be required to
                                      reissue benefits when the misuse involves a fiduciary who is (1) not
                                      an individual, i.e. an agency, or (2) is an individual who, for any
                                      month during a period when misuse occurs, serves 10 or more indi-
                                      viduals who are beneficiaries under title 38, United States Code. If
                                      the Secretary reissues a benefit payment, a good faith effort would
                                      be required to recoup the funds from the fiduciary to which the
                                      original payment was made.
                                         Additional protections for beneficiaries with fiduciaries.—Section
                                      304 of the bill would require the Secretary to conduct periodic on-
                                      site reviews of any person or agency located in the United States
                                      that serves as a fiduciary to more than 20 beneficiaries and the
                                      total annual amount of benefits exceeds $50,000 (to be adjusted an-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00019   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      20

                                      nually to reflect cost-of-living adjustments). As part of the review,
                                      the Secretary would be able to require the fiduciary to submit a re-
                                      port or accounting of dispersement of benefits, and a fiduciary who
                                      fails to submit the report could be required to appear in person at
                                      a VA regional office in order to receive such payments.
                                         In the event a fiduciary converts a payment for some use other
                                      than for the use and benefit of the beneficiary, he or she would be
                                      subject to, in addition to any other penalty that may be prescribed
                                      by law, a civil monetary penalty assessed by the Secretary of not
                                      more than $5,000 per conversion. Such person would also be sub-
                                      ject to an assessment by the Secretary of not more than twice the
                                      amount of any payments converted. Additionally, any federal court,
                                      when sentencing a defendant convicted of an offense arising from
                                      the misuse of benefits, could order, in addition to or in lieu of any
                                      other penalty authorized by law, that the defendant make restitu-
                                      tion to the Department (the court would be required to state on the
                                      record the reasons for not ordering restitution, or only partial res-
                                      titution). Any amounts received or recovered, other than those
                                      which would represent the amounts attributed to misuse, would be
                                      available to defray the expenses incurred by the VA’s Office of In-
                                      spector General for the inquiry or investigation of fiduciaries. Re-
                                      coveries of misused benefits would be made to the beneficiary or
                                      the beneficiary’s successor fiduciary unless benefits had previously
                                      been reissued. Recovery of benefits which have previously been re-
                                      issued would be credited to the applicable Department account in
                                      the same manner as is done for recovered overpayments of benefits.
                                         Annual report.—Section 305 of the bill would require the Sec-
                                      retary to include in one of VA’s annual reports information con-
                                      cerning fiduciaries who have been appointed to receive benefits, to
                                      include: the number of beneficiaries in each category (veteran, sur-
                                      viving spouse, child, adult disabled child, parent); types of benefits
                                      being paid (compensation, pension, dependency and indemnity com-
                                      pensation, death pension); the number of fiduciaries who are the
                                      spouse, parent, legal custodian, court-appointed, institutional, cus-
                                      todian-in-fact, and supervised direct payment; the number of cases
                                      in which the fiduciary was changed by the Secretary because of a
                                      finding that benefits had been misused; and how such cases of mis-
                                      use of benefits were addressed by the Secretary.
                                                                   Title IV—OTHER MATTERS
                                         Inventory of medical waste management activities at Department
                                      health-care facilities.—Section 401 of the bill would require VA to
                                      establish and maintain an inventory of medical waste management
                                      activities in VA facilities. Not later than April 15, 2005, VA would
                                      be required to submit a report to the Committees on Veterans’ Af-
                                      fairs of the Senate and the House of Representatives on its inven-
                                      tory, regulatory compliance, and any violations of record, along
                                      with plans for management improvements.
                                         Under current law, VA is subject to comply with a variety of Fed-
                                      eral, state and local laws and regulations relating to the collecting,
                                      handling and disposing of medical waste. Failure to adhere to the
                                      laws and regulations could jeopardize the health and safety of pa-
                                      tients, employees, and the public, as well as subject VA to civil or
                                      criminal liabilities. This section would provide a means for Con-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00020   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      21

                                      gress to evaluate the effectiveness of VA’s medical waste manage-
                                      ment policies, to determine whether additional procedures are
                                      needed to reduce environmental and heath risks, and to assess the
                                      costs of waste disposal.
                                        Care for newborn children of veterans receiving maternity care.—
                                      Section 402 of the bill would authorize VA to provide post-natal
                                      care to the neonate of an eligible female veteran who is receiving
                                      maternity and delivery care from VA, and who has no other health
                                      insurance coverage. The medical community generally accepts the
                                      definition of a neonate as a newborn from one to 30 days of age.
                                      The Committee expects that VA would follow this definition. This
                                      authority would be consistent with typical insurance coverage of
                                      pregnancy and delivery in community facilities.
                                        Under current law, VA is authorized to provide maternity and
                                      delivery care to eligible female veterans, but does not have the au-
                                      thority to cover the cost of care of the veteran’s newborn child. VA
                                      is only authorized to provide medical care to children of certain
                                      service-connected veterans in a very limited number of cir-
                                      cumstances, such as benefits for children of Korea and Vietnam
                                      veterans who were born with spina bifida.
                                        This section would provide for continuity of care to the enrolled
                                      female veteran as part of a basic health benefit, and would reduce
                                      administrative difficulties associated with payment for these serv-
                                      ices at private hospitals. According to VA, its options for con-
                                      tracting for maternity and delivery care are greatly impeded be-
                                      cause it cannot easily negotiate care for the mother while excluding
                                      care for the newborn.
                                        Technical amendments to education program provisions.—Section
                                      403 of the bill would make a technical correction to section 301 of
                                      Public Law 108–183, which authorized certain self-employment and
                                      on-job-training programs (franchises) for less than six months
                                      under the Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB). VA was unable to imple-
                                      ment the provision because of a statutory requirement that partici-
                                      pants receive a training wage while enrolled in on-job training.
                                      This section would waive the training wage requirement for pro-
                                      grams of less than six months beginning October 1, 2005, and end-
                                      ing on September 30, 2010. VA would be required to review and
                                      approve all such programs before any MGIB educational assistance
                                      benefits could be paid.

                                                                   SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS
                                         Section 1 of the bill would provide that this Act may be cited as
                                      the ‘‘Servicemembers and Veterans Legal Protections Act of 2004’’.
                                         Section 101 would amend section 101 of the Servicemembers
                                      Civil Relief Act (SCRA) (50 U.S.C. App. 511) by adding a new para-
                                      graph (a) to the definitions. This new paragraph would define the
                                      term judgment to mean ‘‘any judgment, decree, order or ruling,
                                      final or temporary.’’
                                         Section 102 would amend section 107 of SCRA (50 U.S.C. App.
                                      517) to require that written waivers of certain SCRA rights and
                                      protections must also be executed in a separate instrument, and
                                      add a subsection (c) to require that certain written waivers must
                                      be in at least 12 point type.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00021   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      22

                                         Section 103 would amend section 202(a) of SCRA (50 U.S.C. App.
                                      522(a)) by inserting the words ‘‘plaintiff or’’ before ‘‘defendant’’, to
                                      provide that plaintiffs as well as defendants under SCRA may re-
                                      quest stays of civil proceedings.
                                         Section 104(a) would amend subsection(a) of section 305 of SCRA
                                      (50 U.S.C. App. 535) to clarify that dependents as well as
                                      servicemembers are covered by section 305’s residential and motor
                                      vehicle lease termination provisions.
                                         Section 104(b)(1) would amend section 305 of SCRA (50 U.S.C.
                                      App. 535) to provide that the SCRA’s lease termination provisions
                                      also apply when a servicemember has permanent change of station
                                      orders from a State outside the continental United States to any
                                      location outside that State.
                                         Section 104(b)(2) would amend section 305 of SCRA (50 U.S.C
                                      App. 535) to define the term ‘‘military orders’’ with respect to a
                                      servicemember, as ‘‘official military orders, or any notification, cer-
                                      tification, or verification from the servicemember’s commanding of-
                                      ficer, with respect to the servicemember’s current or future military
                                      duty status.’’ It would also define the term ‘‘continental United
                                      States’’ for purposes of the SCRA lease termination provisions as
                                      ‘‘the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia.’’
                                         Section 104(c) would amend section 305 of SCRA (50 U.S.C. App.
                                      535) to clarify that individual deployments are covered under the
                                      protections of the SCRA, as well as military unit deployments.
                                         Section 105 would add a new paragraph (5) to section 511(c) of
                                      SCRA (50 U.S.C. App. 571(c)) to prohibit a tax jurisdiction from im-
                                      posing a use, excise or similar tax on the personal property of a
                                      nonresident servicemember when the laws of the tax jurisdiction
                                      fail to provide a credit against such taxes for sales, use, excise or
                                      similar taxes previously paid on the same property to another tax
                                      jurisdiction.
                                         Section 201(a) would amend section 4317(a)(1)(A) of title 38,
                                      United States Code, by striking ‘‘18-month period’’ and inserting
                                      ‘‘24-month period’’ as the maximum period for health coverage a
                                      person may elect to continue employer-sponsored health insurance
                                      when the employee is absent from employment by reason of service
                                      in the uniformed services.
                                         Section 201(b) would make the change to section 4317(a)(1)(A) ef-
                                      fective for elections made on or after date of enactment of this Act.
                                         Section 202 would amend section 4332 of title 38, United States
                                      Code, by striking ‘‘no later than February 1, 1996, and annually
                                      thereafter through 2000’’ and inserting ‘‘no later than February 1,
                                      2005, and annually thereafter’’ for the requirement that the Sec-
                                      retary of Labor, in consultation with the Office of Special Counsel
                                      and the U.S. Attorney General, provide annual reports to Congress
                                      on the disposition of cases filed under USERRA.
                                         Section 211(a) would amend chapter 43 of title 38, United States
                                      Code, by adding a new section 4334 entitled: ‘‘Notice of rights and
                                      duties.’’
                                         Section 4334(a) would require each employer to provide to per-
                                      sons entitled to rights and benefits under chapter 43 of title 38,
                                      United States Code, a notice of the rights, benefits, and obligations
                                      of such persons and such employers under this chapter; this sub-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00022   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      23

                                      section would also provide that the requirement for this notice
                                      could be met by posting of the notice where employers customarily
                                      place notices for employees.
                                         Section 4334(b) would require the Secretary of Labor to provide
                                      to employers the text of the notice required under this section.
                                         Section 211(c)(1) would require the Secretary of Labor to make
                                      available to employers the notice required under section 4334(a) of
                                      title 38, United States Code, not later than 90 days after date of
                                      enactment of this Act.
                                         Section 211(c)(2) would require that the amendments made by
                                      section 211 shall apply to employers under chapter 43 of title 38,
                                      United States Code, on and after the first date referred to in sec-
                                      tion 211(c)(1).
                                         Section 212(a) would require the Secretary of Labor and the Of-
                                      fice of Special Counsel to carry out a demonstration project under
                                      which certain claims against Federal executive agencies under
                                      USERRA, under chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, are re-
                                      ferred to, or otherwise received by, the Office of Special Counsel for
                                      assistance, including investigation and resolution of the claim as
                                      well as enforcement of rights with respect to the claim.
                                         Section 212(b)(1) would allow the Office of Special Counsel, for
                                      purposes of the demonstration project, to receive and investigate all
                                      claims under USERRA with respect to Federal executive agencies
                                      in cases where the Office of Special Counsel has jurisdiction over
                                      the related claims under section 1212 of title 5, United States
                                      Code.
                                         Section 212(b)(2) would define a related claim, for purposes of the
                                      demonstration project, as a claim involving the same Federal exec-
                                      utive agency and the same or similar factual allegations or legal
                                      issues as those being pursued under a claim under USERRA.
                                         Section 212(c)(1)(A) and (B) would allow the Secretary of Labor
                                      to refer to the Office of Special Counsel pending related claims filed
                                      before and during the demonstration project.
                                         Section 212(c)(2) would define a claim, under chapter 43 of title
                                      38, United States Code, as a claim against a Federal executive
                                      agency by a claimant with a social security account number with
                                      an odd number as its terminal digit, or in the case of a claim that
                                      does not contain a social security account number, a case number
                                      assigned to the claim with an odd number as its terminal digit.
                                         Section 212(d) would require the Office of Special Counsel to ad-
                                      minister the demonstration project and require the Secretary of
                                      Labor to cooperate with the Office of Special Counsel in carrying
                                      out the demonstration project.
                                         Section 212(d)(2) would allow for any reference to the ‘‘Secretary’’
                                      in sections 4321, 4322, and 4326 of title 38, United States Code,
                                      to be deemed a reference to the ‘‘Office of Special Counsel’’.
                                         Section 212(d)(3) would allow the Office of Special Counsel to re-
                                      tain administrative jurisdiction over a claim referred to, or other-
                                      wise received under the demonstration project.
                                         Section 212(e) would require the demonstration project to be car-
                                      ried out during the period beginning 60 days after the date of en-
                                      actment of the Act, and ending on September 30, 2007.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00023   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      24

                                         Section 212(f) would require the Comptroller General of the
                                      United States to conduct periodic evaluations of the demonstration
                                      project.
                                         Section 212(f)(2) would require the Comptroller General to sub-
                                      mit a report to Congress on the evaluations no later than April 1,
                                      2007, and require the report to include: (A) a description of the op-
                                      erations and results of the demonstration project; (B) an assess-
                                      ment of the referral of claims to the Office of Special Counsel under
                                      the demonstration project; (C) an assessment of the feasibility and
                                      advisability of referring all claims filed under chapter 43 of title 38,
                                      United States Code, against Federal executive agencies to the Of-
                                      fice of Special Counsel for investigation and resolution; and (D) rec-
                                      ommendations for administrative action or legislation as the Comp-
                                      troller General deems appropriate.
                                         Section 212(g)(1) would define the term ‘‘Office of Special Coun-
                                      sel’’ as the Office of Special Counsel established by section 1211 of
                                      title 5, United States Code.
                                         Section 212(g)(2) would define the term ‘‘Secretary’’ as the Sec-
                                      retary of Labor.
                                         Section 212(g)(3) would allow for the term ‘‘Federal executive
                                      agency’’ to have the same meaning as the term in section 4303(5)
                                      of title 38, United States Code.
                                         Section 301(a) would amend chapter 55 of title 38, United States
                                      Code, by adding a new section 5506 to define ‘fiduciary’ as (1) a
                                      person who is a guardian, curator, conservator, committee, or per-
                                      son legally vested with the responsibility or care of a claimant (or
                                      a claimant’s estate) or of a beneficiary (or a beneficiary’s estate; or
                                      (2) any other person having been appointed in a representative ca-
                                      pacity to receive money paid under any of the laws administered
                                      by the Secretary for the use and benefit of a minor, incompetent,
                                      or other beneficiary.
                                         Section 302(a) would amend chapter 55 of title 38, United States
                                      Code, as amended by section 301(a)(1), by adding at the end a new
                                      section 5507 entitled ‘‘Inquiry, investigations and qualifications of
                                      fiduciaries.’’
                                         Section 5507(a) would require certification of a person for pay-
                                      ment of benefits of a beneficiary to that person as such bene-
                                      ficiary’s fiduciary under section 5502 of title 38, United States
                                      Code, on the basis of (1) an inquiry or investigation by the Sec-
                                      retary of the fitness of that person to serve as fiduciary for that
                                      beneficiary (A) to be conducted in advance of such certification; (B)
                                      to the extent practicable, to include a face-to-face interview with
                                      such person; and (C) to the extent practicable, to include a copy of
                                      a credit report for such person issued within one year of the date
                                      of the proposed appointment; (2) adequate evidence that certifi-
                                      cation of that person as fiduciary for that beneficiary is in the in-
                                      terest of such beneficiary (as determined by the Secretary under
                                      regulations); and (3) the furnishing of any bond that may be re-
                                      quired by the Secretary.
                                         Section 5507(b) would require that as part of any inquiry or in-
                                      vestigation of any person under subsection (a), the Secretary would
                                      request information concerning whether that person has been con-
                                      victed of any offense under Federal or State law which resulted in




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00024   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      25

                                      imprisonment for more than one year. If that person has been con-
                                      victed of such an offense, the Secretary may certify the person as
                                      a fiduciary only if the Secretary makes a specific finding that the
                                      person has been rehabilitated and is an appropriate person to act
                                      as fiduciary for the beneficiary concerned under the circumstances.
                                         Section 5507(c)(1) would authorize the Secretary, in conducting
                                      an inquiry or investigation under subsection (a)(1), on an expedited
                                      basis that may include waiver of any specific requirement relating
                                      to such inquiry or investigation, including the otherwise applicable
                                      provisions of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of such subsection.
                                      Any such inquiry or investigation carried out on such an expedited
                                      basis would be carried out under regulations prescribed for pur-
                                      poses of this section.
                                         Section 5507(c)(2) would permit expedited waiver authority of
                                      subsection (c)(1) with respect to a proposed fiduciary who is (A) the
                                      parent (natural, adopted, or step-parent) of a beneficiary who is a
                                      minor; (B) the spouse or parent of an incompetent beneficiary; (C)
                                      a person who has been appointed a fiduciary of the beneficiary by
                                      a court of competent jurisdiction; or (D) being appointed to manage
                                      an estate where the annual amount of veterans benefits to be man-
                                      aged by the proposed fiduciary does not exceed $3600, as adjusted
                                      pursuant to section 5312 of title 38, United States Code.
                                         Section 5507(d) would authorize the Secretary to appoint one or
                                      more temporary fiduciaries, for a period not to exceed 120 days,
                                      when needed in order to protect the assets of the beneficiary while
                                      a determination of incompetency is being made or appealed or a fi-
                                      duciary is appealing a determination of misuse. If a final decision
                                      has not been made within 120 days, the Secretary could not con-
                                      tinue the appointment of the fiduciary without obtaining a court
                                      order for appointment of a guardian, conservator, or other fiduciary
                                      under the authority provided in section 5502(b) of title 38, United
                                      States Code.
                                         Section 303(a) would amend chapter 61 of title 38, United States
                                      Code, by adding two new sections: 6106 entitled ‘‘Misuse of benefits
                                      by fiduciaries’’; and section 6107 ‘‘Reissuance of benefits.’’
                                         Section 6106(a) would prohibit a fiduciary from collecting a fee
                                      from a beneficiary for any month with respect to which the Sec-
                                      retary or a court of competent jurisdiction has determined that the
                                      fiduciary misused all or part of the individual’s benefit, and any
                                      amount so collected by the fiduciary as a fee for such month would
                                      be treated as a misused part of the individual’s benefit.
                                         Section 6106(b)(1) would provide that if the Secretary or a court
                                      of competent jurisdiction determines that a fiduciary that is not a
                                      Federal, State, or local government agency has misused all or part
                                      of a beneficiary’s benefit that was paid to such fiduciary, the fidu-
                                      ciary would be liable for the amount misused. Such amount (to the
                                      extent not repaid by the fiduciary) would be treated as an erro-
                                      neous payment of benefits under title 38, United States Code, to
                                      the fiduciary for purposes of laws pertaining to the recovery of
                                      overpayments. The amount of such overpayment would constitute
                                      a liability of such fiduciary to the United States and could be recov-
                                      ered in the same amount as any other debt due the United States.
                                      Subject to paragraph (2), upon recovering all or any part of such
                                      amount, the Secretary would pay an amount equal to the recovered




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00025   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      26

                                      amount to such beneficiary or such beneficiary’s successor fidu-
                                      ciary.
                                         Section 6106(b)(2) would specify that the total of the amounts
                                      paid to a beneficiary (or a beneficiary’s successor fiduciary) under
                                      paragraph (1) and under section 6107 of title 38, United States
                                      Code, could not exceed the total benefit amount misused by the fi-
                                      duciary with respect to that beneficiary.
                                         Section 6106(c) would specify that, for purposes of this chapter,
                                      misuse of benefits by a fiduciary occurs in any case in which the
                                      fiduciary receives payment, under any laws administered by the
                                      Secretary, for the use and benefit of a beneficiary and uses such
                                      payment, or any part thereof, for a use other than for the use and
                                      benefit of such beneficiary or that beneficiary’s dependents. Reten-
                                      tion by a fiduciary of an amount of a benefit payment as a fiduciary
                                      fee or commission, or as attorney’s fees (including expenses) and
                                      court costs, if authorized by the Secretary or a court of competent
                                      jurisdiction, would be considered to be for the use or benefit of such
                                      beneficiary.
                                         Section 6106(d) would authorize the Secretary to prescribe by
                                      regulation the meaning of the term ‘‘use and benefit’’ for purposes
                                      of this section.
                                         Section 6106(e) would clarify that a determination by the Sec-
                                      retary that a fiduciary has misused benefits is a decision of the
                                      Secretary for purposes of section 511(a) of title 38, United States
                                      Code.
                                         Section 6107(a)(1) would require the Secretary to pay to a bene-
                                      ficiary or the beneficiary’s successor fiduciary an amount equal to
                                      the amount of benefits that were misused in any case in which the
                                      negligent failure of the Secretary to investigate or monitor a fidu-
                                      ciary results in misuse of benefits by the fiduciary.
                                         Section 6107(a)(2) would state that there shall be considered to
                                      have been a negligent failure by the Secretary to investigate or
                                      monitor a fiduciary in the following cases: (A) a case in which the
                                      Secretary failed to timely review a fiduciary’s accounting; (B) a case
                                      in which the Secretary was notified of allegations of misuse, but
                                      failed to act in a timely manner to terminate the fiduciary; (C) in
                                      any other case in which actual negligence is shown.
                                         6107(b)(1) would require the Secretary to pay to the beneficiary
                                      or the beneficiary’s successor fiduciary an amount equal to the
                                      amount of such benefit so misused in any case in which a fiduciary
                                      described in paragraph (2) misuses all or part of an individual’s
                                      benefits paid to such fiduciary.
                                         Section 6107(b)(2) would specify that paragraph (b)(2) applies to
                                      a fiduciary that (A) is not an individual; or (B) is an individual
                                      who, for any month during a period when misuse occurs, serves 10
                                      or more individuals who are beneficiaries under title 38, United
                                      States Code.
                                         6107(c) would specify that in any case in which the Secretary re-
                                      issues a benefit payment (in whole or in part) under subsection (a)
                                      or (b) of section 6107, the Secretary would make a good faith effort
                                      to obtain recoupment from the fiduciary to whom the payment was
                                      originally made.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00026   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      27

                                         Section 304(a) would amend chapter 55 of title 38, United States
                                      Code, as amended by section 302(a), by adding the following new
                                      sections: section 5508 entitled ‘‘Periodic onsite reviews of institu-
                                      tional fiduciaries’’; and section 5509 entitled ‘‘Authority to redirect
                                      delivery of benefit payments when a fiduciary fails to provide re-
                                      quired accounting.’’
                                         Section 5508 would require the Secretary, in addition to such
                                      other reviews of fiduciaries as the Secretary may otherwise con-
                                      duct, to provide for periodic onsite review of any person or agency
                                      located in the United States that receives the benefits payable
                                      under laws administered by the Secretary pursuant to the appoint-
                                      ment as a fiduciary under section 5502(a)(1) of title 38, United
                                      States Code. This section would apply in any case in which the fi-
                                      duciary is serving more than 20 beneficiaries and the total annual
                                      amount of such benefits exceeds $50,000, as adjusted pursuant to
                                      section 5312 of title 38, United States Code.
                                         Section 5509(a) would permit the Secretary to require a fiduciary
                                      to file a report or accounting pursuant to regulations prescribed by
                                      the Secretary.
                                         Section 5509(b) would permit the Secretary, in any case in which
                                      a fiduciary fails to submit a report or accounting required by the
                                      Secretary under subsection (a) after notices to do so, to require that
                                      such fiduciary appear in person at a regional office of the Depart-
                                      ment serving the area in which the beneficiary resides in order to
                                      receive such payments.
                                         Section 304(b) would amend chapter 61 of title 38, United States
                                      Code, as amended by section 303(a), by adding the following new
                                      sections: 6108 (a) through (c): Civil monetary penalties; and 6109
                                      (a) through (d): Authority for judicial orders of restitution.
                                         Section 6108(a) would provide that any person (including an or-
                                      ganization, agency, or other entity) who, having received, while act-
                                      ing in the capacity of a fiduciary pursuant to section 5502 of title
                                      38, United States Code, a payment under a law administered by
                                      the Secretary for the use and benefit of another individual, con-
                                      verts such payment, or any part thereof, to a use that such person
                                      knows or should know is other than for the use and benefit of such
                                      other individual shall be subject to, in addition to any other pen-
                                      alty that may be prescribed by law, a civil monetary penalty as-
                                      sessed by the Secretary of not more than $5,000 for each such con-
                                      version.
                                         Section 6108(b) would provide that any person who makes a con-
                                      version of a payment described in subsection (a) and is subject to
                                      a civil monetary penalty under that subsection by reason of such
                                      conversion would also be subject to an assessment by the Sec-
                                      retary, in lieu of damages sustained by the United States resulting
                                      from the conversion, of not more than twice the amount of any pay-
                                      ments so converted.
                                         Section 6108(c) would require that from amounts collected under
                                      this section, the amount necessary to recoup the Department’s
                                      costs of such collection be credited to appropriations currently
                                      available for the same purpose as the appropriation that incurred
                                      those costs, to remain available until expended.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00027   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      28

                                         Section 6109(a) would permit any Federal court, when sentencing
                                      a defendant convicted of an offense arising from the misuse of ben-
                                      efits under title 38, United States Code, to order, in addition to or
                                      in lieu of any other penalty authorized by law, that the defendant
                                      make restitution to the Department.
                                         Section 6109(b) would require that sections 3612, 3663, and 3664
                                      of title 18, United States Code, pertaining to the issuance and en-
                                      forcement of orders of restitution apply under subsection (a). Also,
                                      the section would provide that the Department is considered the
                                      victim.
                                         Section 6109(c) would require the court to state on the record the
                                      reasons for not ordering restitution, or only partial restitution.
                                         Section 6109(d)(1) would require that except as provided in para-
                                      graph (2), amounts received or recovered by the Secretary pursuant
                                      to an order of restitution under subsection (a), to the extent and
                                      in the amounts provided in advance in appropriations Acts, be
                                      available to defray expenses incurred by the Office of the Inspector
                                      General for the investigation of fiduciaries under title 38, United
                                      States Code.
                                         Section 6109(d)(2) would specify that paragraph (1) would not
                                      apply where the restitution represents the amounts of benefits mis-
                                      used by a fiduciary. Such restitution would be repaid to the bene-
                                      ficiary or the beneficiary’s successor fiduciary unless such amounts
                                      had previously been repaid to the beneficiary, in which case such
                                      amounts would be treated in the same manner as overpayments re-
                                      couped by the Secretary and would be deposited to the credit of the
                                      applicable revolving fund, trust fun, or appropriation.
                                         Section 305(a) would amend chapter 55 of title 38, United States
                                      Code, by adding a new section 5510 entitled ‘‘Annual report.’’
                                         Section 5510 would require the Secretary to include in the An-
                                      nual Benefits Report of the Veterans Benefits Administration or
                                      the Secretary’s Annual Performance and Accountability Report in-
                                      formation concerning fiduciaries who have been appointed to re-
                                      ceive payments for beneficiaries of the Department. As part of such
                                      information, the Secretary would be required to separately set forth
                                      the following: (1) the number of beneficiaries in each category (vet-
                                      eran, surviving spouse, child, adult disabled child, or parent); (2)
                                      the types of benefit being paid (compensation, pension, dependency
                                      and indemnity compensation, death pension or benefits payable to
                                      a disabled child under chapter 18 of title 38, United States Code);
                                      (3) the total annual amounts and average annual amounts of bene-
                                      fits paid to fiduciaries for each category and type of benefit; (4) the
                                      number of fiduciaries who are the spouse, parent, legal custodian,
                                      court-appointed fiduciary, institutional fiduciary, custodian-in-fact,
                                      and supervised direct payment; (5) the number of cases in which
                                      the fiduciary was changed by the Secretary because of a finding
                                      that benefits had been misused; (6) how such cases of misuse of
                                      benefits were addressed by the Secretary; (7) the final disposition
                                      of such cases of misuse of benefits, including the number and dollar
                                      amount of any civil or criminal penalties imposed; and (8) such
                                      other information as the Secretary considers appropriate.
                                         Section 306 would amend section 5312(b)(1) of title 38, United
                                      States Code, to provide that the annual benefit amount adjust-
                                      ments made under that section would also apply to the amounts




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00028   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      29

                                      provided under sections 5507(c)(2)(D) and 5508 of title 38, United
                                      States Code.
                                         Section 307 would provide that except as otherwise provided, this
                                      title and the amendments made by this title would take effect on
                                      the first day of the seventh month beginning after the date of en-
                                      actment of this Act.
                                         Section 401(a) would require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
                                      establish and maintain a national inventory of medical waste man-
                                      agement activities in the health-care facilities of the Department of
                                      Veterans Affairs. The inventory would include the following: (1) a
                                      statement of the current national policy of the Department on man-
                                      aging and disposing of medical waste, including regulated medical
                                      waste in all its forms; and (2) a description of the program of each
                                      geographic service area of the Department to manage and dispose
                                      of medical waste, including general medical waste and regulated
                                      medical waste, with a description of the primary methods used in
                                      those programs and the associated costs of those programs, with
                                      cost information shown separately for in-house costs (including full-
                                      time equivalent employees) and contract costs.
                                         Section 401(b) would require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
                                      submit a report, not later than April 15, 2005, to the Committees
                                      on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives on
                                      medical waste management activities in the facilities of the Depart-
                                      ment of Veterans Affairs. The report would include the following:
                                      (1) the inventory established under subsection (a), including all the
                                      matters specified in that subsection; (2) a listing of each violation
                                      of medical waste management and disposal regulations reported at
                                      any health-care facility of the Department over the preceding five
                                      years by any State or Federal agency, along with an explanation
                                      of any remedial or other action taken by the Secretary in response
                                      to each such reported violation; (3) a description of any plans to
                                      modernize, consolidate, or otherwise improve the management of
                                      medical waste and disposal programs at health-care facilities of the
                                      Department, including the projected costs associated with such
                                      plans and any barriers to achieving goals associated with such
                                      plans; and (4) an assessment or evaluation of the available meth-
                                      ods of disposing of medical waste and identification of which of
                                      those methods are more desirable from an environmental perspec-
                                      tive in that they would be least likely to result in contamination
                                      of air or water or otherwise cause future cleanup problems.
                                         Section 402(a) would amend subchapter VIII of chapter 17 of title
                                      38, United States Code, by adding a new section 1785 entitled
                                      ‘‘Care for newborn children of veterans receiving maternity care.’’
                                         Section 1785(a) would authorize the Secretary to furnish care to
                                      a newborn child when a female veteran who is enrolled in the
                                      health-care system established under section 1705 of title 38,
                                      United States Code, is receiving maternity care from the Depart-
                                      ment and delivers the child in a Department facility or in a non-
                                      Department facility under a Department contract.
                                         Section 1785(b) would require that in a case in which a neonate
                                      covered by subsection (a) of section 1785 is born in a Department
                                      facility, care furnished for the neonate at that facility would be fur-
                                      nished without charge to the veteran who delivered the neonate.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00029   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      30

                                         Section 1785(c) would require that in a case in which a neonate
                                      covered by subsection (a) of section 1785 is born in a non-Depart-
                                      ment facility or is provided care in a non-Department facility fol-
                                      lowing birth in a Department facility and transfer from that facil-
                                      ity, the Secretary may provide for the payment of the cost of care
                                      and services for the neonate in the same manner, and subject to
                                      the same limitations, as if such care and services were emergency
                                      treatment furnished the veteran subject to section 1725 of title 38,
                                      United States Code, except that (1) the services for which the Sec-
                                      retary may make payment would be limited to those items and
                                      services for which payment may be made under the Medicare pro-
                                      gram under title XVIII of the Social Security Act for post-natal care
                                      furnished to a neonate; and (2) the rate of payment for such serv-
                                      ices may not exceed the payment rates applicable to those items
                                      and services under the Medicare program. Payments may be made
                                      under section 1725 only if there is no other source of payment for
                                      the services and the veteran is personally liable for payment for
                                      the health care provided.
                                         Section 403(a)(1) would amend section 3677(b) of title 38, United
                                      States Code, pertaining to the approval of on the job training bene-
                                      fits, by adding a new paragraph (3).
                                         Section 3677(b)(3) would clarify that notwithstanding paragraph
                                      (1)(A) and subsection (c)(8), wages are not required to be paid to
                                      an eligible person or veteran by a training establishment described
                                      in section 3452(e)(2) of title 38, United States Code. Section
                                      3452(e)(2) defines a training establishment as ‘‘an establishment
                                      providing self-employment on-job training consisting of full-time
                                      training for a period of less than six months that is needed or ac-
                                      cepted for purposes of obtaining licensure to engage in a self-em-
                                      ployment occupation or required for ownership and operation of a
                                      franchise that is the objective of the training.’’
                                         Section 403(a)(2) would authorize certain self-employment train-
                                      ing benefits for the five-year period beginning on October 1, 2005
                                      and ending on September 30, 2010.
                                         Section 403(b) would require that the amendments made by sec-
                                      tion 403(a) would take effect as if included in the enactment of sec-
                                      tion 301 of the Veterans Benefits Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–183;
                                      117 Stat. 2658).

                                                            PERFORMANCE GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
                                         The reported bill would make improvements to laws providing
                                      rights and benefits to veterans and servicemembers. These laws
                                      are variously administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
                                      the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Labor, and the U.S. Spe-
                                      cial Counsel. The performance plans and goals for the Departments
                                      of Veterans Affairs, Defense and Labor, and the Office of Special
                                      Counsel are established in annual performance plans, and are sub-
                                      ject to the regular oversight of the Committee, as well as evalua-
                                      tion by the U.S. Government Accountability Office.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00030   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      31

                                                  STATEMENTS OF THE VIEWS OF THE ADMINISTRATION
                                      STATEMENT OF THE HONORABLE SCOTT J. BLOCH, SPECIAL COUN-
                                         SEL, UNITED STATES OFFICE OF SPECIAL COUNSEL, JUNE 23, 2004,
                                         BEFORE THE VETERANS’ AFFAIRS COMMITTEE, U.S. HOUSE OF REP-
                                         RESENTATIVES, CONCERNING THE UNIFORMED SERVICES EMPLOY-
                                         MENT AND REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS ACT (USERRA)
                                         Introduction
                                         Mr. Chairman, and distinguished members of the Committee, I am honored to
                                      speak with you today about the vital role played by the Office of Special Counsel
                                      (OSC) in enforcing the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights
                                      Act (USERRA) and to assure you that OSC is dedicated to enforce the law expedi-
                                      tiously and decisively so that no one’s reemployment rights are denied and no one
                                      suffers invidious discrimination because of military service.
                                         The country is in the midst of an historic and unprecedented mobilization and
                                      forthcoming demobilization of National Guard and Reserve forces. As of June 9,
                                      2004, there were more than 168,000 members of the Air and Army National Guard
                                      and Reserve Forces on active duty to fight the global war on terrorism. Those brave
                                      and talented servicemen and women have temporarily left their civilian vocations
                                      and joined career servicemen, such as my 20-year old son, Marine Lance Corporal
                                      Michael Bloch, serving in the First Battalion 7th Marine Regiment, who has been
                                      stationed in Iraq once and is soon to be deployed again to Iraq.
                                         The Federal government is the country’s largest employer of guardsmen and re-
                                      servists. Indeed, my Deputy and several other OSC employees are members of the
                                      National Guard or Reserve.
                                         God willing, each of the thousands of guardsmen and reservists who are proudly
                                      and valiantly defending our freedom will return safely home to their families,
                                      friends, and civilian jobs and careers.
                                         In light of their dedication and service to our country, I am truly honored to be
                                      among those public servants asked to provide you with information about the impor-
                                      tant law that was enacted to protect their employment and reemployment rights.
                                         Moreover, I am grateful to be here because today’s hearing provides a timely occa-
                                      sion and an appropriate forum to dispel any false impression regarding my agency’s
                                      commitment to protecting the employment rights of those brave military service
                                      members who have served, are currently serving, and who will serve in the uni-
                                      formed services.
                                         Before becoming Special Counsel on January 5, 2004, there had been criticism of
                                      OSC’s enforcement of USERRA. I examined therefore that critical commentary in
                                      light of OSC’s past policies and practices. I concluded that some of the criticism was
                                      born of a lack of prompt action on USERRA cases.
                                         Mr. Chairman and Committee members, be assured that regardless of what oc-
                                      curred or did not occur prior to my taking office, OSC, under my leadership, is
                                      steadfastly committed to enforcing USERRA. As you know, the statute states that
                                      it is the sense of the Congress that the Federal government should be a model em-
                                      ployer in fulfilling its statutory obligations under USERRA. I assure you that as
                                      head of the independent agency with authority to prosecute violations of USERRA,
                                      I share completely in Congress’ sense. Indeed, I have given USERRA matters a new
                                      found priority so that it now receives the attention it justly deserves.
                                         OSC’s Role in Enforcing USERRA
                                         Pursuant to Section 4324 of Title 38, OSC is authorized to act as the attorney
                                      for an aggrieved person and initiate legal action against the involved Federal em-
                                      ployer before the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB). The OSC is the Fed-
                                      eral sector’s ‘‘special prosecutor’’ of meritorious USERRA cases. As special pros-
                                      ecutor, OSC seeks to obtain full corrective action on behalf of claimants either via
                                      litigation against, or full corrective action settlements with, the involved Federal
                                      employer.
                                         Under USERRA, a person who has sought relief through the U.S. Department of
                                      Labor (DOL), Veterans’ Employment and Training Service (VETS), may request that
                                      OSC review his or her USERRA claim to determine whether it has merit and, if
                                      so, represent the person in USERRA litigation before the MSPB.
                                         When such a request is made, OSC receives from the DOL’s Regional Solicitor
                                      (RSOL) the VETS investigative file and the RSOL’s legal analysis of the claim. As
                                      special prosecutor, OSC objectively reviews the facts and laws applicable to each
                                      claim. Where the Office of Special Counsel is satisfied that a claimant is entitled
                                      to relief, then we may exercise our prosecutorial authority and represent the claim-
                                      ant before the MSPB and, if required, on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for
                                      the Federal Circuit.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00031   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      32
                                        From fiscal years 2000 through 2003, OSC has received more than 50 referrals
                                      from VETS. During that time, full corrective action was successfully negotiated on
                                      every USERRA claim that OSC determined had merit.
                                        Prior to today, OSC had never filed a USERRA action before the MSPB. Mr.
                                      Chairman, unfortunately I had to instruct my staff to file a case this morning with
                                      MSPB because an Agency was not willing to provide adequate relief for a service
                                      member. I assure you that under my leadership there will be no hesitation to com-
                                      mence litigation against a Federal agency where the evidence shows that such agen-
                                      cy has failed to comply with any provision of USERRA.
                                      Improving the Process
                                         As mentioned, I have carefully examined USERRA’s referral process since becom-
                                      ing Special Counsel. I have determined that the process creates unnecessary ineffi-
                                      ciency.
                                         For example, it is unclear whether OSC has the authority under USERRA to in-
                                      vestigate claims or pursue disciplinary action against offending supervisors as we
                                      do in other federal employment violations we enforce. Instead, the investigative
                                      function is performed by VETS. Hence, if deemed necessary during our review of
                                      a USERRA claim, OSC will request that the involved Federal agency voluntarily
                                      provide additional information. Additionally, pursuant to the February 7, 2001,
                                      Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between OSC and VETS, OSC may request
                                      VETS investigative assistance. Indeed, pursuant to that MOU, VETS recently as-
                                      sisted OSC in obtaining additional relevant evidence that is important to our cur-
                                      rent review of a particular case.
                                         While those methods are adequate for OSC to collect additional evidence, the bi-
                                      furcation of the investigative and prosecutorial steps is not as efficient as OSC’s au-
                                      thority to investigate and prosecute allegations of prohibited personnel practices
                                      under Title 5.
                                         I agree with British Prime Minister William Ewart Gladstone that ‘‘justice de-
                                      layed is justice denied.’’
                                         Already, I have made changes to reduce inefficiency by eliminating duplication
                                      and delay. First, through our experience in investigating and analyzing prohibited
                                      personnel practices such as whistleblower reprisal cases, we have learned that the
                                      closer our attorneys are involved in the investigation, the more efficiently we resolve
                                      cases. For example, the merger of investigative and analytical functions lessens the
                                      chances of ‘‘over-investigating’’ cases that are without merit and increases the
                                      chances of identifying cases warranting prosecution. As to the latter, the sooner we
                                      find meritorious claims, the sooner OSC can move toward obtaining corrective action
                                      on behalf of the aggrieved person.
                                         Thus, at my urging and with my approval, OSC and DOL are drafting amend-
                                      ments to our MOU concerning the referral process. The changes under consideration
                                      aim to have OSC’s investigative and legal expertise involved at a much earlier stage
                                      than under the current referral process. In particular, we have asked VETS to iden-
                                      tify, as soon as practical, difficult cases that would benefit from OSC’s early involve-
                                      ment. By alerting our office to such cases, there will be a reduction in duplication
                                      of effort.
                                         I appreciate Department of Labor Solicitor Howard Radzely and his staff for work-
                                      ing closely with OSC in bringing about this change, and I have already seen the
                                      benefits of having OSC’s enforcement role triggered sooner. In fact, soon after this
                                      idea was presented, an RSOL invited OSC’s involvement in a USERRA matter prior
                                      to referring the matter to us. The OSC contacted the agency and we obtained an
                                      extension of the agency-set deadline for the claimant to accept a settlement offer
                                      that DOL had procured. The OSC thereafter obtained additional information from
                                      the agency and, along with the information obtained by VETS, was able to guide
                                      the claimant to a successful resolution of his USERRA claim. But for DOL’s coopera-
                                      tion in allowing OSC to be involved earlier than usual, the settlement offer would
                                      have expired, and the claimant may not have secured a favorable resolution.
                                         Moreover, OSC has changed the manner in which USERRA referrals are handled
                                      internally. Since becoming Special Counsel, I have established a Special Project
                                      Unit (SPU). SPU’s overriding function is to maximize OSC’s efficiency in fulfilling
                                      its many crucial missions. The SPU can be likened to a SWAT team that can be
                                      quickly deployed to address any deficiency in OSC’s ability to fulfill its various mis-
                                      sions. When such an issue arises, OSC personnel having particular expertise in the
                                      given area are detailed to SPU. For example, SPU is examining new ways to elimi-
                                      nate permanently OSC’s chronic backlogs.
                                         Experienced attorneys with specialized knowledge of USERRA have been detailed
                                      to SPU and, at my direction, all USERRA referrals are assigned to SPU. By assign-
                                      ing all USERRA referrals to SPU, the matters receive priority attention and consid-
                                      eration. Additionally, OSC is prepared to detail additional attorneys and investiga-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00032   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      33
                                      tors to SPU to handle any surge in USERRA referrals as the result of the record
                                      number of guardsmen and reservists being demobilized and returning to the Federal
                                      workforce.
                                         In summary, OSC has taken steps to speed up the referral process such that mer-
                                      itorious USERRA claims can be more quickly identified and prosecuted. I further
                                      pledge to devote whatever additional resources are needed to ensure that the law
                                      is vigorously enforced.
                                      Educating the Public
                                         I sense another problem affecting the referral process: lack of awareness among
                                      the Federal workforce about OSC’s role in enforcing USERRA. Regardless of the
                                      merit of a USERRA claim, a person has the right to ask that his or her unresolved
                                      claim be referred to OSC. Yet, in fiscal year 2003, OSC received only seven
                                      USERRA referrals while the total number of Federal sector complaints is in the
                                      hundreds.
                                         That low number of referrals may be the result of either: a) people knowingly
                                      choosing to bypass OSC as an avenue of redress, or b) people lacking accurate infor-
                                      mation about how OSC can protect their employment and reemployment rights. As
                                      to the latter, we want the public to know that OSC is here to assist persons who
                                      have had their reemployment rights violated and who have suffered discrimination
                                      because of their military service. We have already taken steps to send that message.
                                         First, I have changed OSC’s prohibited personnel practice outreach program so
                                      that it now includes information about OSC’s role in enforcing USERRA. Now, each
                                      time OSC visits a Federal agency to provide prohibited personnel practice training,
                                      Federal employees will be informed of OSC’s role in protecting the employment and
                                      reemployment rights of guardsman and reservists.
                                         Second, we have also been working closely with the Department of Defense’s Em-
                                      ployer Support for the Guard and Reserve (ESGR) to ensure that accurate informa-
                                      tion about OSC is being disseminated more broadly. I extend my appreciation to
                                      ESGR for helping get the word out about OSC’s vital role under USERRA.
                                         Finally, OSC’s USERRA Coordinator—a GS–15 Supervisory Attorney with
                                      USERRA expertise—maintains OSC’s telephonic and electronic USERRA ‘‘hotlines’’
                                      and regularly provides information and assistance to persons and employers about
                                      their respective rights and responsibilities under USERRA.
                                         We are encouraged that these efforts will lead to a greater public awareness of
                                      our role, and we will continue to look for additional ways to get out the message
                                      that OSC will aggressively enforce the law and protect veterans, reservists, and
                                      guardsmen.
                                         As for the seeming reluctance of persons to seek OSC’s assistance, allow me to
                                      make the most of my appearance here today by setting the record straight:
                                         I say to the brave guardsmen and reservist risking their lives for our freedom,
                                      I am completely and passionately committed to the protection of your employment
                                      and reemployment rights. Your sacrifices merit no less than OSC’s 100% commit-
                                      ment to enforcing USERRA.
                                         I state emphatically before this committee to the heads of every Federal agency
                                      that one USERRA complaint is one too many. As Special Counsel, I:
                                         1) will not tolerate discrimination against persons because of their service in the
                                            uniformed services;
                                         2) will not permit anything less than the prompt reemployment of persons upon
                                            their return from military service; and
                                         3) will prosecute aggressively the failure to comply with any provision of
                                            USERRA, and I will not hesitate to file an action before MSPB if necessary.
                                        With that in mind, I challenge every Federal agency to be a model employer
                                      under USERRA by protecting fully, vigilantly, and enthusiastically the employment
                                      and reemployment rights of its employees and applicants for employment. It is an
                                      ambitious goal, but one that is within reach—and it is the right thing to do.
                                        Indeed, it is a goal that Federal agencies must strive to attain; and, to every Fed-
                                      eral agency trying to do so, OSC pledges its assistance. As for complacent agencies,
                                      be advised that OSC shall not waiver from its commitment to enforce USERRA ag-
                                      gressively, diligently, and zealously.
                                      Conclusion
                                        Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, regardless of what may have been
                                      the past policy, under my leadership; OSC takes its role as the sole prosecutorial
                                      enforcer of USERRA seriously. As you can see, we have already moved away from
                                      past practice and have given USERRA cases the priority they deserve.
                                           Shakespeare wrote:




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00033   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      34
                                           There is a tide in the affairs of men, which taken at the flood, leads on to
                                           fortune. Omitted, all the voyage of their life is bound in shallows and in
                                           miseries. On such a full sea are we now afloat. And we must take the cur-
                                           rent when it serves, or lose our ventures.
                                        As the Federal government is facing an historic and unprecedented number of
                                      guardsmen and reservist returning to their federal careers, OSC will soon be afloat
                                      upon a full sea.
                                        Consequently, we are properly focused, and newly invigorated to fulfill our vital
                                      role under USERRA. We will navigate the current with unwavering commitment to
                                      enforce USERRA law expeditiously and decisively. We will welcome any legislative
                                      changes that enhance our ability to enforce this important law.
                                        Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, I thank you for the opportunity
                                      to testify today.



                                      STATEMENT OF THE HONORABLE DAN G. BLAIR, DEPUTY DIRECTOR,
                                        OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT, BEFORE THE COMMITTEE
                                        ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS, UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
                                        TIVES
                                        Good morning Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee. I appreciate the op-
                                      portunity to appear before you today to discuss the proposed legislation expanding
                                      health insurance coverage for our deployed service members and the public sector’s
                                      obligation to veterans under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemploy-
                                      ment Rights Act (USERRA).
                                        President George W. Bush and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Director,
                                      Kay Coles James, are dedicated to ensuring veterans receive the rights and benefits
                                      to which they are entitled under all veterans’ employment laws, including USERRA.
                                      In truth, Director James has both a professional and a personal interest in veterans’
                                      rights issues. Her son-in-law recently returned from active duty in the Naval Re-
                                      serves. So you know her dedication is genuine.
                                        The Federal Government is the Nation’s leader in employing veterans. Approxi-
                                      mately one out of every four Federal employees is a veteran. The number of vet-
                                      erans in the Federal workforce is roughly 450,000. What’s more, the Federal Gov-
                                      ernment employs more reservists and National Guard members than any other em-
                                      ployer—about 120,000 in total, of whom nearly 65,000 are military technicians
                                      whose civilian Federal employment requires National Guard or Reserve member-
                                      ship.
                                        Today, over 15,000 Federal employees are serving on active duty with the Guard
                                      and Reserve. These veterans left their employment and placed their careers on hold
                                      to go fight in far-off lands . . . for us. These brave men and women were not forced
                                      to serve—it was by choice. They volunteered! These veterans deserve more than our
                                      thanks. When they leave the uniformed service, they deserve to know their right
                                      to return to public sector employment is protected.
                                        As the leader in veterans’ employment, the Director takes OPM’s obligation to re-
                                      employ these men and women under USERRA very seriously. Again, it is not just
                                      the law . . . it is the right thing to do. We administer veterans’ entitlements under
                                      the United States Code, in both title 5, including veterans’ preference in employ-
                                      ment and reduction in force, as well as title 38, which covers USERRA reemploy-
                                      ment rights. (Title 38 also governs veterans’ entitlement to benefits administered by
                                      the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)).

                                                                       Health Benefits Extension
                                         First, I will speak to the proposed legislation to expand health benefit premium
                                      payments for reservists called up for active military service.
                                         OPM is the Government’s chief personnel office, which includes responsibility for
                                      administering the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Program for Federal
                                      employees and annuitants. OPM is committed to finding ways to provide health ben-
                                      efits for our called-up employee reservists who bravely commit themselves to defend-
                                      ing our Country.
                                         Before 1994, Federal law allowed employee reservists to continue their FEHB en-
                                      rollment for up to 365 days while on military duty. USERRA extended the 12 month
                                      period to 18 months by amending section 8906 of title 5 to provide up to 6 months
                                      additional coverage for reservists called to active duty. USERRA also empowered
                                      agencies to pay both the enrollee share and the Government share of the FEHB pre-
                                      mium for called-up reservists for up to the entire 18 months.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00034   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      35
                                         On May 13, 2002, OPM Director James issued a Memorandum for Heads of Exec-
                                      utive Departments and Agencies stating that OPM strongly encourages agencies to
                                      assist employees called-up to active duty by paying both shares of the FEHB pre-
                                      mium. Director James specifically asked agencies to pay both shares of the premium
                                      in support of these reservists supporting Operation Iraqi Freedom, the September
                                      11 terrorist attacks, Kosovo, other ongoing operations and future operations under
                                      title 10 of the United States Code.
                                         Last year, we asked agencies how much of the FEHB premium they pay for these
                                      reservists. I am pleased to report most agencies pay both shares. Of the 114 agen-
                                      cies surveyed, 96 pay the full premium. We have learned the Postal Service recently
                                      indicated they will pay both shares of the premium, retroactive to 2003.
                                         OPM will continue to support our called-up employees in every way possible. If
                                      the extension of FEHB coverage to 24 months becomes law, we will again strongly
                                      encourage agencies to pay both shares of the health benefits premium for the entire
                                      24-month period. Based on the number of reservists now called to active duty and
                                      assuming up to 20 percent are extended to 24 months we estimate the cost to the
                                      agencies of the additional premium to be $9.6 million.

                                                                    USERRA Reemployment Rights
                                        Now, I would like to discuss reemployment rights under USERRA as it applies
                                      to the public sector.
                                        Basically, USERRA:
                                        • Prohibits discrimination against persons because of their service in the Armed
                                           Forces Reserve, the National Guard, or other uniformed services;
                                        • Prohibits an employer from denying any employment benefit based on an indi-
                                           vidual’s membership or application for membership, or performance of, applica-
                                           tion for, or obligation for service in the uniformed services;
                                        • Applies to all executive branch agencies, including the U.S. Postal Service; and
                                        • Provides the right of called-up Reservists and National Guard members, as well
                                           as individuals who left their jobs to enlist in the Armed Forces, to be reem-
                                           ployed in their jobs when their military service obligation is over.
                                        OPM is responsible for, and may order the placement of, a returning military
                                      service member in a different agency if it is impossible or unreasonable for the origi-
                                      nal agency to reemploy the returning veteran, if, for instance, the original agency
                                      was abolished.
                                        Any Federal employee, permanent or temporary, who performs duty with a uni-
                                      formed service whether voluntary or involuntary, is entitled to be restored to the
                                      position he or she would have attained had the employee not entered the uniformed
                                      service, provided the employee:
                                        • Gave the agency advance notice of departure, except where prevented by mili-
                                           tary circumstances;
                                        • Was released from uniformed service under honorable conditions;
                                        • Served not more than a cumulative total of 5 years, with certain exceptions;
                                           and
                                        • Applies for restoration within statutory time limits.
                                         Pursuant to OPM’s regulations in part 353 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regu-
                                      lations, agencies must tell their employees who enter the uniformed service about
                                      their entitlements, obligations, benefits, and appeal rights. Also, we note that under
                                      the proposed H.R. 4477, all public and private employers with employees having
                                      USERRA rights, would be required to post a notice, with text to be provided by the
                                      Secretary of Labor, of those rights and benefits.
                                         Those employees completing their military service obligation must apply for reem-
                                      ployment within specific timeframes, depending on how long they served. Agencies
                                      must reemploy these employees as soon as possible after receiving the reemploy-
                                      ment application but no later than 30 days after receipt.
                                         Generally, returning employees must be treated as if their employment had not
                                      been interrupted by military service. They must be reemployed in the position for
                                      which they would have been qualified. If they are not qualified for that position and
                                      cannot become qualified through reasonable employer efforts, the employee is enti-
                                      tled to be placed in the position he or she left.
                                         Employees reemployed under USERRA are treated like they never left for most
                                      purposes including seniority, pay increases, retirement (a deposit to the retirement
                                      fund is usually required to cover the military service period), and leave rate accrual.
                                      Reemployed veterans are protected from not-for-cause separations (for example, by
                                      reduction in force) for 1 year after their return for those who served more than 180
                                      days and 6 months for those who served more than 30 days but less than 180 days.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00035   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      36
                                        Applicants or employees who believe that an agency has not complied with the
                                      law or with OPM regulations governing USERRA restoration rights may file a com-
                                      plaint with the Department of Labor’s local Veterans’ Employment and Training
                                      Service (VETS) or, if VETS is unsuccessful in resolving the complaint, appeal to the
                                      Merit Systems Protection Board.

                                                                       OPM Actions for Veterans
                                        Director James has directed OPM to take a number of steps to guarantee that
                                      the rights and entitlements of our veterans are not compromised as they return to
                                      their Federal jobs. We provide guidance to Federal agencies and departments as
                                      well as directly to veterans.
                                        • On September 14, 2001, 3 days after the tragedy of September 11, we published
                                           extensive guidance to agencies on the rights and benefits of employees called
                                           to active duty.
                                        • On October 29, 2001, we published a set of Frequently Asked Questions on
                                           military leave.
                                        • We update ‘‘VetGuide’’ on OPM’s Web site to ensure it remains the most com-
                                           prehensive site for veterans’ information.
                                        As a part of our general oversight authority, which we execute through Human
                                      Resource Operations audits and Delegated Examining Unit (DEU) audits, OPM en-
                                      sures that veterans are protected against discrimination. Each year, we conduct ap-
                                      proximately 20 operations audits and 125 DEU audits Governmentwide. We notify
                                      agencies of our coverage of veterans’ issues and programs before each review and
                                      discuss key OPM initiatives.
                                        Through the newly created OPM Veteran Invitational Program (VIP), we are pro-
                                      viding veterans with timely, accurate, and useful information to inform them of
                                      their rights and employment opportunities with the Federal Government. The VIP
                                      provides assistance to military personnel who are transitioning to civilian life
                                      through various informational tools and publications. In this regard, OPM works
                                      with Transition Assistance Program offices on military bases to recruit and assist
                                      veterans. We distribute posters, pamphlets, and wallet size information cards as
                                      well as inform veterans through an accessible Web link. OPM has also produced the
                                      DVD ‘‘What Veterans Need to Know About Veterans’ Preference,’’ a comprehensive
                                      40-minute video seminar of veterans’ preference rights and eligibilities.
                                        In addition to the VIP, Director James and the OPM Team:
                                        • Have developed outreach material to distribute at military bases’ Transition
                                           Assistance Programs (TAP); Veterans Affairs Regional Offices; Veterans Service
                                           Organizations at the national, State and local levels; the U.S. Department of
                                           Labor’s Veterans Employment and Training Service; and at recruitment fairs,
                                           including our recent Nationwide Working for America Recruitment Fairs.
                                        • Have improved our USAJOBS Web site to make it more veteran-friendly by
                                           adding several veterans’ links and additional veterans’ employment informa-
                                           tion.
                                        • Continue to explain veterans’ rights at national conventions, conferences, work-
                                           shops, and service officer training sponsored by the Veterans Service Organiza-
                                           tions (VSOs). Also, we have reestablished quarterly meetings with VSO rep-
                                           resentatives for updates on issues of interest and provide an opportunity for
                                           them to share their concerns with OPM. I personally chair these meetings in
                                           which we invite leading experts on veterans’ employment issues to share infor-
                                           mation.
                                        • Actively participate as a member of the National Committee for Employer Sup-
                                           port of the Guard and Reserve (ESGR), which is a Department of Defense-spon-
                                           sored organization that seeks to minimize issues and misunderstandings that
                                           may arise between Reservists serving on active duty and their employers.
                                        • Are actively involved with and a member of the National Task Force on Dis-
                                           ability (assisting with the employment of Disabled Veterans) and the Presi-
                                           dent’s National Hire Veterans Committee, on which I personally serve.
                                        • Work with the Department of Labor and the Department of Veterans Affairs
                                           to facilitate the employment of veterans, and share program information with
                                           the human resources community and others.
                                        • Have staffed booths during the recent series of OPM-sponsored nationwide re-
                                           cruitment fairs to provide information concerning the VIP and other veterans’
                                           employment benefits and protections, such as that offered under USERRA. We
                                           also conducted workshops at each fair to provide veterans with information on
                                           employment preference, special appointment authorities, and complaint proce-
                                           dures.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00036   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      37
                                         OPM has been at the forefront of efforts to preserve and protect veterans’ rights
                                      in Federal employment. We share the view held by Veterans Service Organizations
                                      that our Nation owes a debt of gratitude to its veterans. Veterans’ preference laws
                                      provide a measure of compensation for those brave young men and women who left
                                      their families and homes to answer our Nation’s call to arms.
                                         Recently, Director James convened a meeting of the Chief Human Capital Officers
                                      Council and the leaders of America’s Veterans Service Organizations at Walter Reed
                                      Army Medical Center. She took advantage of this opportunity to remind attendees
                                      that there are no longer any excuses for not using the many hiring authorities avail-
                                      able to Federal agencies to bring veterans into the Federal service.
                                         At a recent visit to Walter Reed, Director James stated that OPM will continue
                                      ‘‘aggressive’’ audits to ensure veterans’ preference law is upheld. The day-long event
                                      included a personal message of thanks from Director James on behalf of the nation’s
                                      1.8 million civil servants, as well as training seminars and informational workshops
                                      for the soldiers conducted by OPM experts. OPM staff offered seminars including
                                      one which explained veterans’ preference, appointing authorities, basis of pref-
                                      erence, and veterans’ preference types and benefits. Other seminars and workshops
                                      covered navigation of the USAJOBS.opm.gov Web site, resumé writing, interviewing
                                      skills, and the Federal application process. Staff also met one-on-one with military
                                      personnel about the opportunities and benefits within the Government and the proc-
                                      esses for obtaining a Federal job.
                                         OPM recently hosted a special Veteran Employment Symposium on veterans’ pref-
                                      erence and recruitment. The all-day event, attended by agency human capital lead-
                                      ers, human resources specialists, and program managers, focused on advancing ex-
                                      isting policies and strategies to recruit veterans into the Federal workforce, and to
                                      reiterate that veterans’ preference is the law and not a courtesy. As Director James
                                      told the audience of over 250 attendees:
                                           Today’s veteran brings the same level of dedication to the job as previous
                                           generations of veterans, but in addition they bring many of the high-tech
                                           skills needed in the current Federal work force. The Federal Government
                                           has a responsibility to help these men and women as they transition back
                                           to civilian life. As members of the best trained and volunteer military in
                                           the world, veterans have demonstrated an appreciation and competence for
                                           excellence and teamwork, and I cannot think of a better source of talent
                                           for the Federal Government than those who have completed their service
                                           in uniform.

                                        And just yesterday, as part of our VIP, OPM staff conducted an outreach effort
                                      at the Department of Veterans Affairs Hampton Rehabilitation Medical Center in
                                      Hampton, Virginia. OPM experts provided employment information to veterans
                                      seeking careers in the Federal civil service, including training on maximizing our
                                      USAJOBS.opm.gov website in Federal job searches and writing resumés.

                                                                                 Conclusion
                                        The Federal human resources community understands our veterans are a valued
                                      resource who have earned, through their very life’s blood, hiring preference and re-
                                      employment rights we should be so very honored to provide. We must never forget
                                      disabled veterans have paid a very personal price for our freedom. Veterans are as-
                                      sets to any organization. They bring strength, courage and commitment in a way
                                      that cannot be fully imagined by those who have never stood in harm’s way for the
                                      cause of their country.
                                        I would be glad to answer questions you might have.



                                      STATEMENT OF THE HONORABLE DAVID C. IGLESIAS, UNITED STATES
                                       ATTORNEY FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO, DEPARTMENT OF
                                       JUSTICE, BEFORE THE HOUSE VETERANS AFFAIRS COMMITTEE,
                                       UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                                             CONCERNING THE UNIFORMED SERVICES EMPLOYMENT AND
                                                         REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS ACT
                                                                           JUNE 23, 2004
                                        Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee:
                                        I appreciate the opportunity to appear before you today to discuss the Department
                                      of Justice’s (‘‘DOJ’s’’) representation of service members pursuant to the Uniformed




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00037   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      38
                                      Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (‘‘USERRA’’). USERRA
                                      provides the fundamental right to reinstatement to civilian employment (under
                                      specified conditions) following non-career military service. USERRA also includes a
                                      broad anti-discrimination provision, prohibiting discrimination or acts of reprisal
                                      against an employee or prospective employee based upon past, current, or future
                                      military obligations. The Committee’s interest in this important area is especially
                                      timely in light of the large number of Reserve and National Guard members serving
                                      on active duty in the Persian Gulf and elsewhere.
                                        In this statement, we address first the procedures we follow in handling USERRA
                                      claims. Next, we provide pertinent data on the number and disposition of claims we
                                      received during FY 2002, FY 2003, and the first half of FY 2004. Finally, we identify
                                      the steps the Department of Justice has taken recently to provide guidance to our
                                      attorneys handling USERRA cases and to publicize to employers their obligations
                                      under the law.
                                         I. Procedures
                                         Members of the uniformed services alleging a violation of USERRA may obtain
                                      representation by DOJ, provided that the member first submits a complaint to the
                                      Department of Labor’s (‘‘DOL’s’’) Veterans Employment and Training Service
                                      (‘‘VETS’’) and VETS is unable to successfully resolve it.
                                         Where DOL is unable to resolve a complaint and the service member requests re-
                                      ferral of his or her claim for consideration of representation, DOL, through its Re-
                                      gional Solicitors (‘‘RSOL’’), refers the claim to DOJ’s Civil Division. Each referral in-
                                      cludes the VETS investigative file, a memorandum prepared by VETS, and a letter
                                      or memorandum to DOJ from the RSOL analyzing the merits of the claim based
                                      upon the facts and the law and providing a recommendation as to whether DOJ
                                      should or should not represent the claimant.
                                         DOJ’s Civil Division serves as the gateway for DOL’s USERRA referrals. Based
                                      upon its review of the investigative file, the VETS memorandum, the RSOL’s memo-
                                      randum, and its own analysis, the Civil Division either forwards the case to a
                                      United States Attorney’s Office (‘‘USAO’’) for appropriate action or declines rep-
                                      resentation and returns the matter to the RSOL because the claim lacks merit.
                                      When we return a claim, DOL informs the service member of our decision against
                                      representation and reminds the claimant that he or she remains free to pursue the
                                      claim through private counsel. Our determination not to provide representation
                                      nearly always accords with DOL’s conclusion that the claim lacks merit.
                                         When the Civil Division refers a claim to a USAO, the United States Attorney
                                      assigns the matter to an Assistant United States Attorney (‘‘AUSA’’), who reviews
                                      the investigative file and the VETS and RSOL memoranda and then interviews the
                                      claimant and potential witnesses. The AUSA may recommend that the United
                                      States Attorney decline to represent the service member because further review and
                                      investigation demonstrates that the claim lacks merit. If the AUSA determines that
                                      the claim is meritorious, and the United States Attorney agrees, the USAO rep-
                                      resents the service member. Where representation is provided, the AUSA will typi-
                                      cally contact the employer and attempt to resolve the matter without litigation. If
                                      this proves impossible, the AUSA will file a complaint against the employer in Fed-
                                      eral district court.
                                         Once suit is filed, a USERRA case proceeds much like any other litigation. After
                                      the complaint is filed, discovery may be undertaken, dispositive motions may be
                                      filed, and a trial and subsequent appeal may occur. Alternatively, a settlement may
                                      be negotiated at any stage of the litigation.
                                         One type of case is somewhat unusual: a suit against a State. Recent case law
                                      curtailed employee suits against State governments based upon Federal law because
                                      of the immunity provisions of the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution. E.g.,
                                      Velasquez v. Frapwell, 160 F.3d 389 (7th Cir. 1998) (affirming dismissal of USERRA
                                      claim brought by employee against State employer as barred by Eleventh Amend-
                                      ment), vacated in part, 165 F.3d 593 (7th Cir. 1999). In response, Congress amended
                                      USERRA in 1998, to allow DOJ to sue States in the name of the United States on
                                      behalf of State employees. (Alternatively, USERRA allows a service member rep-
                                      resented by private counsel to sue in his or her own name in State court, in accord-
                                      ance with the laws of the State.) As set forth below, DOL referrals involving claims
                                      against States represent a relatively small percentage of total referrals in recent
                                      years, and in many of those cases DOL recommended against representation.
                                        II. Statistics
                                        FY 2002 and 2003.
                                        The number of USERRA claims DOL referred to DOJ annually has increased ap-
                                      proximately 20 percent since September 11, 2001. During FY 2002, DOJ received
                                      52 cases; 14 were referred to USAOs and 38 were returned to DOL because the facts




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00038   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      39
                                      were insufficient for action. During FY 2003, DOJ received 53 cases; 12 were re-
                                      ferred to USAOs and 41 were returned to DOL due to a lack of merit. By way of
                                      comparison, during FY 2001 and 2000, DOJ received 45 and 43 cases, respectively.
                                         Of the 105 cases DOJ received during FY 2002 and 2003, 16 (or approximately
                                      15 percent) involved claims against States. We declined representation in 12 of the
                                      16 cases because we agreed with DOL’s conclusion that the claims lacked merit. Of
                                      the 4 claims against States referred to USAOs, DOJ agreed to represent 3 of the
                                      claimants and has since settled 2 of those 3 claims without litigation. The fourth
                                      case was returned to DOL by agreement between DOL and the USAO.
                                         Of the 26 cases the Civil Division referred to USAOs during FY 2002 and 2003
                                      (including the 4 involving States), the USAOs agreed to represent the claimants in
                                      12 cases and declined representation in 11 cases. 2 cases are under review at the
                                      USAOs and no representation decisions have yet been made. The remaining case
                                      was returned to DOL by agreement. In the 12 cases where representation was pro-
                                      vided, the USAOs settled 4 of the claims without litigation and 4 after filing suit;
                                      3 cases are pending and 1 was closed due to the claimant’s failure to cooperate with
                                      the USAO. In the 11 cases where representation was declined, 7 declinations were
                                      due to a lack of merit, 3 due to the claimant’s failure to cooperate, and 1 due to
                                      mootness. A summary of the status or disposition of the 26 cases referred to USAOs
                                      during FY 2002 and 2003 is attached. Attachment A.
                                         First Half of FY 2004. During the first six months of FY 2004, DOJ received 31
                                      USERRA claims (12 of the 31 claims presented a similar legal issue and they were
                                      referred as a group). The Civil Division referred 5 claims to USAOs and declined
                                      representation in 26 because they lacked merit (the 26 declinations included the 12
                                      claims referred as a group). Of the 5 cases referred to USAOs, the USAOs declined
                                      representation in 3 and the remaining 2 are presently under review. 14 of the 31
                                      FY 2004 referrals—almost 50 percent—involved claims against States. The percent-
                                      age is skewed because the 12 referred as a group were against States. Of the 14
                                      claims against States, the Civil Division declined representation in 13 and a USAO
                                      declined 1.
                                         One factor which may affect the number of referrals to DOJ is USERRA’s new
                                      provision permitting the district court to award (in addition to other relief) attorney
                                      fees, expert witness fees, and other litigation expenses to a service member who pre-
                                      vails in the litigation and is represented by private counsel. This may provide great-
                                      er incentives for the private bar to provide representation and also motivate private
                                      employers to comply voluntarily to avoid additional costs. On the other hand, mem-
                                      bers incur no cost when being represented by the Department of Justice. The fee
                                      provisions may encourage litigation that could otherwise be avoided. Claimants may
                                      choose to retain private counsel and institute lawsuits, rather than seek the assist-
                                      ance of DOL, which historically has had a high rate of success in resolving these
                                      disputes amicably and obtaining employers’ voluntary compliance with the law.
                                        III. DOJ’s Recent Proactive Efforts
                                        DOJ recognizes the important role it plays in enforcing USERRA. We are com-
                                      mitted to working closely with DOL in these matters and to representing vigorously
                                      USERRA claimants with meritorious claims. In addition to promptly processing
                                      USERRA referrals, the Civil Division and the United States Attorneys have taken
                                      the following recent steps in this area:
                                        • The most recent edition of DOJ’s Federal Civil Practice Manual (February
                                           2003) includes a new chapter on USERRA.
                                        • In April 2003, because of the mobilization of Reserve and National Guard mem-
                                           bers, the Military Issues Working Group of the Attorney General’s Advisory
                                           Committee sent to all United States Attorneys a memorandum on USERRA to
                                           highlight the importance of USERRA cases and provide guidance in handling
                                           such claims.
                                        • In June 2003, in a collaborative effort, lawyers from DOJ (both the Civil Divi-
                                           sion and the United States Attorneys) and DOL presented a Justice Television
                                           Network program entitled ‘‘A Practical Legal Guide to USERRA for AUSAs.’’
                                           The program was broadcast to United States Attorneys’ offices nationwide from
                                           our National Advocacy Center.
                                        • In September 2003, a Civil Division lawyer participated in the ‘‘USERRA Com-
                                           pliance Assistance’’ program at DOL headquarters The program was held for
                                           DOD and DOL employees, as well as private employers interested in learning
                                           about USERRA.
                                        • Several United States Attorneys have conducted press conferences, lectured at
                                           Chamber of Commerce meetings, written articles and, in general, got the word
                                           out to the business community and the Guard and Reserve communities that
                                           DOJ is taking this issue very seriously.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00039   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      40
                                      Summary of Status or Disposition, By Category, of 26 USERRA Cases Referred to USAOs during FY 2002–
                                                                                       2003
                                                                                As of June 9, 2004

                                                              Category                                           Number of Cases
                                           Representation granted                                                       12
                                                 a) settled without litigation                         4
                                                 b) settled after filing complaint                    4
                                                 c) pending (pre-filing)                               3
                                                 d) closed due to failure to cooperate                 1
                                                                                  Total:              12
                                           Representation declined                                                      11
                                                 a) due to lack of merit                               7
                                                 b) due to failure to cooperate                        3
                                                 c) due to mootness                                    1
                                                                                  Total:              11

                                            Under review (no representation decision made)                                  2
                                            Returned to DOL by agreement                                                    1
                                            ————————————————————————————————
                                                                                             Total Cases: 26



                                      STATEMENT OF CHARLES CICCOLELLA, DEPUTY ASSISTANT SEC-
                                       RETARY FOR VETERANS’ EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING, U.S. DEPART-
                                       MENT OF LABOR, BEFORE THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REP-
                                       RESENTATIVES COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
                                                                          JUNE 23, 2004
                                        Chairman Smith, Ranking Member Evans, and other distinguished members of
                                      the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, the Department of Labor is pleased to have
                                      this opportunity to provide comments on compliance with the Uniformed Services
                                      Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA). As you know, USERRA has
                                      been very much in the news for nearly three years now. Within days after the at-
                                      tacks of September 11, 2001, the President authorized a partial mobilization, under
                                      which up to one million members of the Ready Reserve could be activated for up
                                      to 24 months. Since this historic mobilization began, over 385,854 of these citizen-
                                      soldiers have been called, of whom 156,667 currently remain on active duty. This
                                      includes 76 employees of the Department of Labor, 16 of whom currently remain
                                      on active duty.
                                        USERRA is particularly important now as it provides reemployment rights to
                                      those men and women called from civilian jobs to serve in the nation’s defense. In
                                      addition, the law prohibits employer discrimination against veterans and reservists
                                      because of their military service or obligations.

                                                                                  HISTORY
                                         USERRA’s roots go back to 1940, when the Congress was considering the nation’s
                                      first peacetime draft. At the same time, the lawmakers resolved to provide newly
                                      inducted service members the right to return to their pre-service employers. To
                                      achieve this, what came to be popularly known as the Veterans’ Reemployment
                                      Rights (VRR) law was enacted.
                                         By the early 1990s, the VRR law had become a complex and often difficult patch-
                                      work of legislative amendments and court decisions. It was severely tested by the
                                      mobilization and subsequent return of some 265,000 Guard and Reserve members
                                      from Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm in 1991. USERRA revised and restruc-
                                      tured the VRR law, continuing or clarifying most of its provisions. It also made some
                                      substantive changes.
                                         The legislative history of USERRA makes it clear that pre-USERRA case law de-
                                      veloped under the VRR remains useful in interpreting the statute, to the extent it
                                      is consistent with USERRA. For example, in fulfilling our obligations to administer
                                      and help enforce USERRA, we are ever mindful of the two principles laid down by
                                      the United States Supreme Court in its first reemployment rights case, Fishgold v.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00040   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621    E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX       HR683
                                                                                      41
                                      Sullivan Drydock. Those principles are as valid today as they were in 1946—first,
                                      that the law is to be construed liberally to the benefit of those it protects; and sec-
                                      ond, that upon completion of service, the returning servicemember is to be reem-
                                      ployed in the position he or she would have occupied had employment continued
                                      during the period of service—this is known as the ‘‘escalator principle.’’
                                         USERRA is experiencing its greatest test due to the current war, as well as Oper-
                                      ations Noble Eagle and Enduring Freedom. The Department of Labor believes that
                                      USERRA has worked extremely well in the face of its current challenges. I would
                                      like to turn now to our USERRA experiences and activities since September 11,
                                      2001.
                                                                               CURRENT DATA
                                         Since USERRA was enacted in October 1994, the Veterans’ Employment and
                                      Training Service (VETS) has reported periodically to this Committee on our activi-
                                      ties related to the administration and enforcement of the statute. For Fiscal Years
                                      1995 through 2001, which ended September 30, 2001, we reported a steady decline
                                      in the number of USERRA cases opened year-by-year. We opened nearly 1,400 cases
                                      in FY 1995, but by FY 2001 the number had declined to 895. In the wake of the
                                      mobilization that began in September 2001, this trend has reversed.
                                         I should say here that while we have experienced an increase in cases opened,
                                      it is not proportional to the enormous number of men and women who have been
                                      called to duty. The nation’s employer community is overwhelmingly supportive of
                                      employees who have been activated under the ongoing mobilization.
                                         During FY 2002, we opened 1,195 new USERRA cases, an increase of less than
                                      35 percent over the previous fiscal year. For FY 2003, the number of cases opened
                                      increased again, but at a lower rate. For that year, we opened 1,315 new USERRA
                                      cases, an increase of 10 percent over the previous year. As of mid-June, we had
                                      opened 979 new cases for FY 2004, which, on an annualized basis, would yield a
                                      further increase of about 10 percent over FY 2003.
                                         I can report with pride that the VETS’ staff has been up to the challenge of deal-
                                      ing with the increased USERRA caseload. Despite the increase of USERRA claims
                                      filed, our case handling statistics have remained generally consistent with prior
                                      years. As of mid-June, we have closed 954 cases during FY 2004. We closed 86 per-
                                      cent of these cases within 90 days after opening and 93 percent within 120 days.
                                      Of the cases closed, slightly more than one-third of the claims filed were found to
                                      be without merit or the claimants were found to be not eligible for USERRA protec-
                                      tion, and about another 25 percent were closed because the claimant withdrew or
                                      did not pursue the complaint. One-third of the claims were successfully resolved in
                                      favor of the claimant, either because the claim was granted, or a mutually agreeable
                                      settlement was achieved. About 7 percent of cases closed were referred for further
                                      legal action. Of those cases, about nine in ten were referred to the Department of
                                      Justice because they involved a non-Federal employer, and the remaining cases
                                      were referred to the Office of Special Counsel because they involve Federal execu-
                                      tive agencies.
                                         The percentage of USERRA complaints that are filed against governmental em-
                                      ployers has remained fairly consistent in recent years. Since FY 2001, 30 to 35 per-
                                      cent of cases opened each year have involved public employers. Federal cases have
                                      made up 10 to 14 percent of the total, while State or local governments have ac-
                                      counted for around 20 percent.
                                         With respect to the types of issues arising under USERRA, we have found that
                                      two issues have recurred with the greatest frequency. Those issues involve discrimi-
                                      nation of employees, due to their status as either current or former members of the
                                      armed forces, and reinstatement of demobilized service members seeking to return
                                      to their civilian employment. Here, the term ‘‘reinstatement’’ refers not only to those
                                      employees who were not reemployed in their former positions, but may also include
                                      cases in which the employees were improperly reinstated in positions that were not
                                      commensurate with the status or pay grade to which they would otherwise be enti-
                                      tled. Thus far, in fiscal year 2004, discrimination accounts for thirty-one percent of
                                      issues raised in USERRA cases, and reinstatement accounts for twenty-three per-
                                      cent of the issues raised in those cases.

                                                               COMPLIANCE ASSISTANCE EFFORTS
                                        While our staff has been extremely effective at resolving complaints, a major focus
                                      for the Department remains the resolution of problems before complaints arise. Sec-
                                      retary Chao has made compliance assistance a priority with respect to all the laws
                                      administered and enforced by the Department, including USERRA.
                                        Since September 2001, VETS’ staff nationwide have responded to more than
                                      23,000 requests for USERRA information from employers, members of Congress,




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00041   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      42
                                      Guard and Reserve component members, the media and the general public. In addi-
                                      tion, we have delivered USERRA briefings and presentations to more than 147,000
                                      people nationwide. Most of these briefings were for members of mobilized Guard and
                                      Reserve units, but we have also reached many employers and employer groups. Just
                                      a few examples—Web casts for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Society for
                                      Human Resource Management, the H.R. Policy Association (formerly known as the
                                      Labor Policy Association) and others; two appearances as a featured guest on the
                                      national FEDtalk radio broadcast; an appearance on a television broadcast to all the
                                      offices of the United States Attorneys and a nationwide network of National Guard
                                      units; a television broadcast co-presented by the Department of Veterans Affairs
                                      that addressed USERRA entitlements for disabled veterans; and an interactive con-
                                      ference call with employer members of the Equal Employment Advisory Council.
                                         In fulfilling our statutory obligations to provide help and educational outreach, we
                                      have received tremendous support and assistance from colleagues both inside and
                                      outside the Department of Labor. The Department’s Office of the Solicitor has pro-
                                      vided support in all areas, particularly by participating in briefings and helping us
                                      respond to technical questions. They also helped draft proposed USERRA regula-
                                      tions, which I am pleased to report are in the final stages of review and I expect
                                      the regulations to be available for public comment in September 2004.
                                         Additionally, we have received numerous briefings and invaluable technical assist-
                                      ance support from the Employee Benefits Security Administration. The Employment
                                      Standards Administration has helped us develop interpretations of the relationships
                                      between USERRA and other laws, such as the Family and Medical Leave Act and
                                      the Fair Labor Standards Act. Our web site’s resource guide for the general public
                                      was revised in March 2003 to update and clarify VETS position on pension issues.
                                      And, VETS participates in DOL’s Internet based Employment Laws Assistance for
                                      Workers and Small Businesses (elaws) Advisor program, whereby the Department
                                      provides interactive Advisors for USERRA and other laws. The e–VETS Resource
                                      Advisor, a portal site to numerous web sites with information and resources helpful
                                      to veterans, has been released and is available through the VETS homepage as well
                                      as through the elaws Advisor program on the DOL web site.
                                         In July 2002, a joint memorandum was issued on the ‘‘Protection of Uniformed
                                      Service Members’ Rights to Family and Medical Leave.’’ The memorandum was
                                      signed by the Solicitor of Labor, the Assistant Secretary for VETS, and the Adminis-
                                      trator of the Wage and Hour Division. The memorandum is posted on the VETS’
                                      web site.
                                         Outside of the Department, I would like to mention the extraordinary efforts by
                                      our colleagues at the National Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and
                                      Reserve (ESGR) headed by General Bobby Hollingsworth, its Executive Director.
                                      Their small national staff and more than 4,000 volunteers nationwide perform pro-
                                      digious service in promoting understanding between employers and their reservist-
                                      employees and in helping to informally resolve disputes when they arise. We would
                                      be hard pressed to do what we do without ESGR. Additionally, the Office of Per-
                                      sonnel Management (OPM) remains a steadfast partner in helping to distribute in-
                                      formation to federal agencies on the employment rights of the Reserve and National
                                      Guard. The Federal Government is the largest single employer of members of the
                                      Armed Forces Reserves, and we are proud of their dedication and commitment. You
                                      may be interested to know that Federal agencies have the authority to pay both the
                                      employee and government health benefit contributions for up to 18 months when
                                      employees are called to active duty. OPM took the lead in promulgating guidance
                                      and encouraging Federal agencies to pay the employees’ portion of the health benefit
                                      premiums. Finally, the Department of Justice and the Office of Special Counsel pro-
                                      vide valuable assistance with respect to referred cases and providing technical as-
                                      sistance and outreach on USERRA.

                                                                               LEGISLATION
                                        I am also pleased to present the Department’s views on two introduced bills and
                                      a draft bill, which pertain primarily to protecting the employment rights of service
                                      members.

                                                                                     * * *

                                                                      Patriotic Employer Act of 2004
                                        H.R. 4477, the ‘‘Patriotic Employer Act of 2004,’’ would amend USERRA to re-
                                      quire employers to post a notice of the rights and duties that apply under that Act.
                                      The Department is always interested in finding new and effective ways to convey
                                      the rights and responsibilities of employers under USERRA. As part of its ongoing




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00042   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      43
                                      compliance assistance efforts, the Department continues to reach out to employers
                                      and, as such, is not opposed to this bill.
                                                         USERRA Health Care Coverage Extension Act of 2004
                                        Section 2 of the draft bill, ‘‘USERRA Health Care Coverage Extension Act of
                                      2004,’’ would extend the period of USERRA continuation coverage from 18 to 24
                                      months for service members who elect such coverage, which would align this cov-
                                      erage period with the length of time reservists can be mobilized under the current
                                      mobilization authority. The bill provides that the 24-month period applies to all con-
                                      tinuation coverage elections occurring on or after the date of enactment.
                                        The Department supports the intent of this bill and would be pleased to work
                                      with the Committee on any technical issues.
                                        In Section 3, the bill would reinstate the requirement to report on certain cases
                                      and complaints in consultation with the U.S. Attorney General and the U.S. Special
                                      Counsel. In the past, the Department found this requirement to be useful. As such,
                                      the Department has no objection to the reinstatement of these reporting require-
                                      ments. The Department would defer to the Attorney General and the Special Coun-
                                      sel for their respective views on the implementation of this provision.
                                                                                CONCLUSION
                                         We remain committed to informing employers about USERRA and continuing our
                                      mission of protecting the reemployment rights of our service members, including the
                                      76 service members employed by this Department. Mr. Chairman and members of
                                      the Committee, this concludes my statement. I will be happy to answer any ques-
                                      tions.



                                      TESTIMONY OF CRAIG W. DUEHRING, PRINCIPAL DEPUTY ASSISTANT
                                       SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, RESERVE AFFAIRS, BEFORE THE COM-
                                       MITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                                                                                     * * *
                                                                           JUNE 23, 2004
                                         Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, thank you for giving me the oppor-
                                      tunity to come before you this morning to discuss several proposed improvements
                                      to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (SCRA) and the Uniformed Services Employ-
                                      ment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA).
                                         The Department of Defense supports enactment of the Servicemembers Legal Pro-
                                      tection Act of 2004, which would amend several provisions of the SCRA to reflect
                                      our experience with the SCRA during its first six months. Each proposed amend-
                                      ment in the draft bill addresses a problem that has been encountered by
                                      servicemembers and brought to the attention of the Department through the legal
                                      assistance programs of the Military Services. Legal assistance attorneys play a key
                                      role in ensuring that servicemembers are able to fully exercise the rights and pro-
                                      tections afforded by the SCRA, and we have been attentive to their experiences dur-
                                      ing this initial shakedown period under the new law. The Department passed on
                                      its concerns and recommendations to your staff, and you have responded expedi-
                                      tiously with this draft bill and this hearing. I commend and thank the Committee
                                      and its staff for this impressive responsiveness to the needs of our servicemembers.
                                         Section 2 of the draft bill would amend the SCRA by defining the term ‘‘judgment’’
                                      to include any judgment, decree, order, or ruling, final or temporary. Defining this
                                      term, which is used in several key provisions of the Act, will ensure that
                                      servicemembers are not excluded from any of the Act’s rights or protections, such
                                      as the section 201 protection against default judgments, by a narrower State defini-
                                      tion of the term ‘‘judgment.’’
                                         Section 3 of the draft bill would require that written waivers of SCRA rights or
                                      protections be executed as an instrument separate from the obligation or liability
                                      to which they apply and that any such waiver that applies to a contract, lease, or
                                      similar legal instrument be in at least 12-point type. This amendment would protect
                                      servicemembers from fine print embedded in, for example, residential and motor ve-
                                      hicle leases that would waive the right under section 305 of the SCRA to terminate
                                      those leases under certain circumstances.
                                         Section 4 of the draft bill would simply clarify that the right to request a stay
                                      of proceedings under section 202 of the SCRA applies to servicemembers who are
                                      plaintiffs in civil proceedings as well as those who are defendants. The applicability




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00043   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      44
                                      of the stay provisions to both plaintiffs and defendants was clear in the predecessor
                                      Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act, and this amendment would provide the same
                                      clarity in the SCRA.
                                         Section 5 of the draft bill has several purposes. First, it would clarify that when
                                      a servicemember terminates a residential or motor vehicle lease under section 305
                                      of the SCRA, any obligation of a dependent who is jointly liable under the lease is
                                      also terminated. This clarification is essential if the full intent of this lease-termi-
                                      nation provision is to be realized and military family members are to have the flexi-
                                      bility they need when a servicemember is deployed. For example, this amendment
                                      will ensure that if a servicemember’s spouse chooses to return to his or her home-
                                      town and the family support network there, he or she will not be deterred from
                                      doing so because of a residential lease obligation.
                                         Second, section 5 would also extend the ability to terminate a motor vehicle lease
                                      upon a permanent change-of-station to servicemembers stationed in States or Terri-
                                      tories outside the continental United States, such as Alaska, Hawaii, and Puerto
                                      Rico. This amendment would simply correct the unintentional exclusion of these
                                      servicemembers resulting from the current wording of section 305 of the SCRA.
                                         Third, section 5 would define the term ‘‘military orders’’ to mean official military
                                      orders, or any notification, certification, or verification from a servicemember’s com-
                                      manding officer with respect to the servicemember’s current or future military-duty
                                      status. This amendment recognizes that, in the case of deployments,
                                      servicemembers are usually not issued official orders that could be provided to a les-
                                      sor as required by section 305 of the SCRA when terminating a residential or motor
                                      vehicle lease. Under this broad definition of ‘‘military orders’’, a servicemember
                                      could satisfy this procedural requirement by presenting the lessor with, for example,
                                      a letter from his or her commanding officer confirming the particulars of an upcom-
                                      ing deployment.
                                         Fourth, section 5 would clarify that the deployments that trigger a
                                      servicemember’s ability to terminate a residential or motor vehicle lease under sec-
                                      tion 305 of the SCRA include not only deployments with a military unit, but also
                                      deployments by individuals in support of a military operation. This amendment rec-
                                      ognizes that some servicemembers deployed in support of a military operation do
                                      not deploy with a unit, but as individuals.
                                         Section 6 of the draft bill would amend section 511 of the SCRA to state that a
                                      tax jurisdiction may not impose a use, excise, or similar tax on the property of a
                                      nonresident servicemember when the laws of the tax jurisdiction fail to provide a
                                      credit against such sales, use, exercise, or similar taxes previously paid on the same
                                      property to another tax jurisdiction. This amendment is needed to protect
                                      servicemembers from double taxation, which is possible under the current wording
                                      of section 511, as interpreted by the Supreme Court (Sullivan v. United States, 395
                                      U.S. 169 (1969)) when it considered identical language in the Soldiers’ and Sailors’
                                      Civil Relief Act.

                                                                                     * * *
                                        The Department of Defense supports section 2 of the draft USERRA Health Care
                                      Coverage Extension Act of 2004. Increasing from 18 months to 24 months the max-
                                      imum period of employer-provided health care plan coverage that an employee cov-
                                      ered by USERRA may elect to continue is an important amendment that will align
                                      this coverage period with the length of time for which reservists can be mobilized
                                      under the current mobilization authority.
                                        We defer to the Department of Labor on section 3 of the draft bill, which would
                                      reinstate the requirement for a comprehensive annual report on the disposition of
                                      cases filed under USERRA.
                                        The Department also defers to the Department of Labor on section 2 of H.R. 4477,
                                      the Patriotic Employer Act of 2004, which would require employers to post notice
                                      of USERRA rights, benefits, and obligations in the place of employment of individ-
                                      uals protected by that Act.
                                        I would again like to thank the Committee and its staff for all of your efforts on
                                      behalf of our servicemembers. The Department of Defense appreciates this oppor-
                                      tunity to discuss these important matters with you.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00044   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      45
                                      STATEMENT OF JACK McCOY, DIRECTOR, VA EDUCATION SERVICE, BE-
                                       FORE THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON BENEFITS, HOUSE COMMITTEE ON
                                       VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
                                                                         JUNE 16, 2004
                                        Mr. Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity
                                      to appear today before this Subcommittee. I am pleased to testify today on H.R.
                                      4032 and the draft bill, the ‘‘Veterans Self-Employment Act of 2004.’’ Let me first
                                      discuss H.R. 4032, the ‘‘Veterans Fiduciary Act of 2004.’’
                                                                                  H.R. 4032
                                      Background
                                        During testimony before this Subcommittee in July of last year, we provided ex-
                                      tensive background information about VA’s Fiduciary Program, as well as statistics
                                      relating to quality reviews and to other steps VA is taking to oversee payments
                                      made to beneficiaries who are incapable of managing funds. The information we pro-
                                      vided then remains accurate, and VA has not experienced any significant problems
                                      carrying out activities related to the Fiduciary Program since our July 2003 testi-
                                      mony.
                                      Summary of VA’s Position
                                        Before getting into the specifics of the bill, I would first like to summarize VA’s
                                      position. We agree that there is a value in strengthening the protections afforded
                                      to incompetent beneficiaries and for close oversight of fiduciaries. However, we see
                                      the current bill as imposing restrictions and requirements that are, in many in-
                                      stances, too broad for VA’s unqualified support.
                                      Key Provisions of H.R. 4032
                                         Section 2(a) of H.R. 4032 would define, for purposes of chapters 55 and 61 of title
                                      38, United States Code, the term ‘‘fiduciary’’ as: (1) a person who is a guardian, cu-
                                      rator, conservator, committee, or person legally vested with the responsibility or
                                      care of a claimant (or a claimant’s estate) or of a beneficiary (or a beneficiary’s es-
                                      tate); or (2) any other person having been appointed in a representative capacity to
                                      receive money paid under any of the laws administered by the Secretary for the use
                                      and benefit of a minor, incompetent, or other beneficiary. Section 2(b) would make
                                      conforming changes to 38 U.S.C. §§ 5502 and 6101. This definition provides needed
                                      clarity, and we can support this provision. There would be no costs associated with
                                      this change.
                                         Section 3 of H.R. 4032 would require the Secretary to base any certification of a
                                      person as a beneficiary’s fiduciary on an investigation of that person’s fitness to
                                      serve as that beneficiary’s fiduciary, adequate evidence that certification of that per-
                                      son would be in the beneficiary’s interest, and the furnishing of any bond that may
                                      be required. Proposed 38 U.S.C. § 5507 would also require the Secretary to conduct
                                      investigations in advance of certification as a fiduciary, would require a face-to-face
                                      interview with the person to the extent practicable, and would require the Secretary
                                      to request information about whether the person has a criminal record that resulted
                                      in imprisonment for more than one year. If a person has such a criminal record,
                                      VA could certify the person as a fiduciary only if the Secretary specifically finds that
                                      the person has been rehabilitated and is the most appropriate person to act as fidu-
                                      ciary for the beneficiary. For certain proposed fiduciaries (the parent of a minor ben-
                                      eficiary, the spouse or parent of an incompetent beneficiary, or a court-appointed fi-
                                      duciary), VA would be permitted to investigate the fiduciary’s fitness on an expe-
                                      dited basis, which may include waiver of any specific requirement relating to inves-
                                      tigations.
                                         This provision would codify requirements already contained in VA’s Adjudication
                                      Procedures Manual (M21–1MR, Part XI, Ch. 2, Section D.12) concerning initial ap-
                                      pointment of fiduciaries and would add a requirement to investigate a person’s fit-
                                      ness to serve as a fiduciary. Because VA has directives in place that generally par-
                                      allel the requirements of this proposal, the provision is unnecessary. We also note
                                      that the requirement for investigation of potential fiduciaries carries a cost of about
                                      $527,000 annually. We believe the current screening procedure is sound and see lit-
                                      tle benefit in routinely requiring investigations that could unnecessarily delay ur-
                                      gently needed appointments of fiduciaries. Accordingly, we do not support this provi-
                                      sion.
                                         Should the committee decide to proceed with this portion of the legislation, we
                                      suggest that an additional category be added to proposed 38 U.S.C. § 5507(c)(2) that
                                      would authorize VA to expedite investigation of fiduciaries if the amount of benefits
                                      the fiduciary will be handling is minimal.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00045   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      46
                                         Finally, in this regard, the proposed statutory language requiring heightened
                                      scrutiny of potential fiduciaries that have been convicted of an offense that resulted
                                      in imprisonment for more than one year is also unnecessary. VA believes that it
                                      would be unnecessarily burdensome to determine if such a potential fiduciary were
                                      rehabilitated, particularly since VA already has the authority to make payment to
                                      any fiduciary who we determine will serve the best interest of a beneficiary. Fur-
                                      ther, VA already strives to avoid appointing as fiduciaries individuals who have
                                      criminal records.
                                         In summary, we believe that VA’s current process of appointing fiduciaries is
                                      working well and do not feel that the legislation would provide any significant im-
                                      provements. Indeed, addition of proposed 38 U.S.C. § 5507 may unnecessarily com-
                                      plicate a process that, in most instances, achieves VA’s goal of appointing well-quali-
                                      fied fiduciaries. If it is enacted, we estimate that 6 additional FTE at the GS 10/
                                      5 level would be required to carry out these functions in VBA’s field offices. Addi-
                                      tionally, 1 FTE at the GS 13/5 level would be required to support these functions
                                      in VA’s Central Office. We estimate that the total annual cost of this provision
                                      would be $447,000.
                                         Section 4 of H.R. 4032 would add two new provisions to title 38 to enhance VA’s
                                      ability to protect incompetent beneficiaries. The first, proposed 38 U.S.C. § 6106,
                                      would have five subsections. The first subsection would prohibit a fiduciary from col-
                                      lecting a fee from a beneficiary for any month for which VA or a court of competent
                                      jurisdiction has determined that the fiduciary misused all or a part of the benefits
                                      provided to the fiduciary. We support enactment of this provision.
                                         The second subsection, 38 U.S.C. § 6106(b), would make a fiduciary liable to the
                                      United States if the Secretary or a court of competent jurisdiction has determined
                                      that the fiduciary has misused benefits entrusted to him or her in a fiduciary capac-
                                      ity. This provision, which excludes Federal, State, or local government agency fidu-
                                      ciaries, would direct VA to treat misused funds that are not repaid by the fiduciary
                                      as erroneous benefits payments, which may be recovered as debts owed to the
                                      United States and subsequently repaid by VA to the beneficiary. We support enact-
                                      ment of this provision.
                                         The third, fourth, and fifth subsections of proposed section 6106 would define
                                      ‘‘misuse of benefits by a fiduciary,’’ authorize certain VA regulations, and subject
                                      VA’s decision that a fiduciary has misused benefits to appeal to the Board of Vet-
                                      erans’ Appeals and the Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims. Making these deci-
                                      sions appealable would be consistent with the fact that VA determinations con-
                                      cerning overpayments of benefits are currently appealable. Accordingly, we support
                                      these provisions provided that savings found in another VA program can offset any
                                      new costs. However, we have reservations about the recourse of appeal through the
                                      Board of Veterans’ Appeals (BVA). Our concerns involve both appropriateness of this
                                      venue and administrative efficiency. The BVA traditionally handles appeals relating
                                      to veterans’ (or dependents’ or survivors’) claims for benefits. If this appeal mecha-
                                      nism would prove to be unduly burdensome to the claims-adjudication process in
                                      practice, we would recommend an alternative process. We currently cannot provide
                                      costs concerning these provisions, and will forward this information as soon as it
                                      becomes available.
                                         Section 4 of H.R. 4032 would also add to title 38 a new section 6107. That provi-
                                      sion would consist of three new subsections. The first subsection, 38 U.S.C.
                                      § 6107(a), would require VA to reissue benefits to the beneficiary or alternative fidu-
                                      ciary in any case in which the Secretary’s negligent failure to investigate or monitor
                                      a fiduciary results in the misuse of benefits by the fiduciary. VA, through its Fidu-
                                      ciary Program staff, field examinations, review of fiduciary accountings, general
                                      monitoring, and quality control, strives to avoid all instances of misuse of VA funds
                                      by fiduciaries. Nevertheless, VA recognizes that in isolated incidents its fiduciary
                                      staff may fail to meet the high standards set for this program. We do not believe
                                      that a beneficiary should suffer financially because of VA’s negligent failure to over-
                                      see a fiduciary. Accordingly, we support enactment of 38 U.S.C. § 6107(a) provided
                                      that savings found in another VA program can offset any new costs.
                                         The second subsection, 38 U.S.C. § 6107(b), would require VA to reissue benefits
                                      in a case of benefit misuse by a fiduciary who is not an individual or is an indi-
                                      vidual who serves fifteen or more beneficiaries. VA supports enactment of this provi-
                                      sion provided that savings found in another VA program can offset any new costs.
                                      We estimate that subsections (a) and (b) together would cost $364,000 in the first
                                      year and approximately $4 million over ten years.
                                         The third subsection, 38 U.S.C. § 6107(c), would require VA to make a good-faith
                                      effort to recoup from the original fiduciary funds reissued to a beneficiary or alter-
                                      native fiduciary under subsection (a) or (b). VA supports enactment of this provision
                                      provided that savings found in another VA program can offset any new costs. At
                                      this time, we do not know what the costs of the provision would be.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00046   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      47
                                         Section 5 of H.R. 4032 would add four new sections to title 38. The first of these,
                                      38 U.S.C. § 5508, has three major requirements. The first would require the Sec-
                                      retary to provide for periodic onsite review of any fiduciary who is a person who
                                      serves fifteen or more individuals, is a certified community-based nonprofit social
                                      service agency, or is an agency that provides VA-related fiduciary services for 50
                                      or more individuals. Section 5508(b) would define ‘‘certified community-based non-
                                      profit social service agency’’ for these purposes. Proposed 38 U.S.C. § 5508(c) would
                                      require VA, within 120 days of the end of each even-numbered fiscal year, to report
                                      the results of the periodic onsite reviews conducted under 38 U.S.C. § 5508(a) and
                                      (b) during the previous two fiscal years, as well as any other fiduciary reviews con-
                                      ducted during that time.
                                         The requirement to conduct the onsite reviews described in this provision appears
                                      to duplicate a requirement in the recently enacted Social Security Protection Act of
                                      2004 (Public Law 108–203). Section 102 of Public Law 108–203 contains extensive
                                      requirements pertaining to oversight of entities that serve as representative payees
                                      for Social Security Administration (SSA) beneficiaries, including an annual report
                                      on the results of reviews conducted during that year. Because SSA has 6.7 million
                                      beneficiaries in their representative payee program, compared to VA’s 100,000 bene-
                                      ficiaries, we believe it would be preferable for VA to use SSA’s reports on such rep-
                                      resentative payees. In cases where the payee is not on the SSA list of payees, VA
                                      would either ask SSA to add that payee to its list or VA would conduct an on-site
                                      review of that payee.
                                         We believe the requirements in proposed 38 U.S.C. § 5508(a) and (b) are too broad
                                      to serve VA purposes and that alternative means are available to accomplish the
                                      intended purpose. The reporting requirements in proposed section 5508(c) are also
                                      nearly identical to those in section 102 of Public Law 108–203. See Pub. L. No. 108–
                                      203, § 102(b), 118 Stat. 493, 498 (2004). We also believe that the resources devoted
                                      to producing such a report would be better used elsewhere.
                                         Accordingly, we cannot support enactment of proposed 38 U.S.C. § 5508. We esti-
                                      mate that 6 additional FTE at the GS 10/5 level, and 1 FTE at the GS 13/5 level
                                      would be required to carry out the functions associated with enactment of 38 U.S.C.
                                      § 5508. We estimate that the total annual cost of this FTE would be approximately
                                      $447,000. Additionally, we estimate that there will be a cost of $350,000 in the first
                                      year associated with updating several VA computer systems in order to generate the
                                      data necessary for the biennial report to Congress.
                                         Section 5 would also add a new section entitled ‘‘Authority to redirect delivery of
                                      benefit payments when a fiduciary fails to provide required accounting.’’ This provi-
                                      sion, which would be codified at 38 U.S.C. § 5509, would include the authority both
                                      to require reports and accountings from fiduciaries and to direct a fiduciary who
                                      fails to file a required report or accounting to personally appear at the local regional
                                      office to receive benefit payments. VA’s current procedures already require certain
                                      fiduciaries to submit regular accountings and authorizes the replacement of a fidu-
                                      ciary that fails to provide a required accounting. The new provision has a purpose
                                      very similar to that of the current 38 U.S.C. § 5502(b), which states in pertinent
                                      part:
                                           The Secretary, in the Secretary’s discretion, may suspend payments to any
                                           such guardian, curator, conservator, or other person who shall neglect or
                                           refuse, after reasonable notice, to render an account to the Secretary from
                                           time to time showing the application of such payments for the benefit of
                                           such incompetent or minor beneficiary, or who shall neglect or refuse to ad-
                                           minister the estate according to law.
                                         Although proposed 38 U.S.C. § 5509 essentially restates authority already pro-
                                      vided by 38 U.S.C. § 5502(b), we have no objection to including it in the current leg-
                                      islation provided that savings found in another VA program can offset any new
                                      costs. Indeed, the addition of this provision may provide a means by which VA can
                                      emphasize to fiduciaries the need to submit timely reports and accountings. Accord-
                                      ingly, we have no objection to this provision. We are currently evaluating whether
                                      this provision will result in any additional costs; our preliminary conclusion is that
                                      there will be no costs.
                                         Section 5 of H.R. 4032 would also add two new sections to chapter 61 of title 38.
                                      The first would be 38 U.S.C. § 6108, ‘‘Civil monetary penalties,’’ authorizing a civil
                                      penalty of not more than $5,000 for each conversion by a fiduciary appointed under
                                      38 U.S.C. § 5502 of a VA benefit payment to a use that the fiduciary knows or
                                      should know is for a use other than for the intended beneficiary. Section 6108(b)
                                      would subject a fiduciary who improperly converts a VA benefit payment to an as-
                                      sessment, in lieu of damages sustained by the United States, of not more than twice
                                      the amount of any payments converted. Under section 6108(c), any amounts col-
                                      lected as civil penalties or assessments would be credited to applicable appropria-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00047   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      48
                                      tions to recoup VA’s costs in pursuing civil collection actions against fiduciaries. Al-
                                      though we have no objection to these provisions, provided that any costs associated
                                      with them could be offset from savings found in another VA program, VA does not
                                      have a process in place for pursuing civil penalties against persons who misuse VA
                                      benefit payments. Costs associated with pursuing civil collection actions against fi-
                                      duciaries would be borne primarily by VA’s Office of General Counsel, through its
                                      various regional counsels. Such costs would depend directly on the number of civil
                                      penalty cases pursued by those offices. At this point, it is impossible to estimate
                                      such costs.
                                         The final new provision that H.R. 4032 would add is a new 38 U.S.C. § 6109, ‘‘Au-
                                      thority for judicial orders of restitution.’’ Section 6109(a) would authorize a Federal
                                      court, as part of the sentencing of a defendant convicted of an offense involving the
                                      misuse of VA benefits, to order the defendant to make restitution to VA. Section
                                      6109(b) would make various provisions of title 18, United States Code, applicable
                                      to such restitution orders, and section 6109(c) would require a court that does not
                                      order full restitution to state its reasons on the record.
                                         Proposed 38 U.S.C. § 6109(d) would describe the framework for handling pay-
                                      ments obtained as a result of a court-ordered restitution. Subsection (d)(1) would au-
                                      thorize use of amounts recovered under restitution orders to defray expenses in-
                                      curred in the supervision and investigation of fiduciaries. Subsection (d)(2) would re-
                                      quire that ‘‘amounts received in connection with misuse by a fiduciary of funds paid
                                      as benefits’’ be paid to the individual whose benefits were misused or, if VA has re-
                                      issued the benefits, be treated as a recouped overpayment and deposited into the
                                      applicable revolving fund, trust fund, or appropriation. VA has no objection to this
                                      amendment and does not expect to incur any costs as a result of this provision.
                                         Section 6 of H.R. 4032 would make the provisions of this act, with the exception
                                      of new 38 U.S.C. §§ 6106 and 6107, effective the first day of the seventh month be-
                                      ginning after the date of the enactment of this Act. Sections 6106 and 6107, which
                                      concern fiduciaries’ misuse and reissuance of benefits, would apply to determina-
                                      tions of fiduciary misuse of funds made by VA after the date of enactment. VA has
                                      no objection to this provision.
                                         Section 7 of H.R. 4032 would require VA to prepare a report evaluating whether
                                      the existing procedures and reviews for the qualification of fiduciaries are sufficient
                                      to enable the Secretary to protect benefits paid to such individuals from being mis-
                                      used by fiduciaries and to submit the report no later than 270 days after enactment.
                                      This provision would direct the Secretary to include in the report any recommenda-
                                      tions the Secretary considers appropriate. The purpose such a report would serve
                                      270 days following enactment (and less than 90 days following the proposed effective
                                      date) is uncertain to us, and we therefore oppose this requirement.
                                         In closing my remarks on H.R. 4032, Mr. Chairman, I want to emphasize again
                                      that VA’s fiduciary program has a long history of providing oversight for those vet-
                                      erans who cannot manage their VA benefits. We take this responsibility seriously.
                                      I look forward to working with you and your committee to strengthen the safe-
                                      guards available to provide additional protection to these beneficiaries. Now I would
                                      like to address the Veterans Self-Employment Act of 2004.

                                                                                     ***
                                        Mr. Chairman, this concludes my statement. I will be pleased to respond to any
                                      questions you or the members of the Subcommittee may have.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00048   Fmt 6659   Sfmt 6621   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                                 49

                                                                                   ROLL CALL VOTES
                                         During Committee consideration of H.R. 4658, there was a re-
                                      corded vote on an amendment offered by Mr. Buyer to strike sec-
                                      tion 402, ‘‘Care for newborn children of veterans receiving mater-
                                      nity care.’’ The amendment was rejected on a roll call vote of 21–
                                      1. The vote of Committee Members is as follows:

                                      Date:          Wednesday, July 21, 2004
                                      Call to Order: 1:15 p.m.
                                      Adjourn:       2:25 p.m.
                                      Subject:       Markup of H.R. 4658, the Servicemembers and Vet-
                                                     erans Legal Protections Act of 2004

                                                                  NAME                                     YEA             NAY         NOT VOTING

                                       Chris Smith, NJ, Chairman .........................                                  x
                                       Michael Bilirakis, FL ...................................                            x
                                       Terry Everett, AL ..........................................                                           x
                                       Steve Buyer, IN ...........................................          x
                                       Jack Quinn, NY ............................................                                            x
                                       Cliff Stearns, FL ..........................................                                           x
                                       Jerry Moran, KS ...........................................                          x
                                       Richard Baker, LA .......................................                                              x
                                       Rob Simmons, CT .......................................                              x
                                       Henry Brown, SC .........................................                            x
                                       Jeff Miller, FL ..............................................                       x
                                       John Boozman, AR ......................................                              x
                                       Jeb Bradley, NH ...........................................                          x
                                       Bob Beauprez, CO .......................................                             x
                                       Ginny Brown-Waite, FL ................................                               x
                                       Rick Renzi, AZ .............................................                                           x
                                       Tim Murphy, PA ...........................................                           x
                                       Lane Evans, IL, Ranking .............................                                x
                                       Bob Filner, CA .............................................                                           x
                                       Luis Gutierrez, IL .........................................                                           x
                                       Corrine Brown, FL .......................................                                              x
                                       Vic Snyder, AR ............................................                          x
                                       Ciro Rodriguez, TX ......................................                            x
                                       Michael Michaud, ME .................................                                x
                                       Darlene Hooley, OR .....................................                             x
                                       Ted Strickland, OH ......................................                                              x
                                       Shelley Berkley, NV .....................................                            x
                                       Tom Udall, NM ............................................                           x
                                       Susan Davis, CA .........................................                            x
                                       Tim Ryan, OH ..............................................                          x
                                       Stephanie Herseth, SD ................................                               x
                                                      TOTAL ....................................            1              21              9

                                                        CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE COST ESTIMATE
                                        The following letter was received from the Congressional Budget
                                      Office concerning the cost of the reported bill:




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006    PO 00000      Frm 00049       Fmt 6602     Sfmt 6602    E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                        50

                                                                                U.S. CONGRESS,
                                                                  CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
                                                                      Washington, DC, August 24, 2004
                                      Honorable CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH
                                      Chairman, Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
                                      House of Representatives, Washington, DC
                                        DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: As you requested, the Congressional Budg-
                                      et Office has prepared the enclosed cost estimate for H.R. 4658, the
                                      Servicemembers and Veterans Legal Protections Act of 2004.
                                        If you wish further details on this estimate, we will be pleased
                                      to provide them. The CBO staff contact is Dwayne Wright, who can
                                      be reached at 226–2840.
                                             Sincerely,
                                                                            DOUGLAS HOLTZ-EAKIN,
                                                                                                Director
                                        Enclosure.


                                                         CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE COST ESTIMATE
                                           H.R. 4658, Servicemembers and Veterans Legal Protections Act of
                                                                       2004
                                       As ordered reported by the House Committee on Veterans’ Affair on
                                                                 July 21, 2004

                                      SUMMARY
                                        H.R. 4658 would affect several veterans programs, including edu-
                                      cation, health care, disability compensation, and pensions. CBO es-
                                      timates that enacting this legislation would raise direct spending
                                      for veterans programs by $11 million over the 2005–2009 period
                                      and by $16 million over the 2005–2014 period. In addition, CBO es-
                                      timates that discretionary spending resulting from H.R. 4658
                                      would total almost $28 million over the 2005–2009 period, assum-
                                      ing appropriation of the necessary amounts.
                                        H.R. 4658 contains both intergovernmental and private-sector
                                      mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act
                                      (UMRA), but CBO estimates that the costs for state, local, and trib-
                                      al governments and the private sector to comply with those man-
                                      dates would be well below the thresholds established by UMRA
                                      ($60 million in 2004 and $120 million in 2004, respectively, ad-
                                      justed annually for inflation).
                                      ESTIMATED COST TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
                                        The estimated budgetary impact of H.R. 4658 is shown in Table
                                      1. The costs of this legislation fall within budget function 700 (vet-
                                      erans benefits and services).




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004    Jkt 029006    PO 00000   Frm 00050   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6602   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                                                        51

                                                                        TABLE 1. ESTIMATED BUDGETARY IMPACT OF H.R. 4658
                                                                                                                                         By Fiscal Year, in Millions of Dollars

                                                                                                                                       2005            2006           2007             2008                2009


                                                                                                CHANGES IN DIRECT SPENDING
                                      Estimated Budget Authority ..................................                                             *             2                  2              2                 2
                                      Estimated Outlays ...................................................                                     *             2                  2              2                 2
                                                                    CHANGES IN SPENDING SUBJECT TO APPROPRIATION
                                      Estimated Authorization Level ..............................                                              4             5                  5              6                 6
                                      Estimated Outlays ...................................................                                     4             5                  5              6                 6

                                           NOTES: Five and 10-year costs in the text may differ slightly from a summation of the an-
                                                  nual costs listed here because of rounding.
                                                            * = less than $50,000.


                                      BASIS OF ESTIMATE
                                        For this estimate, CBO assumes that the bill will be enacted be-
                                      fore the end of calendar year 2004, and that the amounts necessary
                                      to implement the bill will be appropriated for each year.
                                         Direct Spending
                                         H.R. 4658 would affect direct spending in veterans’ programs for
                                      education, compensation, and pensions. Table 2 summarizes those
                                      effects, and the individual provisions that would affect direct
                                      spending are described below. In total, CBO estimates that enact-
                                      ing this legislation would increase direct spending by about $11
                                      million over the 2005–2009 period and by $16 million over the
                                      2005–2014 period.
                                       TABLE 2. ESTIMATED CHANGES IN DIRECT SPENDING FOR VETERANS’ BENEFITS UNDER
                                                                        H.R. 4658
                                                                                                                                  By Fiscal Year, in Millions of Dollars
                                      Description of Provisions
                                                                                                 2005       2006       2007          2008       2009       2010       2011           2012       2013        2014

                                      MGIB for Self-Employment Training ...                             0          2          2             2          2          3          *              0          0           0
                                      Misuse of Benefits by a Fiduciary .........                       *          *          *             *          *          *          *              *          *           *
                                      Total Changes .........................................           *          2          2             2          2          3          1              *          *           *

                                           NOTES: Five and 10-year costs in the text may differ slightly from a summation of the an-
                                                  nual costs listed here because of rounding.
                                                            MGIB = Montgomery GI Bill
                                                            * = less than $500,000.


                                         Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB) for Self-Employment Train-
                                      ing. Section 403 would allow veterans to use their education bene-
                                      fits to receive on-the-job training without pay for periods of less
                                      than six months, when that training is needed to obtain a license
                                      to engage in a self-employment occupation or is required for owner-
                                      ship and operation of a franchise. This provision would take effect
                                      October 1, 2005, and remain in force through September 30, 2010.
                                      Under current law, education benefits for on-the-job training would
                                      only be approved if the veteran was paid wages that, at the start
                                      of training, equaled at least 50 percent of the wage paid for the job
                                      for which the veteran was to be trained, and increased over the




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004     Jkt 029006             PO 00000             Frm 00051          Fmt 6602          Sfmt 6602             E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX                  HR683
                                                                                      52

                                      course of the training to at least 85 percent of the prevailing wage.
                                      Based on information from the Department of Veterans Affairs
                                      (VA), CBO believes this temporary waiver of the wage requirement
                                      would be of use primarily to those seeking to own and operate a
                                      franchise. Franchise companies typically require prospective own-
                                      ers to undergo a four-to-six week program of on-the-job training
                                      and they do not pay wages to the prospective owners.
                                         Based on information from the Department of Labor, CBO esti-
                                      mates that about 6,500 eligible veterans took self-employment
                                      classes through Small Business Development Centers in 2002, and
                                      we assume that about 1,600 of these also completed an average of
                                      five weeks of on-the-job training that was associated with the pur-
                                      chase of a franchise. Because the population eligible for and using
                                      MGIB benefits is growing, we estimate this number will increase
                                      to about 1,700 in 2006 and 2,000 by 2014. Under current law, the
                                      MGIB benefit, currently $1,000 a month, is adjusted annually for
                                      increases in the cost of living. CBO estimates that by 2006 the
                                      MGIB benefit will increase to about $1,020 a month or about
                                      $1,270 for a five-week period. Thus, CBO estimates that enacting
                                      section 403 would increase direct spending for veterans’ education
                                      benefits by $2 million in 2006, $9 million over the 2006–2009 pe-
                                      riod, and $12 million over the 2006–2011 period.
                                         Misuse of Veterans’ Benefits by a Fiduciary. H.R. 4658 con-
                                      tains several provisions dealing with fiduciary fraud. Taken to-
                                      gether, CBO estimates that enactment of those provisions would in-
                                      crease direct spending for veterans compensation and pensions by
                                      about $2 million over the 2005–2009 period and $4 million over the
                                      2005–2014 period.
                                         Reissuing of Benefits Associated with Fiduciary Fraud. Section
                                      303 would require VA to reissue veterans’ compensation and pen-
                                      sion benefits to beneficiaries when those benefits were misused by
                                      a fiduciary if the fraud can be attributed to negligence by VA. (A
                                      fiduciary is the guardian, curator, organization, or person legally
                                      vested to care for a claimant or beneficiary’s estate.) Under the bill,
                                      VA negligence would be defined as:
                                           • VA’s failure to review a fiduciary’s accounting in a timely
                                              manner, or
                                           • VA’s failure to act on allegations of fraud by a fiduciary in
                                              a timely manner, or
                                           • Any other case in which actual negligence is shown.
                                         Under section 303, VA also would be required to reissue benefits
                                      to a beneficiary in cases where a fiduciary represents 10 or more
                                      beneficiaries, regardless of whether or not the benefits are re-
                                      couped from the fiduciary. Currently, VA only reissues benefits
                                      that were recouped from the fiduciary through court-ordered res-
                                      titution. Any benefits that are not recovered from the fiduciary are
                                      not reissued to the beneficiary.
                                         CBO assumes that under the bill, VA would be held liable for
                                      any fraud that stems from certifying fiduciaries. (Under section 302
                                      of the bill, VA would be required to complete in-depth investiga-
                                      tions to determine the fitness of an individual before certifying him
                                      or her as a fiduciary.) According to data provided by VA for the




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00052   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6602   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      53

                                      1999–2003 period, it received about 50 referrals a year for fiduciary
                                      fraud on average. Those referrals resulted in about 10 arrests a
                                      year and about $350,000 annually in recoveries. CBO assumes that
                                      roughly 90 percent of the recoveries are for actual benefit payments
                                      which would be reissued under the bill and that under the condi-
                                      tions specified most fiduciary fraud would be found to stem from
                                      VA negligence. After adjusting for inflation, CBO estimates that
                                      this provision would raise direct spending for veterans’ disability
                                      compensation and pensions by less than $500,000 in 2005, about $2
                                      million over the 2005–2009 period, and about $4 million over the
                                      2005–2014 period.
                                         Judicial Orders of Restitution. Section 304 would give VA the
                                      ability to pursue civil monetary penalties against fiduciaries of no
                                      more than $5,000 for each fraudulent act, and would subject a fidu-
                                      ciary to an assessment, in lieu of damages, of no more than twice
                                      the amount of any payments recovered. Section 304 also would
                                      allow VA to use court-ordered amounts recovered as penalties or
                                      fines that are not received in connection with misuse of benefits by
                                      a fiduciary to defray the costs of investigations of fiduciaries.
                                         Under current law, all amounts received due to restitution, pen-
                                      alties, or court-ordered fines are returned to the Treasury. Thus,
                                      the spending of these receipts under section 304 by VA would be
                                      considered direct spending. Absent more information from VA,
                                      CBO cannot determine the amount of fines and penalties that VA
                                      might expect to recover and spend over the 2005–2014 period.
                                         Spending Subject to Appropriation
                                         CBO estimates that implementing H.R. 4658 also would increase
                                      discretionary spending for veterans’ medical care and operating ex-
                                      penses within the Veterans Benefits Administration by about $28
                                      million over the 2005–2009 period, assuming appropriation of the
                                      necessary amounts.
                                         Veterans Receiving Maternity Care. Section 402 would allow
                                      VA to provide care to newborn infants when the mother is a vet-
                                      eran receiving maternity care from VA. According to VA, a little
                                      more than 700 women a year are expected to receive maternity
                                      care from VA. Based on data from VA, CBO estimates that the cost
                                      of providing neonatal care to those infants would be about $5,700
                                      per infant in 2005. (Providing neonatal care for most infants would
                                      cost much less; the high average cost is driven by those infants
                                      who require extensive care for longer periods of time.) Based on as-
                                      sumed enactment late in calendar year 2004, CBO estimates that
                                      implementing section 402 would cost $3 million in 2005 and $21
                                      million over the 2005–2009 period, assuming appropriation of the
                                      estimated amounts.
                                         Qualification of Fiduciaries. Section 302 would both codify
                                      and expand upon current requirements for VA certification of sta-
                                      tus as a fiduciary. Under section 302, VA would be required to cer-
                                      tify a fiduciary based upon an inquiry or investigation into the fit-
                                      ness of an individual to serve as a fiduciary, adequate evidence
                                      that certification of the fiduciary would be in the beneficiary’s best
                                      interest, and the furnishing of any bond as required by VA.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00053   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6602   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      54

                                         Under current practice, when required, VA conducts investiga-
                                      tions to determine the type of fiduciary best suited to a beneficiary.
                                      Using its field examiners, VA contacts the beneficiary or their fam-
                                      ily and through face-to-face interviews, if possible, determines the
                                      ability of the beneficiary to manage their benefit payments. The
                                      field examiner then certifies a fiduciary based upon his or her ob-
                                      servations. VA also maintains periodic contact with certified fidu-
                                      ciaries to observe the performance of the fiduciary and also com-
                                      pletes a review to determine whether the continued use of a fidu-
                                      ciary is necessary.
                                         Under this section, VA would be required to review the proposed
                                      fiduciary’s credit report and conduct a criminal background check
                                      to determine if that person has been convicted of any federal or
                                      state offense resulting in imprisonment for more than a year. If
                                      that person had been convicted and imprisoned, VA would be al-
                                      lowed to certify that person as a fiduciary only if it determines that
                                      the proposed fiduciary has been rehabilitated and is an appropriate
                                      person to act as a fiduciary for a beneficiary.
                                         Based on information from VA, CBO estimates that requiring
                                      more in-depth reviews would require VA to hire seven additional
                                      people at an annual cost of about $500,000. Based on the cost of
                                      similar investigations conducted by the Social Security Administra-
                                      tion, and using VA’s estimate of new fiduciaries (excluding the
                                      number of family members who might become a fiduciary), CBO
                                      also estimates that conducting the required criminal background
                                      investigations would cost an additional $500,000 a year. Thus,
                                      CBO estimates that implementing section 302 would cost about $4
                                      million over the 2005–2009 period, assuming appropriation of the
                                      necessary amounts
                                         Additional Protections for Beneficiaries. Section 304 would
                                      codify and expand current procedures that protect beneficiaries
                                      from misuse of their benefits by fiduciaries. These protections in-
                                      clude:
                                         • Requiring VA to complete periodic on-site reviews of fidu-
                                           ciaries who serve 20 or more beneficiaries and manage bene-
                                           fits greater that $50,000;
                                         • Requiring a report of accounting from the fiduciary;
                                         • Allowing VA to pursue civil monetary penalties against per-
                                           sons who commit fraud; and
                                         • Requiring any federal court to order a defendant convicted of
                                           fraud involving benefits to make restitution to VA, or to ex-
                                           plain why no restitution was ordered.
                                        Based on information from VA, CBO estimates that to complete
                                      the tasks of completing periodic on-site reviews and pursuing civil
                                      penalties, VA would hire an additional seven people at an annual
                                      cost of about $500,000. Thus, CBO estimates implementing section
                                      304 would cost about $2 million over the 2005–2009 period, subject
                                      to appropriation of the necessary amounts.
                                        Annual Report on Fiduciary Program. Section 305 would re-
                                      quire VA to prepare an annual report on the fiduciary program.
                                      The report would include the number of beneficiaries, total amount
                                      of benefits involved, number of fiduciaries, and information regard-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00054   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6602   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      55

                                      ing fiduciary fraud and results of investigations. According to VA,
                                      preparation of the report would require an update to their com-
                                      puter systems to comply with the data requirements for the report.
                                      Based on information provided by VA, CBO estimates that imple-
                                      menting section 305 would cost less than $500,000 in 2005, subject
                                      to appropriation of the necessary amounts.
                                      INTERGOVERNMENTAL AND PRIVATE-SECTOR IMPACT
                                        H.R. 4658 contains both intergovernmental and private-sector
                                      mandates as defined in UMRA, but CBO estimates that the costs
                                      for state, local, and tribal governments and the private sector to
                                      comply with those mandates would be well below the thresholds es-
                                      tablished by UMRA ($60 million in 2004 and $120 million in 2004,
                                      respectively, adjusted annually for inflation).
                                        Extension of Health Insurance
                                        Current law imposes a mandate on public and private-sector em-
                                      ployers by requiring them to continue to provide health insurance
                                      coverage to certain workers, including those who are absent from
                                      work because of military service. Although those workers can be re-
                                      quired to pay the employer 102 percent of the average cost of the
                                      insurance, research suggests that the actual cost of providing that
                                      coverage generally is greater than that amount.
                                        This bill would increase, from 18 months to 24 months, the
                                      amount of time those reservists who are mobilized are eligible to
                                      continue their health insurance. That extension would increase the
                                      cost of the existing mandate on both public and private-sector em-
                                      ployers to provide continued coverage. However, CBO estimates
                                      that few workers would participate in the program and the total
                                      direct cost for employers to comply with that mandate would be
                                      about $2 million annually.
                                         State and Local Government Authority to Tax
                                         H.R. 4658 also contains an intergovernmental mandate as de-
                                      fined by UMRA because it would prohibit state and local jurisdic-
                                      tions from collecting certain taxes from servicemembers. Specifi-
                                      cally, the bill would prohibit those governments from collecting
                                      sales, use, and excise taxes from nonresident servicemembers un-
                                      less they provided a credit for fees paid on the same property in
                                      other jurisdictions.
                                         The Servicemembers’ Civil Relief Act (SCRA) protects
                                      servicemembers from paying the same tax in multiple jurisdictions
                                      and provides that, for certain tax purposes, a servicemember’s
                                      place of residence is his or her home state, not the state in which
                                      he or she is stationed. This bill would extend the SCRA tax provi-
                                      sions to explicitly include excise and other use taxes. Currently, no
                                      state or local governments collect those taxes from nonresident
                                      servicemembers. It would require jurisdictions, if they choose to
                                      collect such revenues, to credit payments made in other locations.
                                      CBO estimates that the cost, if any, for those governments to com-
                                      ply with that mandate would be minimal.
                                           Termination of Leases




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00055   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6602   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      56

                                        Section 104 of this bill would provide that, in the case of joint
                                      leases, the termination of a lease (residential and motor vehicle) by
                                      a servicemember under the provisions of section 305 of the
                                      Servicemembers Civil Relief Act also terminates the obligation of
                                      a dependent under that lease. However, implementation of current
                                      law has typically extended coverage of lease termination to both
                                      servicemembers and their dependents. In particular, the disputes
                                      that have arisen about dependents’ rights to terminate leases have
                                      usually been resolved in favor of a servicemember’s dependent.
                                      Therefore, CBO estimates that this section of H.R. 4658 would not
                                      create new costs for the private sector. The joint lease language in
                                      H.R. 4658 is predominantly clarifying and would not create a new
                                      mandate.
                                      ESTIMATE PREPARED BY:
                                       Federal Costs:
                                       Readjustment Benefits: Sarah T. Jennings (226–2840)
                                       Compensation and Pensions: Dwayne M. Wright (226–2840)
                                       Health Care: Sam Papenfuss (226–2840)
                                       Impact on State, Local, and Tribal Governments: Melissa Merrell
                                       (225–3220)
                                       Impact on the Private Sector: Adebayo Adedeji (226–2900)
                                      ESTIMATE APPROVED BY:
                                       Peter H. Fontaine,
                                       Deputy Assistant Director for Budget Analysis

                                                              STATEMENT OF FEDERAL MANDATES
                                        The preceding Congressional Budget Office (CBO) cost estimate
                                      states that the bill contains intergovernmental or private sector
                                      mandates as defined in the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act, but
                                      CBO estimates that those mandates would be well below the
                                      thresholds established by the Act.
                                                         STATEMENT OF CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
                                        Pursuant to Article I, section 8 of the United States Constitution,
                                      the reported bill is authorized by Congress’ power to ‘‘provide for
                                      the common Defense and general Welfare of the United States.’’

                                      EXCHANGE OF LETTERS REGARDING H.R. 4658 BETWEEN THE COM-
                                       MITTEE ON GOVERNMENT REFORM AND THE COMMITTEE ON VET-
                                       ERANS’ AFFAIRS

                                                                               COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS,
                                                                                  Washington, DC, September 7, 2004
                                      Honorable TOM DAVIS
                                      Chairman, Committee on Government Reform,
                                      House of Representatives, Washington, DC
                                        DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs wishes
                                      to schedule for rapid Floor consideration H.R. 4658, the
                                      Servicemembers and Veterans Legal Protections Act of 2004, a bill
                                      that would, among other things, under section 212 authorize a
                                      demonstration project for referral of claims under the Uniformed




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00056   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6602   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      57

                                      Services Employment and Reemployment Act against Federal
                                      agencies to the Office of Special Counsel.
                                        It is my understanding that the Committee on Government Re-
                                      form does not intend to request an additional referral of the bill
                                      and has no objection to Floor consideration of the bill. Of course,
                                      this would not be construed as affecting in any way the jurisdiction
                                      of the Committee on Government Reform over the Office of Special
                                      Counsel or as precedent for other bills. Upon confirmation of my
                                      understanding, I will include our exchange of letters in the report
                                      on H.R. 4658 or place the letters in the record during Floor consid-
                                      eration of the bill.
                                        Thank you for your cooperation in this matter and I look forward
                                      to working with you again on other legislation of mutual interest.
                                             Sincerely,
                                                                            CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH
                                                                                             Chairman


                                                               COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENT REFORM,
                                                                      Washington, DC, September 7, 2004
                                      Honorable CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH
                                      Chairman, Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
                                      House of Representatives, Washington, DC
                                         DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Thank you for consulting with the Govern-
                                      ment Reform Committee regarding H.R. 4658, ‘‘the Servicemembers
                                      and Veterans Legal Protections Act,’’ and for your recent letter. Sec-
                                      tion 212 of H.R. 4658 authorizes a demonstration project for refer-
                                      ral of claims under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reem-
                                      ployment Act against Federal agencies to the Office of Special
                                      Counsel. As you know, the Committee on Government Reform has
                                      jurisdiction over the Office of Special Counsel. In order to expedite
                                      the consideration of this important bill in the house and because
                                      of your willingness to consult with my committee, I do not intend
                                      to seek a sequential referral of H.R. 4658 to the Committee on Gov-
                                      ernment Reform.
                                         By agreeing to waive its consideration of the bill, the Govern-
                                      ment Reform Committee does not waive its jurisdiction over H.R.
                                      4658 or the Office of Special Counsel. In addition, the Committee
                                      on Government Reform reserves its authority to seek outside con-
                                      ferees on this bill or a similar Senate bill and I would ask for your
                                      support in the event of a conference with the Senate on this or
                                      similar legislation.
                                         I respectfully request that you include this letter and your re-
                                      sponse in your committee report and Congressional Record during
                                      consideration of this legislation on the House floor. Thank you for
                                      your attention to these matters.
                                             Sincerely,
                                                                                          TOM DAVIS
                                                                                               Chairman




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00057   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6602   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      58

                                                                               COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS,
                                                                                  Washington, DC, September 9, 2004
                                      Honorable TOM DAVIS
                                      Chairman, Committee on Government Reform,
                                      House of Representatives, Washington, DC
                                         DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Thank you for your letter of September 7,
                                      2004, regarding the jurisdictional interest of the Committee on
                                      Government Reform in section 212 of H.R. 4658, the
                                      ‘‘Servicemembers and Veterans Legal Protections Act.’’
                                         Your willingness to forego a sequential referral to expedite House
                                      consideration of H.R. 4658 is most appreciated. The Committee on
                                      Veterans’ Affairs understands that your letter does not waive juris-
                                      diction of the Committee on Government Reform over the bill and
                                      is not a precedent for other bills. In addition, if a conference on
                                      H.R. 4658 should become necessary, I will support any request by
                                      you for the Committee on Government Reform to be represented on
                                      the conference.
                                         Again, thank you for your cooperation in this matter.
                                             Sincerely,
                                                                            CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH
                                                                                                Chairman

                                            CHANGES IN EXISTING LAW MADE BY THE BILL, AS REPORTED
                                        In compliance with clause 3(e) of rule XIII of the Rules of the
                                      House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by the bill,
                                      as reported, are shown as follows (existing law proposed to be omit-
                                      ted is enclosed in black brackets, new matter is printed in italics,
                                      existing law in which no change is proposed is shown in roman):

                                                        SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *

                                                 TITLE I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
                                      SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.
                                           For the purposes of this Act:
                                               (1) * * *
                                                *        *         *         *       *     *   *
                                               (9) JUDGMENT.—The term ‘‘judgment’’ means any judgment,
                                             decree, order, or ruling, final or temporary.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                      SEC. 107. WAIVER OF RIGHTS PURSUANT TO WRITTEN AGREEMENT.
                                        (a) IN GENERAL.—A servicemember may waive any of the rights
                                      and protections provided by this Act. Any such waiver that applies
                                      to an action listed in subsection (b) of this section is effective only
                                      if it is in writing and is executed as an instrument separate from
                                      the obligation or liability to which it applies. In the case of a waiver
                                      that permits an action described in subsection (b), the waiver is ef-
                                      fective only if made pursuant to a written agreement of the parties




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00058   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      59

                                      that is executed during or after the servicemember’s period of mili-
                                      tary service. The written agreement shall specify the legal instru-
                                      ment to which the waiver applies and, if the servicemember is not
                                      a party to that instrument, the servicemember concerned.
                                              *        *        *        *         *        *        *
                                        (c) PROMINENT DISPLAY OF CERTAIN CONTRACT RIGHTS WAIV-
                                      ERS.—Any waiver in writing of a right or protection provided by
                                      this Act that applies to a contract, lease, or similar legal instrument
                                      must be in at least 12 point type.
                                        ø(c)¿ (d) COVERAGE OF PERIODS AFTER ORDERS RECEIVED.—For
                                      the purposes of this section—
                                             (1) * * *
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *

                                                        TITLE II—GENERAL RELIEF
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                      SEC. 202. STAY OF PROCEEDINGS WHEN SERVICEMEMBER HAS NO-
                                                  TICE.
                                        (a) APPLICABILITY OF SECTION.—This section applies to any civil
                                      action or proceeding in which the plaintiff or defendant at the time
                                      of filing an application under this section—
                                              (1) * * *
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *

                                      TITLE III—RENT, INSTALLMENT CON-
                                        TRACTS, MORTGAGES, LIENS, ASSIGN-
                                        MENT, LEASES
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                      SEC. 305. TERMINATION OF RESIDENTIAL OR MOTOR VEHICLE
                                                 LEASES.
                                        ø(a) TERMINATION BY LESSEE.—The lessee on a lease described in
                                      subsection (b) may, at the lessee’s option, terminate the lease at
                                      any time after—
                                             ø(1) the lessee’s entry into military service; or
                                             ø(2) the date of the lessee’s military orders described in para-
                                          graph (1)(B) or (2)(B) of subsection (b), as the case may be.¿
                                        (a) TERMINATION BY LESSEE.—
                                             (1) IN GENERAL.—The lessee on a lease described in sub-
                                          section (b) may, at the lessee’s option, terminate the lease at any
                                          time after—
                                                  (A) the lessee’s entry into military service; or
                                                  (B) the date of the lessee’s military orders described in
                                               paragraph (1)(B) or (2)(B) of subsection (b), as the case may
                                               be.
                                             (2) JOINT LEASES.—A lessee’s termination of a lease pursuant
                                          to this subsection shall terminate any obligation a dependent of
                                          the lessee may have under the lease.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00059   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6603   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      60

                                        (b) COVERED LEASES.—This section applies to the following
                                      leases:
                                             (1) LEASES OF PREMISES.—A lease of premises occupied, or
                                          intended to be occupied, by a servicemember or a
                                          servicemember’s dependents for a residential, professional,
                                          business, agricultural, or similar purpose if—
                                                  (A) * * *
                                                  (B) the servicemember, while in military service, exe-
                                               cutes the lease and thereafter receives military orders for
                                               a permanent change of station or to deploy with a military
                                               unit, or as an individual in support of a military operation,
                                               for a period of not less than 90 days.
                                             (2) LEASES OF MOTOR VEHICLES.—A lease of a motor vehicle
                                          used, or intended to be used, by a servicemember or a
                                          servicemember’s dependents for personal or business transpor-
                                          tation if—
                                                  (A) * * *
                                                  (B) the servicemember, while in military service, exe-
                                               cutes the lease and thereafter receives ømilitary orders for
                                               a permanent change of station outside of the continental
                                               United States or to deploy¿ military orders—
                                                       (i) for a change of permanent station—
                                                             (I) from a location in the continental United
                                                          States to a location outside the continental United
                                                          States; or
                                                             (II) from a location in a State outside the conti-
                                                          nental United States to any location outside that
                                                          State; or
                                                       (ii) to deploy with a military unit, or as an indi-
                                                    vidual in support of a military operation, for a period
                                                    of not less than 180 days.
                                                 *         *         *        *     *         *       *
                                           (i) DEFINITIONS.—
                                                (1) MILITARY ORDERS.—The term ‘‘military orders’’, with re-
                                              spect to a servicemember, means official military orders, or any
                                              notification,    certification,   or  verification   from    the
                                              servicemember’s commanding officer, with respect to the
                                              servicemember’s current or future military duty status.
                                                (2) CONUS.—The term ‘‘continental United States’’ means the
                                              48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *

                                            TITLE V—TAXES AND PUBLIC LANDS
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                      SEC. 511. RESIDENCE FOR TAX PURPOSES.
                                           (a) * * *
                                                 *        *    *                          *           *         *           *
                                           (c) PERSONAL PROPERTY.—
                                                (1) * * *
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00060   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      61

                                               (5) USE, EXCISE, OR SIMILAR TAXES.—A tax jurisdiction may
                                             not impose a use, excise, or similar tax on the personal property
                                             of a nonresident servicemember when the laws of the tax juris-
                                             diction fail to provide a credit against such taxes for sales, use,
                                             excise, or similar taxes previously paid on the same property to
                                             another tax jurisdiction.
                                                 *            *           *               *               *         *           *

                                                            TITLE 38, UNTIED STATES CODE
                                                 *            *           *               *               *         *           *

                                                         PART II—GENERAL BENEFITS
                                                 *            *           *               *               *         *           *
                                                     CHAPTER 17—HOSPITAL, NURSING HOME,
                                                       DOMICILIARY, AND MEDICAL CARE
                                                                          SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL
                                      Sec.
                                      1701.       Definitions.
                                                 *            *            *              *               *          *           *
                                                 SUBCHAPTER VIII—HEALTH CARE OF PERSONS OTHER THAN VETERANS
                                      1781.       Medical care for survivors and dependents of certain veterans.
                                                 *          *         *          *          *         *                          *
                                      1786.      Care for newborn children of veterans receiving maternity care.
                                                 *            *            *              *               *          *           *

                                           SUBCHAPTER VIII—HEALTH CARE OF PERSONS OTHER
                                                           THAN VETERANS
                                                 *            *           *               *               *         *           *
                                      § 1786. Care for newborn children of veterans receiving ma-
                                                 ternity care
                                         (a) AUTHORITY.—Subject to subsections (b) and (c), when a female
                                      veteran who is enrolled in the health-care system established under
                                      section 1705 of this title is receiving maternity care from the Depart-
                                      ment delivers of a child in a Department facility or in a non-Depart-
                                      ment facility under a Department contract the Secretary may fur-
                                      nish care to the neonate.
                                         (b) CARE IN A DEPARTMENT FACILITY.—In a case in which a
                                      neonate covered by subsection (a) is born in a Department facility,
                                      care furnished for the neonate at that facility shall be furnished
                                      without charge to the veteran who delivered of that neonate.
                                         (c) CARE IN A NON-DEPARTMENT FACILITY.—In a case in which a
                                      neonate covered by subsection (a) is born in a non-Department facil-
                                      ity or is provided care in a non-Department facility following birth
                                      in a Department facility and transfer from that facility, the Sec-
                                      retary may provide for the payment of the cost of care and services
                                      for the neonate in the same manner, and subject to the same limita-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00061   Fmt 6602       Sfmt 6603   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      62

                                      tions, as if such care and services were emergency treatment fur-
                                      nished the veteran subject to section 1725 of this title, except that—
                                             (1) the services for which the Secretary may make payment
                                          shall be limited to those items and services for which payment
                                          may be made under the medicare program under title XVIII of
                                          the Social Security Act for post-natal care furnished to a
                                          neonate; and
                                             (2) the rate of payment for such services may not exceed the
                                          payment rates applicable to those items and services under the
                                          medicare program under such title.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *

                                            PART III—READJUSTMENT AND RELATED
                                                         BENEFITS
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                           CHAPTER 34—VETERANS’ EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                                        SUBCHAPTER I—PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS
                                      § 3452. Definitions
                                         For the purposes of this chapter and chapter 36 of this title—
                                         (a) * * *
                                               *         *        *         *       *     *        *
                                         (e) The term ‘‘training establishment’’ means any establishment
                                      providing apprentice or other training on the job, including those
                                      under the supervision of a college or university or any State de-
                                      partment of education, or any State apprenticeship agency, or any
                                      State board of vocational education, or any joint apprenticeship
                                      committee, or the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training estab-
                                      lished pursuant to the Act of August 16, 1937, popularly known as
                                      the ‘‘National Apprenticeship Act’’ (29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.), or any
                                      agency of the Federal Government authorized to supervise such
                                      training.
                                              (1) * * *
                                              (2) øAn¿ For the period beginning on October 1, 2005, and
                                            ending on September 30, 2010, an establishment providing self-
                                            employment on-job training consisting of full-time training for
                                            a period of less than six months that is needed or accepted for
                                            purposes of obtaining licensure to engage in a self-employment
                                            occupation or required for ownership and operation of a fran-
                                            chise that is the objective of the training.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                            CHAPTER 36—ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATIONAL
                                                            BENEFITS
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00062   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      63

                                                 SUBCHAPTER I—STATE APPROVING AGENCIES
                                                 *            *           *               *               *         *           *
                                      § 3677. Approval of training on the job
                                         (a) * * *
                                         (b)(1) * * *
                                              *       *       *        *        *       *          *
                                        (3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(A) and subsection (c)(8), no
                                      wages shall be required to be paid an eligible person or veteran by
                                      a training establishment described in section 3452(e)(2) of this title.
                                                 *            *           *               *               *         *           *
                                            CHAPTER 43—EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT
                                           RIGHTS OF MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES
                                                                          SUBCHAPTER I—GENERAL
                                      4301.      Purposes; sense of Congress.
                                                 *         *          *                   *               *          *           *
                                                              SUBCHAPTER IV—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
                                      4331.      Regulations.
                                                 *          *          *                  *               *          *           *
                                      4334.      Notice of rights and duties.
                                                 *            *           *               *               *         *           *
                                           SUBCHAPTER II—EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT
                                               RIGHTS AND LIMITATIONS; PROHIBITIONS
                                                 *            *           *               *               *         *           *
                                      § 4317. Health plans
                                         (a)(1) In any case in which a person (or the person’s dependents)
                                      has coverage under a health plan in connection with the person’s
                                      position of employment, including a group health plan (as defined
                                      in section 607(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
                                      of 1974), and such person is absent from such position of employ-
                                      ment by reason of service in the uniformed services, the plan shall
                                      provide that the person may elect to continue such coverage as pro-
                                      vided in this subsection. The maximum period of coverage of a per-
                                      son and the person’s dependents under such an election shall be
                                      the lesser of—
                                              (A) the ø18-month period¿ 24-month period beginning on the
                                           date on which the person’s absence begins; or
                                                 *            *           *               *               *         *           *
                                                SUBCHAPTER IV—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
                                                 *            *           *               *               *         *           *
                                      § 4332. Reports
                                         The Secretary shall, after consultation with the Attorney General
                                      and the Special Counsel referred to in section 4324(a)(1) and øno
                                      later than February 1, 1996, and annually thereafter through




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00063   Fmt 6602       Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      64

                                      2000¿ no later than February 1, 2005, and annually thereafter,
                                      transmit to the Congress, a report containing the following matters
                                      for the fiscal year ending before such February 1:
                                             (1) * * *
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                      § 4334. Notice of rights and duties
                                         (a) REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE NOTICE.—Each employer shall pro-
                                      vide to persons entitled to rights and benefits under this chapter a
                                      notice of the rights, benefits, and obligations of such persons and
                                      such employers under this chapter. The requirement for the provi-
                                      sion of notice under this section may be met by the posting of the
                                      notice where employers customarily place notices for employees.
                                         (b) CONTENT OF NOTICE.—The Secretary shall provide to employ-
                                      ers the text of the notice to be provided under this section.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *

                                                PART IV—GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                          PROVISIONS
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                            CHAPTER 53—SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO
                                                            BENEFITS
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                      § 5312. Annual adjustment of certain benefit rates
                                         (a) * * *
                                         (b)(1) Whenever there is an increase in benefit amounts payable
                                      under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) as
                                      a result of a determination made under section 215(i) of such Act
                                      (42 U.S.C. 415(i)), the Secretary shall, effective on the date of such
                                      increase in benefit amounts, increase the maximum monthly rates
                                      of dependency and indemnity compensation for parents payable
                                      under subsections (b), (c), and (d), and the monthly rate provided
                                      in subsection (g), of section 1315 of this title and the annual income
                                      limitations prescribed in subsections (b)(3), (c)(3), and (d)(3) of such
                                      section, and the annual benefit amount limitations under sections
                                      5507(c)(2)(D) and 5508 of this title, as such rates and limitations
                                      were in effect immediately prior to the date of such increase in ben-
                                      efit amounts payable under title II of the Social Security Act, by
                                      the same percentage as the percentage by which such benefit
                                      amounts are increased.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                           CHAPTER 55—MINORS, INCOMPETENTS, AND OTHER
                                                             WARDS
                                      Sec.
                                      5501.      Commitment actions.
                                                 *          *            *        *           *           *                  *
                                      5506.      Definition of ‘‘fiduciary’’.
                                      5507.      Inquiry, investigations, and qualification of fiduciaries.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00064   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6613   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      65
                                      5508.       Periodic onsite reviews of institutional fiduciaries.
                                      5509.       Authority to redirect delivery of benefit payments when a fiduciary fails to
                                                     provide required accounting.
                                      5510.       Annual report.

                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                      § 5502. Payments to and supervision of fiduciaries
                                         (a)(1) Where it appears to the Secretary that the interest of the
                                      beneficiary would be served thereby, payment of benefits under any
                                      law administered by the Secretary may be made directly to the
                                      beneficiary or to a relative or some øother person¿ other fiduciary
                                      for the use and benefit of the beneficiary, regardless of any legal
                                      disability on the part of the beneficiary. Where, in the opinion of
                                      the Secretary, any fiduciary receiving funds on behalf of a Depart-
                                      ment beneficiary is acting in such a number of cases as to make
                                      it impracticable to conserve properly the estates or to supervise the
                                      persons of the beneficiaries, the Secretary may refuse to make fu-
                                      ture payments in such cases as the Secretary may deem proper.
                                         (2) In a case in which the Secretary determines that a commis-
                                      sion is necessary in order to obtain the services of a fiduciary in
                                      the best interests of a beneficiary, the Secretary may authorize a
                                      fiduciary appointed by the Secretary to obtain from the bene-
                                      ficiary’s estate a reasonable commission for fiduciary services ren-
                                      dered, but the commission for any year may not exceed 4 percent
                                      of the monetary benefits under laws administered by the Secretary
                                      paid on behalf of the beneficiary to the fiduciary during such year.
                                      A commission may not be authorized for a fiduciary who receives
                                      any other form of remuneration or payment in connection with ren-
                                      dering fiduciary services for benefits under this title on behalf of the
                                      beneficiary.
                                         (b) Whenever it appears that any øguardian, curator, conser-
                                      vator, or other person¿ fiduciary, in the opinion of the Secretary,
                                      is not properly executing or has not properly executed the duties
                                      of the trust of such øguardian, curator, conservator, or other per-
                                      son¿ fiduciary or has collected or paid, or is attempting to collect
                                      or pay, fees, commissions, or allowances that are inequitable or in
                                      excess of those allowed by law for the duties performed or expenses
                                      incurred, or has failed to make such payments as may be necessary
                                      for the benefit of the ward or the dependents of the ward, then the
                                      Secretary may appear, by the Secretary’s authorized attorney, in
                                      the court which has appointed such fiduciary, or in any court hav-
                                      ing original, concurrent, or appellate jurisdiction over said cause,
                                      and make proper presentation of such matters. The Secretary, in
                                      the Secretary’s discretion, may suspend payments to any such
                                      øguardian, curator, conservator, or other person¿ fiduciary who
                                      shall neglect or refuse, after reasonable notice, to render an ac-
                                      count to the Secretary from time to time showing the application
                                      of such payments for the benefit of such incompetent or minor ben-
                                      eficiary, or who shall neglect or refuse to administer the estate ac-
                                      cording to law. The Secretary may require the fiduciary, as part of
                                      such account, to disclose any additional financial information con-
                                      cerning the beneficiary (except for information that is not available
                                      to the fiduciary). The Secretary may appear or intervene by the
                                      Secretary’s duly authorized attorney in any court as an interested




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00065   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6601   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      66

                                      party in any litigation instituted by the Secretary or otherwise, di-
                                      rectly affecting money paid to such fiduciary under this section.
                                              *         *        *       *         *        *        *
                                         (d) All or any part of any benefits the payment of which is sus-
                                      pended or withheld under this section may, in the discretion of the
                                      Secretary, be paid temporarily to the person having custody and
                                      control of the incompetent or minor beneficiary, to be used solely
                                      for the benefit of such beneficiary, or, in the case of an incompetent
                                      veteran, may be apportioned to the dependent or dependents, if
                                      any, of such veteran. Any part not so paid and any funds of a men-
                                      tally incompetent or insane veteran not paid to the chief officer of
                                      the institution in which such veteran is a patient nor apportioned
                                      to the veteran’s dependent or dependents may be ordered held in
                                      the Treasury to the credit of such beneficiary. All funds so held
                                      shall be disbursed under the order and in the discretion of the Sec-
                                      retary for the benefit of such beneficiary or the beneficiary’s de-
                                      pendents. Any balance remaining in such fund to the credit of any
                                      beneficiary may be paid to the beneficiary if the beneficiary recov-
                                      ers and is found competent, or if a minor, attains majority, or oth-
                                      erwise to the beneficiary’s øguardian, curator, or conservator¿ fidu-
                                      ciary, or, in the event of the beneficiary’s death, to the beneficiary’s
                                      personal representative, except as otherwise provided by law; how-
                                      ever, payment will not be made to the beneficiary’s personal rep-
                                      resentative if, under the law of the beneficiary’s last legal resi-
                                      dence, the beneficiary’s estate would escheat to the State. In the
                                      event of the death of a mentally incompetent or insane veteran, all
                                      gratuitous benefits under laws administered by the Secretary de-
                                      posited before or after August 7, 1959, in the personal funds of pa-
                                      tients trust fund on account of such veteran shall not be paid to
                                      the personal representative of such veteran, but shall be paid to
                                      the following persons living at the time of settlement, and in the
                                      order named: The surviving spouse, the children (without regard to
                                      age or marital status) in equal parts, and the dependent parents
                                      of such veteran, in equal parts. If any balance remains, such bal-
                                      ance shall be deposited to the credit of the applicable current ap-
                                      propriation; except that there may be paid only so much of such
                                      balance as may be necessary to reimburse a person (other than a
                                      political subdivision of the United States) who bore the expenses of
                                      last sickness or burial of the veteran for such expenses. No pay-
                                      ment shall be made under the two preceding sentences of this sub-
                                      section unless claim therefor is filed with the Secretary within five
                                      years after the death of the veteran, except that, if any person so
                                      entitled under said two sentences is under legal disability at the
                                      time of death of the veteran, such five-year period of limitation
                                      shall run from the termination or removal of the legal disability.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                      § 5506. Definition of ‘‘fiduciary’’
                                          For purposes of this chapter and chapter 61 of this title, the term
                                      ‘‘fiduciary’’ means—
                                              (1) a person who is a guardian, curator, conservator, com-
                                            mittee, or person legally vested with the responsibility or care




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00066   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6603   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      67

                                             of a claimant (or a claimant’s estate) or of a beneficiary (or a
                                             beneficiary’s estate); or
                                                (2) any other person having been appointed in a representa-
                                             tive capacity to receive money paid under any of the laws ad-
                                             ministered by the Secretary for the use and benefit of a minor,
                                             incompetent, or other beneficiary.
                                      § 5507. Inquiry, investigations, and qualification of fidu-
                                                   ciaries
                                         (a) Any certification of a person for payment of benefits of a bene-
                                      ficiary to that person as such beneficiary’s fiduciary under section
                                      5502 of this title shall be made on the basis of—
                                               (1) an inquiry or investigation by the Secretary of the fitness
                                            of that person to serve as fiduciary for that beneficiary, such in-
                                            quiry or investigation—
                                                    (A) to be conducted in advance of such certification;
                                                    (B) to the extent practicable, to include a face-to-face
                                                 interview with such person; and
                                                    (C) to the extent practicable, to include a copy of a credit
                                                 report for such person issued within one year of the date of
                                                 the proposed appointment;
                                               (2) adequate evidence that certification of that person as fidu-
                                            ciary for that beneficiary is in the interest of such beneficiary
                                            (as determined by the Secretary under regulations); and
                                               (3) the furnishing of any bond that may be required by the
                                            Secretary.
                                         (b) As part of any inquiry or investigation of any person under
                                      subsection (a), the Secretary shall request information concerning
                                      whether that person has been convicted of any offense under Federal
                                      or State law which resulted in imprisonment for more than one
                                      year. If that person has been convicted of such an offense, the Sec-
                                      retary may certify the person as a fiduciary only if the Secretary
                                      makes a specific finding that the person has been rehabilitated and
                                      is an appropriate person to act as fiduciary for the beneficiary con-
                                      cerned under the circumstances.
                                         (c)(1) In the case of a proposed fiduciary described in paragraph
                                      (2), the Secretary, in conducting an inquiry or investigation under
                                      subsection (a)(1), may carry out such inquiry or investigation on an
                                      expedited basis that may include waiver of any specific requirement
                                      relating to such inquiry or investigation, including the otherwise ap-
                                      plicable provisions of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of such sub-
                                      section. Any such inquiry or investigation carried out on such an ex-
                                      pedited basis shall be carried out under regulations prescribed for
                                      purposes of this section.
                                         (2) Paragraph (1) applies with respect to a proposed fiduciary
                                      who is—
                                               (A) the parent (natural, adopted, or stepparent) of a bene-
                                            ficiary who is a minor;
                                               (B) the spouse or parent of an incompetent beneficiary;
                                               (C) a person who has been appointed a fiduciary of the bene-
                                            ficiary by a court of competent jurisdiction; or
                                               (D) being appointed to manage an estate where the annual
                                            amount of veterans benefits to be managed by the proposed fi-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00067   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6603   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      68

                                           duciary does not exceed $3600, as adjusted pursuant to section
                                           5312 of this title.
                                        (d) TEMPORARY FIDUCIARIES.—When in the opinion of the Sec-
                                      retary, a temporary fiduciary is needed in order to protect the assets
                                      of the beneficiary while a determination of incompetency is being
                                      made or appealed or a fiduciary is appealing a determination of
                                      misuse, the Secretary may appoint one or more temporary fidu-
                                      ciaries for a period not to exceed 120 days. If a final decision has
                                      not been made within 120 days, the Secretary may not continue the
                                      appointment of the fiduciary without obtaining a court order for ap-
                                      pointment of a guardian, conservator, or other fiduciary under the
                                      authority provided in section 5502(b) of this title.
                                      § 5508. Periodic onsite reviews of institutional fiduciaries
                                         In addition to such other reviews of fiduciaries as the Secretary
                                      may otherwise conduct, the Secretary shall provide for the periodic
                                      onsite review of any person or agency located in the United States
                                      that receives the benefits payable under laws administered by the
                                      Secretary to another individual pursuant to the appointment of such
                                      person or agency as a fiduciary under section 5502(a)(1) of this title
                                      in any case in which the fiduciary is serving in that capacity with
                                      respect to more than 20 beneficiaries and the total annual amount
                                      of such benefits exceeds $50,000, as adjusted pursuant to section
                                      5312 of this title.
                                      § 5509. Authority to redirect delivery of benefit payments
                                                  when a fiduciary fails to provide required account-
                                                  ing
                                         (a) REQUIRED REPORTS AND ACCOUNTINGS.—The Secretary may
                                      require a fiduciary to file a report or accounting pursuant to regula-
                                      tions prescribed by the Secretary.
                                         (b) ACTIONS UPON FAILURE TO FILE.—In any case in which a fi-
                                      duciary fails to submit a report or accounting required by the Sec-
                                      retary under subsection (a), the Secretary may, after furnishing no-
                                      tice to such fiduciary and the beneficiary entitled to such payment
                                      of benefits, require that such fiduciary appear in person at a re-
                                      gional office of the Department serving the area in which the bene-
                                      ficiary resides in order to receive such payments.
                                      § 5510. Annual report
                                         The Secretary shall include in the Annual Benefits Report of the
                                      Veterans Benefits Administration or the Secretary’s Annual Per-
                                      formance and Accountability Report information concerning fidu-
                                      ciaries who have been appointed to receive payments for bene-
                                      ficiaries of the Department. As part of such information, the Sec-
                                      retary shall separately set forth the following:
                                              (1) The number of beneficiaries in each category (veteran, sur-
                                           viving spouse, child, adult disabled child, or parent).
                                              (2) The types of benefit being paid (compensation, pension, de-
                                           pendency and indemnity compensation, death pension or bene-
                                           fits payable to a disabled child under chapter 18 of this title).
                                              (3) The total annual amounts and average annual amounts
                                           of benefits paid to fiduciaries for each category and type of ben-
                                           efit.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00068   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6603   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      69

                                               (4) The number of fiduciaries who are the (spouse, parent,
                                             legal custodian, court-appointed fiduciary, institutional fidu-
                                             ciary, custodian in fact, and supervised direct payment).
                                               (5) The number of cases in which the fiduciary was changed
                                             by the Secretary because of a finding that benefits had been
                                             misused.
                                               (6) How such cases of misuse of benefits were addressed by
                                             the Secretary.
                                               (7) The final disposition of such cases of misuse of benefits,
                                             including the number and dollar amount of any civil or crimi-
                                             nal penalties imposed.
                                               (8) Such other information as the Secretary considers appro-
                                             priate.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *

                                                PART IV—GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                          PROVISIONS
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                           CHAPTER 61—PENAL AND FORFEITURE PROVISIONS
                                      Sec.
                                      6101.      Misappropriation by fiduciaries.
                                                 *          *          *           *           *                 *           *
                                      6106.      Misuse of benefits by fiduciaries.
                                      6107.      Reissuance of benefits.
                                      6108.      Civil monetary penalties.
                                      6109.      Authority for judicial orders of restitution.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                      § 6101. Misappropriation by fiduciaries
                                         (a) Whoever, being a øguardian, curator, conservator, committee,
                                      or person legally vested with the responsibility or care of a claim-
                                      ant or a claimant’s estate, or any other person having charge and
                                      custody in a fiduciary capacity of money heretofore or hereafter
                                      paid under any of the laws administered by the Secretary for the
                                      benefit of any minor, incompetent, or other beneficiary,¿ fiduciary
                                      (as defined in section 5506 of this title) for the benefit of a minor,
                                      incompetent, or other beneficiary under laws administered by the
                                      Secretary, shall lend, borrow, pledge, hypothecate, use, or exchange
                                      for other funds or property, except as authorized by law, or embez-
                                      zle or in any manner misappropriate any such money or property
                                      derived therefrom in whole or in part and coming into such fidu-
                                      ciary’s control in any manner whatever in the execution of such fi-
                                      duciary’s trust, or under color of such fiduciary’s office or service
                                      as such fiduciary, shall be fined in accordance with title 18, or im-
                                      prisoned not more than five years, or both.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *
                                      § 6106. Misuse of benefits by fiduciaries
                                         (a) FEE FORFEITURE IN CASE OF BENEFIT MISUSE BY FIDU-
                                      CIARIES.—A fiduciary may not collect a fee from a beneficiary for
                                      any month with respect to which the Secretary or a court of com-




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00069   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6603   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      70

                                      petent jurisdiction has determined that the fiduciary misused all or
                                      part of the individual’s benefit, and any amount so collected by the
                                      fiduciary as a fee for such month shall be treated as a misused part
                                      of the individual’s benefit.
                                         (b) LIABILITY OF FIDUCIARIES FOR MISUSED BENEFITS.—(1) If the
                                      Secretary or a court of competent jurisdiction determines that a fi-
                                      duciary that is not a Federal, State, or local government agency has
                                      misused all or part of a beneficiary’s benefit that was paid to such
                                      fiduciary, the fiduciary shall be liable for the amount misused, and
                                      such amount (to the extent not repaid by the fiduciary) shall be
                                      treated as an erroneous payment of benefits under this title to the
                                      fiduciary for purposes of laws pertaining to the recovery of overpay-
                                      ments. The amount of such overpayment shall constitute a liability
                                      of such fiduciary to the United States and may be recovered in the
                                      same manner as any other debt due the United States. Subject to
                                      paragraph (2), upon recovering all or any part of such amount, the
                                      Secretary shall pay an amount equal to the recovered amount to
                                      such beneficiary or such beneficiary’s successor fiduciary.
                                         (2) The total of the amounts paid to a beneficiary (or a bene-
                                      ficiary’s successor fiduciary) under paragraph (1) and under section
                                      6107 of this title may not exceed the total benefit amount misused
                                      by the fiduciary with respect to that beneficiary.
                                         (c) MISUSE OF BENEFITS DEFINED.—For purposes of this chapter,
                                      misuse of benefits by a fiduciary occurs in any case in which the fi-
                                      duciary receives payment, under any of laws administered by the
                                      Secretary, for the use and benefit of a beneficiary and uses such
                                      payment, or any part thereof, for a use other than for the use and
                                      benefit of such beneficiary or that beneficiary’s dependents. Reten-
                                      tion by a fiduciary of an amount of a benefit payment as a fiduciary
                                      fee or commission, or as attorney’s fees (including expenses) and
                                      court costs, if authorized by the Secretary or a court of competent
                                      jurisdiction, shall be considered to be for the use or benefit of such
                                      beneficiary.
                                         (d) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary may prescribe by regulation the
                                      meaning of the term ‘‘use and benefit’’ for purposes of this section.
                                         (e) FINALITY OF DETERMINATIONS.—A determination by the Sec-
                                      retary that a fiduciary has misused benefits is a decision of the Sec-
                                      retary for purposes of section 511(a) of this title.
                                      § 6107. Reissuance of benefits
                                         (a) NEGLIGENT FAILURE BY SECRETARY.—(1) In any case in which
                                      the negligent failure of the Secretary to investigate or monitor a fi-
                                      duciary results in misuse of benefits by the fiduciary, the Secretary
                                      shall pay to the beneficiary or the beneficiary’s successor fiduciary
                                      an amount equal to the amount of benefits that were so misused.
                                         (2) There shall be considered to have been a negligent failure by
                                      the Secretary to investigate and monitor a fiduciary in the following
                                      cases:
                                              (A) A case in which the Secretary failed to timely review a fi-
                                           duciary’s accounting.
                                              (B) A case in which the Secretary was notified of allegations
                                           of misuse, but failed to act in a timely manner to terminate the
                                           fiduciary.
                                              (C) In any other case in which actual negligence is shown.




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00070   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6603   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      71

                                        (b) REISSUANCE OF MISUSED BENEFITS IN OTHER CASES.—(1) In
                                      any case in which a fiduciary described in paragraph (2) misuses
                                      all or part of an individual’s benefit paid to such fiduciary, the Sec-
                                      retary shall pay to the beneficiary or the beneficiary’s successor fidu-
                                      ciary an amount equal to the amount of such benefit so misused.
                                        (2) Paragraph (1) applies to a fiduciary that—
                                             (A) is not an individual; or
                                             (B) is an individual who, for any month during a period
                                           when misuse occurs, serves 10 or more individuals who are
                                           beneficiaries under this title.
                                        (c) RECOUPMENT OF AMOUNTS REISSUED.—In any case in which
                                      the Secretary reissues a benefit payment (in whole or in part) under
                                      subsection (a) or (b), the Secretary shall make a good faith effort to
                                      obtain recoupment from the fiduciary to whom the payment was
                                      originally made.
                                      § 6108. Civil monetary penalties
                                         (a) PENALTY FOR CONVERSION.—Any person (including an organi-
                                      zation, agency, or other entity) who, having received, while acting
                                      in the capacity of a fiduciary pursuant to section 5502 of this title,
                                      a payment under a law administered by the Secretary for the use
                                      and benefit of another individual, converts such payment, or any
                                      part thereof, to a use that such person knows or should know is
                                      other than for the use and benefit of such other individual shall be
                                      subject to, in addition to any other penalty that may be prescribed
                                      by law, a civil monetary penalty assessed by the Secretary of not
                                      more than $5,000 for each such conversion.
                                         (b) PENALTY IN LIEU OF DAMAGES.—Any person who makes a con-
                                      version of a payment described in subsection (a) and is subject to
                                      a civil monetary penalty under that subsection by reason of such
                                      conversion shall also be subject to an assessment by the Secretary,
                                      in lieu of damages sustained by the United States resulting from the
                                      conversion, of not more than twice the amount of any payments so
                                      converted.
                                         (c) COSTS OF RECOVERY.—From amounts collected under this sec-
                                      tion, the amount necessary to recoup the Department’s costs of such
                                      collection shall be credited to appropriations currently available for
                                      the same purpose as the appropriation that incurred those costs, to
                                      remain available until expended.
                                      § 6109. Authority for judicial orders of restitution
                                         (a) Any Federal court, when sentencing a defendant convicted of
                                      an offense arising from the misuse of benefits under this title, may
                                      order, in addition to or in lieu of any other penalty authorized by
                                      law, that the defendant make restitution to the Department.
                                         (b) Sections 3612, 3663, and 3664 of title 18 shall apply with re-
                                      spect to the issuance and enforcement of orders of restitution under
                                      subsection (a). In so applying those sections, the Department shall
                                      be considered the victim.
                                         (c) If the court does not order restitution, or orders only partial
                                      restitution, under subsection (a), the court shall state on the record
                                      the reasons therefor.
                                         (d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), amounts received or
                                      recovered by the Secretary pursuant to an order of restitution under




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00071   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6603   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
                                                                                      72

                                      subsection (a), to the extent and in the amounts provided in advance
                                      in appropriations Acts, shall be available to defray expenses in-
                                      curred by the Office of the Inspector General for the investigation of
                                      fiduciaries under this title.
                                         (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to amounts received
                                      in connection with misuse by a fiduciary of funds paid as benefits
                                      under laws administered by the Secretary. Such amounts shall be
                                      paid to the individual whose benefits were misused unless the Sec-
                                      retary has previously reissued the misused benefits, in which case
                                      the amounts shall be treated in the same manner as overpayments
                                      recouped by the Secretary and shall be deposited to the credit of the
                                      applicable revolving fund, trust fund, or appropriation.
                                                 *            *           *               *           *         *           *


                                                                                          Æ




VerDate Aug 04 2004   12:07 Sep 14, 2004   Jkt 029006   PO 00000   Frm 00072   Fmt 6602   Sfmt 6611   E:\HR\OC\HR683.XXX   HR683
