Source: https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/OCHCO/documents/52641A.pdf (Form HUD-52641-A, Tenancy Addendum, Section 8 Tenant-Based Assistance, Housing Choice Voucher Program)
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; pdftotext (reading order))

TENANCY ADDENDUM
Section 8 Tenant-Based Assistance
Housing Choice Voucher Program
(To be attached to Tenant Lease)

U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development
Office of Public and Indian Housing

OMB Approval No. 2577-0169
exp. 04/30/2026

OMB Burden Statement. The public reporting burden for this information collection is estimated to be up to 0.5 hours, including the time for reading the contract. No
information is collected on this form. The form is required to establish contract terms between the participant family and owner and is required to be an addendum to the
lease (24 CFR § 982.308(f). Assurances of confidentiality are not provided under this collection. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of
this collection of information, including suggestions to reduce this burden, to the Office of Public and Indian Housing, US. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Washington, DC 20410. HUD may not conduct and sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless the collection
displays a valid control number.

1.

Section 8 Voucher Program
a. The owner is leasing the contract unit to the tenant for
occupancy by the tenant’s family with assistance for a
tenancy under the Section 8 housing choice voucher
program (voucher program) of the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).

(2)

5.

b. The owner has entered into a Housing Assistance

3.

4.

payment to the owner on behalf of the family in
accordance with the HAP contract. The amount of the
monthly housing assistance payment will be determined
by the PHA in accordance with HUD requirements for a
tenancy under the Section 8 voucher program.

Lease
a. The owner has given the PHA a copy of the lease,
including any revisions agreed by the owner and the
tenant. The owner certifies that the terms of the lease are
in accordance with all provisions of the HAP contract and
that the lease includes the tenancy addendum.
b. The tenant shall have the right to enforce the tenancy
addendum against the owner. If there is any conflict
between the tenancy addendum and any other provisions
of the lease, the language of the tenancy addendum shall
control.
Use of Contract Unit
a. During the lease term, the family will reside in the
contract unit with assistance under the voucher program.
b. The composition of the household must be approved by
the PHA. The family must promptly inform the PHA of
the birth, adoption or court-awarded custody of a child.
Other persons may not be added to the household without
prior written approval of the owner and the PHA.
c. The contract unit may only be used for residence by the
PHA-approved household members. The unit must be the
family’s only residence. Members of the household may
engage in legal profit making activities incidental to
primary use of the unit for residence by members of the
family.
d. The tenant may not sublease or let the unit.
e. The tenant may not assign the lease or transfer the unit.
Rent to Owner
a. The initial rent to owner may not exceed the amount
approved by the PHA in accordance with HUD
requirements.
b. Changes in the rent to owner shall be determined by the
provisions of the lease. However, the owner may not raise
the rent during the initial term of the lease.
c. During the term of the lease (including the initial term of
the lease and any extension term), the rent to owner may
at no time exceed:
(1) The reasonable rent for the unit as most recently
determined or redetermined by the PHA in
accordance with HUD requirements, or
Previous editions are obsolete

Family Payment to Owner
a. The family is responsible for paying the owner any
portion of the rent to owner that is not covered by the PHA
housing assistance payment.
b. Each month, the PHA will make a housing assistance

Payments Contract (HAP contract) with the PHA under
the voucher program. Under the HAP contract, the PHA
will make housing assistance payments to the owner to
assist the tenant in leasing the unit from the owner.

2.

Rent charged by the owner for comparable
unassisted units in the premises.

c. The monthly housing assistance payment shall be credited

against the monthly rent to owner for the contract unit.
d. The tenant is not responsible for paying the portion of rent

to owner covered by the PHA housing assistance payment
under the HAP contract between the owner and the PHA.
A PHA failure to pay the housing assistance payment to
the owner is not a violation of the lease. The owner may
not terminate the tenancy for nonpayment of the PHA
housing assistance payment.
e. The owner may not charge or accept, from the family or

from any other source, any payment for rent of the unit in
addition to the rent to owner. Rent to owner includes all
housing services, maintenance, utilities and appliances to
be provided and paid by the owner in accordance with the
lease.
f. The owner must immediately return any excess rent

payment to the tenant.

6.

Other Fees and Charges
a. Rent to owner does not include cost of any meals or
supportive services or furniture which may be provided
by the owner.
b. The owner may not require the tenant or family members
to pay charges for any meals or supportive services or
furniture which may be provided by the owner.
Nonpayment of any such charges is not grounds for
termination of tenancy.
c. The owner may not charge the tenant extra amounts for
items customarily included in rent to owner in the locality,
or provided at no additional cost to unsubsidized tenants
in the premises.

7.

Maintenance, Utilities, and Other Services
a. Maintenance
(1) The owner must maintain the unit and premises
in accordance with the HQS.
(2) Maintenance and replacement (including
redecoration) must be in accordance with the

Page 1 of 5

form HUD-52641-A
(04/2023)

from which the individual flees, or that, in
the case of the State of New Jersey, is a
high misdemeanor; or
(b) Violating a condition of probation or
parole under Federal or State law.
(3) The owner may terminate the tenancy for
criminal activity by a household member in
accordance with this section if the owner
determines that the household member has
committed the criminal activity, regardless of
whether the household member has been arrested
or convicted for such activity.
(4) The owner may terminate the tenancy during the
term of the lease if any member of the household
has engaged in abuse of alcohol that threatens
the health, safety or right to peaceful enjoyment
of the premises by other residents.
d. Other good cause for termination of tenancy
(1) During the initial lease term, other good cause
for termination of tenancy must be something
the family did or failed to do.
(2) During the initial lease term or during any
extension term, other good cause may include:
(a) Disturbance of neighbors,
(b) Destruction of property, or
(c) Living or housekeeping habits that cause
damage to the unit or premises.
(3) After the initial lease term, such good cause
may include:
(a) The tenant’s failure to accept the owner’s
offer of a new lease or revision;
(b) The owner’s desire to use the unit for
personal or family use or for a purpose other
than use as a residential rental unit; or
(c) A business or economic reason for
termination of the tenancy (such as sale of
the property, renovation of the unit, the
owner’s desire to rent the unit for a higher
rent).
(4) The examples of other good cause in this
paragraph do not preempt any State or local laws
to the contrary.
(5) In the case of an owner who is an immediate
successor in interest pursuant to foreclosure
during the term of the lease, requiring the tenant
to vacate the property prior to sale shall not
constitute other good cause, except that the
owner may terminate the tenancy effective on
the date of transfer of the unit to the owner if the
owner:
(a) Will occupy the unit as a primary
residence; and
(b) Has provided the tenant a notice to
vacate at least 90 days before the
effective date of such notice. This
provision shall not affect any State or
local law that provides for longer time
periods or addition protections for
tenants.

standard practice for the building concerned as
established by the owner.
b. Utiliti es and appliances
(1) The owner must provide all utilities needed to
comply with the HQS.
(2) The owner is not responsible for a breach of the
HQS caused by the tenant’s failure to:
(a) Pay for any utilities that are to be paid by the
tenant.
(b) Provide and maintain any appliances that
are to be provided by the tenant.
c. Family damage. The owner is not responsible for a
breach of the HQS because of damages beyond normal
wear and tear caused by any member of the household or
by a guest.
d. Housing services. The owner must provide all
housing services as agreed to in the lease.

8.

Termination of Tenancy by Owner
a. Requirements. The owner may only terminate the
tenancy in accordance with the lease and HUD
requirements.
b. Grounds. During the term of the lease (the initial
term of the lease or any extension term), the owner may
only terminate the tenancy because of:
(1) Serious or repeated violation of the lease;
(2) Violation of Federal, State, or local law that
imposes obligations on the tenant in connection
with the occupancy or use of the unit and the
premises;
(3) Criminal activity or alcohol abuse (as provided
in paragraph c); or
(4) Other good cause (as provided in paragraph d).
c. Criminal activity or alcohol abuse
(1) The owner may terminate the tenancy during
the term of the lease if any member of the
household, a guest or another person under a
resident’s control commits any of the following
types of criminal activity:
(a) Any criminal activity that threatens the
health or safety of, or the right to peaceful
enjoyment of the premises by, other
residents
(including
property
management staff residing on the
premises);
(b) Any criminal activity that threatens the
health or safety of, or the right to peaceful
enjoyment of their residences by, persons
residing in the immediate vicinity of the
premises;
(c) Any violent criminal activity on or near
the premises; or
(d) Any drug-related criminal activity on or
near the premises.
(2) The owner may terminate the tenancy during the
term of the lease if any member of the household
is:
(a) Fleeing to avoid prosecution, or custody
or confinement after conviction, for a
crime, or attempt to commit a crime, that
is a felony under the laws of the place

Previous editions are obsolete

Page 2 of 5

form HUD-52641-A
(04/2023)

9.

Protections for Victims of Domestic Violence, Dating
Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking
a. Purpose: This section incorporates the protections for
victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking in accordance with subtitle N of the
Violence Against Women Act of 1994, as amended
(codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. 14043e et seq.)
(VAWA) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 5,
subpart L.
b. Conflict with other Provisions: In the event of any
conflict between this provision and any other provisions
included in Part C of the HAP contract, this provision
shall prevail.
c. Effect on Other Protections: Nothing in this section shall
be construed to supersede any provision of any Federal,
State, or local law that provides greater protection than this
section for victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, or stalking.
d. Definition: As used in this Section, the terms “actual and
imminent threat,” “affiliated individual”, “bifurcate”,
“dating violence,” “domestic violence,” “sexual assault,”
and “stalking” are defined in HUD’s regulations at 24 CFR
part 5, subpart L. The terms “Household” and “Other
Person Under the Tenant’s Control” are defined at 24 CFR
part 5, subpart A.
e. VAWA Notice and Certification Form: The PHA shall
provide the tenant with the “Notice of Occupancy Rights
under VAWA and the certification form described under
24 CFR 5.2005(a)(1) and (2).
f. Protection for victims of Domestic Violence, Dating
Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking:
(1) The landlord or the PHA will not deny admission
to, deny assistance under, terminate from
participation in, or evict the Tenant on the basis of
or as a direct result of the fact that the Tenant is or
has been a victim of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, or stalking, if the Tenant
otherwise qualifies for admission, assistance,
participation, or occupancy. 24 CFR 5.2005(b)(1).
(2) The tenant shall not be denied tenancy or
occupancy rights solely on the basis of criminal
activity engaged in by a member of the Tenant’s
Household or any guest or Other Person Under the
Tenant’s Control, if the criminal activity is directly
related to domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, or stalking, and the Tenant or an
Affiliated Individual of the Tenant is the victim or
the threatened victim of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, or stalking. 24 CFR
5.2005(b)(2).
(3) An incident or incidents of actual or threatened
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault
or stalking will not be construed as serious or
repeated violations of the lease by the victim or
threatened victim of the incident. Nor shall it not be
construed as other “good cause” for termination of
the lease, tenancy, or occupancy rights of such a
victim or threatened victim. 24 CFR 5.2005(c)(1)
and (c)(2).
g. Compliance with Court Orders: Nothing in this
Addendum will limit the authority of the landlord, when
notified by a court order, to comply with the court order
with respect to the rights of access or control of property
Previous editions are obsolete

(including civil protection orders issued to protect a
victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking) or with respect to the distribution or
possession of property among members of the Tenant’s
Household. 24 CFR 5.2005(d)(1).
h. Violations Not Premised on Domestic Violence, Dating
Violence, Sexual Assault, or Stalking: Nothing in this
section shall be construed to limit any otherwise available
authority of the Landlord to evict or the public housing
authority to terminate the assistance of a Tenant for any
violation not premised on an act of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking that is in
question against the Tenant or an Affiliated Individual of
the Tenant. However, the Landlord or the PHA will not
subject the tenant, who is or has been a victim of domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking, to a
more demanding standard than other tenants in
determining whether to evict or terminate assistance. 24
CFR 5.2005(d)(2).
i. Actual and Imminent Threats:
(1) Nothing in this section will be construed to limit the
authority of the Landlord to evict the Tenant if the
Landlord can demonstrate that an “actual and imminent
threat” to other tenants or those employed at or
providing service to the property would be present if the
Tenant or lawful occupant is not evicted. In this
context, words, gestures, actions, or other indicators
will be construed as an actual and imminent threat if
they meet the following standards for an actual and
imminent threat: “Actual and imminent threat” refers to
a physical danger that is real, would occur within an
immediate time frame, and could result in death or
serious bodily harm. In determining whether an
individual would pose an actual and imminent threat,
the factors to be considered include: the duration of the
risk, the nature and severity of the potential harm, the
likelihood that the potential harm will occur, and the
length of time before the potential harm would occur.
24 CFR 5.2005(d)(3).
(2) If an actual and imminent threat is demonstrated,
eviction should be used only when there are no other
actions that could be taken to reduce or eliminate the
threat, including, but not limited to, transferring the
victim to a different unit, barring the perpetrator from
the property, contacting law enforcement to increase
police presence, developing other plans to keep the
property safe, or seeking other legal remedies to
prevent the perpetrator from acting on a threat.
Restrictions predicated on public safety cannot be
based on stereotypes, but must be tailored to
particularized concerns about individual residents. 24
CFR 5.2005(d)(4).
j. Emergency Transfer: A tenant who is a victim of domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking may
request an emergency transfer in accordance with the PHA’s
emergency transfer plan. 24 CFR 5.2005(e). The PHA’s
emergency transfer plan must be made available upon request,
and incorporate strict confidentiality measures to ensure that
the PHA does not disclose a tenant’s dwelling unit location to
a person who committed or threatened to commit an act of
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking
against the tenant;
For transfers in which the tenant would not be considered a
new applicant, the PHA must ensure that a request for an

Page 3 of 5

form HUD-52641-A
(04/2023)

emergency transfer receives, at a minimum, any applicable
additional priority that is already provided to other types of
emergency transfer requests. For transfers in which the tenant
would be considered a new applicant, the plan must include
policies for assisting a tenant with this transfer.
k. Bifurcation: Subject to any lease termination requirements or
procedures prescribed by Federal, State, or local law, if any
member of the Tenant’s Household engages in criminal
activity directly relating to domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, or stalking, the Landlord may “bifurcate” the
Lease, or remove that Household member from the Lease,
without regard to whether that Household member is a
signatory to the Lease, in order to evict, remove, or terminate
the occupancy rights of that Household member without
evicting, removing, or otherwise penalizing the victim of the
criminal activity who is also a tenant or lawful occupant. Such
eviction, removal, termination of occupancy rights, or
termination of assistance shall be effected in accordance with
the procedures prescribed by Federal, State, and local law for
the termination of leases or assistance under the housing choice
voucher program. 24 CFR 5.2009(a).
If the Landlord bifurcates the Lease to evict, remove, or
terminate assistance to a household member, and that
household member is the sole tenant eligible to receive
assistance, the landlord shall provide any remaining tenants or
residents a period of 30 calendar days from the date of
bifurcation of the lease to:
(1) Establish eligibility for the same covered housing
program under which the evicted or terminated tenant
was the recipient of assistance at the time of bifurcation
of the lease;
(2) Establish eligibility under another covered housing
program; or
(3) Find alternative housing.
l. Family Break-up: If the family break-up results from an
occurrence of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking, the PHA must ensure that the victim retains
assistance. 24 CFR 982.315.
m. Move with Continued Assistance: The public housing agency
may not terminate assistance to a family or member of the
family that moves out of a unit in violation of the lease, with or
without prior notification to the public housing agency if such
a move occurred to protect the health or safety of a family
member who is or has been a victim of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking; and who
reasonably believed they were imminently threatened by harm
from further violence if they remained in the dwelling unit, or
if any family member has been the victim of sexual assault that
occurred on the premises during the 90-calendar-day period
preceding the family’s request to move.
(1) The move is needed to protect the health or safety of the
family or family member who is or has been a victim of
domestic violence dating violence, sexual assault or
stalking; and
(2) The family or member of the family reasonably believes
that he or she was threatened with imminent harm from
further violence if he or she remained in the dwelling
unit. However, any family member that has been the
victim of a sexual assault that occurred on the premises
during the 90-calendar day period preceding the family’s
move or request to move is not required to believe that
he or she was threatened with imminent harm from

Previous editions are obsolete

further violence if he or she remained in the dwelling
unit. 24 CFR 982.354.
n. Confidentiality.
(1) The Landlord shall maintain in strict confidence any
information the Tenant (or someone acting on behalf of
the Tenant) submits to the Landlord concerning
incidents of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault or stalking, including the fact that the tenant is a
victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking.
(2) The Landlord shall not allow any individual
administering assistance on its behalf, or any persons
within its employ, to have access to confidential
information unless explicitly authorized by the Landlord
for reasons that specifically call for these individuals to
have access to the information pursuant to applicable
Federal, State, or local law.
(3) The Landlord shall not enter confidential information
into any shared database or disclose such information
to any other entity or individual, except to the extent
that the disclosure is requested or consented to in
writing by the individual in a time-limited release;
required for use in an eviction proceeding; or is
required by applicable law.

10. Eviction by court action
The owner may only evict the tenant by a court action.
11. Owner notice of grounds
a. At or before the beginning of a court action to evict the
tenant, the owner must give the tenant a notice that
specifies the grounds for termination of tenancy. The
notice may be included in or combined with any owner
eviction notice.
b. The owner must give the PHA a copy of any owner
eviction notice at the same time the owner notifies the
tenant.
c. Eviction notice means a notice to vacate, or a complaint
or other initial pleading used to begin an eviction action
under State or local law.
12. Lease: Relation to HAP Contract
If the HAP contract terminates for any reason, the lease terminates
automatically.
13. PHA Termination of Assistance
The PHA may terminate program assistance for the family for any
grounds authorized in accordance with HUD requirements. If the
PHA terminates program assistance for the family, the lease
terminates automatically.
14. Family Move Out
The tenant must notify the PHA and the owner before the family
moves out of the unit.
15. Security Deposit
a. The owner may collect a security deposit from the
tenant. (However, the PHA may prohibit the owner
from collecting a security deposit in excess of
private market practice, or in excess of amounts
charged by the owner to unassisted tenants. Any
such PHA-required restriction must be specified in
the HAP contract.)
b. When the family moves out of the contract unit, the
owner, subject to State and local law, may use the

Page 4 of 5

form HUD-52641-A
(04/2023)

security deposit, including any interest on the
deposit, as reimbursement for any unpaid rent
payable by the tenant, any damages to the unit or
any other amounts that the tenant owes under the
lease.
c. The owner must give the tenant a list of all items
charged against the security deposit, and the amount
of each item. After deducting the amount, if any,
used to reimburse the owner, the owner must
promptly refund the full amount of the unused
balance to the tenant.
d. If the security deposit is not sufficient to cover
amounts the tenant owes under the lease, the owner
may collect the balance from the tenant.

before any such changes go into effect, and the
amount of the rent to owner following any such
agreed change may not exceed the reasonable rent
for the unit as most recently determined or
redetermined by the PHA in accordance with HUD
requirements.
19.
Notices
Any notice under the lease by the tenant to the owner or by the
owner to the tenant must be in writing.

16. Prohibition of Discrimination
In accordance with applicable nondiscrimination and equal
opportunity laws, statutes, Executive Orders, and regulations, the
owner must not discriminate against any person because of race,
color, religion, sex (including sexual orientation and gender
identity), national origin, age, familial status or disability in
connection with the lease. Eligibility for HUD’s programs must be
made without regard to actual or perceived sexual orientation,
gender identity, or marital status.
17. Conflict with Other Provisions of Lease
a. The terms of the tenancy addendum are prescribed
by HUD in accordance with Federal law and
regulation, as a condition for Federal assistance to
the tenant and tenant’s family under the Section 8
voucher program.
b. In case of any conflict between the provisions of
the tenancy addendum as required by HUD, and
any other provisions of the lease or any other
agreement between the owner and the tenant, the
requirements of the HUD-required tenancy
addendum shall control.
18. Changes in Lease or Rent
a. The tenant and the owner may not make any change
in the tenancy addendum. However, if the tenant
and the owner agree to any other changes in the
lease, such changes must be in writing, and the
owner must immediately give the PHA a copy of
such changes. The lease, including any changes,
must be in accordance with the requirements of the
tenancy addendum.
b. In the following cases, tenant-based assistance
shall not be continued unless the PHA has
approved a new tenancy in accordance with
program requirements and has executed a new
HAP contract with the owner:
(1) If there are any changes in lease requirements
governing tenant or owner responsibilities
for utilities or appliances;
(2) If there are any changes in lease provisions
governing the term of the lease;
(3) If the family moves to a new unit, even if the
unit is in the same building or complex.
c. PHA approval of the tenancy, and execution of a
new HAP contract, are not required for agreed
changes in the lease other than as specified in
paragraph b.
d. The owner must notify the PHA of any changes in
the amount of the rent to owner at least sixty days

Previous editions are obsolete

Page 5 of 5

20.
Definitions
Contract unit. The housing unit rented by the tenant with
assistance under the program.
Family. The persons who may reside in the unit with assistance
under the program.
HAP contract. The housing assistance payments contract between
the PHA and the owner. The PHA pays housing assistance
payments to the owner in accordance with the HAP contract.
Household. The persons who may reside in the contract unit. The
household consists of the family and any PHA-approved live-in
aide. (A live-in aide is a person who resides in the unit to provide
necessary supportive services for a member of the family who is a
person with disabilities.)
Housing quality standards (HQS). The HUD minimum
quality standards for housing assisted under the Section 8
tenant-based programs.
HUD. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
HUD requirements. HUD requirements for the Section 8
program. HUD requirements are issued by HUD headquarters, as
regulations, Federal Register notices or other binding program
directives.
Lease. The written agreement between the owner and the tenant
for the lease of the contract unit to the tenant. The lease includes
the tenancy addendum prescribed by HUD.
PHA. Public Housing Agency.
Premises. The building or complex in which the contract
unit is located, including common areas and grounds.
Program. The Section 8 housing choice voucher program.
Rent to owner. The total monthly rent payable to the owner for
the contract unit. The rent to owner is the sum of the portion of
rent payable by the tenant plus the PHA housing assistance
payment to the owner.
Section 8. Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 United States Code 1437f).
Tenant. The family member (or members) who leases the unit
from the owner.
Voucher program. The Section 8 housing choice voucher
program. Under this program, HUD provides funds to a PHA for
rent subsidy on behalf of eligible families. The tenancy under the
lease will be assisted with rent subsidy for a tenancy under the
voucher program.

form HUD-52641-A
(04/2023)

