Source: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/PBG/30 (NY Public Housing Law § 30 (creation of municipal housing authorities))
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (web_extract; markdown as returned)

§ 30. Organization of authorities. 1. In the case of an authority
hereafter established by a special act of the legislature, the mayor of
a city or village, or the town board of a town, shall file in the office
of the commissioner, and a duplicate in the office of the secretary of
state, a certificate signed by him or it and setting forth: (a) the date
of the passage of the special act establishing the authority; (b) the
name of the authority; and (c) the names of the members and their terms,
specifying which member is chairman.

2. Except as otherwise provided by special act of the legislature, an
authority shall consist of not less than three nor more than seven
members. The members of an authority who are first appointed shall be
not more than five in number and shall be designated to serve for terms
of one, two, three, four and five years respectively from the date of
their appointment, depending upon the number of members constituting the
authority. Thereafter the term of office of appointive members shall be
five years. A member shall continue to hold office until his successor
is appointed or elected and has qualified. The mayor of a city or
village, or the town board of a town, shall appoint the appointive
members, designate the first chairman and file with the commissioner a
certificate of appointment or the reappointment of any member.

3. A majority of the members of an authority shall constitute a
quorum.

4. Not more than one member of an authority may be an official or an
employee of the municipality at any one time. In the event that an
official or an employee of the municipality shall be appointed as a
member of the authority, acceptance or retention of such appointment
shall not be deemed a forfeiture of his municipal office or employment,
or incompatible therewith or affect his tenure or compensation in any
way. The term of office of a member of an authority who is an official
of the municipality shall terminate at the expiration of the term of his
municipal office.

5. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each authority having
supervision over one hundred or more occupied dwelling units and not
located in a city having a population of more than one million shall
include as members two tenants elected by the residents of the
authority's housing for terms of two years each. Each authority coming
within the provisions of this subdivision shall, within six months after
the effective date of this act or within six months after the authority
becomes subject to the requirements of this subdivision, adopt by-laws
specifying the time and manner of the election of the tenant
representatives. All residents of the authority's housing who are
eighteen years of age or older shall be eligible to vote. The authority
may provide in the by-laws whether both tenant representatives shall be
elected simultaneously for concurrent terms or one shall be elected each
year with the terms overlapping and whether both shall be elected by all
the residents or each one elected by one half of the residents. The
first election shall be held within one year after the date by which
by-laws for the election are required to be adopted. The by-laws shall
be subject to the approval of the commissioner, and if an authority
fails within the six-month period to adopt acceptable by-laws for such
election the commissioner shall specify the time and manner of the
election. Upon the taking of office of the two elected tenant members,
the size of an authority shall be increased by two members and the term
of any member appointed pursuant to this subdivision prior to January
first, nineteen hundred seventy-five shall end and a new member shall be
appointed for a term of five years. Acceptance or retention by a tenant
of membership on an authority, whether by election or by appointment,
shall not be deemed incompatible with, or a forfeiture of his tenancy.
An elected tenant representative shall cease to serve as such upon
termination of his tenancy for any reason, or upon his becoming subject
to removal from occupancy due to the operation of section one hundred
fifty-six of this chapter. Any compensation paid to an elected or
appointed tenant member for his services to an authority shall not
affect his eligibility for membership on such authority or for continued
occupancy, but may be used in the determination of his rent. Any vacancy
in the office of an elected tenant representative shall be filled as
soon as may be practical by a new election.