 
 


 
 
 
 § 1-210. Computation of time 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Virginia General Assembly / 
 LIS Learning Center / 
 Privacy Policy / 
 LIS home / 
 Register Account / 
 Login 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Session Information 
 
 
 Bills & Resolutions 
 
 
 State Budget 
 
 
 Virginia Law 
 
 
 Reports to the General Assembly 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Virginia Law 
 
 
 
 
 Select Search Type 
 
 All 
 Code of Virginia 
 Administrative Code 
 Constitution 
 Charters 
 Authorities 
 Compacts 
 Uncodified Acts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Code of Virginia 
 Table of Contents » Title 1. General Provisions » Chapter 2.1. Common Law and Rules of Construction » Article 2. Rules of Construction and Definitions » § 1-210. Computation of time 
 
 Section 
 
 Print PDF email 
 

 
 Creating a Report: Check the sections you'd like to appear in the report, then use the "Create Report" button at the bottom of the page to generate your report. Once the report is generated you'll then have the option to download it as a pdf, print or email the report. 
 
 Code of Virginia Title 1. General Provisions Chapter 2.1. Common Law and Rules of Construction 9/28/2026 
 § 1-210 . Computation of time. A. When an act of the General Assembly or rule of court requires that an act be performed a prescribed amount of time before a motion or proceeding, the day of such motion or proceeding shall not be counted against the time allowed, but the day on which such act is performed may be counted as part of the time. When an act of the General Assembly or rule of court requires that an act be performed within a prescribed amount of time after any event or judgment, the day on which the event or judgment occurred shall not be counted against the time allowed. B. When the last day for performing an act during the course of a judicial proceeding falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or any day or part of a day on which the clerk's office is closed as authorized by an act of the General Assembly, the act may be performed on the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or day or part of a day on which the clerk's office is closed as authorized by an act of the General Assembly. C. When an act of the General Assembly specifies a maximum period of time in which a legal action may be brought and the last day of that period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or day or part of a day on which the clerk's office is closed as authorized by an act of the General Assembly, the action may be brought on the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or day or part of a day on which the clerk's office is closed as authorized by an act of the General Assembly. D. Any court or proceeding authorized to be adjourned from day to day shall not be required to meet on a Sunday or legal holiday. E. When an act of the General Assembly or local governing body, order of the court, or administrative regulation or order requires, either by specification of a date or by a prescribed period of time, that an act be performed or an action be filed on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday or on any day or part of a day on which the state or local government office where the act to be performed or the action to be filed is closed, the act may be performed or the action may be filed on the next business day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or day on which the state or local government office is closed. F. For the purposes of this section, any day on which the Governor authorizes the closing of the state government shall be considered a legal holiday. Code 1919, § 5; 1932, p. 24; Code 1950, § 1-13; 1950, pp. 21, 23, §§ 1-13.3, 1-13.27; 1962, cc. 104, 284, § 1-13.3:1; 1977, c. 93; 1986, c. 166; 1987, c. 92; 2005, c. 839 ; 2008, c. 816 ; 2010, c. 96 ; 2014, c. 596 . 



 
 The chapters of the acts of assembly referenced in the historical citation at the end of this section may not constitute a comprehensive list of such chapters and may exclude chapters whose provisions have expired. 
 Section 

 
 
 
 
 
 Code of Virginia 
 
 
 Popular Names 
 
 
 2026 Updates 
 
 
 Section Look Up 
 
 
 
 
 Go 
 
 
 
 Administrative Code 
 
 
 Constitution of Virginia 
 
 
 Charters 
 
 
 Authorities 
 
 
 Compacts 
 
 
 Uncodified Acts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Virginia Law Library 
 
 The Code of Virginia, Constitution of Virginia, Charters, Authorities, Compacts and Uncodified Acts are available in both PDF and CSV formats. 
 
 
 Helpful Resources 
 
 Virginia Code Commission 
 Virginia Register of Regulations 
 U.S. Constitution 
 
 
 
 For Developers 
 The Virginia Law website data is available via a web service. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign In 
 
 Username:  
 
 
 
 
 Password:  
 
 
 
 
 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
 LIS Home 
 Lobbyist-in-a-Box 
 Privacy Policy 
 
 
 
 © Copyright Commonwealth of Virginia,
 . All rights reserved. Site developed by the Division of Legislative Automated Systems (DLAS) .
 Sign In 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 


 

