Source: https://law.lis.virginia.gov/admincode/title18/agency135/chapter20/section185/
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; HTML stripped mechanically by fetch.py)

18VAC135-20-185. Maintenance and management of records.

Virginia General Assembly /

LIS Learning Center /

Privacy Policy /

LIS home /

Register Account /

Login

Session Information

Bills & Resolutions

State Budget

Virginia Law

Reports to the General Assembly

Virginia Law

Select Search Type

All
Code of Virginia
Administrative Code
Constitution
Charters
Authorities
Compacts
Uncodified Acts

Administrative Code

Table of Contents » Title 18. Professional And Occupational Licensing » Agency 135. Real Estate Board » Chapter 20. Virginia Real Estate Board Licensing Regulations » Part V. Standards of Practice and Conduct » 18VAC135-20-185. Maintenance and management of records.

Section

Print
PDF
email

Creating a Report: Check the sections you'd like to appear in the report, then use the "Create Report" button at the bottom of the page to generate your report. Once the report is generated you'll then have the option to download it as a pdf, print or email the report.

Virginia Administrative Code
Title 18. Professional And Occupational Licensing
Agency 135. Real Estate Board
Chapter 20. Virginia Real Estate Board Licensing Regulations
9/28/2026

18VAC135-20-185. Maintenance and management of records.
A. The principal broker must maintain financial records regarding any real estate transactions under the authority of the broker's license. Such records must be readily accessible from the broker's place of business. The records must contain:

1. From whom money was received;

2. The date of receipt;

3. The place of deposit;

4. The date of deposit;

5. The final disposition of the funds; and

6. Any other information required in this chapter.

When a principal broker's office is located outside of Virginia and the firm has a branch office in Virginia, a copy of these records must be readily accessible in the Virginia office.

B. The principal broker must maintain a bookkeeping or recordkeeping system that must accurately and clearly disclose full compliance with the requirements outlined in this section. Accounting records that are in sufficient detail to provide necessary information to determine such compliance must be maintained.

C. A principal broker or supervising broker must maintain and retain the following records:

1. Each brokerage agreement must be retained for three years from the date of execution. Each disclosure and consent to dual agency or dual representation and disclosure and consent to designated agency or designated representation must be retained for three years from the date of execution.

2. All documents pertaining to a transaction, including a complete and legible copy of each executed contract of sale, any executed release from contract, any executed lease agreement, any executed property management agreement, each settlement statement related to a real estate transaction, and unrepresented party in disclosure in the broker's control or possession unless prohibited by law. Such records must be retained for three years from the date of closing or from ratification if the transaction fails to close.

3. A complete and accurate record of such receipts and their disbursements for moneys received on behalf of others. Such records must be retained for a period of three years from the date of the closing or termination of a sales transaction, or the termination of a lease or conclusion of the licensee's involvement in a lease.

Statutory Authority
§§ 54.1-201 and 54.1-2105 of the Code of Virginia.
Historical Notes
Derived from Virginia Register Volume 19, Issue 12, eff. April 1, 2003; amended, Virginia Register Volume 31, Issue 26, eff. November 1, 2015; Volume 42, Issue 14, eff. April 1, 2026.

Website addresses provided in the Virginia Administrative Code to documents incorporated by reference are for the reader's convenience only, may not necessarily be active or current, and should not be relied upon. To ensure the information incorporated by reference is accurate, the reader is encouraged to use the source document described in the regulation.

As a service to the public, the Virginia Administrative Code is provided online by the Virginia General Assembly. We are unable to answer legal questions or respond to requests for legal advice, including application of law to specific fact. To understand and protect your legal rights, you should consult an attorney.

Section

Code of Virginia

Administrative Code

View by Agency

Emergency Regulations

VAC# Look Up

Go

Constitution of Virginia

Charters

Authorities

Compacts

Uncodified Acts

Sign In

Username:

Password:

Cancel

LIS Home

Lobbyist-in-a-Box

Privacy Policy

© Copyright Commonwealth of Virginia,
. All rights reserved. Site developed by the Division of Legislative Automated Systems (DLAS).
Sign In
