Source: https://law.lis.virginia.gov/admincode/title18/agency135/chapter20/section300/
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; HTML stripped mechanically by fetch.py)

18VAC135-20-300. &nbsp;Misrepresentation or omission.

Virginia General Assembly /

LIS Learning Center /

Privacy Policy /

LIS home /

Register Account /

Login

Session Information

Bills & Resolutions

State Budget

Virginia Law

Reports to the General Assembly

Virginia Law

Select Search Type

All
Code of Virginia
Administrative Code
Constitution
Charters
Authorities
Compacts
Uncodified Acts

Administrative Code

Table of Contents » Title 18. Professional And Occupational Licensing » Agency 135. Real Estate Board » Chapter 20. Virginia Real Estate Board Licensing Regulations » Part V. Standards of Practice and Conduct » 18VAC135-20-300. Misrepresentation or omission.

Section

Print
PDF
email

Creating a Report: Check the sections you'd like to appear in the report, then use the "Create Report" button at the bottom of the page to generate your report. Once the report is generated you'll then have the option to download it as a pdf, print or email the report.

Virginia Administrative Code
Title 18. Professional And Occupational Licensing
Agency 135. Real Estate Board
Chapter 20. Virginia Real Estate Board Licensing Regulations
9/28/2026

18VAC135-20-300. Misrepresentation or omission.
Actions constituting misrepresentation or omission include:

1. Using "bait and switch" tactics by advertising or offering real property for sale or rent with the intent not to sell or rent at the price or terms advertised, unless the advertisement or offer clearly states that the property advertised is limited in specific quantity or for a specified time period and the licensee did in fact have at least that quantity for sale or rent at that price or terms at the time of advertising, including listing status and condition of property;

2. Failing as a licensee representing a seller or landlord as a standard agent to disclose in a timely manner to a prospective purchaser or tenant all material adverse facts pertaining to the physical condition of the property that are actually known by the licensee;

3. Failing as a licensee to tender promptly to the client or unrepresented party every written offer, every written counteroffer, and every written rejection to purchase, option, or lease obtained on the property involved;

4. Failing as a licensee to disclose in a timely manner to the licensee's client all material facts related to the property or concerning the transaction when the failure to so disclose would constitute failure by the licensee to exercise ordinary care;

5. Failing to provide in a timely manner to all principals to the transaction written notice of any material changes to the transaction;

6. Disclosing to one client represented in the dual representation confidential information relating to the transaction obtained during the representation of another client in the same dual representation unless otherwise provided by law when acting as a dual agent or dual representative;

7. Failing to include the complete terms and conditions of the real estate transaction, including any lease, property management agreement, or offer to purchase;

8. Failing to include in any application, lease, or offer to purchase identification of all those holding any deposits;

9. Knowingly making any false statement or report, or willfully misstating the value of any land, property, or security for the purpose of influencing in any way the action of any lender upon:

a. Applications, advance discounts, purchase agreements, repurchase agreements, commitments, or loans;

b. Changes in terms or extensions of time for any of the items listed in subdivision 9 a of this section whether by renewal, deferment of action, or other means without the prior written consent of the principals to the transaction;

c. Acceptance, release, or substitution of security for any of the items listed in subdivision 9 a of this section without the prior written consent of the principals to the transaction;

10. Knowingly making any material misrepresentation; and

11. Making a false promise through agents, salespersons, advertising, or other means.

Statutory Authority
§§ 54.1-201 and 54.1-2105 of the Code of Virginia.
Historical Notes
Derived from VR585-01-1 § 6.11, eff. July 15, 1987; amended, Virginia Register Volume 5, Issue 23, eff. October 1, 1989; Volume 7, Issue 14, eff. May 15, 1991; Volume 8, Issue 13, eff. May 15, 1992; Volume 11, Issue 18, eff. June 28, 1995; Volume 15, Issue 5, eff. January 1, 1999; Volume 19, Issue 12, eff. April 1, 2003; Volume 24, Issue 11, eff. April 1, 2008; Volume 31, Issue 26, eff. November 1, 2015; Volume 42, Issue 14, eff. April 1, 2026.

Website addresses provided in the Virginia Administrative Code to documents incorporated by reference are for the reader's convenience only, may not necessarily be active or current, and should not be relied upon. To ensure the information incorporated by reference is accurate, the reader is encouraged to use the source document described in the regulation.

As a service to the public, the Virginia Administrative Code is provided online by the Virginia General Assembly. We are unable to answer legal questions or respond to requests for legal advice, including application of law to specific fact. To understand and protect your legal rights, you should consult an attorney.

Section

Code of Virginia

Administrative Code

View by Agency

Emergency Regulations

VAC# Look Up

Go

Constitution of Virginia

Charters

Authorities

Compacts

Uncodified Acts

Sign In

Username:

Password:

Cancel

LIS Home

Lobbyist-in-a-Box

Privacy Policy

© Copyright Commonwealth of Virginia,
. All rights reserved. Site developed by the Division of Legislative Automated Systems (DLAS).
Sign In
