Source: https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title55.1/chapter25/section55.1-2500/
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; HTML stripped mechanically by fetch.py)

§ 55.1-2500. Definitions.
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:
"Act" means the Virginia Disposition of Unclaimed Property Act (§ 55.1-2500 et seq.).
"Administrator" means the State Treasurer or his designee.
"Apparent owner" means the person whose name appears on the records of the holder as the person entitled to property held, issued, or owing by the holder.
"Banking organization" means any bank, trust company, savings bank (industrial bank, land bank, safe deposit company), or private banker or any other organization defined by law as a bank or banking organization.
"Business association" means any corporation, joint-stock company, investment company, business trust, partnership, limited liability company, cooperative, or association for business purposes of two or more individuals, whether or not for profit, including a banking organization, financial organization, insurance company, or utility.
"Credit balance" means an item of intangible property resulting from or attributable to the sale of goods or services, including an overpayment, credit memo, refund, discount, rebate, unidentified remittance, or deposit.
"Digital asset" means a digital representation of value that is used as a medium of exchange, unit of account, or store of value and that is not legal tender, whether or not denominated in legal tender. "Digital asset" does not include (i) a transaction in which a merchant grants, as part of an affinity or reward program, value that cannot be taken from or exchanged with the merchant for legal tender, bank or credit union credit, or a digital asset; (ii) a digital representation of value issued by, or on behalf of, a publisher and used solely within an online game, gaming platform, or family of games sold by the publisher or offered on the same platform; or (iii) a security registered with or exempt from registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or a security qualified with or exempt from qualifications with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
"Digital asset account" means a customer account, wallet, or other repository device maintained by an owner with a holder, which may contain one or more types of digital assets.
"Domicile" means (i) the state of incorporation, in the case of a corporation incorporated under the laws of a state; (ii) the state of organization, in the case of an unincorporated business association formed under the laws of a state; (iii) the state of the principal place of business, in the case of a nonnatural person not incorporated or formed under the laws of a state; and (iv) the state of principal residency, in the case of a natural person.
"Due diligence" includes the mailing of a letter by first-class mail to the last known address of the owner as indicated on the records of the holder.
"Financial organization" means any savings and loan association (cooperative bank), building and loan association, or credit union.
"Gift certificate" means a certificate, electronic card, or other medium that evidences the giving of consideration in exchange for the right to redeem the certificate, electronic card, or other medium for goods, food, services, credit, or money of an equal value.
"Holder" means a person, wherever organized or domiciled, that is (i) in possession of property belonging to another; (ii) a trustee, in the case of a trust; or (iii) indebted to another on an obligation.
"Insurance company" means an association, corporation, or fraternal or mutual benefit organization, whether or not for profit, that is engaged in providing insurance coverage, including accident, burial, casualty, contract performance, credit life, dental, fidelity, fire, health, hospitalization, illness, life (including endowments and annuities), malpractice, marine, mortgage, surety, and wage protection insurance.
"Intangible property" includes (i) moneys, checks, drafts, deposits, interest, and dividend income; (ii) credits, customer overpayments, gift certificates, security deposits, refunds, unpaid wages, and unidentified remittances; (iii) stocks and other intangible ownership interests in business associations; (iv) moneys deposited to redeem stocks, bonds, coupons, and other securities or to make distributions; (v) amounts due and payable under the terms of insurance policies; (vi) amounts distributable from a trust or custodial fund established under a plan to provide any health, welfare, pension, vacation, severance, retirement, death, stock purchase, profit sharing, employee savings, supplemental unemployment insurance, or similar benefit; and (vii) digital assets.
"Last known address" means any description, code, or other indication of the location of the apparent owner that identifies the state of residence of the apparent owner, even if the description, code, or indication of location is not sufficient to direct the delivery of first-class United States mail to the apparent owner.
"Owner" means (i) a depositor, in the case of a deposit; (ii) a beneficiary, in the case of a trust, other than a deposit in trust; (iii) a creditor, claimant, or payee, in the case of other intangible property; or (iv) a person having a legal or equitable interest in property subject to this chapter or his legal representative.
"Payable" means the earliest date upon which the owner of property could become entitled to the payments, possession, delivery, or distribution of such property from a holder.
"Person" means an individual; a business association; a government or governmental subdivision or agency, public corporation, or public authority; an estate; a trust; two or more persons having a joint or common interest; or any other legal or commercial entity.
"Private key" means a unique element of cryptographic data that is used for signing transactions on a blockchain and is known to the owner of the element.
"Promotional incentive" means a coupon, rebate, or other promotional device offered to induce a consumer to purchase goods, food, or services and for which (i) no direct consideration is given by the consumer or (ii) the consideration given is less than the value of the goods, food, or services to be received.
"State," when applied to a part of the United States, includes any state, district, commonwealth, territory, and insular possession and any other area subject to the legislative authority of the United States.
"Unclaimed property" means property for which the owner, as shown by the records of the holder of his property, has ceased, failed, or neglected, within the times provided in this chapter, to make presentment and demand for payment and satisfaction or to do any other act in relation to or concerning such property. As used in this definition, "act" excludes any act of a holder of unclaimed property not done at the express request or authorization of the owner.
"Utility" means a person that owns or operates, for public use, any plant, equipment, property, franchise, or license for the transmission of communications or the production, storage, transmission, sale, delivery, or furnishing of electricity, water, steam, or gas.
1960, c. 330, § 55-210.2; 1981, c. 47; 1982, c. 331; 1983, c. 190; 1984, c. 121; 1988, c. 378; 2000, cc. 733, 745; 2019, c. 712; 2026, c. 669.
