Source: https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title55.1/chapter12/section55.1-1228/
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; HTML stripped mechanically by fetch.py)

§ 55.1-1228. Rules and regulations.
A. A landlord, from time to time, may adopt rules or regulations, however described, concerning the tenant's use and occupancy of the dwelling unit and premises. Any such rule or regulation is enforceable against the tenant only if:
1. Its purpose is to promote the convenience, safety, or welfare of the tenants in the premises, preserve the landlord's property from abusive use, or make a fair distribution of services and facilities held out for the tenants generally;
2. It is reasonably related to the purpose for which it is adopted;
3. It applies to all tenants in the premises in a fair manner;
4. It is sufficiently explicit in its prohibition, direction, or limitation of the tenant's conduct to fairly inform him of what he is required to do or is prohibited from doing to comply;
5. It is not for the purpose of evading the obligations of the landlord; and
6. The tenant has been provided with a copy of the rules and regulations or changes to such rules and regulations at the time he enters into the rental agreement or when they are adopted.
B. A rule or regulation adopted, changed, or provided to the tenant after the tenant enters into the rental agreement shall be enforceable against the tenant if reasonable notice of its adoption or change has been given to the tenant and it does not constitute a substantial modification of his bargain. If a rule or regulation adopted or changed after the tenant enters into the rental agreement does constitute a substantial modification of his bargain, it shall not be valid unless the tenant consents to it in writing.
C. Any court enforcing this chapter shall consider violations of the reasonable rules and regulations imposed under this section as a breach of the rental agreement and grant the landlord appropriate relief.
1974, c. 680, § 55-248.17; 2000, c. 760; 2017, c. 730; 2019, c. 712.
