 
 


 
 
 
 § 55.1-1214. Inspection of dwelling unit; report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Virginia General Assembly / 
 LIS Learning Center / 
 Privacy Policy / 
 LIS home / 
 Register Account / 
 Login 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Session Information 
 
 
 Bills & Resolutions 
 
 
 State Budget 
 
 
 Virginia Law 
 
 
 Reports to the General Assembly 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Virginia Law 
 
 
 
 
 Select Search Type 
 
 All 
 Code of Virginia 
 Administrative Code 
 Constitution 
 Charters 
 Authorities 
 Compacts 
 Uncodified Acts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Code of Virginia 
 Table of Contents » Title 55.1. Property and Conveyances » Subtitle III. Rental Conveyances » Chapter 12. Virginia Residential Landlord and Tenant Act » Article 2. Landlord Obligations » § 55.1-1214. Inspection of dwelling unit; report 
 
 Section 
 
 Print PDF email 
 

 
 Creating a Report: Check the sections you'd like to appear in the report, then use the "Create Report" button at the bottom of the page to generate your report. Once the report is generated you'll then have the option to download it as a pdf, print or email the report. 
 
 Code of Virginia Title 55.1. Property and Conveyances Chapter 12. Virginia Residential Landlord and Tenant Act 9/28/2026 
 § 55.1-1214 . Inspection of dwelling unit; report. A. The landlord shall, within five days after occupancy of a dwelling unit, submit a written report to the tenant itemizing damages to the dwelling unit existing at the time of occupancy, and the report shall be deemed correct unless the tenant objects to it in writing within five days after receipt of the report. B. The landlord may adopt a written policy allowing the tenant to prepare the written report of the move-in inspection, in which case the tenant shall submit a copy to the landlord, and the report shall be deemed correct unless the landlord objects thereto in writing within five days after receipt of the report. Such written policy adopted by the landlord may also provide for the landlord and the tenant to prepare the written report of the move-in inspection jointly, in which case both the landlord and the tenant shall sign the written report and receive a copy of the report, at which time the inspection report shall be deemed correct. C. If any damages are reflected on the written report, a landlord is not required to make repairs to address such damages unless required to do so under § 55.1-1215 or 55.1-1220 . 1977, c. 427, § 55-248.11:1; 1992, c. 451; 2000, c. 760 ; 2016, c. 744 ; 2019, c. 712 . 



 
 The chapters of the acts of assembly referenced in the historical citation at the end of this section may not constitute a comprehensive list of such chapters and may exclude chapters whose provisions have expired. 
 Section 

 
 
 
 
 
 Code of Virginia 
 
 
 Popular Names 
 
 
 2026 Updates 
 
 
 Section Look Up 
 
 
 
 
 Go 
 
 
 
 Administrative Code 
 
 
 Constitution of Virginia 
 
 
 Charters 
 
 
 Authorities 
 
 
 Compacts 
 
 
 Uncodified Acts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Virginia Law Library 
 
 The Code of Virginia, Constitution of Virginia, Charters, Authorities, Compacts and Uncodified Acts are available in both PDF and CSV formats. 
 
 
 Helpful Resources 
 
 Virginia Code Commission 
 Virginia Register of Regulations 
 U.S. Constitution 
 
 
 
 For Developers 
 The Virginia Law website data is available via a web service. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sign In 
 
 Username:  
 
 
 
 
 Password:  
 
 
 
 
 
 Cancel 
 
 
 
 
 
 LIS Home 
 Lobbyist-in-a-Box 
 Privacy Policy 
 
 
 
 © Copyright Commonwealth of Virginia,
 . All rights reserved. Site developed by the Division of Legislative Automated Systems (DLAS) .
 Sign In 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 


 

