Source: https://legacylis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0700
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; HTML stripped mechanically by fetch.py)

Bill Tracking - 2019 session > Legislation

Virginia General Assembly
LIS Home
LIS Help
Privacy Statement
Live Help

LIS Classic
Login

SEARCH SITE

QUICK LINKS
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Log in
LIS Home
General Assembly Home
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Session Tracking:
Bills & Resolutions
Members
Committees
Meetings
Calendars
Communications
House Minutes
Senate Minutes
Statistics
Lobbyist-in-a-Box
Personal lists
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Search:
Code of Virginia
Administrative Code
Bills & Resolutions
Summaries

OTHER SESSIONS
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
2024 Session
2023 Session
2023 Special Session I
2022 Session
2022 Special Session I
2021 Session
2021 Special Session I
2021 Special Session II
2020 Session
2020 Special Session I
2019 Session
2019 Special Session I
2018 Session
2018 Special Session I
2018 Special Session II
2017 Session
2016 Session
2015 Session
2015 Special Session I
2014 Session
2014 Special Session I
2013 Session
2013 Special Session I
2012 Session
2012 Special Session I
2011 Session
2011 Special Session I
2010 Session
2009 Session
2009 Special Session I
2008 Session
2008 Special Session I
2008 Special Session II
2007 Session
2006 Session
2006 Special Session I
2005 Session
2004 Session
2004 Special Session I
2004 Special Session II
2003 Session
2002 Session
2001 Session
2001 Special Session I
2000 Session
1999 Session
1998 Session
1998 Special Session I
1997 Session
1996 Session
1995 Session
1994 Session
1994 Special Session I
1994 Special Session II

VIRGINIA LAW PORTAL
Code of Virginia
Virginia Administrative Code

Constitution of Virginia
Charters
Authorities
Compacts

Uncodified Acts
RIS Users (account required)

SEARCHABLE DATABASES
Bills & Resolutions
session legislation
Bill Summaries
session summaries

Reports to the General Assembly
House and Senate documents

Legislative Liaisons
State agency contacts
ACROSS SESSIONS

Subject Index: Since 1995
Bills & Resolutions: Since 1994
Summaries: Since 1994

Developed and maintained by the Division of Legislative Automated Systems.

2019 SESSION

history |
hilite |
pdf |
print version

CHAPTER 700

An Act to amend and reenact §§ 8.01-128, 8.01-129, 8.01-293,
8.01-470, 8.01-471, 16.1-69.40, 16.1-88.03, 17.1-272, 55-225.01, 55-225.1,
55-246.1, 55-248.3:1, 55-248.35, 55-248.38:1, 55-248.38:2, and 58.1-3947 of the
Code of Virginia, relating to eviction; writs of possession and eviction.

[H 2007]

Approved March 21, 2019

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia:

1. That §§ 8.01-128, 8.01-129, 8.01-293, 8.01-470, 8.01-471,
16.1-69.40, 16.1-88.03, 17.1-272, 55-225.01, 55-225.1, 55-246.1, 55-248.3:1,
55-248.35, 55-248.38:1, 55-248.38:2, and 58.1-3947 of the Code of Virginia are
amended and reenacted as follows:

§ 8.01-128. Verdict and judgment; damages.

A. If it appears that the plaintiff was forcibly or unlawfully
turned out of possession, or that it was unlawfully detained from him, the
verdict or judgment shall be for the plaintiff for the premises, or such part
thereof as may be found to have been so held or detained. The verdict or
judgment shall also be for such damages as the plaintiff may prove to have been
sustained by him by reason of such forcible or unlawful entry, or unlawful
detention, of such premises, and such rent as he may prove to have been owing
to him.

B. The plaintiff may, alternatively, receive a final, appealable
judgment for possession of the property unlawfully entered or unlawfully
detained and be issued a writ an order of possession at the
initial hearing on a summons for unlawful detainer, upon evidence presented by
the plaintiff to the court. At the initial hearing, upon request of the
plaintiff, the court shall bifurcate the unlawful detainer case and set a
continuance date no later than 120 days from the date of the initial hearing to
determine final rent and damages. On such continuance date, the court shall
permit amendment of the amount requested on the summons for unlawful detainer
filed in court in accordance with the (i) notice of hearing to establish final
rent and damages mailed to the last known address of the defendant and filed
with the court at least 15 days prior to the continuance date as provided
herein, (ii) evidence presented to the court, and (iii) amounts contracted for
in the rental agreement. Nothing in this subsection shall preclude a defendant
who appears in court at the initial court date from contesting an unlawful
detainer action as otherwise provided by law.

If under this section an appeal is taken as to possession, the
entire case shall be considered appealed. The plaintiff shall, in the instance
of a continuance taken under this section, mail to the defendant at the
defendant's last known address at least 15 days prior to the continuance date a
notice advising (a) of the continuance date, (b) of the amounts of final rent
and damages, and (c) that the plaintiff is seeking judgment for additional
sums. A copy of such notice shall be filed with the court.

C. No verdict or judgment rendered under this section shall
bar any separate concurrent or future action for any such damages or rent as
may not be so claimed.

§ 8.01-129. Appeal from judgment of general district court.

A. An appeal shall lie from the judgment of a general district
court, in any proceeding under this article, to the circuit court in the same
manner and with like effect and upon like security as appeals taken under the
provisions of § 16.1-106 et seq. except as specifically provided in this
section. The appeal shall be taken within 10 days and the security approved by
the court from which the appeal is taken. Notwithstanding the provisions of §
16.1-106 et seq., the bond shall be posted and the writ tax paid within 10 days
of the date of the judgment.

B. In any unlawful detainer case filed under § 8.01-126, if a
judge grants the plaintiff a judgment for possession of the premises, upon
request of the plaintiff, the judge shall further order that the writ of
eviction issue immediately upon entry of judgment for possession. In such
case, the clerk shall deliver the writ of eviction to the sheriff, who
shall then, at least 72 hours prior to execution of such writ, serve notice of
intent to execute the writ, including the date and time of eviction, as
provided in § 8.01-470. In no case, however, shall the sheriff evict the
defendant from the dwelling unit prior to the expiration of the defendant's
10-day appeal period. If the defendant perfects an appeal, the sheriff shall
return the writ to the clerk who issued it.

When the appeal is taken by the defendant, he shall be
required to give security also for all rent which has accrued and may accrue
upon the premises, but for not more than one year's rent, and also for all
damages that have accrued or may accrue from the unlawful use and occupation of
the premises for a period not exceeding three months. Trial by jury shall be
had upon application of any party.

§ 8.01-293. Authorization to serve process, capias or show
cause order; execute writ of possession or eviction and levy upon property.

A. The following persons are authorized to serve process:

1. The sheriff within such territorial bounds as described in
§ 8.01-295;

2. Any person of age 18 years or older and who is not a party
or otherwise interested in the subject matter in controversy. For purposes of
this subdivision, an investigator employed by an attorney for the Commonwealth
or employed by the Indigent Defense Commission, who within 10 years immediately
prior to being employed by the attorney for the Commonwealth or Indigent
Defense Commission was an active law-enforcement officer as defined in §
9.1-101 in the Commonwealth and retired or resigned from his position as a
law-enforcement officer in good standing, shall not be considered to be a party
or otherwise interested in the subject matter in controversy while engaged in
the performance of his official duties, provided that the sheriff in the
jurisdiction where process is to be served has agreed that such investigators
may serve process. If a sheriff has agreed that such investigators may serve
process, then investigators employed by either an attorney for the Commonwealth
or the Indigent Defense Commission may serve process. However, in any case in
which custody or visitation of a minor child or children is at issue and a
summons is issued for the attendance and testimony of a teacher or other school
personnel who is not a party to the proceeding, if such summons is served on
school property, it shall be served only by a sheriff or his deputy; or

3. A private process server. For purposes of this section,
"private process server" means any person 18 years of age or older
and who is not a party or otherwise interested in the subject matter in
controversy, and who charges a fee for service of process.

Whenever in this Code the term "officer" or
"sheriff" is used to refer to persons authorized to make, return or
do any other act relating to service of process, such term shall be deemed to
refer to any person authorized by this section to serve process.

B. Notwithstanding any other provision of law (i) only a
sheriff or high constable may execute an order or writ of possession for
personal, real or mixed property, including an order or a writ of
possession eviction arising out of an action in unlawful entry and
detainer or ejectment; (ii) any sheriff, high constable or law-enforcement
officer as defined in § 9.1-101 of the Code of Virginia may serve any capias or
show cause order; and (iii) only a sheriff, the high constable for the City of
Norfolk or Virginia Beach or a treasurer may levy upon property.

§ 8.01-470. Writs on judgments for specific property.

On a judgment for the recovery of specific property, real
or personal, a writ of possession for personal property or a writ of
eviction for real property may issue for the specific property pursuant
to an order of possession entered by a court of competent jurisdiction,
which shall conform to the judgment as to the description of the property and
the estate, title, and interest recovered, and there may also be issued
a writ of fieri facias for the damages or profits and costs. In cases of
unlawful entry and detainer and of ejectment, the officer to whom a writ of
possession eviction has been delivered to be executed shall, at
least 72 hours before execution, serve notice of intent to execute, including
the date and time of execution, as well as the rights afforded to tenants in §§
55-237.1 and 55-248.38:2, together with a copy of the writ attached, on the
defendant in person or, if the party to be served is not found at the specific
property for which a writ of possession eviction has been issued,
then service shall be effected by posting a copy of such process at the front door
or at such other door as appears to be the main entrance of such property. The
execution of the writ of possession eviction by the sheriff
should occur within 15 calendar days from the date the writ of possession
eviction is received by the sheriff, or as soon as practicable thereafter,
but in no event later than 30 days from the date the writ of possession
eviction is issued. An order of possession shall remain valid for 180
days from the date granted by the court. If a plaintiff cancels a writ of eviction,
such plaintiff may request other writs of eviction during such 180-day period.
In cases of unlawful entry and detainer and of ejectment, whenever the officer
to whom a writ of possession eviction has been delivered to be
executed finds the premises locked, he may, after declaring at the door the
cause of his coming and demanding to have the door opened, employ reasonable
and necessary force to break and enter the door and put the plaintiff in
possession. The execution of the writ of possession eviction
shall be effective against the tenants named in the writ of possession
eviction and their authorized occupants, guests or invitees, and any
trespassers in the premises. And an officer having a writ of possession for
specific personal property, if he finds locked or fastened the building or
place wherein he has reasonable cause to believe the property specified in the
writ is located, may in the daytime, after notice to the defendant, his agent
or bailee, break and enter such building or place for the purpose of executing
such writ.

§ 8.01-471. Time period for issuing writs of eviction in
unlawful entry and detainer; when returnable.

Writs of possession eviction, in case of
unlawful entry and detainer, shall be issued within one year 180 days
from the date of judgment for possession and shall be made returnable within 30
days from the date of issuing the writ. Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, a writ of eviction not executed within 30 days from the date of
issuance shall be vacated as a matter of law without further order of the court
that entered the order of possession, and no further action shall be taken by
the clerk. No writ shall issue, however, in cases under the Virginia
Residential Landlord and Tenant Act (§ 55-248.2 et seq.) if, following the
entry of judgment for possession, the landlord has accepted rent
payments without reservation entered into a new written rental agreement
with the tenant, as described in § 55-248.34:1. A writ of possession
eviction may be requested by the plaintiff or the plaintiff's attorney or
agent.

§ 16.1-69.40. Powers and duties of clerks; civil liability.

The clerk and deputy clerks shall be conservators of the peace
within the territory for which the court has jurisdiction, and may, within such
judicial district, issue warrants, detention orders, and other processes,
original, mesne and final, both civil and criminal, commit to jail or other
detention facility, or admit to bail upon recognizance, persons charged with
crimes or before the court on civil petition, subject to the limitations set
forth by law, and issue subpoenas for witnesses, writs of fieri facias and
writs of possession and eviction, attachments and garnishments and
abstracts of judgments. A record made in the performance of the clerk's
official duties may be authenticated as a true copy by the clerk or by a deputy
clerk without additional authentication by the judge to whom the clerk reports,
notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B of § 8.01-391.

No clerk or deputy clerk shall issue any warrant or process
based on complaint of his spouse, child, grandchild, parent, grandparent,
parent-in-law, child-in-law, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,
nephew, niece, uncle, aunt, first cousin, guardian or ward. They may take
affidavits and administer oaths and affirmations, take and certify depositions
in the same manner as a notary public, perform such other notarial acts as
allowed under § 47.1-12, take acknowledgments to deeds or other writings for
purposes of recordation, and issue all other legal processes which may be
issued by the judge of such court and exercise such other powers and perform
such other duties as are conferred or imposed upon them by law. The clerk may
also issue to interested persons informational brochures authorized by a judge
of such court explaining the legal rights of such persons.

No clerk or deputy clerk shall be civilly liable for providing
information or assistance that is within the scope of his duties.

The clerk shall develop, implement and administer procedures
necessary for the efficient operation of the clerk's office, keep the records
and accounts of the court, supervise nonjudicial personnel and discharge such
other duties as may be prescribed by the judge.

§ 16.1-88.03. Pleadings and other papers by certain parties
not represented by attorneys.

A. Any corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
limited partnership, professional corporation, professional limited liability
company, registered limited liability partnership, registered limited liability
limited partnership or business trust and the Department of Military Affairs,
when the amount claimed in any civil action pursuant to subdivision (1) or (3)
of § 16.1-77 does not exceed the jurisdictional amounts authorized in such subsections,
exclusive of interest, may prepare, execute, file, and have served on other
parties in any proceeding in a general district court a warrant in debt, motion
for judgment, warrant in detinue, distress warrant, summons for unlawful
detainer, counterclaim, crossclaim, suggestion for summons in garnishment,
garnishment summons, writ order of possession, writ of
eviction, writ of fieri facias, interpleader and civil appeal notice
without the intervention of an attorney. Such papers may be signed by a corporate
officer, a manager of a limited liability company, a general partner of any
form of partnership or a trustee of any business trust, or such corporate
officer, with the approval of the board of directors, or manager, general
partner or trustee may authorize in writing an employee, a person licensed
under the provisions of § 54.1-2106.1, a property manager, or a managing agent
of a landlord as defined in § 55-248.4 to sign such papers as the agent of the
business entity. Only an agency employee designated in writing by the Adjutant
General may sign such papers on behalf of the Department of Military Affairs.
However, this section shall not apply to an action under subdivision (1) or (3)
of § 16.1-77 which was assigned to a corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, limited partnership, professional corporation, professional
limited liability company, registered limited liability partnership, registered
limited liability limited partnership or business trust, or individual solely
for the purpose of enforcing an obligation owed or right inuring to another.

B. Nothing in this section shall allow a nonlawyer to file a
bill of particulars or grounds of defense or to argue motions, issue a
subpoena, rule to show cause, or capias; file or interrogate at debtor
interrogatories; or to file, issue or argue any other paper, pleading or
proceeding not set forth in subsection A.

C. The provisions of § 8.01-271.1 shall apply to any pleading,
motion or other paper filed or made pursuant to this section.

D. Parties not represented by counsel, and who have made an
appearance in the case, shall promptly notify in writing the clerk of court
wherein the litigation is pending, and any adverse party, of any change in the
party's address necessary for accurate mailing or service of any pleadings or
notices. In the absence of such notification, a mailing to or service upon a
party at the most recent address contained in the court file of the case shall
be deemed effective service or other notice.

§ 17.1-272. Process and service fees generally.

A. The fee for process and service in the following instances
shall be $12:

1. Service on any person, firm or corporation, an order,
notice, summons or any other civil process, except as herein otherwise
provided, and for service on any person, firm, or corporation any process when
the body is not taken and making a return thereof, except that no fee shall be
charged for service pursuant to § 2.2-4022.

2. Summoning a witness or garnishee on an attachment.

3. Service on any person of an attachment or other process
under which the body is taken and making a return thereon.

4. Service of any order of court not otherwise provided for,
except that no fees shall be charged for protective orders issued pursuant to
Chapter 11 (§ 16.1-226 et seq.) of Title 16.1.

5. Making a return of a writ of fieri facias where no levy is
made or forthcoming bond is taken.

6. Summoning a witness in any case in which custody or
visitation of a minor child or children is at issue.

B. The fees for process and service in the following instances
shall be $25:

1. Service and publication of any notice of a
publicly-advertised public sale.

2. Service of a writ of possession or writ of eviction,
except that there shall be an additional fee of $12 for each additional defendant.

3. Levying upon current money, bank notes, goods or chattels
of a judgment debtor pursuant to § 8.01-478.

4. Service of a declaration in ejectment on any person, firm
or corporation, except that there shall be an additional fee of $12 for each
additional defendant.

5. Levying distress warrant or an attachment.

6. Levying an execution.

C. The process and service fee for serving any papers
returnable out of state shall be $75, except no fees shall be charged for the
service of papers in connection with the prosecution of any misdemeanor or
felony domestic violence offense, or in connection with the filing, issuance,
registration, or service of a protective order or a petition for a protective
order. A victim of domestic violence, stalking, or sexual assault shall not
bear the costs associated with the filing of criminal charges against the
offender, and no victim shall bear the costs associated with the filing,
issuance, registration, or service of a warrant, protective order, petition for
a protective order, or witness subpoena, issued inside or outside the
Commonwealth.

D. The fees set out in this section shall be allowable for
services provided by such officers in the circuit and district courts.

§ 55-225.01. Sections applicable only to certain residential
tenancies.

A. Residential tenancies. The Virginia Residential Landlord
and Tenant Act (§ 55-248.2 et seq.) shall apply to occupancy in any
single-family residential dwelling unit and any multifamily dwelling unit
located in Virginia unless exempted pursuant to the provisions of this section.
Occupancy in a public housing unit or other housing unit that is a residential
dwelling unit is subject to this chapter, however, if the provisions of this
chapter are inconsistent with the regulations of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, such regulations shall control.

B. Exempt residential dwelling units.

1. Where the landlord is a natural person, an estate, or a
legal entity that owns no more than two single-family residential dwelling units
in its own name subject to a rental agreement, such landlord may opt out of the
Virginia Residential Landlord and Tenant Act (§ 55-248.2 et seq.) by so stating
in a rental agreement with a tenant. Such residential dwelling units shall be
exempt from the Virginia Residential Landlord and Tenant Act (§ 55-248.2 et
seq.), and the provisions of §§ 55-225.01 through 55-225.48 shall be
applicable.

2. Where occupancy is under a contract of sale of a dwelling
unit or the property of which it is a part, if the occupant is the purchaser or
a person who succeeds to his interest.

C. Tenancies and occupancies that are not residential
tenancies. The following occupancies are not residential tenancies under this
chapter:

1. Residence at a public or private institution, if incidental
to detention or the provision of medical, geriatric, educational, counseling,
religious, or similar services;

2. Occupancy by a member of a fraternal or social organization
in the portion of a structure operated for the benefit of the organization;

3. Occupancy by an owner of a condominium unit or a holder of
a proprietary lease in a cooperative;

4. Occupancy in a campground as defined in § 35.1-1;

5. Occupancy by a tenant who is not required to pay rent
pursuant to a rental agreement; or

6. Occupancy by an employee of a landlord whose right to
occupancy in a multifamily dwelling unit is conditioned upon employment in and
about the premises or a former employee whose occupancy continues less than 60
days.

D. Occupancy in hotel, motel, and extended stay facility.

1. A guest who is an occupant of a hotel, motel, extended stay
facility, vacation residential facility, including those governed by the
Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ 55-360 et seq.), boardinghouse, or
similar transient lodging shall not be construed to be a tenant living in a
dwelling unit if such person does not reside in such lodging as his primary
residence. Such guest shall be exempt from this chapter, and the innkeeper or
property owner, or his agent, shall have the right to use self-help eviction
under Virginia law, without the necessity of the filing of an unlawful detainer
action in a court of competent jurisdiction and the execution of a writ of
possession eviction issued pursuant to such action, which would
otherwise be required under this chapter.

2. A hotel, motel, extended stay facility, vacation
residential facility, boardinghouse, or similar transient lodging shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter if overnight sleeping accommodations
are furnished to a person for consideration if such person does not reside in
such lodging as his primary residence.

3. If a person resides in a hotel, motel, extended stay
facility, vacation residential facility, including those governed by the
Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ 55-360 et seq.), boardinghouse, or
similar transient lodging as his primary residence for fewer than 90
consecutive days, such lodging shall not be subject to the provisions of this
chapter. However, the owner of such lodging establishment shall give a five-day
written notice of nonpayment to a person residing in such lodging and, upon the
expiration of the five-day period specified in the notice, may exercise
self-help eviction if payment in full has not been received.

4. If a person resides in a hotel, motel, extended stay
facility, vacation residential facility, including those governed by the
Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ 55-360 et seq.), boardinghouse, or
similar transient lodging as his primary residence for more than 90 consecutive
days or is subject to a written lease for more than 90 days, such lodging shall
be subject to the provisions of this chapter.

5. Nothing herein shall be construed to preclude the owner of
a lodging establishment that uses self-help eviction pursuant to this section
from pursuing any civil or criminal remedies under the laws of the
Commonwealth.

§ 55-225.1. Recovery of possession limited.

A landlord may not recover or take possession of a residential
dwelling unit by (i) willful diminution of services to the tenant by
interrupting or causing the interruption of electric, gas, water or other
essential service required to be supplied by the landlord under a rental
agreement or (ii) refusal to permit the tenant access to such unit unless such
refusal is pursuant to an unlawful detainer action from a court of competent
jurisdiction and the execution of a writ of possession eviction
issued pursuant thereto. A provision included in a rental agreement for a
dwelling unit authorizing action prohibited by this section is unenforceable.

§ 55-246.1. Who may recover rent or possession.

Notwithstanding any rule of court to the contrary, (i) any
person licensed under the provisions of § 54.1-2106.1, (ii) any property
manager, or a managing agent of a landlord as defined in § 55-248.4, or (iii)
any employee, who is authorized in writing by a corporate officer with the
approval of the board of directors, or by a manager, a general partner or a
trustee, of a partnership, association, corporation, limited liability company,
limited partnership, professional corporation, professional limited liability
company, registered limited liability partnership, registered limited liability
limited partnership, business trust, or family trust to sign pleadings as the
agent of the business entity may obtain a judgment (a) for possession in the
general district court for the county or city wherein the premises, or part
thereof, is situated or (b) for rent or damages, including actual damages for
breach of the rental agreement, or for final rent and damages under § 8.01-128,
in any general district court where venue is proper under § 8.01-259, against
any defendant if the person seeking such judgment had a contractual agreement
with the landlord to manage the premises for which rent or possession is due
and may prepare, execute, file, and have served on other parties in any general
district court a warrant in debt, suggestion for summons in garnishment,
garnishment summons, writ order of possession, writ of
eviction, or writ of fieri facias arising out of a landlord tenant
relationship. However, the activities of any such person in court shall be
limited by the provisions of § 16.1-88.03. However, nothing shall be construed
as preventing a nonlawyer from requesting relief from the court as provided by
law or statute when such nonlawyer is before the court on one of the actions
specified herein.

§ 55-248.3:1. Applicability of chapter.

A. This chapter shall apply to all jurisdictions in the
Commonwealth and may not be waived or otherwise modified, in whole or in part,
by the governing body of any locality, its boards and commissions or other
instrumentalities, or the courts of the Commonwealth. Occupancy in a public
housing unit or other housing unit that is a residential dwelling unit is
subject to this chapter, however, if the provisions of this chapter are
inconsistent with the regulations of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, such regulations shall control.

B. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to occupancy in
all single-family and multifamily residential dwelling units and multifamily
dwelling unit located in the Commonwealth. However, where the landlord is a
natural person, an estate, or a legal entity that owns no more than two
single-family residential dwelling units in its own name subject to a rental
agreement, such landlord may opt out of the Virginia Residential Landlord and
Tenant Act (§ 55-248.2 et seq.) by so stating in a rental agreement with a
tenant. Such residential dwelling units shall be exempt from this chapter and
the provisions of §§ 55-225.01 through 55-225.48 shall be applicable.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to instances
where occupancy under a contract of sale of a dwelling unit or the property of
which it is a part, if the occupant is the purchaser or a person who succeeds
to his interest.

C. Tenancies and occupancies that are not residential
tenancies. The following occupancies are not residential tenancies under this
chapter:

1. Residence at a public or private institution, if incidental
to detention or the provision of medical, geriatric, educational, counseling,
religious, or similar services;

2. Occupancy by a member of a fraternal or social organization
in the portion of a structure operated for the benefit of the organization;

3. Occupancy by an owner of a condominium unit or a holder of
a proprietary lease in a cooperative;

4. Occupancy in a campground as defined in § 35.1-1;

5. Occupancy by a tenant who pays no rent pursuant to a rental
agreement; or

6. Occupancy by an employee of a landlord whose right to
occupancy in a multifamily dwelling unit is conditioned upon employment in and
about the premises or an a former employee whose occupancy
continues less than 60 days.

D. Occupancy in hotel, motel, and extended stay facility.

1. A guest who is an occupant of a hotel, motel, extended stay
facility, vacation residential facility, including those governed by the
Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ 55-360 et seq.), boardinghouse, or
similar transient lodging shall not be construed to be a tenant living in a
dwelling unit if such person does not reside in such lodging as his primary
residence. Such guest shall be exempt from this chapter, and the innkeeper or
property owner, or his agent, shall have the right to use self-help eviction
under Virginia law, without the necessity of the filing of an unlawful detainer
action in a court of competent jurisdiction and the execution of a writ of
possession eviction issued pursuant to such action, which would
otherwise be required under this chapter.

2. A hotel, motel, extended stay facility, vacation
residential facility, boardinghouse, or similar transient lodging shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter if overnight sleeping accommodations
are furnished to a person for consideration if such person does not reside in
such lodging as his primary residence.

3. If a person resides in a hotel, motel, extended stay
facility, vacation residential facility, including those governed by the
Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ 55-360 et seq.), boardinghouse, or
similar transient lodging as his primary residence for fewer than 90
consecutive days, such lodging shall not be subject to the provisions of this
chapter. However, the owner of such lodging establishment shall give a five-day
written notice of nonpayment to a person residing in such lodging and, upon the
expiration of the five-day period specified in the notice, may exercise
self-help eviction if payment in full has not been received.

4. If a person resides in a hotel, motel, extended stay
facility, vacation residential facility, including those governed by the
Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ 55-360 et seq.), boardinghouse, or
similar transient lodging as his primary residence for more than 90 consecutive
days or is subject to a written lease for more than 90 days, such lodging shall
be subject to the provisions of this chapter.

5. Nothing herein shall be construed to preclude the owner of
a lodging establishment that uses self-help eviction pursuant to this section
from pursuing any civil or criminal remedies under the laws of the
Commonwealth.

§ 55-248.35. Remedy after termination.

If the rental agreement is terminated, the landlord may have a
claim for possession and for rent and a separate claim for actual damages for
breach of the rental agreement, reasonable attorney's fees as provided in §
55-248.31, and the cost of service of any notice under § 55-225 or § 55-248.31
or process by a sheriff or private process server which cost shall not exceed the
amount authorized by § 55-248.31:1, which claims may be enforced, without
limitation, by the institution of an action for unlawful entry or detainer.
Actual damages for breach of the rental agreement may include a claim for such
rent as would have accrued until the expiration of the term thereof or until a
tenancy pursuant to a new rental agreement commences, whichever first occurs;
provided that nothing herein contained shall diminish the duty of the landlord
to mitigate actual damages for breach of the rental agreement. In obtaining
post-possession judgments for actual damages as defined herein, the landlord
shall not seek a judgment for accelerated rent through the end of the term of
the tenancy.

In any unlawful detainer action brought by the landlord, this
section shall not be construed to prevent the landlord from being granted by
the court a simultaneous judgment for money due and for possession of the
premises without a credit for any security deposit. Upon the tenant vacating
the premises either voluntarily or by a writ of possession eviction,
security deposits shall be credited to the tenants' account by the landlord in
accordance with the requirements of § 55-248.15:1.

§ 55-248.38:1. Disposal of property abandoned by tenants.

If any items of personal property are left in the dwelling
unit, the premises, or in any storage area provided by the landlord, after the
rental agreement has terminated and delivery of possession has occurred, the
landlord may consider such property to be abandoned. The landlord may dispose
of the property so abandoned as the landlord sees fit or appropriate, provided
he has: (i) given a termination notice to the tenant in accordance with this
chapter, which includes a statement that any items of personal property left in
the dwelling unit or the premises would be disposed of within the 24-hour
period after termination, (ii) given written notice to the tenant in accordance
with § 55-248.33, which includes a statement that any items of personal
property left in the dwelling unit or the premises would be disposed of within
the 24-hour period after expiration of the seven-day notice period, or (iii)
given a separate written notice to the tenant, which includes a statement that
any items of personal property left in the dwelling unit or the premises would
be disposed of within 24 hours after expiration of a 10-day period from the
date such notice was given to the tenant. Any written notice to the tenant
shall be given in accordance with § 55-248.6. The tenant shall have the right
to remove his personal property from the dwelling unit or the premises at
reasonable times during the 24-hour period after termination or at such other
reasonable times until the landlord has disposed of the remaining personal
property of the tenant.

During the 24-hour period and until the landlord disposes of
the remaining personal property of the tenant, the landlord shall not have any
liability for the risk of loss for such personal property. If the landlord
fails to allow reasonable access to the tenant to remove his personal property
as provided in this section, the tenant shall have a right to injunctive or
other relief as provided by law. If the landlord received any funds from any
sale of abandoned property as provided in this section, the landlord shall pay
such funds to the account of the tenant and apply same to any amounts due the
landlord by the tenant, including the reasonable costs incurred by the landlord
in selling, storing or safekeeping such property. If any such funds are
remaining after application, the remaining funds shall be treated as a security
deposit under the provisions of § 55-248.15:1. The provisions of this section
shall not be applicable if the landlord has been granted a writ an
order of possession for the premises in accordance with Title 8.01 and
execution of such a writ of eviction has been completed
pursuant to § 8.01-470.

Nothing herein shall affect the right of a landlord to enforce
an inchoate or perfected lien of the landlord on the personal property of a
tenant in a dwelling unit or on the premises leased to such tenant and the
right of a landlord to distress, levy, and seize such personal property as
otherwise provided by law.

§ 55-248.38:2. Authority of sheriffs to store and sell
personal property removed from residential premises; recovery of possession by
owner; disposition or sale.

Notwithstanding the provisions of § 8.01-156, when personal
property is removed from a dwelling unit, the premises, or from any storage
area provided by the landlord pursuant to an action of unlawful detainer or
ejectment, or pursuant to any other action in which personal property is
removed from the dwelling unit in order to restore the dwelling unit to the
person entitled thereto, the sheriff shall oversee the removal of such personal
property to be placed into the public way. The tenant shall have the right to
remove his personal property from the public way during the 24-hour period
after eviction. Upon the expiration of the 24-hour period after eviction, the
landlord shall remove, or dispose of, any such personal property remaining in
the public way.

At the landlord's request, any personal property removed
pursuant to this section shall be placed into a storage area designated by the
landlord, which may be the dwelling unit. The tenant shall have the right to
remove his personal property from the landlord's designated storage area at
reasonable times during the 24 hours after eviction from the landlord's or at
such other reasonable times until the landlord has disposed of the property as
provided herein. During that 24-hour period and until the landlord disposes of
the remaining personal property of the tenant, the landlord and the sheriff
shall not have any liability for the risk of loss for such personal property.
If the landlord fails to allow reasonable access to the tenant to remove his
personal property as provided herein, the tenant shall have a right to
injunctive or other relief as otherwise provided by law.

Any property remaining in the landlord's storage area upon the
expiration of the 24-hour period after eviction may be disposed of by the
landlord as the landlord sees fit or appropriate. If the landlord receives any
funds from any sale of such remaining property, the landlord shall pay such
funds to the account of the tenant and apply same to any amounts due the
landlord by the tenant, including the reasonable costs incurred by the landlord
in the eviction process described in this section or the reasonable costs
incurred by the landlord in selling or storing such property. If any funds are
remaining after application, the remaining funds shall be treated as security
deposit under applicable law.

The notice posted by the sheriff with the writ of eviction setting
the date and time of the eviction, pursuant to § 8.01-470, shall provide notice
to the tenant of the rights afforded to tenants in this section and shall
include in the said notice a copy of this statute attached to, or made a part
of, this notice.

§ 58.1-3947. Lease of real estate for collection of taxes.

Any real estate in the county, city or town belonging to the
person or estate assessed with taxes due on such real estate may be rented or
leased by the treasurer, sheriff, constable or collector, privately or at
public outcry, after due publication, in the discretion of such treasurer,
sheriff, constable or collector, either at the front door of the courthouse or
on the premises or at some public place in the community where the premises are
situated, after giving not less than fifteen days' notice by printed or written
notices posted at the front door of the courthouse and at three or more places
in the neighborhood of the real estate to be leased. Such leasing shall be for
a term not exceeding one year and for cash sufficient to pay the taxes due on
the real estate so rented and the costs and charges of advertising and leasing.
When a lease is effected, the treasurer, collector, sheriff or constable
leasing such real estate shall put the lessee in possession thereof and for
such purpose shall have like powers as those exercised by a sheriff acting
under a writ of possession or writ of eviction.
