Source: https://www.dhcd.virginia.gov/sites/default/files/DocX/landlord-tenant/translations/2026/VRLTA-statement-2026.pdf
Fetched: 2026-09-28 (curl; pdftotext; saved mechanically, not retyped)
GUIDANCE: DHCD Statement of Tenant Rights and Responsibilities under the VRLTA as of July 1, 2026 (form required by 55.1-1204(B), developed under 36-139). States it does not modify the lease or Virginia law.

Virginia Statement of Tenant Rights and Responsibilities under the
Virginia Residential Landlord and Tenant Act as of July 1, 2026
This is a summary of tenants’ rights and responsibilities under the Virginia Residential Landlord and Tenant
Act. This summary does not modify your lease or Virginia law. A lease cannot give up a tenants’ rights
under the law. The information below is not intended as legal advice. All parties to a rental agreement are
encouraged to consult the Department of Housing and Community Development's website for more
information related to landlord and tenant resources. Tenants with questions are encouraged to contact
their local legal aid program at (866) 534-5243 or valegalaid.org/find-legal-help.

Tenant Rights

Applications:
Tenants may be charged a nonrefundable application fee of no more than $50 (not including
third party costs for a background check) and a refundable application deposit. If the tenant
does not rent the unit, the application deposit must be returned, minus any actual costs or
damages. (§55.1-1203)
Written lease:
Under the VRLTA, a landlord is required to provide a tenant a written lease within 10
business days of the effective date of the lease agreement. If a landlord fails to do so, the
VRLTA still protects a tenant by establishing a statutory lease between landlord and tenant
for 12 months not subject to automatic renewal. (§55.1-1204)
Disclosure:
A landlord must reveal certain information to the tenant, including any visible evidence of
mold (§55.1-1215), the name and address of the owner or property manager (§55.1-1216),
notice of sale or foreclosure of the property (§§55.1-1216, 1237), and on the first page of
the lease, a list of all charges including the security deposit, rent, and any additional
charges. (§55.1-1204.1)
Security Deposit:
A landlord may require a security deposit of up to two monthʼs rent. Within five days of
moving in, the tenant has a right to object to anything in the move-in report. The tenant
also has a right to be present at a move-out inspection, which must be made within 72
hours of delivery of possession. (§§55.1-1214, 1226)
Receipts:
A tenant is entitled to a written receipt of rent paid by cash or money order. Upon request,
a tenant is entitled to a written statement of all charges and payments over the past 12
months. (§55.1-1204(D), (J))
Last Updated July 1, 2026

Page 1 of 7

Payment Methods:
A landlord must accept periodic rent and security deposit payments by check and money
order. A landlord must accept at least one method of payment that does not include
additional collection or processing fees. (§55.1-1204(J))
Privacy:
A landlord may not release information about a tenant without consent, except under certain
conditions, which are generally when tenant information is already public. (§55.1-1209)
Fit and Habitable Premises:
A tenant has the right to a fit and habitable rental unit in accordance with the Uniform
Statewide Building Code. The landlord must make all repairs needed to keep premises fit
and habitable. (§55.1-1220) To request repairs, the tenant must give the landlord written
notice of the need for repairs, and give the landlord a reasonable amount of time to make
the repairs. A landlord cannot require a tenant to pay a fee for the maintenance or repair of
a unit unless the damage was from a tenant’s violation. (§55.1-1208) If repairs are not
made, a tenant can file a Tenantʼs Assertion in General District Court. The tenant must be
current on rent in order to file a Tenant’s Assertion (after Jan 1, 2027, the tenant does not
have to be current on rent to file a Tenant’s Assertion). Tenants must pay into court
escrow rent that becomes due. There is no rent withholding in Virginia except under repair
and deduct (below). (§55.1-1244)
A locality (county, city or town) may act on behalf of a tenant to enforce the provisions of the
Virginia Residential Landlord and Tenant Act to address conditions that are a fire hazard or
serious threat to life, health, or safety (e.g. rodent infestation, lack of heat, hot or cold running
water, electricity, or adequate sewage disposal). (§55.1-1259)
Repair and Deduct:
If an issue on the premises affects life, health, safety, or seriously affects habitability, and a
landlord has not begun to address it within 14 days after written notice from the tenant, the
tenant may contract to have the repair done by a licensed contractor at a cost of not more
than $1,500, or one monthʼs rent, whichever is more. The tenant may deduct the actual cost
of the repair from the rent. The tenant must send the landlord an itemized invoice and a
receipt for payment to the contractor for the work, along with any payment of remaining rent
owed. If a local government or nonprofit does repairs on behalf of the tenant, the tenant is
still entitled to reimbursement by the landlord or to make a deduction from the rent. A tenant
may not repair at the landlord’s expense if the problem was caused by the tenant or their
guest, OR if the tenant denied the landlord access to the unit, OR if the landlord already
fixed the problem before the tenant hired a contractor. (§55.1-1244.1)

Last Updated July 1, 2026

Page 2 of 7

Uninhabitable Dwelling Unit at Move In:
If, at the beginning of the tenancy, there exists a fire hazard or a serious threat to the life,
health or safety of the tenant (such as an infestation of rodents or a lack of heat, hot or cold
running water, electricity, or adequate sewage disposal facilities), the tenant may terminate
the rental agreement and receive a full refund of all deposits and rent paid to the landlord.
To terminate the agreement and request a refund, the tenant must provide a written notice
of termination no later than seven days after the tenancy started. If, upon receipt of notice,
the landlord agrees such hazardous condition exists, the landlord must refund all deposits
and rent paid within 15 business days of being notified or of the tenant vacating the unit,
whichever occurs later. (§55.1-1234.1)
The landlord may, in a written notice provided to the tenant, state that the termination is
unjustified and refuse to accept the tenant’s termination of the lease. A tenant who has
vacated the unit (or never moved in initially) may then challenge the landlord’s refusal in
court. The prevailing party shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees. (§55.11234.1)
Notification of Rent Increase/Nonrenewal:
If a lease contains an option to renew or an automatic renewal provision, a tenant must be
notified in writing of a rent increase or nonrenewal at least 60 days before the end of the
lease term. This only applies when a landlord owns more than four rental units or more
than 10% percent interest in more than four rental units in the Commonwealth. (§55.11204(K))
Eviction:
A landlord may not evict a tenant without following the court eviction process. If the tenant
does not pay rent by the due date, the landlord first sends a written notice informing the
tenant of the amount of rent and fees owed and that the landlord will file an unlawful
detainer (eviction) lawsuit if the tenant does not pay OR leave the unit. If the tenant does
not pay the amount owed within 14 days, the landlord can file an unlawful detainer
(eviction) lawsuit. If a tenant leaves and does not pay, the landlord may file a warrant in
debt to collect rent owed. To evict the tenant, the landlord must get a court order of
possession, followed by a Writ of Eviction that is served by the Sheriff. (§§55.1-1245,
1252). A tenant not getting paid due to a federal shutdown of 14 or more days can get an
eviction lawsuit for nonpayment of rent postponed for 60 days. (§44-209) A tenant has the
right to appeal an eviction. The court may waive the appeal bond if the tenants income is
below a certain amount defined by §19.2-159 (indigent persons). (§16.1-107(C))
When facing an unlawful detainer (eviction) action, a tenant has the right to present
evidence of written requests made to the landlord to address conditions impacting the
safety and habitability of the premises. The tenant must follow the proper court processes
Last Updated July 1, 2026

Page 3 of 7

and may request that the court reduce the amount of rent owed based on the unit’s
condition. (§55.1-1241)
Unlawful Exclusion, Interruption of Essential Services, and Unlivable Premises:
A landlord may not unlawfully exclude a tenant from the premises, interrupt an essential
service, or make the unit unlivable. If this happens, the tenant may sue the landlord in
General District Court and get an initial court hearing within five calendar days. At this
hearing, a court may order the landlord to give the property back to the tenant, resume the
essential service, or fix the conditions that make the unit unlivable. The court may also hold
a second hearing within 10 days of the first hearing and may find that the tenant is entitled
to actual damages, statutory damages, and reasonable attorney’s fees. (§55.1-1243.1) If a
tenant is excluded from the unit because the unit was condemned, the tenant may sue the
landlord for actual damages. The landlord must return any prepaid rent, security deposit,
and rent paid after the unit was condemned. (§55.1-1243.2)
Domestic Violence— Right to Change Locks:
If a tenant has obtained an order from a court under §16,1-279.1 (for family abuse) or §20103 (for apprehension of physical harm by a family or household member) that excludes
someone else from the premises, the tenant may provide the landlord with a copy of that
court order and request that the landlord either install a new lock or other security devices
on the exterior doors of the unit or permit the tenant to do so.
In the event the tenant changes the locks, the tenant shall provide a duplicate copy of all
keys and instructions for the operation of all devices to the landlord. The new lock/security
device must not cause permanent damage to the dwelling unit, and the tenant shall be
responsible for the cost of installing the lock/security device, reasonable costs incurred to
remove the device(s), and all damage upon termination of the lease. (§55.1-1230)
Domestic Violence—Right to Terminate the Lease:
A tenant who is a victim of family abuse as defined by §16.1-228, sexual abuse as defined
by §18.2-67.10, other criminal sexual assault, stalking in violation of §18.2-60.3, or
trafficking in violation of Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 18.2 may terminate their lease if:
1. The tenant has obtained a preliminary protective order under §16.1-253.1 (for family
abuse), OR an order of protection under §16.1-279.1 (for family abuse), OR a
permanent protective order under §19.2-152.10 (general protective order) against
the perpetrator, OR the perpetrator has been convicted of any of the above crimes
against the tenant, AND
2. The tenant provides the landlord with a written notice of termination that includes
copy of the order of protection OR the conviction order, warrant, summons,
information, or indictment.
The lease shall be terminated 28 days after the tenant provides the landlord with the written
Last Updated July 1, 2026

Page 4 of 7

notice. The rent must be paid at the normal time through the effective date of the
termination. (§55.1-1236)
Domestic Violence—Right to Stay:
A landlord cannot terminate the lease of a victim solely due to family abuse against the
tenant as defined by §16.1-228 when the perpetrator is barred from the unit by the landlord
under §55.1-1246, OR when the tenant provides the landlord a copy of:
1. A preliminary protective order under §16.1-253.1 (for family abuse), OR
2. An order of protection under §16.1-279.1 (for family abuse), OR
3. An order of exclusive use of the marital residence under §20-103(B) (for family
abuse pending divorce), OR
4. An order of protection as part of a criminal action.
(§55.1-1245)
Redemption (Pay & Stay):
After an unlawful detainer (eviction) lawsuit for nonpayment of rent is filed, a tenant has the
right to pay to a zero balance on or before the court date and have the lawsuit dismissed.
After a court issues a judgment of possession, a tenant has the right to pay to a zero
balance up to 48 hours before the Sheriffs eviction and have the eviction cancelled. If the
landlord has 5 or more rentals, a tenant may use these rights at any time. If the landlord
has 4 or fewer rentals, the landlord may limit the tenant’s use of these rights to once during
the lease period if the landlord first sends a written notice of this limitation. (§55.1-1250)
Fair Housing:
The tenant may have a right to file a fair housing complaint if the landlord or property
manager violates the Virginia Fair Housing Law. (§36-96.1 et seq, HUD FHEO-2020-1)

Tenant Responsibilities
Rent:
Unless the lease says otherwise, rent is due in equal payments each month on or before the
first of each month. (§55.1-1204)
Late Fees:
If rent is not paid by the due date, the tenant must pay a late fee only if the lease requires
one. A late fee can be no more than 10% of the monthly rent or 10% of the unpaid balance
owed by the tenant, whichever is less. (§55.1-1204(E))
Insurance:
A tenant may be required to have and pay for renters insurance. A tenant also may be
required to have and pay for damage insurance and/or a security deposit, but the total of
Last Updated July 1, 2026

Page 5 of 7

both the damage insurance premiums and the security deposit may not exceed two monthsʼ
rent. (§§55.1-1206, 1208)
Access:
A tenant must allow a landlord access to the unit at reasonable times and for practical
purposes, such as maintenance, inspection, or to provide services. A tenant must allow
access unless the landlords request is unreasonable. Unless impractical due to an
emergency, the landlord must give 72-hoursʼ notice of maintenance and must perform the
maintenance within 14 days. If the tenant requests maintenance, notice is not required.
(§55.1-1229)
Maintain Fit and Habitable Premises:
The tenant must keep the rental unit as clean and safe as conditions allow and in
accordance with the Uniform Statewide Building Code. The tenant must promptly notify the
landlord of visible mold and use reasonable efforts to prevent moisture and mold. The
tenant must promptly notify the landlord of insects or pests and must not be at fault in failing
to prevent insects or pests. (§55.1-1227)

Last Updated July 1, 2026

Page 6 of 7

Acknowledgement of Receipt of Statement of
Tenant Rights and Responsibilities
In accordance with §55.1-1204 of the Code of Virginia, the Landlord has provided to the
Tenant and the Tenant has received the Statement of Tenant Rights and Responsibilities
developed by the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development and posted
on its website (www.dhcd.virginia.gov/landlord-tenant-resources) pursuant to §36-139
Code of Virginia. The Statement of Tenant Rights & Responsibilities is current as of the date
below.
The statement of the tenants’ rights and responsibilities was provided to the tenant on:
For property address:
The tenant:
Signed this acknowledgment of receipt of the statement of tenants’ rights and
responsibilities
Did not sign this acknowledgement of receipt of the statement of tenant’s rights and
responsibilities

Landlord Signature

Printed Name

Date

Landlord Agent (if applicable)

Printed Name

Date

Tenant Signature

Printed Name

Date

Tenant Signature

Printed Name

Date

Tenant Signature

Printed Name

Date

Tenant Signature

Printed Name

Date

Last Updated July 1, 2026

Page 7 of 7

