SOURCE: https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCrules/0-0-0-19979
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 from American Legal Publishing official bulk XML (http://files.amlegal.com/pdffiles/NewYorkCity/Rules/XML.zip, downloaded 2026-09-28/29), XML file 0-0-0-144623.xml; text extracted mechanically by register/tools/aml.py

§ 5-265 Requirements Concerning the Posting of Signs About Tenant Screening Reports.

§ 5-265 Requirements Concerning the Posting of Signs About Tenant Screening Reports.

(a) The sign required to be posted pursuant to § 20-809 of the Administrative Code of the City of New York at any location at which the principal purpose is to conduct business transactions pertaining to the rental of residential real estate properties shall include text printed in the specified size type and shall contain the required information in the order listed below, except that italicized text included below is not part of the text for the sign:

(1) The words "NOTICE ABOUT TENANT SCREENING REPORTS" shall be printed at the top of the sign in one and one half-inch high capital letters.

(2) If application information is or may be used to screen tenants through a report from a consumer reporting agency, the sign shall state in 24-point type as follows: "Tenant screening reports from consumer reporting agencies are sometimes used to assist landlords in making rental decisions. In regard to such reports (Check the applicable box):

____ We do not use such reports.

____ We may use such reports by contacting the following:

• (Insert name and address of each consumer reporting agency that may be contacted, and identify any that are a nationwide specialty consumer reporting agency).

• (Use additional lines for each listed agency).

"The law requires us to notify you if we do not lease or rent to you based on information in that report. You also have the right to dispute the accuracy of the information in the report directly with the reporting agency and to obtain a free report from such agency if we do not lease or rent to you based on such report.

"You also are entitled to receive one free report every 12 months from any nationwide specialty consumer reporting agency used by us, as well as a free credit report every 12 months from each of the nationwide consumer credit reporting companies: Equifax, Experian and TransUnion. You can request this free credit report through the website www.annualcreditreport.com. You may dispute the accuracy of any information about you that is contained in such report directly with the credit reporting agency."

(b) The color of the text of the notice required in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) shall contrast sharply with the color of the remaining text, and the colors of the printed text shall contrast sharply with the background color of the sign.

(c) All the required information shall be included on one sign that shall be posted at the location at a place where it is conspicuously visible to a consumer who is seated while the transaction is conducted at such location.
