SOURCE: https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._not-for-profit_corporation_law_section_1303
OFFICIAL: https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/NPC/1303 (last accessed Sep. 26, 2026 by public.law)
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl of newyork.public.law (mirror of the official nysenate.gov text; nysenate.gov is Cloudflare-walled to curl and browser); text extracted mechanically by register/tools/fetch_ny.py (site-added 'pragmatic' cross-reference labels removed)

N.Y.

Not-for-Profit Corporation Law Section 1303

Violations

The attorney-general may bring an action to restrain a foreign corporation from conducting in this state without authority any activities for the conduct of which it is required to be authorized in the state, or from conducting in this state any activities not set forth in its application for authority or certificate of amendment filed by the department of state. The attorney-general may bring an action or special proceeding to annul the authority of a foreign corporation to conduct in this state any activities not set forth in its application for authority or certificate of amendment or the authority of which was obtained through fraudulent misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact or to enjoin or annul the authority of any foreign corporation which within this state contrary to law has done or omitted any act which if done by a domestic corporation would be a cause for its dissolution under section 1101 (Attorney-general’s action for judicial dissolution) or to annul the authority of a foreign corporation that has been dissolved or has had its authority or existence otherwise terminated or cancelled in the jurisdiction of its incorporation. The attorney-general shall deliver a certified copy of the order of annulment to the department of state. Upon the filing thereof by the department of state the authority of the foreign corporation to conduct activities in this state shall be annulled. The secretary of state shall continue as agent of the foreign corporation upon whom process against it may be served in any action or special proceeding based upon any liability or obligation incurred by the foreign corporation within the state prior to the filing of the certified copy of the order of annulment by the department of state.

Source:
Section 1303 — Violations, https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/laws/NPC/1303 (updated Sep. 22, 2014; accessed Sep. 26, 2026).
