                                                         Revised       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.   85398-E
                                           Cancelling    Revised       Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No.   58810-E
Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California     (U 338-E)


                                           .                                       Sheet 1




                  NBT OR NEM CUSTOMER-GENERATOR WARRANTY THAT IT                               (T)
                  MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS FOR AN ELIGIBLE CUSTOMER-
                  GENERATOR AND IS AN ELIGIBLE RENEWABLE ELECTRICAL
                   GENERATION FACILITY PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 2827 OR
                     2827.1 OF THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES CODE

                                     Form 14-912




(To be inserted by utility)              Issued By                 (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice      4962-E                   Michael Backstrom             Date Submitted Jan 30, 2023
Decision 22-12-056                     Vice President              Effective         Mar 1, 2023
                                                                   Resolution
                   NBT OR NEM CUSTOMER-GENERATOR WARRANTY THAT IT MEETS                                               (T)
                    THE REQUIREMENTS FOR AN ELIGIBLE CUSTOMER-GENERATOR
                      AND IS AN ELIGIBLE RENEWABLE ELECTRICAL GENERATION
                   FACILITY PURSUANT TO SECTION 2827 OR SECTION 2827.1 OF THE
                                 CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITIES CODE

 (This Affidavit needs to be completed and submitted to SCE by the Customer-Generator every time a new
NEM/NBT interconnection agreement for a Renewable Electrical Generation Facility is executed or whenever (T)
                          there is a change in ownership of the Generating Facility)


Interconnection Customer Information
    Interconnection Customer:
                       Attention:
                          Address:
            City, State, zip code:
                           Phone:
                               Fax:
                                                               Location of Generator
                          Address:
            City, State, zip code:



                 Utility Log# (from SCE)
                               SCE SA-ID

                               Circle Type of Renewable Electrical Generation Facility

                 biomass                                geothermal                       municipal solid waste
               solar thermal                              fuel cell                           landfill gas
               photovoltaic                    small hydroelectric generation                ocean wave
                   wind                                 digester gas                        ocean thermal
               tidal current

NEM or NBT Customer-Generator (Customer) declares that it meets the requirements for an “Eligible                       (T)
Customer-Generator” and the Generating Facility meets the requirements of an “Renewable Electrical
Generation Facility”, as defined Sections 2827(b)(5) and 2827.1(a) of the California Public Utilities Code and
satisfies the definitions of the renewable resource for the Renewable Electrical Generation Facility in the
latest version of the California Energy Commission’s (CEC’s) Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS)
Eligibility Guidebook and the Overall Program Guidebook1 (Eligibility Requirements).                                    (T)

Included in these eligibility requirements (check as applicable) pursuant to Public Utilities Code Sections
2827(b)(5) and 2827.1(a), and Public Resource Code Section 25741 paragraph (a) 1:

     If the Renewable Electrical Generation Facility uses "municipal solid waste conversion" customer
        warrants that the “municipal solid waste is as defined in PR Code Section 25741(b).


        1
            The RPS Guidebooks can be found at: http://www.energy.ca.gov/renewables/documents/index.html#rps

                                                                                                              Page 1 of 3
                                                                                                             Form 14-912
                                                                                                                 01/2023
     If the Renewable Electrical Generation Facility uses fuel cell, Eligible Customer-Generator warrants
    that the fuel cell is powered solely with renewable fuel.

     If the Renewable Electrical Generation Facility is a Small hydroelectric generating facility, customer
    warrants that it will not cause an adverse impact on instream beneficial uses, nor cause a change in the
    volume or timing of streamflow.

Eligible Customer-Generator warrants that, beginning on the date of Initial Operation and continuing for as
long the Customer-Generator is taking service on an applicable NEM or NBT rate schedule (term of this             (T)
Agreement), Eligible Customer-Generator and the Generating Facility shall continue to meet the Eligibility        (T)
Requirements. If Eligible Customer-Generator or the Generating Facility ceases to meet the Eligibility
Requirements, Eligible Customer-Generator shall promptly provide SCE with Notice of such change
pursuant to the Notification of this Agreement. If at any time during the term of this Agreement SCE
determines, at its reasonable discretion, that Eligible Customer-Generator or Generating Facility may no          (T)
longer meet the Eligibility Requirements, SCE may require Eligible Customer-Generator to provide evidence,
that Eligible Customer-Generator and/or Generating Facility continues to meet the Eligibility Requirements,
within 20 business days of SCE’s request for such evidence. Additionally, SCE may periodically (typically,
once per year) inspect Producer’s Generating Facility and/or require documentation from Eligible Customer-
Generator to monitor the Generating Facility’s compliance with the Eligibility Requirements. SCE will provide
a minimum of 10 business days notice to the Eligible Customer Generator should SCE decide an inspection
is required. If SCE determines in its reasonable judgment that Eligible Customer-Generator either failed to
provide evidence in a timely manner or that it provided insufficient evidence that its Generating Facility
continues to meet the Eligibility Requirements, then the Eligibility Status shall be deemed ineffective until
such time as Eligible Customer-Generator again demonstrates to SCE’s reasonable satisfaction that Eligible
Customer-Generator meets the requirements for an Eligible Customer–Generator and/or the Generating
Facility meets the requirements for a Eligible electrical generating facility (the Eligibility Status Change).    (T)

SCE shall revise its records and the administration of this Agreement to reflect the Eligibility Status Change
and provide Notice to Eligible Customer-Generator of the Eligibility Status Change pursuant to the
Notification Section of this Agreement. Such Notice shall specify the effective date of the Eligibility Status
Change. This date shall be the first day of the calendar year for which SCE determines in its reasonable
discretion that the Eligible Customer-Generator and/or Generating Facility first ceased to meet the Eligibility
Requirements. SCE shall invoice the Eligible Customer-Generator for any tariff charges that were not
previously billed during the period between the effective date of the Eligibility Status Change and the date of
the Notice in reliance upon Eligible Customer-Generator’s representations that Eligible Customer-Generator
and/or Generating Facility complied with the Eligibility Requirements and therefore was eligible for the rate
treatment available under the Net Energy Metering provisions of SCE’s applicable Net Energy Metering rate
schedules for Eligible Customer-Generators.

Any amounts to be paid or refunded by Eligible Customer-Generator, as may be invoiced by SCE pursuant
to the terms of this warranty, shall be paid to SCE within 30 days of Eligible Customer-Generator’s receipt of
such invoice.

Unless otherwise ordered by the CPUC, this Agreement at all times shall be subject to such modifications as
the CPUC may direct from time to time in the exercise of its jurisdiction.




                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3
                                                                                                       Form 14-912
                                                                                                           01/2023
Notification

Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, any written notice, demand, or request required or authorized
in connection with this Agreement (Notice) shall be deemed properly given if delivered in person, delivered      (T)
by recognized national currier service, or sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the person specified
below:

If to the Eligible Customer-Generator:



         Interconnection Customer:
                          Attention:
                          Address:
              City, State, zip code:
                            Phone:
                               Fax:



                      If to SCE:
                      U.S. Mail                        Courier
Southern California Edison Company                     Southern California Edison Company
Attention: - Net Metering Program                      Attention: Net Metering Program Administrator
Administrator
P.O. Box 800                                            2244 Walnut Grove Ave
Rosemead, CA 91770                                      Rosemead, CA 91770
                                       Telephone:       (866) 600-6290                                          (T)

                                                                                                                (D)
                                           Email:       customer.generation@sce.com



Signatures

Customer-Generator Signature:

Name:

Title:

Date:




                                                                                                      Page 3 of 3
                                                                                                     Form 14-912
                                                                                                         01/2023
