SENATE RULES COMMITTEE                                                   SB 890
Office of Senate Floor Analyses
1020 N Street, Suite 524
(916) 651-1520       Fax: (916) 327-4478


                              THIRD READING


Bill No:     SB 890
Author:      Leno (D)
Amended:     5/27/11
Vote:        21


SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE: 3-2, 5/10/11
AYES: Evans, Corbett, Leno
NOES: Harman, Blakeslee


SUBJECT:        Fair Debt Buyers Practices Act

SOURCE:         Attorney General Kamala Harris


DIGEST: This bill, the Fair Debt Buyers Practices Act, imposes various
restrictions on debt buyers who seek to take steps to collect purchased debt,
including (1) prohibiting the collection of a debt without valid
documentation; (2) requiring a debt buyer who receives payment to provide
a receipt; (3) prohibiting suit or other action to collect a consumer debt if the
statute of limitations has expired; (4) requiring specified documentation of
the debt to be attached to a complaint; and (5) requiring a dismissal of the
action, with prejudice, if a debt buyer seeks a default judgment without
complying with specified requirements.

Senate Floor Amendments of 5/27/11 (1) clarify the documentation
requirements, provide the debt buyer with greater time to respond to requests
for that documentation, and require the debt buyer to provide a specified
disclosure in a communication regarding time barred debt; (2) require
settlement agreements to be in writing, clarify the required contents of a debt
buyer‟s complaint, permit a court to dismiss an action with or without
prejudice if a debt buyer seeking a default judgment does not comply with
specified requirements, and require a court to determine that the statute of
                                                                CONTINUED
                                                                           SB 890
                                                                           Page 2

limitations has not expired prior to entering judgment, as specified; (3)
reduce the allowable damages from $5,000 to $2,000 per violation, specify
the additional permitted recovery for class actions, and permit a prevailing
debt buyer to recover attorney‟s fees if an action was brought in bad faith for
the purpose of harassment; (4) revise the requirement that judgment be
entered for the debtor if debt buyer is not prepared to proceed for trial by,
instead, permitting the court, in its discretion, to dismiss the action with or
without prejudice, as specified; and (5) make other technical, clarifying
changes.

ANALYSIS: Existing state and federal law regulate the practice of debt
collection. Existing state law prohibits a debt collector from engaging in
specified conduct, including the use of threats or causing a telephone to ring
repeatedly to annoy the person called. Existing law prohibits a debt
collector from obtaining an affirmation from a debtor of a consumer debt
that has been discharged in bankruptcy, without clearly and conspicuously
disclosing to the debtor, in writing, the fact that the debtor is not legally
obligated to make such affirmation.

This bill enacts the Fair Debt Buyers Practices Act, which regulates the
activities of a person or entity that has bought consumer debt and the
circumstances in which the person may bring suit. This bill prohibits a “debt
buyer”, as defined, from making any written statement in an attempt to
collect a consumer debt unless the debt buyer has valid evidence in the form
of business records that the debt buyer is the sole owner of the specific debt
at issue , the amount of the debt, and the name of the creditor at the time the
debt was charged off, among other things. This bill requires the debt buyer
to make this evidence available to the debtor, without charge, upon receipt
of a request, within 15 days. This bill prohibits a debt buyer from
communicating with a debtor in writing without providing a specified notice.
This bill requires all settlement agreements between a debt buyer and a
debtor to be in writing and requires a debt buyer who receives a payment on
a debt to provide a receipt or statement containing certain information. This
bill prohibits a debt buyer from initiating a suit to collect a debt if the statute
of limitations on the cause of action has expired. This bill prescribes
penalties for a violation of the act and provides that its provisions may not
be waived. This bill requires a debt buyer bringing an action on consumer
debt to include certain information in his or her complaint. This bill
prohibits an entry of judgment in favor of a plaintiff debt buyer unless
properly authenticated business records relating to the debt and ownership of
it, among other things, are properly in evidence, and would permit a court to

                                                                   CONTINUED
                                                                           SB 890
                                                                           Page 3

dismiss a debt buyer's action to collect with prejudice if this information is
not provided or if the debt buyer fails to appear or is not prepared on the date
scheduled for trial.

Existing law establishes a process for the enforcement of money judgments
and requires a levying officer to provide certain documents and information
to a judgment debtor and to a designated employer in connection with wage
garnishment. Existing law permits a process server also to serve an earnings
withholding order on an employer and requires that the process server also
serve certain documents at this time. Existing law requires an employer who
is served with an earnings withholding order to provide certain documents to
an employee who is a judgment debtor.

This bill requires, in the circumstances described above, that a copy of the
form that the judgment debtor may use to make a claim of exemption and a
copy of the form used to provide a financial statement also be provided.

As used in this bill, “debt buyer” means a person or entity that regularly
purchases charged-off consumer loans or consumer credit accounts, or other
delinquent consumer debt. “Debt buyer” includes a person acting on behalf
of a debt buyer.

This bill provides that its provisions are severable. If any provision of this
section or its application is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application.

Background

Debt buyers are companies that purchase delinquent or charged-off debts
from a creditor for a certain fraction of the face value of the debt. Those
companies have become subject to increased scrutiny due to numerous
complaints on behalf of consumers. Last July, the Federal Trade
Commission (FTC) issued a report examining debt collection litigation and
arbitration proceedings that concluded the “system for resolving consumer
debt collection disputes is broken” and recommended significant reforms.
The FTC further noted that: “The report finds very few consumers defend or
otherwise participate in debt collection litigation. The Commission
therefore recommends state and local governments consider making a
variety of reforms to service of process, pleading, and court rules and


                                                                    CONTINUED
                                                                       SB 890
                                                                       Page 4

practices to increase the ability of consumers to defend or otherwise
participate in debt collection litigation. The report also finds
complaints and attachments in debt collection cases often do not provide
adequate information for consumers to answer complaints or for judges to
rule on motions for default judgment. The FTC therefore recommends that
courts more rigorously apply existing rules to require that collectors provide
adequate information and that jurisdictions consider adopting rules
mandating the information which must be included in or attached to the
complaint. The report additionally finds that state statutes of limitations on
filing actions to recover on debt are sometimes variable and complex, and
generally not understood by consumers. The Commission suggests that
states consider modifying their laws to make it simpler to determine the
applicable statute of limitations, and to require that collectors provide
consumers with important information about their legal rights when
collecting debt they know or should know is time-barred.”

FISCAL EFFECT: Appropriation: No Fiscal Com.: No Local: No

SUPPORT: (Verified 5/31/11)

Attorney General Kamala Harris (source)
California Reinvestment Coalition
Consumers Union
East Bay Community Law Center
Housing and Economic Rights Advocates
Lawyers‟ Committee for Civil Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area
Professor Scott Maurer, Santa Clara University School of Law

OPPOSITION: (Verified 5/31/11)

California Association of Collectors
California Creditors Bar Association
DBA International

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT: The author states:

   “According to the Federal Trade Commission, [t]he system for resolving
   disputes about consumer debts is broken, and has urged states to pass
   legislation to provide adequate protection for consumers. The system is
   broken because courts have been swamped with debt collection law suits
   driven by the growth of an industry that buys and sells bundled portfolios

                                                                CONTINUED
                                                                      SB 890
                                                                      Page 5

   of consumer debt, and misuses the courts to leverage their collection
   efforts.

   “The industry‟s practices echo the scandal surrounding the processing of
   delinquent mortgages. Here, debt buyers use „robo signers‟ who sign
   affidavits averring that they have reviewed and verified debtors‟ records,
   when they have only reviewed basic, and often incomplete, account
   statements records or spreadsheets on a computer screen. Moreover,
   because consumer debt is being bought and sold so frequently, and over a
   period of years, companies are frequently pursuing the wrong person, or
   the filing claims that have no lawful basis.

   “Frequently, these debt collection actions are filed by debt buyers
   without proof that the debt ever existed. Yet actions proceed to judgment
   because ninety-five percent of consumers do not respond to these
   lawsuits—many because they do not receive notice—allowing the debt
   collector to take a default judgment against the consumer and levy
   against the consumer‟s personnel accounts.

The author maintains that this bill, “The Fair Debt Buyers Act[,] would
reform the debt collection litigation process in a number of ways to aid
consumers and unburden the courts from costly, unmeritorious litigation.”

ARGUMENTS IN OPPOSITION: The California Association of
Collectors (CAC) contends that this bill “confuses and blends the concepts
of debt verification and prove-up hearings. Debt verification is the
requirement on behalf of the debt owner or collector to demonstrate that the
debt is owed by the consumer. Conversely, to obtain a judgment at trial or
prove-up hearing, the plaintiff must produce admissible evidence
satisfactory to the court that judgment is property against the named
defendants.”

The CAC further contends that debtors have the existing right to make an
offer to compromise, and to seek damages for frivolous lawsuits, and to sue
for malicious prosecution.

DBA International contends that the bill “sets unprecedented obligations on
the entire collection industry in the judicial system, proposes requirements
which go beyond what is required or even available by the original creditors,
and generally, creates more ambiguity than solves perceived problems.”
DBA … notes that ownership is established for most purchases by a Bill of

                                                               CONTINUED
                                                                        SB 890
                                                                        Page 6

Sale and argues that (1) the bill would eviscerate a judge‟s right to evaluate
the trustworthiness of the evidence before them; (2) the itemization
requirement is not even imposed upon originating banks by federal law; (3)
the bill approaches the problem from the wrong perspective since it is the
original creditor that has the information; (4) the FDCPA already imposes
requirements on debt collectors; and (5) the bill will cause unnecessary
filings of excess documents.

The California Creditors Bar Association expresses concern that the bill
proposes “extensive regulations for only one type of debt ownership,” would
flip the burden of proof regarding the statute of limitations, “imposes wildly
unreasonable requirements for documentation,” and contends that the
liability imposed would be punitive.


RJG:mw 5/31/11 Senate Floor Analyses
                   SUPPORT/OPPOSITION:         SEE ABOVE
                              **** END ****
