SENATE RULES COMMITTEE                                                   SB 890
Office of Senate Floor Analyses
1020 N Street, Suite 524
(916) 651-1520       Fax: (916) 327-4478


                              THIRD READING


Bill No:     SB 890
Author:      Leno (D)
Amended:     5/17/11
Vote:        21


SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE: 3-2, 5/10/11
AYES: Evans, Corbett, Leno
NOES: Harman, Blakeslee


SUBJECT:        Fair Debt Buyers Practices Act

SOURCE:         Attorney General Kamala Harris


DIGEST: This bill, the Fair Debt Buyers Practices Act, imposes various
restrictions on debt buyers who seek to take steps to collect purchased debt,
including (1) prohibiting the collection of a debt without valid
documentation; (2) requiring a debt buyer who receives payment to provide
a receipt; (3) prohibiting suit or other action to collect a consumer debt if the
statute of limitations has expired; (4) requiring specified documentation of
the debt to be attached to a complaint; (5) requiring a dismissal of the action,
with prejudice, if a debt buyer seeks a default judgment without complying
with specified requirements. This bill provides that a debt buyer who
violates the provisions of this bill is liable for specified damages, including
costs and reasonable attorney‟s fees, but permits a debt buyer to avoid
liability for unintentional bona fide errors. This bill also requires a claim of
exemption, and related financial statement form, to be provided to a
judgment debtor by a levying officer, as specified.

ANALYSIS: Existing federal law generally regulates the collection of
debt through, among other things, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act;
Fair Credit Reporting Act; and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
                                                              CONTINUED
                                                                        SB 890
                                                                        Page 2


Existing state law, the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act,
generally prohibits deceptive, dishonest, unfair and unreasonable debt
collection practices by debt collectors, and regulates the form and content of
communications by collectors to debtors and others. (Civil Code Section
1788 et seq.)

This bill enacts the Fair Debt Buyers Practices Act, whose requirements and
remedies are cumulative to those in the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection
Practices Act as well as any other law.

This bill prohibits a debt buyer from making any written statement in an
attempt to collect a consumer debt, including bringing suit or initiating
another type of proceeding, unless the debt buyer possesses valid
documentation that the buyer is the sole owner of the debt and reasonable
verification of the amount of the debt allegedly owed by the debtor.
Reasonable verification shall include documentation of the name of the
original creditor, the name and address of the debtor as it appeared on the
contract or other document evidencing the agreement to the debt, and an
itemized accounting of the amount claimed to be owed, including all fees
and charges. Upon receipt of a request from the debtor to whom the debt
purportedly applies, the debt buyer shall make this information available,
without charge, to the debtor within five business days.

This bill requires a debt buyer who receives payment on a debt to provide an
original receipt, or an exact copy, to the individual from whom payment is
received within 10 days of payment, as specified.

This bill prohibits a debt buyer from bringing suit, initiating another
proceeding, or taking any other action to collect a consumer debt if the
applicable statute of limitations on the cause of action has expired.

This bill requires the following with respect to an action brought by a debt
buyer on a consumer debt:

   Plaintiff shall disclose clearly and conspicuously on the face of the
   complaint that he/she is a debt buyer;

   All of the following are attached: (1) copy of the contract or other
   writing evidencing the original debt and agreement of the debtor to be
   responsible for the debt, and establishing that each defendant debtor is , in
                                                                 CONTINUED
                                                                         SB 890
                                                                         Page 3

   fact, responsible for the original account; (2) copy of the writing
   establishing that the debt buyer is the sole current owner of the debt, as
   specified; and

   A statement of calculation of liability that separately states the amount of
   the original debt, each fee and charge added to the debt, and each
   payment credited to the debt after the earliest charge off or the
   delinquency closest in time to the sale of the debt.

This bill provides that for purposes of the above provisions, the only
evidence sufficient to establish the amount and nature of the debt shall be
properly authenticated business records that satisfy the requirements of the
Evidence Code, as specified, and include the following items: (1) copy of
the contract or other writing evidencing the original debt; (2) original
account number; (3) name of the original creditor; (4) original charge-off
balance; (5) itemization of charges and fees claimed to be owed; (6)
itemization of post charge-off additions, if applicable; (7) date of last
payment; and (8) amount of interest claims and the basis for the interest
charged.

This bill provides that if a plaintiff who is a debt buyer seeks a default
judgment and has not complied with the above requirements, the court shall
not enter a default judgment for the plaintiff and shall dismiss the action
with prejudice.

This bill, except as specified, provides that a debt buyer who violates any
provision of this bill with respect to any person is liable to the person in an
amount equaling the sum of the following: (1) actual damage sustained; (2)
damages, as specified in an individual or class action; and (3) costs of the
action and reasonable attorney‟s fees.

This bill provides that a debt buyer shall not be liable in any action brought
under this bill, if the debt buyer shows by a preponderance of the evidence
that the violation was not intentional and resulted from a bona fide error
notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid
any such error.

This bill provides that an action to enforce any liability created by this title
may be brought within two years from the date of discovery of the violation.



                                                                  CONTINUED
                                                                           SB 890
                                                                           Page 4

This bill provides that in a case involving consumer debt, as defined and
regulated under the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, if the
defendant debtor appears for trial on the scheduled date and the plaintiff debt
buyer either fails to appear or is not prepared to proceed to trial, and the
court does not find a good cause for continuance, judgment shall be entered
for the debtor. Notwithstanding any other law, in that instance, the court
may award the defendant debtor‟s costs of preparing for trial, including, but
not limited to, lost wages and transportation expenses.

Existing law establishes a process for the enforcement of money judgments
and requires a levying officer to provide certain documents and information
to a judgment debtor and to a designated employer in connection with wage
garnishment. Existing law permits a process server also to serve an earnings
withholding order on an employer and requires that the process server also
serve certain documents at this time. Existing law requires an employer who
is served with an earnings withholding order to provide certain documents to
an employee who is a judgment debtor. (Code Civil Procedure Sections
700.010, 706.103, 706.104, 706.108, and 706.122)

This bill requires, in the circumstances described above, that a copy of the
form that the judgment debtor may use to make a claim of exemption and a
copy of the form used to provide a financial statement also be provided.

This bill provides that its provisions are severable. If any provision of this
section or its application is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application.

Background

Debt buyers are companies that purchase delinquent or charged-off debts
from a creditor for a certain fraction of the face value of the debt. Those
companies have become subject to increased scrutiny due to numerous
complaints on behalf of consumers. Last July, the Federal Trade
Commission (FTC) issued a report examining debt collection litigation and
arbitration proceedings that concluded the “system for resolving consumer
debt collection disputes is broken” and recommended significant reforms.
The FTC further noted that: “The report finds very few consumers defend or
otherwise participate in debt collection litigation. The Commission
therefore recommends state and local governments consider making a
variety of reforms to service of process, pleading, and court rules and

                                                                    CONTINUED
                                                                       SB 890
                                                                       Page 5

practices to increase the ability of consumers to defend or otherwise
participate in debt collection litigation. The report also finds
complaints and attachments in debt collection cases often do not provide
adequate information for consumers to answer complaints or for judges to
rule on motions for default judgment. The FTC therefore recommends that
courts more rigorously apply existing rules to require that collectors provide
adequate information and that jurisdictions consider adopting rules
mandating the information which must be included in or attached to the
complaint. The report additionally finds that state statutes of limitations on
filing actions to recover on debt are sometimes variable and complex, and
generally not understood by consumers. The Commission suggests that
states consider modifying their laws to make it simpler to determine the
applicable statute of limitations, and to require that collectors provide
consumers with important information about their legal rights when
collecting debt they know or should know is time-barred.”

FISCAL EFFECT: Appropriation: No Fiscal Com.: No Local: No

SUPPORT: (Verified 5/17/11)

Attorney General Kamala Harris (source)
California Reinvestment Coalition
Consumers Union
East Bay Community Law Center
Housing and Economic Rights Advocates
Lawyers‟ Committee for Civil Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area
Professor Scott Maurer, Santa Clara University School of Law

OPPOSITION: (Verified 5/17/11)

California Association of Collectors
California Creditors Bar Association
DBA International

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT: The author states:

   “According to the Federal Trade Commission, [t]he system for resolving
   disputes about consumer debts is broken, and has urged states to pass
   legislation to provide adequate protection for consumers. The system is
   broken because courts have been swamped with debt collection law suits
   driven by the growth of an industry that buys and sells bundled portfolios

                                                                CONTINUED
                                                                      SB 890
                                                                      Page 6

   of consumer debt, and misuses the courts to leverage their collection
   efforts.

   “The industry‟s practices echo the scandal surrounding the processing of
   delinquent mortgages. Here, debt buyers use „robo signers‟ who sign
   affidavits averring that they have reviewed and verified debtors‟ records,
   when they have only reviewed basic, and often incomplete, account
   statements records or spreadsheets on a computer screen. Moreover,
   because consumer debt is being bought and sold so frequently, and over a
   period of years, companies are frequently pursuing the wrong person, or
   the filing claims that have no lawful basis.

   “Frequently, these debt collection actions are filed by debt buyers
   without proof that the debt ever existed. Yet actions proceed to judgment
   because ninety-five percent of consumers do not respond to these
   lawsuits—many because they do not receive notice—allowing the debt
   collector to take a default judgment against the consumer and levy
   against the consumer‟s personnel accounts.

The author maintains that this bill, “The Fair Debt Buyers Act[,] would
reform the debt collection litigation process in a number of ways to aid
consumers and unburden the courts from costly, unmeritorious litigation.”

ARGUMENTS IN OPPOSITION: The California Association of
Collectors (CAC) contends that this bill “confuses and blends the concepts
of debt verification and prove-up hearings. Debt verification is the
requirement on behalf of the debt owner or collector to demonstrate that the
debt is owed by the consumer. Conversely, to obtain a judgment at trial or
prove-up hearing, the plaintiff must produce admissible evidence
satisfactory to the court that judgment is property against the named
defendants.”

The CAC further contends that debtors have the existing right to make an
offer to compromise, and to seek damages for frivolous lawsuits, and to sue
for malicious prosecution.

DBA International contends that the bill “sets unprecedented obligations on
the entire collection industry in the judicial system, proposes requirements
which go beyond what is required or even available by the original creditors,
and generally, creates more ambiguity than solves perceived problems.”
DBA … notes that ownership is established for most purchases by a Bill of

                                                               CONTINUED
                                                                        SB 890
                                                                        Page 7

Sale and argues that (1) the bill would eviscerate a judge‟s right to evaluate
the trustworthiness of the evidence before them; (2) the itemization
requirement is not even imposed upon originating banks by federal law; (3)
the bill approaches the problem from the wrong perspective since it is the
original creditor that has the information; (4) the FDCPA already imposes
requirements on debt collectors; and (5) the bill will cause unnecessary
filings of excess documents.

The California Creditors Bar Association expresses concern that the bill
proposes “extensive regulations for only one type of debt ownership,” would
flip the burden of proof regarding the statute of limitations, “imposes wildly
unreasonable requirements for documentation,” and contends that the
liability imposed would be punitive.


RJG:mw 5/17/11 Senate Floor Analyses
                   SUPPORT/OPPOSITION:         SEE ABOVE
                              **** END ****
