                          SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
                            Senator Thomas Umberg, Chair
                              2021-2022 Regular Session


SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Version: April 19, 2021
Hearing Date: April 27, 2021
Fiscal: Yes
Urgency: No
CK

                                        SUBJECT

                                     Consumer debt

                                         DIGEST

This bill requires certain notices to be provided to debtors in connection with the sale or
assignment of delinquent consumer debt. It also establishes certain documentation
requirements for debt collectors and a right to request certain information from those
collecting on sold or assigned delinquent debt.

                                EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Fair Debt Buying Practices Act (FDBPA) places obligations and restrictions on debt
buyers, including prohibiting a debt buyer from making a written statement to collect a
consumer debt without possessing specific information. Existing law also regulates the
collection of consumer debt under the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collections Practices Act (the
Rosenthal Act) by debt collectors, which includes any person who, in the ordinary course
of business, regularly, on their own behalf or others, engages in debt collection.

In response to concerns that in certain instances debtors are uninformed of which
entities their overdue debt has been sold or assigned to and are unable to authenticate
collection claims, this bill amends the Rosenthal Act to require certain notices to be sent
to debtors within five days of a “delinquent debt” being sold or assigned, grants
debtors the right to request certain information regarding the debt and the entity
collecting on it, similar to provisions within the FDBPA, and requires a debt collector to
whom a delinquent debt has been assigned to provide a notice of rights to the debtor.
Debt buyers are also required to possess the original notice before collecting on a debt.

This bill is author sponsored. It is supported by the Center for Responsible Lending and
various legal services organizations, including the Western Center on Law and Poverty.
It is opposed by various industry associations, including the California Bankers
Association and the California Financial Services Association. The bill passed out of the
Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee on a 7 to 2 vote.
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 2 of 12

                        PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE LAW

Existing law:

   1) Establishes the Rosenthal Act with the purpose to prohibit debt collectors from
      engaging in unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the collection of consumer
      debts and to require debtors to act fairly in entering into and honoring such
      debts. (Civ. Code § 1788 et seq.)

   2) Defines, for purposes of the Rosenthal Act, “debt collection” as any act or
      practice in connection with the collection of consumer debts. (Civ. Code §
      1788.2(b).) It defines “debt collector” as any person who, in the ordinary course
      of business, regularly, on behalf of that person or others, engages in debt
      collection. The term includes any person who composes and sells, or offers to
      compose and sell, forms, letters, and other collection media used or intended to
      be used for debt collection. (Civ. Code § 1788.2(c).)

   3) Defines “consumer debt” to mean money, property, or their equivalent, due or
      owing or alleged to be due or owing from a natural person by reason of a
      consumer credit transaction. (Civ. Code § 1788.2(e), (f).)

   4) Establishes the FDBPA, which defines “debt buyer” as a person or entity that is
      regularly engaged in the business of purchasing charged-off consumer debt for
      collection purposes, whether it collects the debt itself, hires a third party for
      collection, or hires an attorney-at-law for collection litigation. (Civ. Code §
      1788.50 et seq.) “Charged-off consumer debt” means a consumer debt that has
      been removed from a creditor’s books as an asset and treated as a loss or
      expense. (Civ. Code § 1788.50.)

   5) Prohibits, under the FDBPA, a debt buyer from making any written statement to
      a debtor in an attempt to collect a consumer debt unless the debt buyer possesses
      the following information:
          a. that the debt buyer is the sole owner of the debt at issue or has authority
              to assert the rights of all owners of the debt;
          b. the debt balance at charge off and an explanation of the amount, nature,
              and reason for all post-charge-off interest and fees, if any, imposed by the
              charge-off creditor or any subsequent purchasers of the debt. This
              paragraph shall not be deemed to require a specific itemization, but the
              explanation shall identify separately the charge-off balance, the total of
              any post-charge-off interest, and the total of any post-charge-off fees;
          c. the date of default or the date of the last payment;
          d. the name and an address of the charge-off creditor at the time of charge
              off, and the charge-off creditor’s account number associated with the debt.
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 3 of 12

            The charge-off creditor’s name and address shall be in sufficient form so
            as to reasonably identify the charge-off creditor;
         e. the name and last known address of the debtor as they appeared in the
            charge-off creditor’s records prior to the sale of the debt. If the debt was
            sold prior to January 1, 2014, the name and last known address of the
            debtor as they appeared in the debt owner’s records on December 31,
            2013, shall be sufficient;
         f. the names and addresses of all persons or entities that purchased the debt
            after charge off, including the debt buyer making the written statement.
            The names and addresses shall be in sufficient form so as to reasonably
            identify each such purchaser; and
         g. the California license number of the debt buyer.

   6) Prohibits a debt buyer from making any written statement to a debtor in an
      attempt to collect a consumer debt unless the debt buyer has access to a copy of a
      contract or other document evidencing the debtor’s agreement to the debt. If the
      claim is based on debt for which no signed contract or agreement exists, the debt
      buyer shall have access to a copy of a document provided to the debtor while the
      account was active, demonstrating that the debt was incurred by the debtor. For
      a revolving credit account, the most recent monthly statement recording a
      purchase transaction, last payment, or balance transfer shall be deemed sufficient
      to satisfy this requirement.

   7) Requires a debt buyer to provide this information or documents to the debtor
      without charge within 15 calendar days of receipt of a debtor’s written request
      for information regarding the debt or proof of the debt. (Civ. Code § 1788.52.)

   8) Establishes, pursuant to federal law, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act
      (FDCPA), to eliminate abusive debt collection practices by debt collectors, to
      insure that those debt collectors who refrain from using abusive debt collection
      practices are not competitively disadvantaged, and to promote consistent State
      action to protect consumers against debt collection abuses. (15 U.S.C. § 1692.)

   9) Provides, pursuant to the FDCPA, that within five days after the initial
      communication with a consumer in connection with the collection of any debt, a
      debt collector shall, unless the following information is contained in the initial
      communication or the consumer has paid the debt, send the consumer a written
      notice containing:
         a. the amount of the debt;
         b. the name of the creditor to whom the debt is owed;
         c. a statement that unless the consumer, within thirty days after receipt of
             the notice, disputes the validity of the debt, or any portion thereof, the
             debt will be assumed to be valid by the debt collector;
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 4 of 12

             d. a statement that if the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing
                within the thirty-day period that the debt, or any portion thereof, is
                disputed, the debt collector will obtain verification of the debt or a copy of
                a judgment against the consumer and a copy of such verification or
                judgment will be mailed to the consumer by the debt collector; and
             e. a statement that, upon the consumer’s written request within the thirty-
                day period, the debt collector will provide the consumer with the name
                and address of the original creditor, if different from the current creditor.
                (15 U.S.C. § 1692g.)

   10) Provides that the FDCPA does not annul, alter, or affect, or exempt any person
       subject to it from complying with the laws of any State with respect to debt
       collection practices, except to the extent that those laws are inconsistent with any
       provision of the FDCPA, and then only to the extent of the inconsistency. A State
       law is not inconsistent if the protection such law affords any consumer is greater
       than the protection provided by this title. (15 U.S.C. § 1692n.)

This bill:

   1) Prohibits a creditor or debt collector from selling a delinquent debt or assigning
      to a third party the right to collect payments on a delinquent debt unless the
      creditor or debt collector provides a notice to the debtor, and the purchaser or
      assignee that is the subject of such notice, within five days after selling or
      assigning the delinquent debt that indicates the amount of the outstanding debt
      and the name of the party to whom the debt was sold or assigned.

   2) Defines “delinquent debt” to mean a consumer debt, other than a mortgage debt,
      that is past due at least 30 days and has not been charged off.

   3) Requires a debt collector to which a delinquent debt has been assigned for
      collection to provide to the debtor, upon written request, a statement that
      includes the following information:
          a) that the debt collector has authority to assert the rights of the creditor to
             collect the debt;
          b) the debt balance and an explanation of the amount, nature, and reason for
             all interest and fees, if any, imposed by the creditor or any subsequent
             entities to which the debt was assigned. This must identify separately the
             balance, the total of any interest, and the total of any fees;
          c) the date the debt became delinquent or the date of the last payment;
          d) the name and an address of the creditor and the creditor’s account
             number associated with the debt;
          e) the name and last known address of the debtor as they appeared in the
             creditor’s records before the assignment of the debt to the debt collector;
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 5 of 12

         f) the names and addresses of all persons or entities other than the debt
            collector to which the debt was assigned;
         g) the license number of the debt collector; and
         h) a copy of the notice sent to the debtor pursuant to the provision above.

   4) Provides that a debt buyer, as defined, that complies with Section 1788.52 of the
      FDBPA shall be deemed in compliance with the previous provision and those
      below.

   5) Prohibits a debt collector to which delinquent debt has been assigned from
      making a written statement to a debtor in an attempt to collect the debt unless
      the debt collector has access to a copy of the notice from above and a copy of a
      contract or other document evidencing the debtor’s agreement to the debt. If the
      claim is based on debt for which no signed contract or agreement exists, the debt
      collector shall have access to a copy of a document provided to the debtor while
      the account was active, demonstrating that the debt was incurred by the debtor.
      For a revolving credit account, the most recent monthly statement recording a
      purchase transaction, last payment, or balance transfer shall be deemed sufficient
      to satisfy these requirements.

   6) Requires a debt collector to which delinquent debt has been assigned to provide
      the information or documents identified above to the debtor without charge
      within 30 calendar days of receipt of a debtor’s written request for information
      regarding the debt or proof of the debt.

   7) Provides that if the debt collector cannot provide the information or documents
      within 30 calendar days, the debt collector shall cease all collection of the debt
      until the debt collector provides the debtor the information or documents.

   8) Requires a debt collector to provide a debtor with whom it has contact an active
      postal address to which a debtor may send a request for this information. The
      debt collector can also provide an active email address to which these requests
      can be sent and through which the information and documents can be delivered
      if the parties agree.

   9) Requires a debt collector to which delinquent debt has been assigned to include
      in its first written communication with the debtor in no smaller than 12-point
      type, a separate prominent notice that contains the following statement:
               “You may request records showing the following: (1) that [insert
               name of debt collector] has the right to seek collection of the debt;
               (2) the debt balance, including an explanation of any interest
               charges and additional fees; (3) the date the debt became
               delinquent or the date of the last payment; (4) the name of the
               creditor and the account number associated with the debt; (5) the
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 6 of 12

              name and last known address of the debtor as it appeared in the
              creditor’s records prior to assignment of the debt; and (6) the names
              of all persons or entities other than the debt collector to which the
              debt has been assigned, if applicable. You may also request from us
              a copy of the contract or other document evidencing your
              agreement to the debt.

              A request for these records may be addressed to: [insert debt
              collector’s active mailing address and email address, if applicable].”

   10) Provides that if a language other than English is principally used by the debt
       collector in the initial oral contact with the debtor, the notice required by this
       subdivision shall be provided to the debtor in that language within five business
       days.

   11) Prohibits a debt buyer from making a written statement to a debtor in an attempt
       to collect a consumer debt unless the debt buyer possesses a copy of the notice
       from above.

                                      COMMENTS

   1. Stated intent of the bill

According to the author:

       SB 531 will bring needed transparency to the debt collection business, an
       industry where debt is exchanged so fast and often times through
       multiple hands that consumers are left confused as to whom they really
       owe money. My bill would require debt collectors, who have delinquent
       debt assigned to them, to have proof that they have the authority to collect
       on the debt. Consumers would have the right to request that proof, along
       with simple but important information such as how much debt is owed,
       any fees or interests, and the date of the last payment. SB 531 would also
       require original creditors to notify debtors, within 5 days of a sale or
       assignment, that they will be transferring their debt to another party. This
       will help consumers avoid confusion and suspicions of fraud. This
       continuity is especially important in our age of telephone scams.

   2. Ensuring fair debt collection and buying

In federal law, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act seeks to eliminate abusive debt
collection practices by debt collectors, to insure that those debt collectors who refrain
from using abusive debt collection practices are not competitively disadvantaged, and
to promote consistent State action to protect consumers against debt collection abuses.
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 7 of 12

(15 U.S.C. § 1692.) The federal act specifically provides that it does not affect or exempt
any person subject to it from complying with applicable state laws with respect to debt
collection practices, except to the extent state law is inconsistent. (15 U.S.C. § 1692n.)
However, a state law is not deemed inconsistent if it affords greater protections to
consumers.

Existing law regulates the collection of consumer debt under the Rosenthal Act. The
purpose of the act is to prohibit debt collectors from engaging in unfair or deceptive
acts or practices in the collection of consumer debts and to require debtors to act fairly
in entering into and honoring such debts. (Civ. Code § 1788 et seq.) The Act generally
prohibits deceptive, dishonest, unfair, and unreasonable debt collection practices by
debt collectors and regulates the form and content of communications by debt collectors
to debtors and others.

Debt buyers are companies that purchase delinquent or charged-off debts from a
creditor for a fraction of the face value of the debt. After these companies became
subject to increased scrutiny due to numerous complaints on behalf of consumers, SB
233 (Leno and Correa, Ch. 64, Stats. 2013), sponsored by Attorney General Kamala
Harris, established the FDBPA. The law made numerous changes relating to debt
buyers, including requiring a complaint in an action to collect on a consumer debt to
include specific allegations, and prohibiting a debt buyer from bringing suit if the
applicable statute of limitations has expired.

   3. Extending FDBPA protections to the Rosenthal Act

The author lays out the issue that exists in current law warranting the bill:

       Consumers [are] going back to original creditors trying to pay off their
       debt only to find that the creditor no longer owns the debt. Consumers
       then have no idea who owns their debt and have to wait for the new
       owners to contact them. When the new owners do contact the debtor they
       are most often names which the consumer has never heard of, which can
       sometimes cause confusion or suspicion of fraud.

This bill addresses the issue by requiring certain disclosures to debtors after selling or
assigning a “delinquent debt,” defined as a consumer debt, other than a mortgage debt,
that is past due at least 30 days and has not been charged off. It enacts Section 1788.14.4
of the Civil Code prohibiting a creditor or debt collector from selling, or assigning to a
third party the right to collect payments on, a delinquent debt unless the creditor or
debt collector provides a notice to the debtor within five days after selling or assigning
the delinquent debt that contains the amount of the outstanding debt and the name of
the party to whom the debt was sold or assigned. The creditor or debt collector must
also provide the Section 1788.14.4 notice to the purchaser or assignee of the debt that is
the subject of the notice.
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 8 of 12

Many of the provisions of the bill are simply applying requirements that are already
provided for in the FDBPA to creditors and debt collectors under the Rosenthal Act.
Under the former, a debt buyer is prohibited from making any written statement to a
debtor in an attempt to collect a consumer debt unless the debt buyer possesses the
following information:

      that the debt buyer is the sole owner of the debt at issue or has authority to assert
       the rights of all owners of the debt;
      the debt balance at charge off and an explanation of the amount, nature, and
       reason for all post-charge-off interest and fees, if any, imposed by the charge-off
       creditor or any subsequent purchasers of the debt. This paragraph shall not be
       deemed to require a specific itemization, but the explanation shall identify
       separately the charge-off balance, the total of any post-charge-off interest, and
       the total of any post-charge-off fees;
      the date of default or the date of the last payment;
      the name and an address of the charge-off creditor at the time of charge off, and
       the charge-off creditor’s account number associated with the debt. The charge-off
       creditor’s name and address shall be in sufficient form so as to reasonably
       identify the charge-off creditor;
      the name and last known address of the debtor as they appeared in the charge-
       off creditor’s records prior to the sale of the debt. If the debt was sold prior to
       January 1, 2014, the name and last known address of the debtor as they appeared
       in the debt owner’s records on December 31, 2013, shall be sufficient;
      the names and addresses of all persons or entities that purchased the debt after
       charge off, including the debt buyer making the written statement. The names
       and addresses shall be in sufficient form so as to reasonably identify each such
       purchaser;
      the California license number of the debt buyer. (Civ. Code § 1788.52(a).)

The debt buyer must provide the information to a debtor without charge within 15
calendar days of receipt of a debtor’s written request. (Civ. Code § 1788.52(c).)

This bill requires a debt collector to which a delinquent debt has been assigned for
collection to provide to the debtor, without charge within 30 days upon the debtor’s
written request, a statement that includes nearly all of the same information as laid out
above:
             that the debt collector has authority to assert the rights of the creditor to
               collect the debt;
             the debt balance and an explanation of the amount, nature, and reason for
               all interest and fees, if any, imposed by the creditor or any subsequent
               entities to which the debt was assigned. This must identify separately the
               balance, the total of any interest, and the total of any fees;
             the date the debt became delinquent or the date of the last payment;
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 9 of 12

             the name and an address of the creditor and the creditor’s account
              number associated with the debt;
             the name and last known address of the debtor as they appeared in the
              creditor’s records before the assignment of the debt to the debt collector;
             the names and addresses of all persons or entities other than the debt
              collector to which the debt was assigned;
             the license number of the debt collector; and
             a copy of the Section 1788.14.4 notice sent to the debtor.

One specific difference is the Section 1788.14.4 notice. In the only change to the FDBPA,
the bill also adds this notice as a piece of documentation a debt buyer must possess and
provide to a debtor upon request.

In both instances, if the debt collector or debt buyer cannot provide the documentation
or information, it must cease collection activities of the debt until it does. This bill also
applies the FDBPA requirement that a debt collector must include in its first
communication with a debtor regarding the delinquent debt a clear notice of the
debtor’s right to request the above documents. If a language other than English was
used in the initial contact, the notice must also be in that language. Just as debt buyers
are required to do, a debt collector will now have to provide a debtor with an active
address for the debtor to send requests to and optionally provide an email add ress for
requests and through which the information and documents requested can be
delivered.

The bill also amends the Rosenthal Act to restrict a debt collector that has been assigned
delinquent debt from making a written statement to a debtor in an attempt to collect on
it unless the debt collector has a copy of a contract or other document evidencing the
debtor’s agreement to the debt or, if the claim is based on debt for which no signed
contract or agreement exists, a copy of a document provided to the debtor while the
account was active, demonstrating that the debt was incurred by the debtor. It also
provides for specific documentation if it is a revolving credit account. These are
identical requirements to those applied to debt buyers under the FDBPA. (See Civ. Code
§ 1788.52(b).) The debt collector is further required to have a copy of the Section
1788.14.4 notice. Responding to concerns from those in opposition, the author has
recently amended the bill to make clear that if a debt buyer, as defined in the FDBPA,
complies with Section 1788.52, then it shall be deemed in compliance with the
requirements of this bill, except for Section 1788.14.4, which provides for the notice of
sale or assignment of the debt.

Writing in support, the Center for Responsible Lending explains the need and
importance of applying these FDBPA protections to debt collectors in this context:

       FDBPA brought some reform to a largely unregulated and broken system
       of debt buying in California. There were widespread cases of colle cting
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 10 of 12

      against the wrong person, targeting of debt that had already been paid off,
      and efforts to collect on incorrect amounts. The FDBPA helped to address
      these issues by requiring debt buyers, who have debt sold to them, to have
      proof of their ownership of that debt and allowed the debtor to request
      that proof to be shown. The law also required the disclosure of basic
      information such as how much debt is owed, any fees or interests, and the
      date of the last payment.

      Unfortunately, there are reports from legal service organizations of debt
      collectors going out of their way to assert that debt they are collecting on
      is assigned debt, not sold. Assigned meaning the original creditor
      technically still owns the debt, but they have a debt collector make all
      decisions relating to collection activity. Because the debt is not being sold,
      debtors’ rights and protections given under the FDBPA [are] being
      circumvented. Collectors are targeting wrong debtors, they are collecting
      on incorrect amounts, and the consumer has no way to determine the
      truth to their claims.

      SB 531 would require debt collectors that have delinquent debt assigned to
      them have proof that they have the authority to collect on the assigned
      debt, and the bill would allow the consumer the right to request that
      proof, along with other basic information in regards to the debt. These
      rights are the same as those found in the FDBPA for debt that is sold.

In 2018, AB 1526 (Kalra, Ch. 247, Stats. 2018) similarly sought to apply important
protections that exist in the FDBPA to debt collectors under the Rosenthal Act. A key
component of the bill was to provide that when the limitations period on commencing
an action on a debt has expired, there is an outright bar on initiating such proceedings,
rather than an affirmative defense that a debtor would need to know to assert. This
provision was taken directly from the FDBPA.

Western Center on Law and Poverty writes in support of the bill:

      SB 531 would require debt collectors that have delinquent debt assigned to
      them have proof that they have the authority to collect on the assigned
      debt, and the bill would allow the consumer the right to request that
      proof, along with other basic information in regards to the debt. These
      rights are the same as those found in the FDBPA for debt that is sold.

The California Bankers Association and the California Credit Union League write in
opposition: “SB 531 seeks to expand to debt collectors those existing disclosure and
validation requirements specifically designed for debt buyers. We [believe] this bill is
premature, potentially conflicts with newly revised federal regulations, and requires
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 11 of 12

documentation that might not be accessible.” They take particular umbrage at
provisions that require debt collectors to have documentation to authenticate the debt:

      Specifically, SB 531 requires an assigned debt collector to provide a debtor
      with specified documentation, including the original agreement signed by
      the debtor. Access to that documentation is difficult as many financial
      institutions and businesses do not keep original agreements. While the bill
      specifies other sources of documentation this approach is truly more
      aligned with debt buying, not debt collectors.

The California Association of Collectors takes an oppose-unless-amended position. It
seeks an amendment to make clear that the bill applies prospectively. Although that is
the natural operation of all changes to the law unless otherwise provided, and therefore
should need no further clarity, the author has agreed to take the amendment that
provides that the changes made by the bill apply prospectively. It should be noted that
such provisions in statutes are discouraged and should not be read to imply their
absence elsewhere is meaningful.

                                       SUPPORT

California Low-Income Consumer Coalition
Center for Responsible Lending
Neighborhood Legal Services of Los Angeles County
Public Law Center
Western Center on Law & Poverty

                                     OPPOSITION

California Association of Collectors
California Bankers Association
California Credit Union League
California Creditors Bar Association
California Financial Services Association
California Land Title Association

                               RELATED LEGISLATION

Pending Legislation:

SB 373 (Min, 2021) amends the Rosenthal Act to restrict collection of debts that are a
result of economic abuse. This bill is currently in the Senate Banking and Financial
Institutions Committee.
SB 531 (Wieckowski)
Page 12 of 12

AB 1020 (Friedman, 2021) applies certain requirements from the FDBPA to the Hospital
Fair Pricing Act, including communications requirements and pleading and evidentiary
standards. This bill is currently in the Assembly Appropriations Committee.

Prior Legislation:
SB 187 (Wieckowski, Ch. 545, Stats. 2019) amends definitions in the Rosenthal Act,
removing the exception for attorneys in the definition of “debt collector” and clarifying
that the definition of “consumer debt” includes mortgage debt.

AB 1526 (Kalra, Ch. 247, Stats. 2018) amended the Act to prohibit a debt collector from
attempting to collect a time-barred debt without providing specific notices to the debtor
indicating that the debtor may not be sued for the debt, but that the debt, depending on
its age, may be reported as unpaid to credit reporting agencies, as specified.

AB 2825 (Jones-Sawyer, 2018) would have generally applied the protections of the
Rosenthal Fair Debt Collections Practices Act and the FDBPA to the collection of certain
government debts and debts arising from the towing, impounding, and storing of
vehicles. The bill died in the Senate Appropriations Committee.

SB 233 (Leno, Ch. 64, Stats. 2013) See Comment 2.

                                    PRIOR VOTES:
         Senate Banking and Financial Institutions Committee (Ayes 7, Noes 2)

                                      **************
