16
Commercial Practices
1
2024-01-01
2024-01-01
false
Definitions.
444.1
Section 444.1
Commercial Practices
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
TRADE REGULATION RULES
CREDIT PRACTICES
§ 444.1
Definitions.
(a)
Lender.
A person who engages in the business of lending money to consumers within the jurisdiction of the Federal Trade Commission.
(b)
Retail installment seller.
A person who sells goods or services to consumers on a deferred payment basis or pursuant to a lease-purchase arrangement within the jurisdiction of the Federal Trade Commission.
(c)
Person.
An individual, corporation, or other business organization.
(d)
Consumer.
A natural person who seeks or acquires goods, services, or money for personal, family, or household use.
(e)
Obligation.
An agreement between a consumer and a lender or retail installment seller.
(f)
Creditor.
A lender or a retail installment seller.
(g)
Debt.
Money that is due or alleged to be due from one to another.
(h)
Earnings.
Compensation paid or payable to an individual or for his or her account for personal services rendered or to be rendered by him or her, whether denominated as wages, salary, commission, bonus, or otherwise, including periodic payments pursuant to a pension, retirement, or disability program.
(i)
Household goods.
Clothing, furniture, appliances, one radio and one television, linens, china, crockery, kitchenware, and personal effects (including wedding rings) of the consumer and his or her dependents, provided that the following are not included within the scope of the term
household goods:
(1) Works of art;
(2) Electronic entertainment equipment (except one television and one radio);
(3) Items acquired as antiques; and
(4) Jewelry (except wedding rings).
(j)
Antique.
Any item over one hundred years of age, including such items that have been repaired or renovated without changing their original form or character.
(k)
Cosigner.
A natural person who renders himself or herself liable for the obligation of another person without compensation. The term shall include any person whose signature is requested as a condition to granting credit to another person, or as a condition for forbearance on collection of another person's obligation that is in default. The term shall not include a spouse whose signature is required on a credit obligation to perfect a security interest pursuant to State law. A person who does not receive goods, services, or money in return for a credit obligation does not receive compensation within the meaning of this definition. A person is a cosigner within the meaning of this definition whether or not he or she is designated as such on a credit obligation.