24
Housing and Urban Development
1
2024-04-01
2024-04-01
false
Definitions.
100.20
Section 100.20
Housing and Urban Development
Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
OFFICE OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
DISCRIMINATORY CONDUCT UNDER THE FAIR HOUSING ACT
General
§ 100.20
Definitions.
The terms Department, Fair Housing Act, and Secretary are defined in 24 CFR part 5.
Aggrieved person
includes any person who—
(a) Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice; or
(b) Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur.
Broker
or
Agent
includes any person authorized to perform an action on behalf of another person regarding any matter related to the sale or rental of dwellings, including offers, solicitations or contracts and the administration of matters regarding such offers, solicitations or contracts or any residential real estate-related transactions.
Discriminatory housing practice
means an act that is unlawful under section 804, 805, 806, or 818 of the Fair Housing Act.
Dwelling
means any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
Familial status
means one or more individuals (who have not attained the age of 18 years) being domiciled with—
(a) A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual or individuals; or
(b) The designee of such parent or other person having such custody, with the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
Handicap
is defined in § 100.201.
Person
includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under title 11 U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
Person in the business of selling or renting dwellings
means any person who:
(a) Within the preceding twelve months, has participated as principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein;
(b) Within the preceding twelve months, has participated as agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
(c) Is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
State
means any of the several states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any of the territories and possessions of the United States.
[54 FR 3283, Jan. 23, 1989, as amended at 61 FR 5205, Feb. 9, 1996]