16
Commercial Practices
1
2024-01-01
2024-01-01
false
Definitions.
310.2
Section 310.2
Commercial Practices
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
REGULATIONS UNDER SPECIFIC ACTS OF CONGRESS
TELEMARKETING SALES RULE
§ 310.2
Definitions.
(a)
Acquirer
means a business organization, financial institution, or an agent of a business organization or financial institution that has authority from an organization that operates or licenses a credit card system to authorize merchants to accept, transmit, or process payment by credit card through the credit card system for money, goods or services, or anything else of value.
(b)
Attorney General
means the chief legal officer of a state.
(c)
Billing information
means any data that enables any person to access a customer's or donor's account, such as a credit card, checking, savings, share or similar account, utility bill, mortgage loan account, or debit card.
(d)
Caller identification service
means a service that allows a telephone subscriber to have the telephone number, and, where available, name of the calling party transmitted contemporaneously with the telephone call, and displayed on a device in or connected to the subscriber's telephone.
(e)
Cardholder
means a person to whom a credit card is issued or who is authorized to use a credit card on behalf of or in addition to the person to whom the credit card is issued.
(f)
Cash-to-cash money transfer
means the electronic (as defined in section 106(2) of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (15 U.S.C. 7006(2)) transfer of the value of cash received from one person to another person in a different location that is sent by a money transfer provider and received in the form of cash. For purposes of this definition,
money transfer provider
means any person or financial institution that provides cash-to-cash money transfers for a person in the normal course of its business, whether or not the person holds an account with such person or financial institution. The term
cash-to-cash money transfer
includes a remittance transfer, as defined in section 919(g)(2) of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (“EFTA”), 15 U.S.C. 1693a, that is a cash-to-cash transaction; however it does not include any transaction that is:
(1) An electronic fund transfer as defined in section 903 of the EFTA;
(2) Covered by Regulation E, 12 CFR 1005.20, pertaining to gift cards; or
(3) Subject to the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
(g)
Cash reload mechanism
is a device, authorization code, personal identification number, or other security measure that makes it possible for a person to convert cash into an electronic (as defined in section 106(2) of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (15 U.S.C. 7006(2)) form that can be used to add funds to a general-use prepaid card, as defined in Regulation E, 12 CFR 1005.2, or an account with a payment intermediary. For purposes of this definition, a cash reload mechanism is not itself a general-use prepaid debit card or a swipe reload process or similar method in which funds are added directly onto a person's own general-use prepaid card or account with a payment intermediary.
(h)
Charitable contribution
means any donation or gift of money or any other thing of value.
(i)
Commission
means the Federal Trade Commission.
(j)
Credit
means the right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt or to incur debt and defer its payment.
(k)
Credit card
means any card, plate, coupon book, or other credit device existing for the purpose of obtaining money, property, labor, or services on credit.
(l)
Credit card sales draft
means any record or evidence of a credit card transaction.
(m)
Credit card system
means any method or procedure used to process credit card transactions involving credit cards issued or licensed by the operator of that system.
(n)
Customer
means any person who is or may be required to pay for goods or services offered through telemarketing.
(o)
Debt relief service
means any program or service represented, directly or by implication, to renegotiate, settle, or in any way alter the terms of payment or other terms of the debt between a person and one or more unsecured creditors or debt collectors, including, but not limited to, a reduction in the balance, interest rate, or fees owed by a person to an unsecured creditor or debt collector.
(p)
Donor
means any person solicited to make a charitable contribution.
(q)
Established business relationship
means a relationship between a seller and a consumer based on:
(1) the consumer's purchase, rental, or lease of the seller's goods or services or a financial transaction between the
consumer and seller, within the eighteen (18) months immediately preceding the date of a telemarketing call; or
(2) the consumer's inquiry or application regarding a product or service offered by the seller, within the three (3) months immediately preceding the date of a telemarketing call.
(r)
Free-to-pay conversion
means, in an offer or agreement to sell or provide any goods or services, a provision under which a customer receives a product or service for free for an initial period and will incur an obligation to pay for the product or service if he or she does not take affirmative action to cancel before the end of that period.
(s)
Investment opportunity
means anything, tangible or intangible, that is offered, offered for sale, sold, or traded based wholly or in part on representations, either express or implied, about past, present, or future income, profit, or appreciation.
(t)
Material
means likely to affect a person's choice of, or conduct regarding, goods or services or a charitable contribution.
(u)
Merchant
means a person who is authorized under a written contract with an acquirer to honor or accept credit cards, or to transmit or process for payment credit card payments, for the purchase of goods or services or a charitable contribution.
(v)
Merchant agreement
means a written contract between a merchant and an acquirer to honor or accept credit cards, or to transmit or process for payment credit card payments, for the purchase of goods or services or a charitable contribution.
(w)
Negative option feature
means, in an offer or agreement to sell or provide any goods or services, a provision under which the customer's silence or failure to take an affirmative action to reject goods or services or to cancel the agreement is interpreted by the seller as acceptance of the offer.
(x)
Outbound telephone call
means a telephone call initiated by a telemarketer to induce the purchase of goods or services or to solicit a charitable contribution.
(y)
Person
means any individual, group, unincorporated association, limited or general partnership, corporation, or other business entity.
(z)
Preacquired account information
means any information that enables a seller or telemarketer to cause a charge to be placed against a customer's or donor's account without obtaining the account number directly from the customer or donor during the telemarketing transaction pursuant to which the account will be charged.
(aa)
Prize
means anything offered, or purportedly offered, and given, or purportedly given, to a person by chance. For purposes of this definition, chance exists if a person is guaranteed to receive an item and, at the time of the offer or purported offer, the telemarketer does not identify the specific item that the person will receive.
(bb)
Prize promotion
means:
(1) A sweepstakes or other game of chance; or
(2) An oral or written express or implied representation that a person has won, has been selected to receive, or may be eligible to receive a prize or purported prize.
(cc)
Remotely created payment order
means any payment instruction or order drawn on a person's account that is created by the payee or the payee's agent and deposited into or cleared through the check clearing system. The term includes, without limitation, a “remotely created check,” as defined in Regulation CC, Availability of Funds and Collection of Checks, 12 CFR 229.2(fff), but does not include a payment order cleared through an Automated Clearinghouse (ACH) Network or subject to the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.,
and Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026.
(dd)
Seller
means any person who, in connection with a telemarketing transaction, provides, offers to provide, or arranges for others to provide goods or services to the customer in exchange for consideration.
(ee)
State
means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any territory or possession of the United States.
(ff)
Telemarketer
means any person who, in connection with telemarketing, initiates or receives telephone calls to or from a customer or donor.
(gg)
Telemarketing
means a plan, program, or campaign which is conducted
to induce the purchase of goods or services or a charitable contribution, by use of one or more telephones and which involves more than one interstate telephone call. The term does not include the solicitation of sales through the mailing of a catalog which: contains a written description or illustration of the goods or services offered for sale; includes the business address of the seller; includes multiple pages of written material or illustrations; and has been issued not less frequently than once a year, when the person making the solicitation does not solicit customers by telephone but only receives calls initiated by customers in response to the catalog and during those calls takes orders only without further solicitation. For purposes of the previous sentence, the term “further solicitation” does not include providing the customer with information about, or attempting to sell, any other item included in the same catalog which prompted the customer's call or in a substantially similar catalog.
(hh)
Upselling
means soliciting the purchase of goods or services following an initial transaction during a single telephone call. The upsell is a separate telemarketing transaction, not a continuation of the initial transaction. An “external upsell” is a solicitation made by or on behalf of a seller different from the seller in the initial transaction, regardless of whether the initial transaction and the subsequent solicitation are made by the same telemarketer. An “internal upsell” is a solicitation made by or on behalf of the same seller as in the initial transaction, regardless of whether the initial transaction and subsequent solicitation are made by the same telemarketer.
[75 FR 48516, Aug. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 77557, Dec. 14, 2015]