16
Commercial Practices
1
2024-01-01
2024-01-01
false
Definitions.
433.1
Section 433.1
Commercial Practices
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
TRADE REGULATION RULES
PRESERVATION OF CONSUMERS' CLAIMS AND DEFENSES
§ 433.1
Definitions.
(a)
Person.
An individual, corporation, or any other business organization.
(b)
Consumer.
A natural person who seeks or acquires goods or services for personal, family, or household use.
(c)
Creditor.
A person who, in the ordinary course of business, lends purchase money or finances the sale of goods or services to consumers on a deferred payment basis;
Provided,
such person is not acting, for the purposes of a particular transaction, in the capacity of a credit card issuer.
(d)
Purchase money loan.
A cash advance which is received by a consumer in return for a “Finance Charge” within the meaning of the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z, which is applied, in whole or substantial part, to a purchase of goods or services from a seller who (1) refers consumers to the creditor or (2) is affiliated with the creditor by common control, contract, or business arrangement.
(e)
Financing a sale.
Extending credit to a consumer in connection with a “Credit Sale” within the meaning of the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z.
(f)
Contract.
Any oral or written agreement, formal or informal, between a creditor and a seller, which
contemplates or provides for cooperative or concerted activity in connection with the sale of goods or services to consumers or the financing thereof.
(g)
Business arrangement.
Any understanding, procedure, course of dealing, or arrangement, formal or informal, between a creditor and a seller, in connection with the sale of goods or services to consumers or the financing thereof.
(h)
Credit card issuer.
A person who extends to cardholders the right to use a credit card in connection with purchases of goods or services.
(i)
Consumer credit contract.
Any instrument which evidences or embodies a debt arising from a “Purchase Money Loan” transaction or a “financed sale” as defined in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(j)
Seller.
A person who, in the ordinary course of business, sells or leases goods or services to consumers.
[40 FR 53506, Nov. 18, 1975]